08 Chief executives review Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Chief executives review WOLSELEY IS MEETING MORE CUSTOMER NEEDS, IN MORE PLACES AND WITH A WIDER RANGE OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES, THAN AT ANY TIME IN OUR HISTORY Charles A Banks Group Chief Executive 09 Chief executives review Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003 An excellent performance in challenging circumstances Today, Wolseley is meeting more customer needs, in more places The ongoing reductions in timber prices led to a disappointing year and with a wider range of products and services than at any time for our Stock Building Supply SBS business.
In the USA, timber is in our history.
a major component in new housing and accounts for about 40% of SBSs turnover.
Currently there remains too much timber supply in Major construction companies building new condominiums in the market and the average price has fallen for the third successive North America, self-employed plumbers fixing taps in the UK, year.
SBS has taken the challenge, and is restructuring the business heating installers remodelling infrastructures in France and Canadian by consolidating operations and expects to take out $10 million contractors fitting out new homes inside the Arctic Circle all rely of cost by 2005, while responding to changing customer trends.
on the strengths of Wolseley: strengths that have produced another record performance despite some difficulties in the economies of I would like to put on record my gratitude to the people who, both the USA and continental Europe.
together, have made Wolseley the great company it is today.
During my 35 years with the Group, I have been accustomed to Wolseley has produced seven straight years of record results and the passion and skill of our people, but I confess that even I have 18 out of the last 21 years have seen increased sales and trading been pleased and impressed by the drive, expertise and customer 1 profit for the Group.
dedication shown by our teams in the past year.
During the year under review the UK marketplace was buoyant Looking forward, we have a great opportunity for growth but we and our management team took advantage of market opportunities must strive for continual improvement to really take advantage.
to turn in a top performance.
With new branch openings, acquisitions, tight cost controls and a strong sales effort the UK businesses grew We are building a strong, diversified international Group serving quickly and recorded an excellent financial performance.
the construction industry and focusing on the distribution of building materials.
Our customers are contractors, industry and government, Elsewhere in Europe, markets experienced low growth and in some giving us a large market and diversified product offering together cases no growth.
Yet we continued to outperform the market and with a customer base that is primed for growth.
New branch openings in Italy, new products in the Netherlands and acquisitions in France all helped to produce Our international Group is made up of strong national companies improved performances.
that develop their unique organisations and human resources, maximising their effectiveness for their customers.
This ensures The US economy has been uncertain with some wide market a competitive and responsive organisation in our local markets.
Housing and Repair, Maintenance and Installation, along with Water and Sewer Infrastructure, were all Our presence in 12 countries gives us opportunity to leverage our size strong markets while Commercial and Industrial were weak.
In particular, we are concentrating on purchasing and back office functions and the elimination of duplication.
Our US plumbing and heating division, Ferguson, produced robust growth in earnings.
Great progress was made on the integration of We have a great opportunity and our strategic direction is focused the Clayton and Westburne acquisitions along with Familian Northwest on the following six areas to ensure continued success: into Ferguson to produce a strong coast to coast and border to border company.
growing through acquisition and organic expansion continuous improvement Ferguson celebrated its 50th Anniversary in 2003 with another leveraging our international position year of outstanding growth and profit contribution.
The Ferguson enhancing our business diversity Enterprises team continues with its programme of bolt-on acquisitions, developing our human resources enhanced supply chain management and market consolidation.
creating innovative solutions to meet our customers changing needs Our Canadian company produced another excellent year with As you can see from the following pages, we believe our efforts strong organic growth, several acquisitions and improved margins.
will make our companies more competitive and more effective, The Canadian economy was resilient: our people took advantage as we strive to bring greater benefits to all our stakeholders.
of those opportunities, outperformed their competitors and enhanced their position for future growth.
1 Trading profit is defined as operating profit before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation.
10 Our customers Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Growing through acquisition and organic expansion A key long-term strategy, acquisitions and expansion, ensures that we Neither do the opportunities fall equally between Europe and continue to be able to meet more customer needs, in more locations, North America, the continents where we currently operate.
and create more opportunities for our investors and employees.
There is no pre-set balance between the two regions.
We are The target is double-digit growth in sales and earnings, year on year.
active in 12 countries and have ambitions to be active in many Consequently, we constantly examine all sectors, identifying quality more.
We will seize opportunities wherever they arise, whenever companies that will enhance our product and geographical diversity they arise, provided that they meet our acquisition criteria.
while also showing evidence of the sound financial position that is the hallmark of a Wolseley brand.
The majority of our acquisitions were made in Europe.
In addition to the investment in PBM, we purchased 13 further companies at We are able to fund our growth as a result of our financial strength.
Of these, the largest was the acquisition Most acquisitions are bolt-ons to existing businesses, extending of Bathstore.
com which operates a network of branches in the UK.
either our diversity, our reach or both.
However, we never rule out Bathstore.
com complements our existing Just Bathrooms brand.
the opportunity to move into new markets in Europe or North America.
So while the focus remains on our core businesses of plumbing and The US Building Materials Division, SBS, acquired three businesses mechanical, heating and building materials, we constantly monitor and during the year for a total of 36 million.
The largest of these was evaluate emerging possibilities in the construction materials sector.
Wenco is a leading distributor of In all cases, we set rigorous acquisition criteria.
When these are met, millwork, lumber and building materials to professional contractors there follows a period of due diligence.
Although we aim to invest and operates from eight facilities in Texas.
This acquisition underpins 200 million per year in bolt-on acquisitions, clearly the opportunities SBS continuing focus on value-added activities which represent 60% do not always fall neatly into 12 month periods.
During the previous year, of Wencos turnover 88 million in the year to 31 December 2002. for example, we invested just 160 million in acquisitions.
Yet in 2002-03, The North American Plumbing and Heating Distribution business saw we passed the 500 million barrier a record for the Group.
Seven companies were purchased, including Meridian Specialities Inc. which became part of Wolseley Canada.
Twenty four acquisitions were completed for an aggregate spend of Meridian supplies industrial valves to the oil and gas, pulp mills and 513 million, with the most significant purchase being the m565 million mining sectors in Western Canada and had a turnover of 20 million acquisition of Pinault Bois et Matriaux PBM.
This company is the in the year ended 28 February 2002. second largest heavyside distributor in France, with a market share of just over 8% and more than 5,000 employees working at some Branch numbers worldwide increased by 494 16.7% to 3,449 300 locations across the country.
Around 85% of PBMs business at 31 July 2003.
Altogether, 101 new branches were opened and relates to the distribution of building materials and 15% to the 393 were added through acquisitions, during the year.
In the UK, importation and distribution of timber.
In the year to 31 December 2002, 153 were added, bringing the total to 1,372.
In mainland Europe, PBM recorded sales of 861 million and operating profit, before our branch network now numbers 894, including 314 new branches.
In North America, we welcomed 27 branches into the Group and our network currently stands at 1,183.
Depth and breadth of product 3.
Same day and next day deliveries Our specialists operate warehouses During the day, our scanner technology We provide the right products in the on behalf of Feenstra.
We know our monitors product usage by Feenstra right place at the right time.
Because customers business, and the needs plumbers.
Overnight, we replenish the plumbers no longer have to visit the of their plumbers, inside out.
stocks in the vans outside the warehouse to stock up, they are able to plumbers homes.
attend up to two extra jobs per day.
Twello Ilco tem Bokum Plumber for Feenstra Twello, The Netherlands Our WASCO business has worked with Feenstra, the national gas company in the Netherlands, for more than 15 years.
WASCO is now the sole distributor of spare parts to Feenstra.
I NEED MY VAN STOCKING UP OVERNIGHT, WHILE I SLEEP I NEED TO KEEP THE TAPS RUNNING FOR THE PEOPLE OF VIENNA Vienna Thomas Weichselberger Reservoir Manager Vienna, Austria Our AG business supplies the pipework, valves and associated products that carry water over 100 miles from mountain springs to underground reservoirs to taps in Vienna.
13 Our customers Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Continuous improvement For 20 years, Wolseley has set high standards in terms of sustained The use of measurements such as Key Performance Indicators has growth and profitability: yet we are neither complacent nor content.
been central to continuous improvement at Ferguson and elsewhere We know that the pursuit of double-digit growth and acceptable across the organisation.
In the UK, for example, our Heavyside returns for all stakeholders demands continuous improvement Division has implemented a Balanced Scorecard approach that from all our businesses.
focuses on financial best practice and also promotes service, understanding and development among customers, staff and Over the past 12 months, we have continued to support initiatives suppliers.
This new initiative now forms the bedrock of the culture that will advance the organisation.
An example is the three-year within the UK businesses and early benefits have been noted in focus that has seen the establishment of a framework and strategy terms of financial performance, staff training and development to improve our use of capital.
At a Group level, we aligned executive and the level of customer understanding and service.
compensation and provided direction on areas that should be addressed.
The operating companies then took the initiative to In the drive for improvement, SBS is re-inventing the way in which develop specific action plans relevant to their own circumstances, the company goes to market and how it conducts its internal such as accounts payable, surplus inventory or accounts receivable processes.
The central concepts include: management.
This focus has seen working capital ratios improve from 16.1% in 2001 to 15.4% in 2003.
The result is a substantial re-organisation of the company around markets, instead of stores improvement in free cash flow, from 214 million in 2001 to improved service created by deeper understanding of customer needs 248 million in 2002 and 269 million in 2003. growth and expansion of value-added products and services development of SBS and associated brands Initiatives at our Ferguson distribution centres DCs in the USA reduced costs through process standardisation and improvement illustrate the point.
Over the last three years, the Ferguson team has worked with passion and determination to improve the operating SBS has already re-organised its structure in North Carolina, performance of the DCs.
Particular attention has been paid to areas South Carolina and Georgia, consolidating five regions into two districts.
including supplier lead times, demand forecasting, the replenishment All credit, payables and purchasing functions have been centralised process between the branches and the DCs and data management.
at a district or central level.
To support the ongoing re-organisation, While maintaining a service level of over 96% for the period, the company is recruiting national business managers who will tighten the team reduced the days in inventory from a 12-month average the SBS focus on customer needs and value-added services.
In addition, no value inventory was reduced by 70%.
Product availability We work closely with customers such AG currently has more than 2,000 The Viennese Water Company relies on as the Viennese Water Company to contracts to supply the products that us to deliver peace of mind as well as continuously improve our process enable the people of Austria to enjoy a full range of pipework, valves and management expertise.
water supplies at an affordable price.
14 Our customers Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Leveraging our international position Operating through 3,449 branches in 12 countries, we have access to be replacing the IT systems in our Austrian operations.
We have an extensive bank of experience and expertise that we are increasingly had a team of over thirty people, representative of all of the Groups leveraging in order to share benefits across the business.
operations, who have been examining ways in which the Groups processes and procedures can be improved.
We are looking for During the year, we increased the focus on conducting pan-European ways of moving towards more commonality of approach to drive negotiations with major suppliers.
Where in the past our brands increased synergies and leveraging opportunities internationally, have sourced products independently, we are now beginning to across the Group.
negotiate better value through centralised purchasing processes.
Similarly, we are examining our Group-wide purchasing patterns in The year also saw the introduction of a corporate strapline for the Far East and aim to establish a collective sourcing programme the first time.
The descriptor a Wolseley company now underpins which will reduce costs.
Across the Group, we buy many products the individual identities of the brands, and serves to bring a new from many sources.
Now we intend to make sure we enjoy the best cohesion and sense of unity to the different businesses.
We intend possible terms, as befits a major customer.
to achieve more linkage between companies and brands and to inspire customers and employees to recognise and value In North America and Europe, we have also focused on the the connections.
Groups indirect spending and identified opportunities to reduce costs and leverage our global purchasing of items such as stationery, The renewed emphasis on leveraging our international presence in telecommunications and insurance.
no way compromises our firm commitment to the principle of local teams building local businesses which meet local customer needs.
Increased integration and information, and data sharing, are further Every Wolseley brand is strong in its own right, in its own marketplace examples of how we are capitalising on the international strength and and we will continue to empower management to manage.
IT is a key component of the plan, enabling the organisation to effectively implement these programmes as well Finally, we established four Learning Centres, each sponsored by as addressing duplications and encouraging synergies throughout a member of senior management to promote common initiatives the business.
These initiatives will not only support the sharing of ideas and information, but will also assist in expediting the We are currently looking at a number of different areas to apply implementation of these ideas in other areas of the business.
We plan to introduce a common financial application across the Group over the next year.
Value added services Every delivery to the Warwick site is From Durox and aggregate blocks to A team of Builder Center representatives made to a specific plot, as and when Dunbrik flues, the customer is confident is dedicated solely to meeting the needs it is required twice a day if necessary.
in the price, quality and availability of Taylor Woodrow and is constantly of Builder Center products.
innovating new and improved services.
I NEED THE RIGHT MATERIALS AT THE RIGHT TIME Warwick Stephen Parr Director of Supply Chain Taylor Woodrow, Warwick, UK Our Builder Center business in the UK delivers consistency and reliability across a huge range of projects for leading builder Taylor Woodrow, including a major Bryant Homes site in Warwick.
16 Our customers Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Enhancing our business diversity Our products include condensers, blocks and boilers: tubes, flues HVAC sector in order to more fully meet the demands of our and felts: A-frames, pumps and septic tanks: plywood, softwood customers.
Those customers are now reaping the rewards of our and hardwood.
They cover every type of fixing and ironmongery expertise in supply chain logistics, as well as our buying power, that you can imagine and many more that you probably cant.
and seeing the benefits in terms of fill rate, availability and price.
It is a similar story in Eastern Europe, where we have invested Construction, plumbing and heating professionals depend on in excess of 1 million in a new distribution centre in Budapest.
Wolseley for the timely delivery of a vast and ever-increasing range Customers in Hungary are now able to enjoy levels of service of products, as we continue to implement a strategy of diversification: previously unavailable in the region.
of geography: of lines of business: of products and services.
In the UK, the purchase of Unifix has enhanced our catalogue sales The results are twofold.
Firstly, we are able to meet more customer capability and ensured that UK customers can benefit from Wolseley needs in more locations.
Secondly, by having a broad offering, standards through their channel of choice.
we are more insulated from downturns in particular markets and are able to take advantage of strong markets elsewhere.
We will continue to add new products and services to our existing operations.
In particular, we are keen to replicate successful models Our competitive advantage is built on an ability to offer the broadest across the Group.
We will continue to add geographic diversity such bundle of products and to therefore meet all customer requirements as our recent moves into the Netherlands and Canada.
This diversity in one company, reducing the cost of doing business.
We are trusted is significant in providing continued steady growth of sales and profits.
partners who help our customers carry out their jobs more easily and effectively.
As we become more diverse, so the customer Wolseley relationship strengthens.
During the year, a number of developments enhanced our business diversity and deepened our business relationships.
In Canada, for example, we expanded into the distribution of High Density Polyethylene HDPE and the Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning Our response 1.
Project management Fergusons computer tracking system Humid weather, combined with the use Regular project meetings between the routes deliveries more efficiently, of chemicals, creates a constant need local Ferguson manager and the customers ensuring on-time service as well as for equipment repair and replacement.
purchasing team mean that we can reducing unnecessary freighting costs.
Ferguson always carries the right range continue to surpass their expectations, to keep the mill in operation.
in terms of service, price and availability.
I NEED Monroeville REPLACEMENT Chea Hak Winder operator PARTS QUICKLY at Newsprint Division, Alabama River Pulp Co Inc Monroeville, USA Our Ferguson business has a AND AT THE 25-year relationship with the team at the Alabama River Pulp Co Inc, delivering the products that keep the mill turning.
RIGHT PRICE Lyon M. Jos Sebban Owner of Mounier Sanitaire Lyon, France Our Brossette business has supported the success of Lyon-based Mounier Sanitaire for more than a decade.
I NEED PRODUCTS THAT MEET THE NEEDS OF MY CUSTOMERS 19 Our customers Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Developing our human resources We offer an excellent product range distributed through a diverse Additionally, almost 80 of our most senior managers will attend a new network of branches.
Yet it remains an indisputable fact that programme at the IMD in Lausanne, Switzerland in November 2003. customers do not buy from store locations: they buy from people.
It focuses on the strategies outlined in this document and how Furthermore, it is people and not processes or technologies that they can best be executed worldwide.
We are now embarking on an international assignment programme, We rely on our people on the ground to drive sales.
Managers are which will enable managers from one part of the business to be empowered to create innovative solutions to meet the changing seconded to another.
During the past year, we produced the first issue needs of their customers.
Consequently, we continue to expand of Directions magazine.
Complementing our growing use of the our commitment to the human resources function, ensuring that we Intranet, Directions is a publication that will extend and enhance the attract and retain the best and the brightest people in the industry.
dialogue between managers throughout the Wolseley organisation.
The aim of both the assignment programme and the magazine is to There is a long tradition of loyalty within Wolseley.
Many of our encourage the Group-wide sharing and understanding of best practice.
people have been with the Group for most of their working lives and 15-20 years of service is commonplace.
At the same time, The corporate commitment to acquisitions creates a major challenge we acknowledge the need for a ready flow of fresh thinking and for our HR teams.
In the 12 months to 31 July, we welcomed many innovation.
In the USA alone, our plumbing and heating business thousands of new people into the organisation as a direct result of recruits almost 500 graduates each year.
These are the people acquisitions.
The PBM purchase alone brought 5,300 people into with the skills, commitment and passion to serve that will drive Wolseley.
Our approach towards integration is centred on partnership the Wolseley brands forward in the coming years.
and mutual understanding: we respect cultural differences and support new employees as they become part of the Wolseley family.
The Executive Development Program is delivered by the Darden School of Business at the University of Virginia in Charlottesville.
Focused squarely on teaching practical, valuable skills that can be put to work immediately, the programme is the foundation for future management insight and expertise.
The last 12 months have seen the number of Wolseley executives who have attended Darden rise to over 120 and a further 40 will benefit during the current year.
Knowledgeable employees Brossette provides a personal, A family-run business specialising The owner of Mounier Sanitaire relies proactive service to Mounier Sanitaire in bathrooms and heating, Mounier on the sales and support experts that accurately reflects the companys Sanitaire consistently specifies and at Brossette to keep him up to date hands-on approach to its own customers.
recommends the Nabis range supplied with the latest developments.
20 Our customers Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Creating innovative solutions to meet our customers changing needs Ours is an ever-changing industry.
stationery and building materials to spares and plant.
In the first year of the seven-year contract, this relationship has delivered significant New techniques, legislation and products, together with a range earnings for the Group while reducing costs for the customer of economic and social factors, are constantly shaping the needs and also ensuring a high level of satisfaction for the Council.
The building, plumbing or heating solution of today is the outdated, expensive concept of tomorrow.
We worked closely with customers on several initiatives, listening to their needs and developing appropriate solutions.
Weve set How do we continue to meet these evolving needs?
up integrated supply solutions for industry, municipal customers Firstly, by investing time and drawing on our fund of industry and contractors.
Furthermore, all Wolseley businesses are now experience to anticipate or recognise shifts in demand and putting introducing own-label products to fill gaps in the marketplace the processes in place to meet them in good time.
Secondly, by offering features and price points unavailable in existing lines.
by taking a proactive stance and being the driving force behind some of those changing market needs.
We play our part in the Recognition is a key component of any effective innovation industry by encouraging innovation within Wolseley and remaining programme, and this year Wolseley introduced The Wolseley Cup, flexible and open to new ideas at all levels of the business.
which will be awarded to the Wolseley business that has created the most innovative customer solution.
There are a number of examples of how Wolseley innovation delivered benefits to customers during the year under review.
Connecting with our communities We employ 46,000 people in a diverse range of communities, Many of our branches now incorporate updated and refreshed from capital cities to small rural towns.
In each case, we aim to showrooms.
As well as showcasing extended ranges from our maximise the benefits of our presence among local people while manufacturer partners, the showrooms also enable customers to minimising the environmental impact of our activities.
see ideas and product solutions in action for themselves.
Express and self-service counters have been upgraded in locations across Wolseley brands are an integral part of the construction, plumbing all our businesses, allowing the experienced professional contractors and heating sectors throughout North America and Europe.
As you to buy the products they need with minimum delay.
will see from this report, were keen to play our part to the full.
We constantly innovate new or improved ways in which to help our customers run their businesses more effectively.
Capitalising on the trend towards outsourcing among local authorities, Wolseley Centers is the supply chain partner for a facilities management company which provides maintenance and repair services for around 33,000 Charles A Banks council-owned homes in Liverpool, UK.
We supply everything from Group Chief Executive Our response 1.
Depth and breadth of product 2.
Relationships with company Whissell relies on Wolseley Canada Inc A computerised ordering process and Personal service is the cornerstone of for the huge range of products involved ready availability of products combine to the Wolseley Canada Inc advantage.
in the effective installation of large ensure that deliveries are made to meet Wolseley people work closely with the pipework projects, such as fire hydrants.
the precise needs of the customer.
customer team to identify objectives and monitor performance.
Calgary Mark Dumont Site foreman at Whissell Contracting Calgary, Canada Our Wolseley Canada Inc business works closely with Whissell Contracting, helping to sharpen the customers competitive edge in Calgarys local government and private sectors.
I NEED QUALITY PRODUCTS AT COMPETITIVE PRICES
