Chief Executives Review Trevor Bish-Jones Chief Executive... a simpler clearer business... 4 Woolworths Group plc During the past year the focus for The Woolworths Recovery Plan Strengthening the Infrastructure In 2003, we are seeking further the Group has been on sustainable detailed in last years Interim During the year, investment improvements in the supply chain profit recovery.
Whilst we have Statement focuses on four in Woolworths IT systems by increasing warehouse operating rigorously removed excess costs key elements: simplifying the infrastructure totalled 18.4 million.
hours and reviewing pack sizes.
and simplified the business, we business, strengthening the The building blocks required have also continued to invest in infrastructure, rebuilding core to give Woolworths integrated The supply chain review has also and develop the business for the retail competencies and developing systems are now established, highlighted the need in the longer future.
Going forward there is clearer propositions across all our providing greater control over term to update the infrastructure significant opportunity as we refine retail formats.
Good progress is stock and enhancing the in-store to support the needs of the and build on the Recovery Plan.
being made across all these areas.
As we grow, further distribution capacity will become In the 52 weeks ended 1 February Simplifying the Business Good progress is being made necessary and the location 2003 the Group achieved total At the start of the year four on the migration of all product of the warehouse sites will sales of 2,717.4 million, which Woolworths formats were categories to the new range need to be optimised.
We have represents an increase of 4.5 trading, each with independent planning and replenishment made good progress towards per cent over the 52-week period management structures and system and, by Summer 2003, defining the optimal configuration ended 2 February 2002.
This was all areas will be fully functional.
of the distribution network growth was driven by a 3.1 per cent overly complex and costly.
We continue the rollout of the to lower costs and to ensure increase at Woolworths and To address this, the City Kingstore till system where adequate capacity.
We will give a 16.5 per cent increase in the and Local format management a further 160 stores will be a full update on our supply chain Entertainment businesses.
Total was amalgamated and the rollout converted this year so that by strategy at our Interim results Group retail like-for-like sales of the loss making General Store January 2004 over 320 stores in September.
for the year increased by 0.2 per format stopped, with the stores will be converted, representing cent with like-for-like sales in the now being converted back to the 67 per cent of our retail space.
Woolworths Mainchain decreasing Woolworths Mainchain format.
We anticipate that the programme 0.4 per cent, in Woolworths big W Additionally, big W was re-branded will be completed during 2005. increasing by 3.1 per cent and Woolworths big W and the MVC increasing by 7.0 per cent.
separate buy and supply teams In recent years, a weakness of that had existed for Woolworths the business has been the physical Profit before taxation, exceptional and big W were integrated.
supply chain which comes under costs and goodwill amortisation particular pressure over the increased by 60 per cent to The overall impact of these Christmas period.
changes was to remove over this, a supply chain review was The components of this 19.8 140 roles from central functions undertaken in 2002 to achieve a million improvement comprise generating expected annualised more robust approach to planning.
an overall improved trading savings of some 5 million from This allowed us to flow the performance of 27.1 million August 2002.
Consolidation seasonal Christmas stock into 61 per cent increase and a of the buying team is already the stores earlier and increased reduction in interest costs of leading to better product our delivery frequencies which 3.3 million 24 per cent decrease, ranges and buying leverage.
resulted in a more controlled and offset in part by a 10.6 million timely supply of product to the increase in common costs.
This We have also sought to simplify stores and improved availability increase is primarily due to the our Entertainment businesses.
first full year of the Corporate In October 2002 the Streets Online Centre, but also reflects the Head Office was relocated to the one-off dividend income received EUK site at Hayes.
In addition, in the prior year at demerger.
the MVC Head Office is to close in April 2003 and the MVC team After exceptional items, profit will move to Woolworths Head before tax for the year is 38.0 Office and work more closely with million, which compares with the Woolworths Entertainment a loss in 2002 of 46.4 million.
Both of these actions will generate further savings of over 3 million per annum.
Chad Valley is Woolworths longLadybird clothing has been sold Woolworths Group has COOK!
is Woolworths own brand standing and respected toy brand.
in Woolworths stores since 1932. a leading market position of kitchenware.
Smart, sleek It stands for fun toys and games An extremely popular brand in home entertainment and stylish stainless steel utensils for all the family at competitive for childrens clothes in the UK, products music, video, games and kitchen accessories create prices.
The extensive range offers it is also sold under licence by and offers high street retailing a contemporary feel in the kitchen over 700 product lines for babies, selected partners.
through MVC and Woolworths: at affordable prices.
online shopping through Streets Online: wholesale distribution through EUK: and video, DVD and music production through VCI.
5 Woolworths Group plc Chief Executives Review continued... a focus on the right products for our customers... For customers who wish to update Creating a designer look in the With sleek lines and a modern COOK!
wooden bowl with stainless their homes without the cost of home need not break the bank.
aluminium finish this square frame, steel handles and butchers redecorating, Woolworths offers Woolworths offers a range of small display dish and teardrop block bring clean lines and a wide variety of accessories beautiful home adornment pieces, vase are an ideal gift.
Prices contemporary design to the perfect for adding colour and with vases starting at 3.99. start at 4.99. kitchen.
Bowl retails at 7.99, texture to a room.
Prices for butchers block retails at 9.99. cushions shown here start at 5.99.
Prices at time of publication.
6 Woolworths Group plc Rebuilding Core Retail In recent years many basic retail Developing Clearer Propositions To further validate the strategy, Competencies disciplines in-store have slipped.
With annual turnover of 2.2 billion a number of trial stores were Key to the success of any retailer Poor on-shelf availability, long and over six million customers reformatted during October 2002 is the ability to source and develop queues, insufficient staff at key a week, Woolworths is the to test how far and fast the product that customers really points of the day, untidy stock backbone of the Group and strategy could be developed.
During the year we have rooms and high shrinkage stock provides a significant base on The reformatting involved a enjoyed some notable successes, losses became all too frequent.
A key driver of the combination of changes to space particularly in the Toy area where The new operations team have enhanced product development allocation, product assortment our exclusive Chad Valley products begun to address this by putting has been the clearer identification and store refurbishment.
Early have won industry awards and in place a store standards and of our target customers and results from the Christmas period helped to drive a 1.5 per cent shrinkage reduction programme understanding their spending are encouraging, particularly growth in our market share in Toys.
and have introduced new queue habits, lifestyles and aspirations.
those stores where both radical busting techniques, putting Our customers, while being value changes to space and product Our Home ranges are also in more tills and employing conscious, do exhibit aspirational offer were made in tandem with improving and delivering more staff for critical times taste.
They express a desire for us an in-store refit.
enhanced margins as we move of the year an additional 6,000 to strengthen our Kids offer and to more direct Far Eastern at Christmas 2002.
The rollout view us as a potential destination However, it is imperative that sourcing.
This has been facilitated of Kingstore is a further benefit.
we understand how these stores by the establishment of a dedicated trade outside of Christmas, and Woolworths Group product These programmes have already We are committed to making that we have a statistically robust sourcing office in Hong Kong led to a reduction in shrinkage Woolworths famous for Kids set of trial stores.
Consequently and direct shipments have of 0.3 per cent as a percentage and Celebrations and have four further stores will have a increased by 10 per cent of sales in the year, fewer queues implemented changes to the major refit in May 2003 and up in the year.
In a very competitive at Christmas, better availability in-store space allocation that to 30 stores will have a minor refit.
Clothing market we have also and higher standards in-store.
This, Their performance will determine gained market share through As regular Woolworths customers along with the introduction of the pace at which we embark on the ongoing evolution will be aware, however, the results better ranges covering higher a store refurbishment programme.
are inconsistent and there remains price points, is resulting in a much to do.
This is being addressed positive customer reaction by upgrading the quality of our and is beginning to drive field management.
7 Woolworths Group plc Chief Executives Review continued... to drive a significant growth in profitability... 8 Woolworths Group plc Woolworths big W Having regained sales momentum Entertainment UK EUK In July 2002 the Group acquired During the past year a further five we are now putting in place plans During the year, Entertainment a controlling stake in Banana Split Woolworths big Ws were opened, to improve margins.
Progress to UK increased both third party and Productions Limited, a company bringing the total number of stores date includes a new Health and intragroup sales by an overall 26.4 that specialises in the creation trading to 18.
Each one set a new Beauty supply arrangement with per cent, driven by strong growth and production of pre-recorded standard for sales achieved in Savers and a renegotiated Clothing in the DVD and Games markets.
videos, feature film trailers, the opening weeks as we refined contract with Peacocks.
The new EUK was also successful during television programming and supporting marketing activity.
Peacocks contract gives greater the year in winning a number of advertisements.
The acquisition visibility and accountability over new third party customers.
supports VCIs strategy of seeking Sales performance improved the performance of their clothing Despite the general pressure on to develop its own content and markedly over the year with ranges.
Driving the margin in margins, the business profitability since July 2002 the performance second quarter like-for-like sales Woolworths big W is key to its improved driven by sales growth of Banana Split has been ahead of a negative 0.5 per cent improving success and will govern the speed and efficiency gains within the of plan.
to a positive 4.0 per cent in the with which we rollout this format.
distribution operation, where fourth quarter.
This reflects the costs to sales ratio was Demon Music Group, VCIs music improvements in both the product MVC down 0.7 per cent year on year.
publishing business, achieved offer and the promotional stance During the year MVC delivered a market share of 21.9 per cent that have flowed from the like-for-like sales growth of In addition EUK launched the making it the leading label in its integration of the Woolworths 7.0 per cent, a very creditable Entertainment Product Directory sector.
Total sales for Demon and the Woolworths big W performance in a difficult specialist which offers a product data increased by 5.0 per cent despite commercial functions.
To enhance service to e-commerce retailers.
the budget compilations market profitability and to simplify the suffering amidst price deflation Within the Woolworths big W business, we have begun to An integral part of the EUK in the full price sector.
chain we have stores that have combine the MVC commercial proposition is the returns facility an annual turnover well in excess function with that of Woolworths it offers to its customers.
Due Streets Online of 15 million including VAT Entertainment.
This will enable to lease expiry on two existing Streets Online is a well-established and attracting over a million best practice and expertise to be returns locations, it will be e-commerce brand and also customers.
This gives a clear shared across both MVC and necessary during the course supplies web expertise and indication that customers find Woolworths.
The planning support to both the Woolworths the format appealing.
There is, for the new returns operation is and MVC sites.
During the year, however, a need to improve the Uniquely in its market place well underway and negotiations to further remove costs from the financial returns from Woolworths MVC holds a substantial for a new site are well advanced.
business, the Streets Online Head big W. Much work has been customer database which Office was relocated to the EUK undertaken during the year allows MVC to track the 2.9 million VCI site at Hayes.
The Group is now to reduce the capital required active customers who bought Profit performance from VCI was well positioned with a rationalised to open a store.
Savings of entertainment products at MVC strong on the back of the change infrastructure and the capability to approximately 12 per cent are last year.
The potential of this data in mix from VHS to DVD and participate further in e-commerce being achieved, which augurs has not yet been fully exploited strong autumn releases from in the future.
and we have now begun a series both its Video and Music divisions.
of test marketing activities to Particular video successes included establish how this information can Peter Kays Phoenix Nights, be used to drive profitability and Thomas the Tank Engine, sales, as well as enhance customer Cold Feet and the Royle Family.
loyalty to the MVC format.
Although sales fell by 18.0 million, this reflects the impact of the sale of Disc Distribution Limited in May 2002.
Excluding Disc, sales for VCI rose by 25.2 per cent to 71.5 million.
Entertainment UK is the UKs The MVC loyalty card is a unique With Streetsonline.
co. uk, largest wholesale distributor way to deliver value to the MVC.
co. uk, of home entertainment products, customer.
The substantial the Woolworths Group is one supplying many of Britains best membership database gives MVC of the UKs leading online known retailers with a significant the ability to read customer trends entertainment retailers.
proportion of their pre-recorded and test marketing activities to music and video products.
assist the business in targeting the higher spending customer.
