19 Xansa Report and Accounts 2003 Chief Executives review The last year has been one of significant challenge and significant change.
The market conditions have been, and continue to be, some of the toughest our industry has experienced.
To tackle this challenging environment, I have acted quickly and decisively to sharpen our advantage in a very competitive marketplace and put in place an organisational structure and streamlined our cost-base to allow us to compete ever more effectively.
My team and I have developed an exciting vision for our future: a vision that encompasses growth, deepens our relationships with our clients and reinforces Xansa as a company that attracts and engages the best talent in we build strong and effective business relationships with our our industry.
Clients are our lifeblood and so I have implemented clients that endure over many years and that enable Xansa to a management structure that puts the client at the heart of grow as our clients grow.
I have rationalised our overheads and This proposition is very relevant in todays marketplace.
focused our resources on market opportunities where we expect Clients are grappling with tough commercial issues and have to see significant growth.
cutback on discretionary IT expenditure across the board.
I am a great believer in clarity and in times of such change However they are willing to invest in solutions that deliver it is vital that we communicate a clear message about what a strong return on investment and a guaranteed outcome Xansa does and how we add value to our clients.
Through our whilst remaining sensitive to other aspects of their business.
deep understanding of technology and business processes They want to see innovation and flexibility in their suppliers that are enabled by technology, Xansa delivers significant, in order to find the most advantageous joint approach to sustainable cost reductions and performance improvements solving business issues.
They are also increasingly prepared to to our clients business.
Our skills in IT, process design and take radical steps forward in terms of their own organisational outsourcing, coupled with our ability to manage major structure and internal processes and are seeking long-term organisational change programmes, introduce our clients to partners who are able to design, implement and operate fully new and more effective ways of working.
We innovate and integrated solutions that impact at the heart of their own tailor our solutions to each clients situation.
Such long-term relationships are the foundation ability to integrate on-shore and off-shore delivery through of our business model and it is no coincidence that many of our investment in resources in India allows us to guarantee the our successes in winning major IT outsourcing contracts for bottom line benefits that we will deliver.
Through this approach example with Boots and Royal Mail, and Business Process Outsourcing BPO contracts with BT and O in the last year 2 were based on such deep-rooted partnerships.
We have had to take difficult decisions but I am extremely pleased that despite the challenges we have faced we have Alistair Cox, Chief Executive successfully implemented a major organisational change whilst continuing to win significant new business and maintaining our record of outstanding delivery for existing clients.
This has required the commitment and dedication of our people and thanks are due for their determination and contribution to our success.
20 Xansa Report and Accounts 2003 Chief Executives review Overall I am pleased that our expected annualised savings of 27.1 million are ahead of the originally planned level of 20 million23 million.
These savings will not just protect our future profitability but will serve to offset higher business costs, National Insurance increases, increased pension contributions and other employee-related charges in the UK as well as providing funds for investment to grow our company.
The overall cost of completing this programme was in line with initial expectations and a full-year exceptional charge of 25.2 million has been taken, including the charge of 1.9 million taken at the half-year.
Market conditions The markets in which we operate both in the UK and Investment internationally continue to be challenging.
However, driven by The year has also seen us continue to invest in areas where the general economic uncertainty we all witness, the market for we anticipate significant growth.
Within our organisational IT outsourcing and BPO shows progress and further substantial restructuring we retained a separate business unit accountable potential as clients seek to capture the bottom line benefits for rapidly growing our Business Process Outsourcing operations that such services provide.
In order to compete effectively in and firmly establishing Xansa as a leader in this field.
Our focus this marketplace and capture outsourcing opportunities is on providing outsourcing solutions for client shared service profitably, I initiated a streamlining programme in September centres in the Accounting & Finance and Human Resources 2002 that was designed to reduce our cost base whilst aligning arenas.
I believe, and our clients tell us, that these services our organisational structure to better serve our clients.
are highly relevant and valuable as they seek to improve their own business performance.
In addition, we are now providing Streamlining outsource options for complex, high value processes that The streamlining programme was formally completed in benefit from a significant level of off-shore delivery from our March 2003 and I am pleased to say that the programme was Indian operations.
Such processes are usually at the core of more effective than was originally envisaged.
All of our key our clients business and frequently involve interfacing with our targets were met or exceeded within the original deadlines clients customers.
The willingness for our clients to outsource and the overall costs of the programme were in line with our these critical aspects of their business therefore reflects the initial estimate.
trust they have in Xansas skills and our ability to deliver results The results of the programme are profound for Xansa: day in, day out.
Our Indian operations continue to play an increasingly We have reorganised our business around client profit centres important role in our worldwide business.
We have been which provide improved visibility of our clients operations as utilising off-shore support for over a decade now and have well as our own returns and growth opportunities.
Given the had our own subsidiary for over five years.
Today I believe geographic breakdown of our client base, full profit and loss Xansa is unique in its ability to provide a totally integrated responsibility is now consolidated at country level.
on-shore off-shore solution to address our clients needs.
We have eliminated duplicate administration and This capability provides cost-effective and high quality services infrastructure surrounding the prior organisational structure whilst maintaining a high level of local client support, industry and have created greater clarity through the more effective expertise and insight.
Our competitors have also recognised allocation of our own resources.
the importance of this proposition and are investing to catch up.
My focus is on maintaining the competitive edge we We have reduced our cost base significantly through currently hold.
Accordingly we have invested around 8.1 million a combination of property and associated infrastructure in India over the last 12 months and have now opened rationalisation, together with a reduction in workforce two new development and processing centres at Noida and costs from a worldwide redundancy programme.
Chennai, providing 1,575 seat capacity on a single shift basis.
We have invested in new senior talent in the Company and Our strategy is one of building further capacity to develop have built a highly skilled and effective Executive team fully our three centres at Noida, Chennai and Pune, ensuring accountable for delivering results.
both flexibility and scalability, and I expect additional investment to be made over the next year.
Overall employee numbers were reduced by 502, more than originally planned.
Workforce numbers now stand at 5,583 as of 30 April 2003, compared to 5,638 a year earlier.
This is broken down as 4,170 employees in the UK, including 755 new colleagues joining us as part of the Boots and BT contracts, 1,046 in India, 191 in USA, 65 in Continental Europe and 111 in Asia Pacific.
21 Xansa Report and Accounts 2003 Xansa will provide Applications Management and software development services and solutions to Royal Mail and Post Office Limited.
Xansas services are valued at up to 180 million over the contract period.
This contract is not reflected in the orderbank but inclusion of the guaranteed portion of the contract 53 million would show the orderbank increasing 20% year on year.
In June 2003, over 220 staff transferred to Xansa as the deal commenced, and I look forward to reporting further progress on this exciting contract.
Overall we have improved our book to bill ratio, which measures the relationship between orders signed and turnover, from 1.0 to 1.1 times.
The UK is the largest part of the Company accounting for 91% of total revenues 411 million.
On a restated yearly basis, this shows a decline in profits of 33% driven largely by Xansas Pension objective is to maintain a healthy pension the winding down of the First Banking Systems FBS contract fund for applicable employees, as we regard this as a valuable prior to its termination in December 2003, when we will receive employee benefit.
In the UK, we are taking prudent actions, a termination payment of around 9 million.
However, our ahead of our triennial valuation in December 2003, to address relationship with HBOS is far from over and as a result of the our current funding deficit.
As a result, the Company has efforts of our team and their delivery of results we have signed decided to increase its contributions from 1 May 2003 and a framework agreement directly with HBOS for the provision will be looking to scheme members to bear a similar level of of a variety of services.
additional contribution through our flexible benefit scheme Included in the UK analysis is the Business Process from 1 January 2004.
This has had a terrific start achieving revenues of 46 million in its first year.
We have leveraged our Business performance success with BT to secure an Accounting & Financial Services The year has been characterised by the background of economic contract with O for 21 million over five years.
We have also uncertainty and declines in IT related spending.
Faced with 2 initiated a number of pilot projects with several clients covering these conditions we have focused on securing new business, a range of business-critical processes.
Each of these pilots maintaining margins and generating cash.
This year we have leverages our Indian delivery centres and we anticipate them won a significant number of new contracts, for example Royal building up significantly in the future.
Mail for up to 180 million, BT for 250 million, Boots for Recruitment is also included within the UK analysis.
We have also reduced our 2 As expected, this business continues to be affected by the net debt from 10.9 million at the end of 2002 to a cash surplus general decline in the demand for contract staff and pricing of 3.8 million at the end of 2003. pressures.
Revenues have declined by 23% year-on-year Turnover was down by 12% to 453.9 million, and operating to 38.4 million although the business remains profitable.
profit fell to 28.7 million, a reduction of 42% over last year Recruitment remains an integral aspect of the business as it and operating margins declined to 6.3% from 9.5%.
UK margins provides us with ready access to contractors to allow us to have come under pressure due to changes in the contract mix maintain flexibility in our cost base.
At the end of the year with older contracts at higher margins being completed and we had 410 contractors placed with external clients and new contracts at lower initial margins beginning to come on 664 being used directly on Xansa accounts.
stream and we expect this to continue during the course of this Internationally, we continue to see the impact of the global current year.
downturn on all our operations.
Continental Europe has been The Orderbank increased by 10% to 569 million.
the most affected with revenues declining 49% to 6.2 million This increase primarily reflects the BPO contract signed with and an operating loss of 1.2 million.
Action has been taken to BT in June 2002 for outsourcing its key Accounting & Financial focus on Applications Management and BPO and the businesses Services, valued at a minimum of 250 million over a seven have been restructured both to support this strategy and return year period.
Throughout the year, we have signed a total of these businesses to profitability.
For the longer term, we 494 million of orders in excess of 4 million, to be delivered consider Continental Europe to be an attractive market for our over a period of up to seven years.
integrated services and we continue to explore opportunities After the year-end, in May 2003, we were very pleased to leverage our presence there.
to announce as a member of the Prism Alliance a contract with Royal Mail to outsource its IT operations in an arrangement worth 1.5 billion over ten years.
As a part of the alliance, Before profit on sale of own shares, distribution of shares from the trusts, reorganisation costs and goodwill amortisation and impairment.
22 Xansa Report and Accounts 2003 Chief Executives review Similarly impacted has been our business in Asia Pacific where revenues have fallen 46% to 3.7 million, incurring a loss of 2.6 million.
Again, action has been taken to minimise operating losses whilst retaining our ability to service clients in this region.
In the USA, revenues have fallen by 28% to 32.7 million to yield an operating loss of 1.0 million.
The business has now been restructured significantly to reduce the cost base and focus on IT outsourcing, Applications Management and BPO.
The US market, whilst highly competitive, is also one Strategy and outlook that is hugely receptive to Xansas fully integrated propositions We now have in place a structure that reinforces our strategy leveraging all our skills and on-shore off-shore delivery.
of delivering integrated offerings in IT services and BPO, Early indications of our refocus are encouraging and we have leveraging the cost effectiveness of our Indian delivery recently secured a number of contract extensions.
Our focus is capability whilst providing our clients with strong local support.
to continue to build on this momentum and create a sustainable Our focus now is to execute this strategy in all our markets, business on this foundation.
despite our view that our marketplaces will remain challenging Underpinning our performance is the contribution made by and highly competitive at least through the current financial our Indian operations.
Our new organisational structure means year.
Tight cost control, a focus on cash generation and that the financial results of India are fully incorporated into winning new profitable business will be the key mantras in the results of the local market businesses, predominantly the the business.
Consequently, the start to the year is in line with UK.
If however the Indian operations were viewed as standalone, our expectations.
The benefits realised from the streamlining revenues would have been broadly flat at 31.5 million whilst programme will maintain our profitability in the UK, despite operating profit would have increased to 15.1 million versus higher employee costs and the margin dilution expected in the 11.5 million the previous year.
These figures exclude the UK as new major contracts, at initially lower margins, change allocation of any costs that would be necessary if the business the overall contract mix.
Additionally we would expect to move were truly standalone such as sales costs and corporate overhead.
our non-UK businesses toward profitability in the current Inclusion of such costs would indicate margins to be comparable financial year.
In reorienting the business, I have allocated increased The split of revenue by industry sectors shows that there are investment in sales and delivery skills and in infrastructure few significant changes over the period, reflecting the universal where growth opportunities exist.
In the UK, demand for nature of the downturn.
The only major changes reflect the IT outsourcing and BPO is expected to remain positive although impact of the BT and O contracts within the Telecoms sector discretionary spend will continue to be curtailed.
I fully expect 2 and the impact of the Boots and Diageo contracts on Retail & us to capture a share of the outsourcing opportunities that Consumer Goods.
In the USA the appetite for our broader services is well established and we will seek to grow our Banking 34% 2002: 33% business on the back of this ready acceptance.
In Continental Insurance 11% 2002: 15% Europe there is the potential for major markets to engage more fully in significant outsourcing.
Our objective is to Retail & Consumer Goods: 20% 2002: 14% position the business to capture this growth as it materialises.
Utilities 8% 2002: 11% Above all I see the ability to deliver high quality solutions from a cost-effective off-shore operation as being imperative Government 8% 2002: 9% to competing in every one of our marketplaces and we will Telecoms 14% 2002: 7% invest in our Indian business accordingly.
In summary, we are now a leaner organisation, well equipped Aerospace & Defence 3% 2002: 6% to compete effectively and are pursuing a strategy designed Pharmaceuticals 2% 2002: 5% to keep us at the forefront of current trends in IT services and IT and process outsourcing.
Alistair Cox, Chief Executive 24 June 2003 23 23 X Xansa ansa Report an Report and accoun d Accounts 2003 ts 2003 Clients are also increasingly prepared to take radical steps forward in terms of their own organisational structure and internal processes and are seeking long-term partners who are able to design, implement and operate fully integrated solutions that impact at the heart of their own business.
Such long-term relationships are the foundation of our business model and it is no coincidence that many of our successes in winning major outsourcing contracts in the last year were based on such deep-rooted partnerships.
