CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Specic data on our progress in 2003 and further information on our targets in 2004 are set out in a stand-alone 2003 HSE and Community Report, published at the same time as this annual report and also available on the website.
Progress in Governance, Internal Controls and Risk Management The Board has paid particular attention to the ongoing development of effective governance, internal controls and risk management systems, and details are fully set out in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 82 to 87.
The Groups progress in this area was tested and proved in the acquisition and integration of MIM.
The rapid extension of the Groups policies and process to our new operations meant that comprehensive monthly management reports were available prior to the conclusion of the formal integration process in September 2003 and that the Xstrata Risk Management programme was already fully integrated with the business planning cycle that extended across the enlarged Group and concluded in October 2003.
Progress in the above areas has positioned the Group to benefit signicantly from the upturn in commodity prices which began towards the end of 2003.
The Current Commodity Markets As highlighted by Mick Davis, there is considerable interest in the nature of the current strength in commodity prices.
In the past, prices of basic commodities, such as base metals and coal, have moved in two cycles: a long cycle driven by macroeconomic factors and decades of investment decisions regarding supply, and a short cycle, driven by more immediate and far briefer supply demand dynamics.
There is currently no clarity as to whether we are in the ferment of a short-cycle upturn, with an accompanying intense focus on when prices will peak, or whether we nd ourselves in the early days of a more profound long-cycle shift in the fundamentals of the industry.
There are grounds for optimism that in either scenario, the medium-term outlook for our business looks robust.
The landscape of the metals and mining industry has changed signicantly and for the better over the past several years, particularly with the dramatic consolidation that has taken place among producers.
In 1990 the top five metals and mining companies controlled 25% of a US$150 billion industry.
Today, the five industry leaders control some 45% of a US$400 billion industry a truly significant shift in industry structure.
Over the same period, a number of other supply-side developments have also contributed to more rational allocation of capital for growth: the exit of government producers and oil companies from the metals and mining industry: a significant tightening in exploration expenditure and the withdrawal of the industry leaders from early-stage exploration, over a period when the prospectivity of the major mining provinces of Australia, Latin America and South Africa has reduced as our geological data in those areas has accumulated: the adoption of more rigorous investment processes in the larger, more responsible mining companies that has raised the hurdle for new projects: improved market transparency regarding the financial, technical and market assumptions which support investment decisions: more frequent decisions by producers to cut production at times when there is a significant fall off in demand: the larger number of diversied companies in the sector, within which different projects and commodities compete for investment as opposed to pure play mining companies whose investment choices are limited to one product : the emergence of larger, better capitalised mining companies which can afford to invest counter-cyclically, timing expansions better with demand: and, nally indications that the providers of capital may have become more discerning in allocating capital to the industry, based on a recognition that ceasing to fund uneconomic projects or companies with a track record for destroying value is a practical step to realising their own demands for an industry with higher and more stable returns.
4 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2003 Of course, supply is only one side of the equation.
The current strength in pricing reects not just the above issues and other shorter-term supply upsets, but also a healthy and solid growth in demand that appears to be underpinned by an improving prole and intensity of metals usage, particularly in the new markets of China and India.
In the years since the Second World War, the proportion of metals used in the developed economies of Europe, North America and Japan has decreased each year as these economies shift their weightings from basic industries and manufacturing to services and the high tech sector.
This trend has been reversed in the fast-growing Chinese economy, which has been fuelled by massive increases in requirements for basic materials and power.
What is particularly striking in both China and India is not just the robustness of the growth, but the relative intensity of the demand for raw materials which accompanies it.
I believe the fundamentals of this phenomenon remain secure, even if the pace of economic development in China were to cool or the currency to revalue.
Clearly any return to higher growth levels in North America and Europe would create considerable additional demand for commodities.
These factors taken together suggest that the fundamentals of this industry have improved signicantly over the past six years, with progress made against a backdrop of lacklustre growth in the established global economies and, in the technology bubble, one of the largest market corrections since the Great Depression.
The industry is better positioned for this point in the cycle than it has ever been before.
The debate regarding the extent or nature of this cycle is not theoretical for Xstrata.
The value of the investment decisions we will make over the next few years will depend on the quality and depth of our understanding of our global markets.
The Group is positively positioned to benefit going forward from the current strength of its commodity markets, its ongoing efficiency programmes and its pipeline of major internal growth projects.
We are now devoting effort and time to our strategic thinking to ensure that we are also well positioned to identify and secure additional value.
I am confident that we have the teams in place across our business to do so.
I wish to pay tribute to all those who have contributed to the Companys progress in 2003, and I thank my fellow directors for their expertise, diligence and time.
On behalf of the Board, I thank the men and women of Xstrata for their hard work and commitment and, in particular, I express the Boards appreciation to Mick Davis for his leadership and vision.
Willy R Strothotte Chairman Xstrata plc Annual Report 2003 5 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW There is currently much debate on the nature of the current buoyancy in the commodity markets.
Whether this cycle represents a secular shift in real commodity pricing or is simply a cyclical upturn will only be apparent in time to come.
In either scenario, Xstrata with its new scale and breadth is well positioned to create value for its shareholders due to the progress made in implementing the strategy, which we set out at the time of our IPO and reiterated in the annual review last year.
Whilst the financial results for the year reect the negative impacts of previously depressed commodity prices and a weak US dollar, in the past 12 months, Xstrata: took advantage of the difficult market conditions by successfully acquiring MIM Holdings Ltd at what, with the benefit of hindsight, now looks to have been the bottom of the commodity cycle: continued to make significant progress in reducing costs in real terms across the Group, removing some US$61 million from the cost base of the former pre-MIM Xstrata some 3% of operating costs : and made excellent progress in bringing forward growth from within the existing portfolio, approving two major projects in Alloys and Coal that have secured the long-term growth of two of our four global businesses.
These three aspects are so significant to understanding the potential for value creation within Xstrata that they merit more detailed analysis: The Acquisition of MIM Holdings The rationale for the purchase of MIM was set out in the interim report in September 2003.
In summary, MIM delivered: Earnings enhancement: Meaningful entry into two new global businesses Copper and Coking Coal : Greater earnings and geographical diversication: and An enhanced portfolio of internal growth options.
Integration and Synergy Benets The formal integration process was completed, as expected, at the end of September.
The coal and zinc lead assets of MIM were placed within our global coal and zinc businesses respectively, and the copper operations in Australia and Latin America were divided into two interim business units.
The head office structure of the former MIM was disbanded, with essential 6 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2003 corporate and service functions devolved to the new businesses, resulting in a significant reduction in head count.
Exploration was pared back to near-mine on-lease development, with a sale of non-core tenements and related assets.
One-off costs associated with the integration, primarily redundancy expenses, totalled US$13.3 million in 2003.
As a consequence of these initiatives, our initial estimate of annual head office and exploration cost savings, of US$28 million in the first year of acquisition, was raised 35% to US$38 million.
Together with the estimated US$17 million annual benets that ow from the Groups financial structure, we expect to save US$55 million of costs annually from 2004.
Operational Issues at MIM The assets of the former MIM performed poorly in 2003, particularly the coking coal business in Queensland, where EBIT fell some US$108 million or 81% year-on-year.
The operational issues were well agged by MIM itself and covered in our interim report in September.
I am pleased to report that the immediate steps taken by the experienced management team from Xstrata Coal, who took over the business in July, have substantially reduced the risk of frictional ignition events and addressed the strata management issues, which combined to reduce production in 2002.
Measures already adopted included modifying equipment and mining sequences, and reducing methane levels via underground in-seam gas drainage, with implementation underway to address longer-term stability through surface in-seam gas drainage.
As a consequence, cutting speeds at the operation have returned to prior levels, with safety and operational performance expected to be substantially better in 2004.
Further Restructuring of Xstrata Copper In January this year, we announced the restructuring of our copper assets into a single global Copper business in line with the Xstrata business model, and appointed as chief executive Charlie Sartain, previously head of our copper business in Latin America.
Charlie, who has extensive experience in the copper industry, has been responsible for the significant turn around at Alumbrera.
The timing and extent of reorganisation within the copper assets has been driven by the imperative to optimise operational performance.
Charlie has already made a number of changes to senior operational personnel and initiated a wide-ranging process to streamline the organisational structure of the new business.
Changes of this magnitude are not made lightly, but it is essential that the potential of our Australian base metal assets be fully unlocked.
The changes in senior personnel, together with the robust and forthright management that now characterises this business, have already begun to generate the new and positive momentum required to break the logjam of past inertia and deliver meaningful operational improvements.
This is particularly necessary at Mount Isa, where a comprehensive process of improving work practices and productivity is underway.
It will clearly take time to reap the full benefit of these interventions, but early indications are that the workforce has reacted positively to the leadership changes and are keen to restore Mount Isas historic reputation as the premier Australian mining complex.
I am now satisfied that we have in place with Charlie and his new team the right people to maximise the value of our existing assets and to grow our Copper business from this base.
Efficiency Improvements across Xstrata A key driver of value for the Group, since our listing in London two years ago, has been the delivery of real efficiency gains across our business in each reporting period.
We maintained that performance across the former pre-MIM Xstrata in 2003, reducing costs in real terms by US$61 million, around 3% of the operating cost base and considerably ahead of the ination impact of US$35 million.
I pay tribute to the management teams of our commodity businesses, who have ensured that real unit cost reductions have consistently exceeded the impact of ination in each of the last four successive reporting periods.
Details of 2003 cost performance are provided in the Financial and Operating reviews that follow.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2003 7 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Our Coal and Zinc businesses led the way, maintaining their excellent cost-cutting performance of 2002.
In the two years since Xstratas listing, these businesses have reduced their real costs, excluding any currency or ination impacts, by US$72.5 million and US$51.2 million respectively.
The major efficiency gains in our Coal business were achieved in Australia, and reect the optimisation associated with contiguous reserves and the on-going switch into lower-cost production.
Our Zinc business, already one of the lowest cost producers in the industry, achieved cost reductions in real terms at both San Juan fide Nieva in Spain, where a 25,000 tonne expansion was successfully commissioned, and at Nordenham in Germany, where unit costs declined by 10% in real terms in Xstratas first year of ownership.
Our Alloys business did well to maintain its cost position in real terms in 2003 despite the very significant cost increases in reductants, and the negative impact of challenging mining conditions.
The acquisition of a local charcoal producer at the start of the year and the commissioning of a pelletising plant at Rustenburg in the fourth quarter helped to reduce reductant costs and improve smelter efficiencies, with the full positive impact of these developments expected to deliver more significant cost efficiencies in 2004.
EBIT Variance of unit costs in real terms 2003 vs 2002 Xstrata MIM Pro forma Alloys 0.1 0.1 Coal 35.2 31.2 4.0 Copper 43.6 43.6 Zinc Lead 25.9 11.3 37.2 Other businesses 0.2 0.2 Rationalisation of former MIM head office 16.1 16.1 Total 61.2 47.4 13.8 Pro forma includes MIM Group acquisition from 01.01.03 Pro forma includes Coal and MIM Group acquisitions from 01.01.02 and does not include Nordenham Excludes Ravenswood and discontinued operations Avonmouth, Duisburg and Magnesium In the former MIM operations, an excellent cost performance at Alumbrera, and positive cost performances of US$11 million in zinc lead mainly associated with rationalisation of the Northeet operation, could not offset the significant increase in operating costs in the Queensland copper and coal businesses.
However, we benefited by the reduction in the head office costs of MIM, achieved after Xstrata took control in the second half of the year.
This amounted to US$16 million and forms part of the annual US$55 million synergy benets referred to previously and more than offset the US$13.3 million cost of the post-acquisition corporate restructuring.
I reiterate our confidence that we will secure additional value for shareholders in extending Xstratas unremitting focus on cost reduction across the new enlarged Group.
The Xstrata long-term incentive scheme, which extends to management teams across the Group, has been rened to reect this goal and aligns rewards with cost reduction achievements.
Growth As we set out in last years report, Xstrata has a range of growth options available, which has been enhanced through the acquisition of MIM.
We have held back initiating any project until we were absolutely certain that it would satisfy real demand in its market, compete as a low cost producer with any other potential new capacity in its industry and demonstrably create value at conservative long-run assumptions.
Two projects have satisfied these criteria: the Lion ferrochrome expansion, which we announced in December 2003, and the Rolleston thermal coal operation in Queensland, which we have now approved.
8 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2003 Both projects effectively provide the Group with low-cost, high return capacity that will allow Xstrata to meet growth in customer demand for many years to come in the two of our four global businesses, in which we have positions of industry leadership and which are both characterised by higher than average rates of growth.
Growth in Alloys In December 2003, Xstrata announced approval of Phase One of the Lion Project, a one million tonne per annum ferrochrome complex, located on the site of Xstratas existing Vantech facility in Mpumalanga Province, South Africa.
The plant will utilise Xstratas exclusive and proven Premus technology, which is expected to deliver operating costs around 20% below alternative technologies, due to reduced use of high-cost metallurgical coke and power costs between 25% and 45% lower than prevailing industry processes.
Phase One, which has a capital cost of ZAR1.25 billion, comprises two 63MVA closed submerged arc furnaces producing 330,000 tonnes per annum of a high-demand, lower silicon ferrochrome product, and raising Xstrata Alloys annual production capacity by some 25% to some 1.63 million tonnes.
Lions exceptionally low capital and operating costs, which will further reduce the Groups average cost of production and its low requirement for expensive reductants, will ensure that the Project delivers excellent returns to shareholders, even at a time when the strength of the Rand has made many South African mining projects uneconomic.
The capital efficient, browneld expansions of Phases 2 and 3 provide Xstrata Alloys with an unrivalled capability to expand ferrochrome production some 75% above current levels enough to meet rising demand from the worlds high growth stainless steel industry over at least the next decade.
Importantly, it will maintain our industry leading position as the worlds largest and most efficient ferrochrome producer and secure our ability to deliver returns well in excess of our cost of capital during every part of the cycle a rare accomplishment in such a cyclical industry.
Growth in Coal The acquisition of MIM also provided Xstrata with ownership of the Rolleston Project, a major greeneld thermal coal resource located in the Bowen Basin, Central Queensland, Australia.
Following a thorough review over the past six months, including extensive product testing with major customers, the Board of Xstrata has given the go-ahead to develop an eight million tonne per annum open-cut mine at Rolleston.
The total capital cost of the Project is estimated at AUD291 million, of which Xstratas 75% share will be AUD218 million.
Rolleston will be in the lowest cost quartile of Australian thermal coal producers due to its low strip ratio, high-productivity draglines and its output of product that does not require washing.
The operations use of the Gladstone Port provides a freight advantage, estimated at US$1.25 tonne, compared to export production from New South Wales, allowing its product to compete on a CIF basis with Indonesia and China.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2003 9 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Rollestons coal is characterised by its exceptionally low-ash content, which has already generated substantial interest across the Asian market.
Combustion tests conducted on coal from the Rolleston trial pit by power utilities in Korea, Japan, Hong Kong, New Zealand and Australia have confirmed the competitive advantages of the Rolleston product, with letters of intent already received from major customers.
Rolleston enjoys a rapid development prole, with first production of some one million tonnes expected in 2005, and full production of 6mtpa export and 2mtpa domestic production in 2008.
The operation has a mine life in excess of 20 years and holds further expansion potential to some 12mtpa, with minor additional capital.
The timing of the Project is particularly opportune, positioning Rolleston to secure an important and long-duration domestic supply contract, not anticipated in the previous MIM feasibility, that will make a significant positive difference to the Projects NPV.
In addition, the current congestion in exports out of Newcastle has created additional interest in the Project from customers due to Rollestons use of Queenslands Gladstone port.
Finally, Rollestons production prole is timed to ll a gap in the market created by reducing supply of similar specication product from competitors whose operations are reaching the end of their natural lives.
Queensland Rail will construct, own and operate a new 110km spur to expand their existing rail network into the Blackwater system, at an estimated cost of AUD230 million.
The Rolleston mine will be charged a fee under a 20-year contract for non-exclusive access and use of the new line.
Taken together, Rollestons low operating costs, its highly competitive product and the benets of its location will ensure that this Project earns for its shareholders a rate of return in excess of 18% at our long run price assumption of AUD49.00 tonne, and returns the Groups cost of capital at a long run price as low as AUD36.50 tonne.
In addition to Rolleston, I have mentioned previously that one of the strengths of our global coal business is the range and quality of low-cost browneld expansions within its portfolio, which require only incremental capital and which enjoy exceptionally short lead-times.
In New South Wales, Xstrata Coal holds seven million tonnes of potential annual capacity that can be brought into production for US$40 million, of which three million tonnes has a lead time of three months or less.
These projects present the Group with considerable exibility in growing our production base and feeding the demands of the market going forward.
They will complement the new capacity being brought on in Queensland and secure our growth in the Asian market for the foreseeable future.
Growth in Zinc and Copper While no major new projects are underway in our Zinc business, I have previously mentioned the growth potential within this global portfolio.
Over the past two years, San Juan fide Nieva, the jewel of the worlds zinc reneries in terms of cost and scale, has grown an annual production capacity of 340,000 tonnes to some 480,000 tonnes in 2003 an increase of over 40% that has signicantly improved the capital efficiency and productivity of this already world-class operation.
At San Juan and Nordenham two browneld projects are already underway, which will raise annual production by some 7,000 and 6,000 tonnes respectively.
Further growth potential still exists at San Juan, where two low cost projects could increase zinc output to some 537,000 tonnes per annum, a further 12% increase in production capacity.
Work still continues on a feasibility study into a possible expansion at the McArthur River Mine MRM zinc operation in Australia and the potential application of the Albion technology at this operation.
Both options seek to address the challenge to the long-term viability of the operation created by the ever reducing number of smelters in the world able to process MRMs bulk concentrates.
Any decision will follow a review of the study, which will conclude towards the end of the year.
10 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2003 Our fourth global business, Xstrata Copper, does not enjoy the same robust pipeline of internal growth projects.
Indeed, the challenge of this business is twofold: First, Xstrata Copper seeks to extend the operating lives of its existing assets: Mount Isa and Ernest Henry in Australia and Alumbrera in Argentina.
In pursuit of this goal, we continue to devote time and resources to onand near-lease exploration at these operations to bring additional resources to book.
At Mount Isa, we remain confident in the potential to extend the mines life based on its existing resource base.
Extending the mine lives at Ernest Henry and Alumbrera, however, is likely to depend on nding additional and nearby reserves.
Both mines have programmes in place, with some US$4 million set aside to advance these in 2004.
Second, we aim to use the Groups extensive base of operating expertise across the spectrum of copper mining and processing, and its leading position in copper technology, in order to leverage participation in new copper projects.
Our new business teams maintain an active programme of engagement with other industry participants and are alert to smaller, acquisition opportunities in the red metal.
Clearly the current very strong performance in the copper price has made any entry into this market more challenging, and our focus remains mediumnot short-term.
Growth Outside the Portfolio Xstrata has undergone two major transformations since listing on the London market two years ago in March 2002.
The acquisition of the coal assets from Glencore International AG and the acquisition of MIM have created a diversied Group with an excellent spread of commodity exposures, almost equally divided between the bulk, negotiated markets of coal and alloys, and the terminally-traded, LME metals of zinc and copper.
The strengths of the current portfolio its high gearing to the current strong commodity prices, its robust cash ows and its internal growth potential remove the imperative to grow through acquisition.
Nevertheless, the strategy we set out two years ago remains valid, and our belief that further potential exists to create value by taking advantage of our relative size to grow through a combination of internal projects, smaller incremental acquisitions as well as transformational deals, remains similarly intact.
While we remain particularly alert to opportunities within the sector, we feel under no pressure to advance any transaction.
2003 Results As evidenced in the Groups results for 2003, progress in the three areas discussed above was made against the backdrop of a difficult year for our commodity businesses, which was characterised by lacklustre commodity prices and the significant weakening of the US dollar against a basket of key local currencies, particularly the Australian dollar, Euro and South African rand.
The impact is clearly evident in the next table.
With the exception of ferrochrome, where prices are tightly correlated to the Rand-US dollar exchange rate, the received prices for our major commodities in local currency terms were considerably lower in 2003 than 2002.
While spot prices across all our commodities improved as the year progressed, signicantly so in copper and zinc, which rose 40% and 27% respectively from July to December, these increases could not offset the aggregate impact of the weaker US dollar.
Operating profit On a pro forma basis, and excluding exceptional items, operating profit decreased 46%, or US$363 million to US$431 million, with stronger local currencies the largest contributing factor to the fall, collectively reducing profit at the operating level by some US$550 million year-on-year.
This impact was partially mitigated in Australia, where hedging gains added almost US$130 million compared to the previous year.
The re-commissioning of idled ferrochrome capacity, together with the impact of the acquisitions of the Ravensworth and Narama operations for the full 2003 period and incremental zinc sales from an expanded San Juan fide Nieva smelter in Spain, meant that higher sales volumes at Xstratas operations, excluding the assets acquired with MIM, led to a US$32 million rise in EBIT.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2003 11 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Average price Average price received received Average commodity prices year ended year ended % adjusted for currency changes Unit 31.12.03 31.12.02 change Australian FOB export thermal coal AUD t 38.8 49.5 21.6 South African export thermal coal ZAR t 187.7 258.4 27.4 Australian FOB export semi-soft coking AUD t 47.0 59.3 20.7 Australian FOB export coking AUD t 67.0 81.3 17.6 Copper ARS t 5,246 4,904 7.0 AUD t 2,739 2,919 6.2 Lead GBP t 315 302 4.3 Zinc AUD t 1,275 1,434 11.1 Euros t 733 826 11.3 Ferrochrome Metal Bulletin ZAR lb 3.47 3.15 10.1 Vanadium Pentoxide Metal Bulletin ZAR lb 16.7 14.1 18.4 Within the assets acquired in July with the MIM acquisition, the improving prices of terminal market commodities particularly copper made a positive contribution in the latter part of 2003, although this was tempered by the weaker US dollar, lower received coal prices and reduced copper output.
As highlighted at the half-year, lower sales volumes in the coking coal and copper businesses of the former MIM caused a negative EBIT movement of US$105 million, with lower production from the underground longwall operations at Oaky reducing operating profit by US$33 million year-on-year.
In addition, lower head grades at Alumbrera and the copper smelter rebrick at Mount Isa combined to reduce EBIT by US$60 million.
Depreciation Depreciation across the Group rose by a total of US$100 million, of which US$70 million was directly due to the stronger local currencies.
The remaining increase in depreciation and amortisation related to higher thermal coal and ferrochrome production, and reallocation of xed asset economic lives and fair values in the MIM coal and copper operations.
Taxation The statutory pre-exceptionals tax charge of US$48 million represents an effective tax rate of 20%, versus 13% in 2002.
The increase in 2003 is mainly due to a higher effective tax rate in the MIM operations.
On a post-exceptional basis, the effective tax rate was 13%.
Attributable profit and Exceptional Items Attributable profit on a pro forma basis rose to US$279.2 million a 32% increase on 2002.
However, this gure included a net exceptional gain of US$113.2 million, made up in the main from the profit arising on the sale of an additional portion of our Queensland Coal interests to our Joint Venture partners, offset by restructuring costs of US$21.8 million at the MIM head office and the Northeet plant.
