4 BAE SYSTEMS Annual report 2003 Chief executives review Our overall priorities are to deliver enhanced performance and improve returns, particularly from our major UK defence programmes in the medium-term, and to continue to grow our business in the US.
Through our Commercial Aerospace business Progress has been made to stabilise the Performance we are an active partner in all aspects of performance of the UK MoD programmes.
BAE Systems has market leading businesses Airbus.
Airbus performed strongly in a difficult operating in the fields of systems and market that endured the effects of the SARS In Air Systems there has been significant software, support services and, through virus, the Iraq conflict and the underlying progress on Nimrod and Hawk.
Typhoon is Airbus, large commercial jets.
Together these airline industry cycle.
Looking forward, Airbus now in production with deliveries to our activities represent some 80% of the groups is very well positioned for strong growth over customers underway.
In order to determine sales.
Much of the recent focus of attention the medium-term.
the way forward and reduce uncertainty, a key has been on the under-performance of our objective remains to conclude the major UK Ministry of Defence MoD Much of our business in continental Europe is negotiations with regard to the next phase of programmes.
Good progress has been made conducted in partnership with other the Typhoon weapon system development and towards the removal of excessive risk and the aerospace and defence companies.
Our the second tranche of production aircraft.
restoration of profitable growth in this latter recent focus has been on enhancing the portfolio that represents the remaining 20% performance of these partnerships.
In Naval Systems we successfully achieved all of the group.
of our 2003 key objectives and milestones for We have taken a three-pronged approach to the Astute submarine, Type 45 destroyer, The North America business group performed improving performance.
Firstly, we work hard Landing Platform Dock, Landing Ship Dock well, with double digit organic growth and with partners to maximise value and the Auxiliary and Sting Ray torpedo programmes.
This business continued to progress of our MBDA guided weapons joint design, develop and supply world class venture is successfully demonstrating the Managing risk systems and expertise to key US benefit of this approach.
Secondly, where If we are to drive growth and value programmes.
appropriate, we seek to achieve greater successfully it is essential that we establish clarity of overall management control, as we an appropriate balance of risk and reward in Customer Solutions & Support made further have with the restructuring of STN Atlas, contracts, notably in our major UK progress in growing business in the UK with where we have taken 100% ownership of programmes.
In February 2003, as previously an innovative cost and supply chain Atlas Elektronik, and the steps we are taking announced, agreements to share risk and management programme with the UK MoDs on Eurosystems with Finmeccanica.
Thirdly, reward with the UK customer were Defence Logistics Organisation.
In Saudi where activities are no longer core to our established.
During 2004, it is expected that Arabia the strong relationship of many years strategy and show inadequate returns we will the UKs new Carrier programme will proceed continues with the Al Yamamah defence exit, as we did with Astrium.
from the final stage of assessment into the support programme.
The terms of this BAE SYSTEMS Annual report 2003 5 contract will provide an opportunity to Priorities demonstrate the substantial progress that Our overall priorities are to deliver enhanced has been made jointly with the MoD in performance and improve returns, particularly rebalancing risk and reward arrangements for from our major UK defence programmes in future major contracts.
the medium-term, and to continue to grow our business in the US.
We will do this by Programme management exploiting fully the opportunities that come Our focus on ensuring that the best people from our strong market positions and are using the best processes and are continuing to improve our programme subjected to the most rigorous internal and management capabilities.
We are determined external reviews has improved the stability to succeed, and remain committed to and predictability of our programmes.
In close achieving an acceptable and sustainable collaboration with the UK MoD we now return for shareholders.
monitor our performance on strategic milestones across a number of our major programmes.
Performance is also regularly assessed by the companys Executive Committee, the group responsible for the day-to-day running of the company.
However, we recognise that there is more still to be done.
Our aim is two-fold: to Mike Turner out-perform the industry and to ensure that Chief executive our approach to programme management, as 25 February 2004 set out in our Operational Framework, becomes truly embedded in the way we do business, throughout the company.
Our people At the heart of BAE Systems, and its joint ventures, lies a highly qualified and dedicated workforce and I would like to thank them for their continued support and commitment.
6 BAE SYSTEMS Annual report 2003 Group strategy Group Strategy To create sustainable shareholder value by being the premier transatlantic aerospace and defence contractor Group Strategic Objectives - Optimise the value of our current order book - Create a geographic profile based on a transatlantic and tactical global presence - Proactively manage investment and divestment in businesses - Embed a high performance culture Business Portfolio Actions Grow the business Grow our support, Create a Become the UKs Achieve an optimised Grow and Manage solutions and sustainable, system of systems European position maximise the non-strategic in the United States services business profitable business architect through a rationalised value of Airbus businesses in the UK and as the UK programme portfolio of joint for optimal value international prime contractor ventures markets in air, land and sea Integrated Business Plans defence platform systems programmes.
To create and maintain a position from Our group strategy is To create The balance of our portfolio comes from where we can deliver value to our sustainable shareholder value by being the commercial aircraft, primarily through our shareholders we will Proactively manage premier transatlantic aerospace and involvement in Airbus.
investment and divestment in businesses defence contractor.
This strategy reflects based upon value creation criteria.
Where our commitment to delivering profitable Delivery of our strategy will be achieved via markets have attractive terms of trade, we growth through improved performance, and four group strategic objectives.
The first of will look to grow our position and deliver to building a consistent track record.
We these, to Optimise the value of our the best possible returns.
Where recognise that to achieve this means current order book, means building on our businesses operate in markets considered extending our mutually beneficial strong market positions and turning orders non-strategic, they must justify their role by relationships with our customers.
In doing this we will deliver value creation and contribution to the increased value to our shareholders.
The transatlantic focus of our strategy reflects our presence in the UK, continental Our second objective recognises the The last of our four group strategic Europe and in the United States.
The location of our most important markets.
We objectives reflects the behaviours that we United States is the worlds largest seek to Create a geographic profile based expect from our people.
We have taken aerospace and defence market, and it is in on a transatlantic and tactical global actions to Embed a high performance this market that we are most actively presence.
Transatlantic means more than culture through our Performance Centred seeking to grow our business.
In the UK our presence either side of the Atlantic.
Our challenge is to and Europe we already have a leading actively seek to take part in industrial ensure that these principles are embedded position from which to deliver profitable partnerships and collaborative throughout BAE Systems, and that all of growth.
programmes, and play a major role in joint our people and our partners understand US UK programmes.
As our market position is spread geographically, it is also spread between In maintaining a tactical global presence, These four strategic objectives are being sectors.
Defence remains our core market we will continue to export to, and work in, pursued through seven strands of business with some 60% of the companys total selected markets around the world where portfolio actions supported by the sales now from systems and software and we can deliver appropriate shareholder integrated business plans of our support services and some 20% from returns.
