Chief Executives review Mike Welton 2003 was another year of achievement in pursuit of our key objective of sustainable growth.
Performance results In 2003, pre-tax, pre-exceptional profits before the amortisation of goodwill rose by 10% to 130m 2002: 118m on turnover up 7% at 3.678bn 2002: 3.441bn.
These results were achieved after an increase of 9m in pension charges, which impacted the building, engineering and rail sector results.
Earnings per share before amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items rose by 28% to 20.6p 2002: 16.1p, in part reecting a reduced tax charge arising from the release of Advance Corporation Tax credits.
A final dividend of 3.4p is proposed, making a total dividend for the year of 6.0p 2002: 5.4p per ordinary share.
17m was charged to the profit and loss account in respect of goodwill amortisation arising from acquisitions 2002: 21m.
There were a number of exceptional items.
Provision was made for anticipated costs arising from the termination of three Network Rail maintenance contracts, losses on the disposal of the Groups investment in Garanti Balfour Beatty in Turkey and for certain residual liabilities in respect of BICCs US cables business sold in 1999.
However, exceptional profits from the sale of an operating facility together with compensation payments for loss of the use of this facility, led to a net exceptional profit for the year of 5m 2002: 9m exceptional loss.
profit before tax, but after goodwill amortisation and exceptional items, was 118m 2002: 88m.
Operating cash ow was, once again, strong and, after payments in respect of the acquisition of Mansell, year-end net cash rose to 124m 2002: 67m.
The year in summary 2003 was another year of achievement in pursuit of our key objective of sustainable growth.
profit and earnings growth was satisfactory.
Once again, our operating cash ow was strong, fully underpinning profits, reecting our maintained focus on working capital at a time of increasing sales volumes.
Operational highlights Turnover Earnings per share Metronet Public Private Partnerships with London Underground reach financial close 3.68bn 20.6p Work starts on four other new PPP Balfour Beattys sales are Earnings per share before concessions expected to exceed 4bn exceptional items and for the first time in 2004. goodwill amortisation have Mansell, the leading UK construction and approximately doubled construction services company, acquired over the last three years.
for 43m Preferred bidder for 521m Birmingham Hospital Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2003 18 In the 12 months to the end of 2003, our order book grew by 14% In July, manslaughter charges and charges under the Health and Safety to 5.8bn.
The principal contributory factor was the conversion of six At Work Act were brought against former employees of Balfour Beatty Public Private Partnership PPP concessions from preferred bidder to Rail Infrastructure Services and that company itself in respect of the financial and contractual close.
By far the largest of these were the two tragic rail accident at Hateld in October 2000.
We see no justication London Underground PPPs for the Sub-Surface Lines and the Bakerloo, for manslaughter charges to be brought against our maintenance Central and Victoria lines.
With our 20% interest in the Metronet business or its former employees.
The company will rmly defend concession companies came some 1.2bn of track replacement, civil itself against these allegations and provide the fullest support to its engineering and station refurbishment orders, spread over the next ex-employees in respect of the charges against them.
A further 0.4bn of orders were received through the The year ended positively when we completed the acquisition of PPP contracts for the M77 motorway in Scotland, Rotherham Schools, Mansell, a leading UK construction and construction services company, Blackburn Hospital and the Sunderland Street Lighting project.
Mansell, with annual sales of We also secured good long-term contracts for road construction, over 500m, is a profitable, well-managed company with excellent widening and maintenance in the UK and railway electrication work market positions in social housing, refurbishment, t-out and other around Europe, and were appointed as preferred bidder for both new construction disciplines.
Its business mix in terms of geography, sector rail renewals and power upgrade projects by Network Rail.
The Group and project size is highly complementary to our existing UK building is carrying out over 180m of project work in respect of Heathrows business, Balfour Beatty Construction.
Mansell was founded in 1908, the year prior to the foundation Shortly after the turn of the year, our PPP healthcare vehicle, Consort, of Balfour Beatty.
Its successful early growth has been accelerated by was appointed preferred bidder for the 521m Birmingham Hospital acquisition, including, in 1997, Hall & Tawse, another company with project, which is scheduled to reach financial close in March 2005. a history of successful growth stretching back to the early part of the In contrast, rail maintenance work under contracts for Network 20th century.
We look forward to the continuing expansion of Mansell Rails Kent and Anglia regions, previously due to run to March 2006, from its existing rm foundations.
Our contract for Wessex reverted to Segmental performance Network Rail towards the end of 2003.
The decision to terminate these In Building, Building Management and Services, profits were down by contracts early as part of a comprehensive change in Network Rail 2% at 45m 2002: 46m.
Performance was steady in UK building policy was both surprising and disappointing, not least because we construction and building services and in US construction and had worked hard as Network Rails development partner in pioneering programme management.
profits from facilities management new contract forms.
We are, however, co-operating fully with Network improved, but were offset by the impact of a slow first half for the Rail in the safe and efficient handover of these contracts.
building management and security controls markets in the US.
The year was not without its difficulties.
Both our East Coast All the UK businesses responded successfully to the increasing civil engineering business in the US and our UK utilities business had market demand for bigger, more complex projects and forward order significant challenges to face.
However, both businesses nished the books rose signicantly as a result.
year with their performance on an improving trend.
The Mansell acquisition The acquisition offers Balfour Beatty entry into important growth markets and delivers a wide range of long-term blue-chip customer relationships.
Balfour Beatty plc Before amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items Annual report and accounts 2003 see Notes 2a and 4.
