UK Housing We completed 13,304 new homes in the UK, 9% ahead of last year at a time when industry completions continued to lag well behind need.
These helped generate Group turnover to a new record of 2,171m, up 21% which, together with further improvements in our margin, produced record pre-tax profit of 288.7m, 31% better than last year.
The operating profits of our core UK housing activity rose 30% to 290.5m and our operating margin continued its improvement to 14.3%.
This was due to a high sales rate, together with David Pretty, Group Chief Executive, Barratt Developments PLC.
improvement in sales revenues, strong control of all overhead and building costs and improved land acquisition criteria.
4 Our average selling price for private sales rose to 158,600, up 13.6% Group Chief Executives against 139,600 last year, which was partly due to increased completions R e v i e w south of the Midlands.
Our wide geographic spread has, however, a healthy balance throughout the country with 50% in the North and I am very pleased to report that our team across the country has Midlands and 50% in the South.
produced yet another successful year for the Barratt Group.
We As always, all overheads are strictly again demonstrated the fundamental strengths which underpin our c o n t rolled and administration success and drive our business forward, with all key financial overheads were maintained at 3% of revenue, amongst the lowest in the statistics improving for the 11th consecutive year.
Our record of i n d u s t ry, and construction cost consistent organic growth is unrivalled in the housebuilding i n c reases are being contained.
year they amounted to 5.4% and they are again not expected to exceed that in the current financial year.
The demand for new homes is Housing Market supported by low interest rates, good The overly buoyant market last year employment levels and a serious has, as we have previously reported, constraint on supply caused by seen a welcome return to normality and continuing delays within the planning is now more consistent going forward.
All of our regions have remained Whilst the fundamentals r e m a i n active and produced impro v e d sound, our Group activities benefit p e rf o rmance, including London and from a number of other factors which the South East.
Sales activity across consistently assist our performance and the country has been encouraging since p rovide added protection fr o m the beginning of the new financial year fluctuations in the market.
and in line with our objectives.
We have a limited exposure to the higher priced Central London market but there has been renewed sales activity 2 there in recent months.
5 1 1 The Firs at Bexley Grange, Dartford, Kent.
On a recycled former hospital site in the Thames Gateway we are providing a wide mix of new homes, from 1 to 7 bedrooms, which are selling fast, well ahead of construction.
This spectacular Docklands development has won numerous top industry awards and proved an outstanding sales success.
c o m f o rtably exceeding the Geographic and Product Governments 60% urban regeneration Group Chief Diversity target.
We benefit enormously from We greatly benefit from our total our years of experience and skills in E x e c u t i v e s geographic spread.
We have 33 rejuvenating the more complex operating divisions thr o u g h o u t b rownfield sites and undertaking a England, Scotland and Wales run by R e v i e w wide range of projects, large and small, local men and women with good f rom aff o rdable homes to high rise knowledge of their local markets and apartments.
Our policy of developing sensitive to local needs.
In addition, for all market sectors, including mixed our policy of building homes serving all use schemes, consistently provides us market sectors, but with an emphasis with a greater range of development on af f o rd a b i l i t y, maximises our and land buying opportunities than opportunities to appeal to the widest any other volume housebuilder.
It also prevents an Group is, therefore, well positioned to over-dependence on any market sector maximise on the challenges of the and increases our ability to adjust c u rrent planning regime and the production in line with any market G o v e rn m e n t s emphasis on urban changes.
Urban Regeneration Land and Planning We remain industry leaders in the Our success in consistently growing redevelopment of Britains towns and our business organically is very much cities with experience stretching back due to our land acquisition and 6 over 25 years well before it became planning skills.
These have enabled us fashionable.
Over 75% of our homes to continue to strengthen both the size a re built on brownfield sites, and quality of our land bank.
During the year we acquired a record 18,554 plots, 39% more than we used, increasing our total UK land stocks to 45,300.
This represents over 3 years current volume and is in line with our requirements.
In addition, we have a further 10,000 plots agreed subject to 1 2 3 contract.
This amounts to over 55,000 our industry colleagues.
We feel our p a rticularly relating to the plots secured and being pr o c e s s e d, views are of particular relevance, taking simplification and speeding up of the into account our track record in inner planning process, have been equal to over 4 years supply.
city and urban renewal and the fact incorporated within the for m a l Our land and planning teams were that Barratt has, against the trend, built response of the House Builders 7 again highly successful, despite a more new homes each year at the same Federation.
We await the results of the d i fficult planning envir o n m e n t, time as the industry total has been Review with interest.
bringing a record 21,000 plots through declining.
Our views and suggestions, to planning consent, on 300 sites, more than sufficient to service our requirements in the new financial year.
This maintains our land bank as one of the largest developable in the industry.
This is also reflected in our selling outlets, which increased by 6% to 408 at the commencement of this financial year and have since increased to 415.
The Barker Review The Chancellor announced the Barker Review in his April Budget.
Kate Barker has been conducting a review into the factors affecting the 4 supply of new housing and why, despite strong demand, the number of new homes built is now the lowest for many 1 Coppice Park, Harrogate.
Built on the towns 3 Coleridge Park, Hertford.
A former factory in the former swimming pool, this project was welcomed town centre was successfully transformed into 218 decades.
by planners as an imaginative design solution.
homes, including 55 for rent and shared ownership.
2 Bournbrook Court, Selly Oak, Birmingham.
This We welcome this initiative and have development of 40 homes opposite Birmingham 4 West of the Green, Bristol.
The West Country has University sold out before the first home was ready been a strong growth area for us in recent years.
met with Kate Barker and her team, to move into.
We are now completing the final phase of this former hospital site which has provided both independently and together with over 400 homes.
Group Chief Executives Review T h e re is a large and gr o w i n g continued focus on a diverse product Partnerships range with an emphasis on affordable shortage of low cost homes and our For many years, Barratt has also network of 33 local divisions ensures p roduct remains highly successful, been at the for e f ront of pr o v i d i n g we are well placed to help satisfy this p roducing increased re t u rns which affordable housing.
In the year just ever growing need.
Indeed, we have more than compensate for the planned ended we completed over 1,000 homes recently agreed more than 80 new lower average selling price.
Sales since for our Housing Association partners.
1st July continue to show a healthy social housing partnerships acr o s s Homes for rent, for shared ownership Britain, to provide over 2,000 new increase.
Our strategic emphasis on and low cost sale.
Housing for local homes for rent and shared ownership, controlled re-investment in the better people and key workers.
Homes for the worth over 170m.
These will be built markets of Southern California with homeless, sheltered accommo d a t i o n over the next 2 years and more are an aff o rdable average selling price, for elderly people and those with 8 coupled with our strong forward order under negotiation.
Right across the country book, gives confidence for another we have provided many thousands of successful year.
USA homes like these for those who need them most.
Barratt American, which operates Awards in Southern California, continued to make sound progress in the year.
598 The quality of the product and homes were completed, up 19%, service we provide to our buyers was generating turnover of 126.3m, up again recognised when Barratt site 2% and operating profit of 10.7m, up manager Keith May won the top 53%.
Local market conditions remain national award for quality favourable with restricted supply, low workmanship in the NHBC Pride in interest rates and strong demand.
This is the third time a Barratt site manager has won the national award.
This followed 3 1 Keith May won the industrys top national award for quality workmanship in the NHBC Pride In The 1 Job campaign.
He is the second Barratt site manager in four years to win the award.
2 Barratt are industry leaders in apprentice training with 420 currently working on sites nationwide, including these East London-based apprentices.
3 Toscana, Bonsall, San Diego County.
This fastselling development enjoys a fabulous location overlooking the San Luis Rey Valley.
This contemporary scheme of 20 luxury apartments in a high-profile seafront site was widely welcomed by planners and local residents.
3 individual Gold A w a rds for Best environmental awards were also won apprentices nationwide.
They benefit for London, Scotland and the South.
from a 3 year programme of training in Brownfield Development, Best Starter key skill areas such as bricklaying, Home and Best Luxury Development c a r p e n t ry and plumbing.
This is in the coveted annual What House?
Skills Training already the largest apprentice scheme a w a rds, all of which vividly The industry has still not recovered in the industry and we plan to extend demonstrate the success of our diverse from the departure of thousands of it further.
In addition, the Group skilled workers in the early 90s and again won more Green Leaf the resulting skills and labour shortages In addition, we have r e c e n t l y environment awards than any other continue to constrain the houseestablished a graduate training scheme h o u s e b u i l d e r, bringing the total building and the wider construction with 35 graduates already on fast-track achieved to 32 in the past 2 years.
To help counter this, some career paths.
We plan to increase this 9 These included both the English years ago we established our Group to 50 during 2004.
We are greatly Partnership Award and the Wildfowl apprentice scheme and, reflecting our encouraged by the attitude and and Wetlands Trust A w a rd for substantial and ongoing investment in performance of these young recruits, our Pierhead Lock development in developing future skills, this many of whom are already progressing London Docklands.
Top Regionalp rogramme has now grown to 420 within the Group.
4 Group Chief Executives Review We have an ongoing emphasis on inspections every 3 weeks by either the Advance Housing i m p roving the environment within NHBC specialist safety inspectors or For some time the Group has been which all our employees and subindependent health and safety investigating the merits of steel-framed contractors work and those parts of our consultants.
Site inspection reports m odular housing with T e rr a p i n operation which affect the safety of our are monitored locally and centrally by Limited.
customers and the general public.
the Groups own Health and Safety Managers.
The NHBC also provides Last year a joint venture company, Training is crucial to achieving an identical inspection service for Advance Housing Limited, was continuous improvement and meeting other national house-builders and it is established by Barratt and Terrapin to our health and safety objectives.
encouraging that the Groups average carry the work forward and to combine P ro g ress of training is for m a l l y performance rating under the NHBC our wide housing expertise with their monitored regularly at all divisional safety regime is now better than the steel-frame and pre-engineering skills.
board meetings and centrally at Group.
We are A production facility has been determined to build on this positive In order to monitor and control recently completed in the Midlands trend and aim to achieve even better safety per f o rmance, all of our and is being fitted out for production ratings.
developments are subject to safety from early 2004.
Initial prototypes have been built and are being refined and the necessary certification to start p roduction has been achieved.
I n i t i a l l y, small numbers will be 1 0 p roduced at the plant but early response from potential customers has been very encouraging.
Health and Safety We are fully committed to the highest standards of health and safety.
2 1 3 4 Looking Forward We have an unrivalled track record in the industry and we are in a good position to continue our growth.
Our forward sales are strong, the market across the country remains sound and sufficient for us to achieve our goals.
Nevertheless, we always assume that future markets will have challenges but a re confident our fundamental s t rengths of geographic spread and diverse product mix present us with not only more development o p p o rtunities, but also gr e a t e r insulation from any market fluctuations.
We have a strong balance sheet, low gearing and a high r e t u rn on capital.
Our urban renewal skills, our planning successes and the quality 1 1 of our land bank are also great assets and the strengths needed to prosper in the years ahead.
These, together with the strength of our management teams across the Group, give us confidence for the future.
David Pretty, Group Chief Executive 24 September 2003 6 1 Royal Earlswood Park, Redhill, Surrey.
Apartments 4 Old Tolbooth Wynd, Edinburgh.
One of a series of for rent through a housing association are fast-selling city centre projects, this development indistinguishable from homes for private sale.
just off the Royal Mile is now fully sold.
This flagship scheme is 5 Colne Reach, Colchester.
This development on creating 100 waterside homes at prices from recycled industrial land includes 18 affordable 100,000. homes available through local housing associations.
For several 6 Bear Wharf, Reading.
This stylish development of years we have been spearheading a massive 77 apartments is well located opposite the towns regeneration project in Thamesmead, providing shopping centre and is now fully sold.
5 some of the best value housing in London.
