Chief executives statement 26% The major event of the year has been the acquisition of Bromley.
This confirms our position as the largest quoted residential Average sale value investor in the UK.
Sales of Graingers properties on vacant possession have achieved an average amount of 110,000, an increase of 26% in the year 2002-03.
Rupert Dickinson Chief executive 04 Grainger Trust plc Chief executives statement An effective management structure Activity profile The mix of skills within our Major projects within our Development and Trading management teams enables Division included the profitable sales of Townsend decisions to be acted upon quickly House in Victoria and further residential land sales and efficiently throughout the at Kennel Farm, near Basingstoke.
Pictured is our London based management team.
Future revenue is expected to arise from overage payments, the development of the B1 site and from the sale of some minor residential areas.
Over the last five years, total revenues from Kennel Farm have amounted to 62m.
We started the year with four key objectives: Our key strengths lie in our knowledge and experience of all sectors to maximise the benefits from Bromley, our Joint Venture company of the residential market, including mixed-use developments, and to continue to focus on our core tenanted residential business our ability to trade in those sectors.
We will therefore concentrate on and, in particular, to develop our life tenancy activities residential or mixed-use opportunities or on projects which have a to progress our development and trading business, realising profits residential bias.
We are moving away from pure commercial where appropriate and creating effective relationships with partners property investment, although we shall continue to be involved in to develop our asset and property management capabilities so commercial property where we perceive residential opportunities.
that we can offer a high quality, national service Disposals from the commercial portfolio will reduce gearing and free We are delighted to have made significant progress in all of these up resources for our core businesses.
Since the year end we have areas, whilst delivering record profitability and net asset value.
exchanged contracts on the sale of over 20m of commercial property.
Over the next year we will continue to purchase regulated Our operating divisions have performed well this year with both assets and to maximise the returns that we can obtain by selling on Tenanted Residential and Development and Trading delivering vacancy.
We will grow our life tenancy portfolio and look for structures improved contributions.
enabling us to do this without putting undue strain on gearing.
Once again trading profits on residential sales have been very The major event of the year, however, has been the acquisition of strong.
The housing market has remained robust throughout the Bromley.
This confirms our position as the largest quoted residential year, particularly for our core properties.
Typically these are slightly investor in the UK and enables a move from a Joint Venture below the average UK house price value and may require some business plan focused on cash generation to a platform from which refurbishment by the purchaser.
In London, where we have we can take a long-term view.
approximately 43% of our tenanted residential portfolio by value, we noticed some weakening of the market in the early part of the Following the acquisition we are restructuring the property year, particularly at the higher end, but it has strengthened recently.
management division which will strengthen our ability to provide high In the regions we have seen consistent growth.
Overall Graingers quality asset and property management services nationally.
We properties have achieved an average vacant possession sale value believe that this ability will be of paramount importance in raising of 110,000, an increase of 26% from 2002. equity funding should a REIT Real Estate Investment Trust structure for tax transparent investment vehicles be introduced in the UK.
We have continued to strengthen our position in the life tenancy market.
We see this sector as being an increasingly important Grainger has a valuable pool of talented and committed staff with component of the Grainger business in the future, providing the enlarged asset base now available to them we are confident of excellent reversionary opportunities and good synergies with the our ability to continue to deliver excellent returns for our existing core regulated activities.
Given the appetite shown by home shareholders.
owners to realise some or all of the equity in their properties, we believe this market has potential for significant growth.
The Development and Trading Division continues to make a significant contribution, with good profits being made on sales of residential land at Kennel Farm and Townsend House in Victoria.
Rupert Dickinson Since the year end we have sold a further 10.9 acres for 12m at Chief executive Kennel Farm completing the major residential land sales on that site.
16 January 2004 05 Grainger Trust plc Chief executives statement
