04 3i Report and accounts 2003 Brian Larcombe Chief Executive Our priorities have been to pursue our core strategy, Chief rebalance our investment activity, improve the quality of our processes and investment portfolio, and Executives increase specialisation.
statement Overview For the second At the Group level, we generated Liquidity for the private equity and consecutive year, we are reporting about 1 billion of realisation venture market has generally been a substantial fall in the value of the proceeds, at good prices, and this difficult with significantly lower portfolio and shareholders funds.
has enabled us to retain our levels of mergers and acquisitions balance sheet strength.
activity and virtually no IPOs.
The market has undoubtedly been In this environment, it is very difficult and, particularly for early We have maintained our long term encouraging that we saw such a stage technology companies, the strategy but have taken significant strong interest in many of our operating environment has been actions to improve the quality of portfolio companies.
the toughest for a very long time.
Strategy and competitive Our Operating review considers Market conditions The weakness advantage Our strategy is to: the performance of our product in stock markets in the year businesses buy-outs, growth clearly recognises the slowing develop the business capital and early stage technology down of world economies and internationally: in more detail.
In summary, our the continuing pressure on build a balanced investment mid-market buy-out business corporate profits.
This has had business: performed well and achieved a major impact on the private a positive return.
Our smaller equity industry which has seen use the network as our key buy-out business and our growth falling returns and a difficult competitive advantage: and capital business both performed fundraising climate.
invest primarily in growth satisfactorily but produced For calendar year 2002, total companies.
negative returns, partly because investment in private equity and of reduced valuations arising from Our network enables us to use our venture capital in the US and falling stock markets.
Our early local presence and established Europe is estimated to have stage technology business saw a relationships to identify increased by approximately 10% substantial fall in the value of its opportunities in which to invest.
However, within this portfolio and was the principal This, combined with our scale, total, buy-out investment was up factor contributing to the Groups gives us the ability to use 69% to $61 billion, whereas early negative total return.
specialist resources for winning stage investment was down 53% deals, carrying out extensive The return from our mid-market to $4.1 billion in the US and by referencing and adding value to buy-out business of 5% and the 66% to $2.5 billion in Europe.
negative return of 12% in our We have continued to invest in line growth capital business compare A key element of our strategy is with our strategy of building a strongly with the movements for maintaining a balanced business balanced portfolio.
the All-Share Index of minus with about 40% of our assets in 29.8% and the SmallCap Index of In our main European markets, buy-outs, 40% in growth capital minus 33.4%.
Our early stage we invested in about 10% of and 20% of our portfolio in early technology business saw a decline completed transactions, thereby stage technology based of 51%, which is very similar to maintaining our market leading companies.
The proportion of our the fall in the techMARK Index position.
portfolio in technology companies of 50.0%.
increased during the bubble in
