Business Review and Forward-looking Statements Chief Executives Review Overview an Equity Tier 1 ratio of 6.9% 2002: 6.4% and Tier 1 ratio At our 2002 results presentation a year ago, Abbey set out of 10.1% 2002: 9.2%, with the improvement largely due the scale of financial threats and business challenges it faced to Portfolio Business Unit capital release.
However, we are and the need for a fundamental change in strategy.
The new increasingly cautious about the prospects for one-off strategy was announced, to focus solely on Personal Financial capital return to shareholders in the light of the ongoing Services in the United Kingdom, and sell or wind down its regulatory and accounting developments highlighted in other activities.
previous statements: and It has been a tough year for Abbey, but weve made a lot of a proposed final dividend of 16.67 pence, to give a full year progress in reducing risk, selling certain assets, reorganising dividend for 2003 of 25 pence per share, the same as the the Personal Financial Services business and putting payment for 2002. foundations in place to allow Abbey to grow in the future.
One In 2004, Abbey expects a substantial recovery in total year into our three-year change programme, we are on track Group statutory results reecting the anticipated reduction and have met the priorities we set out 12 months ago.
The task in Portfolio Business Unit losses.
We aim to report the first is challenging, however, as the 2003 financial results show.
We improvements in Personal Financial Services revenues during are reporting a loss before tax of 686m, albeit substantially the second half of 2004, but remain cautious about full year due to the speed and success of asset and business sales Personal Financial Services trading profits.
Growth prospects in the Portfolio Business Unit.
are expected to be held back by reduced profitability in the Summary of the financial results for 2003: mortgage book as the impact of the lending mix of recent An overall Group pre-tax loss of 686 m 2002: loss of 947 m, years combines with continuing redemptions to lower margins consisting of: further.
Since the business re-launch, steps are being taken Personal Financial Services trading profit before tax of to offset this trend, but these will take time to have a material 1,021m 2002: 1,219m : in line with guidance given at impact.
We remain confident that the major changes we are the third quarter statement in October, with the exception making will improve Abbeys Personal Financial Services of a provision of 50m described below: business, and produce a stronger business with better Personal Financial Services non-trading charges of potential for growth.
These include a 373m Life assurance provision largely relating to the pending Financial and business highlights introduction of new Financial Services Authority Personal Financial Services regulations in this sector on realistic balance sheet The Personal Financial Services trading profit before tax of reporting and related matters as agged in the third 1,021m 2002: 1,219m was down 16%.
The main drivers of the quarter statement : and fall were: Portfolio Business Unit losses of 921 m 2002: 768 m : reduced earnings from the Life assurance business, reecting successful and rapid reduction of assets, largely due to a 142m negative swing in experience and and write-down of certain remaining assets to estimated assumption changes: sale values.
a fall in Banking and Savings trading profit of 9% to 876m Other financial and business highlights include: 2002: 962m, due to lower net interest income, largely an 80% reduction of Portfolio Business Unit assets, from due to the spread reduction: 60.0bn to 12.3bn, well ahead of plan.
There has been lower general insurance earnings of 73m 2002: 92m : an improvement in loan and securities loss estimates of offset by 344m versus the mark-to-market disclosures given at a smaller loss in Group Infrastructure of 307 m 2002: the start of 2003: 355 m due to earnings on increased capital held the Personal Financial Services banking spread narrowed centrally and lower expenses, offset by a provision of to 1.81% 2002: 2.03%, with the Abbey retail spread falling 50m relating to uncertainty about the regulatory from 1.79% to 1.55%, in line with previous guidance: environment for product mis-selling.
gross and net mortgage lending up 32% and 40% Personal Financial Services statutory profit before tax was respectively.
Second half net lending market share was 235m 2002: loss of 179 m, affected by the following 10.4%, with the full year of 9.9% our highest market share material charges in 2003: in 9 years: embedded value charges and rebasing in the Life further improvements in credit quality, with a 39% assurance business of 443 m 2002: 553 m. This reduction in 3-month-plus mortgage arrears cases in includes a charge of 80m relating to tax law changes 2003, with the position now better than the Council of affecting the structure of the Scottish Provident Mortgage Lenders average: acquisition: adverse investment variances and the effects Personal Financial Services trading costs were at, with of the adoption of active embedded value accounting underlying ination, increased pension costs, investment of 118m: and a 373m provision largely relating to the and business re-launch spend being offset by cost pending introduction of new Financial Services Authority savings in the year: regulations in the sector on realistic reporting and Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003 3 Business Review and Forward-looking Statements Chief Executives Review continued related matters.
The final impact of regulatory change on Customer Board, attended by Vittorio Radice and Waheed our Life companies is still unclear, with scope for the Ali: and appointing Gerry Murphy and Geoff Cooper as final charge to be signicantly higher or lower than the non-executive directors, with effect from 1 January 2004: provision made.
reviewing the next layer of management, reducing the size reorganisation costs of 315m compared to 34m in 2002, of this group and lling the majority of resulting vacancies, reecting expenses in relation to cost reduction as well as including the external recruitment of new heads of smaller one-off expenses associated with the new advertising, compliance, risk, general insurance, corporate Personal Financial Services strategy.
Also included are strategy, internal audit and branch distribution: asset write-downs of 141m, including 69m in the second undertaking a wide-ranging review of our operational half of the year, following the completion of the mortgage activities, which has concluded to date that we will plan processing and general insurance joint venture reviews.
our operational activities around five key UK locations, and The write-down has substantially reduced the amount move work from smaller sites to larger centres.
In 2003, of previously capitalised development costs in relation we closed six operational UK sites, with a further four site to these joint ventures, down to 6m.
closures already announced for this year.
We have also In terms of Personal Financial Services new business ows, announced the transfer of a range of administrative the highlights include: activities to a new site in India: full-year gross mortgage lending of 29.1bn 2002: closing the majority of our in-house active fund 22.1bn representing a market share of 10.7%, with the management business and the transfer of funds to second half volumes up 26% on the first half.
With capital multi-manager, aiming to deliver superior investment repayments still slightly below natural stock share, net performance and choice for our customers: lending of 9.4bn was 40% higher than 2002 6.7bn, We have also been investing in and upgrading our information equating to a market share of 9.9%: technology to support the people who deal directly with total retail deposit inows of 1.2bn, lower than the customers, giving them better tools to do their job, including: 1.9bn in 2002: installing new customer relationship management bank account openings totalling 396,000 2002: 444,000, software, with more than 8,000 staff trained and online.
with a total stock of accounts nearing 3.8m and AbbeyBy the end of the second quarter of 2004, 11,000 branded in-credit balances up 23% to 4.3bn 2002: 3.5bn : customer-facing staff will be using the system: and growth in unsecured lending balances, which includes the replacement and upgrading of information technology credit card cahoot only, unsecured personal loans and in the branches, covering 40,000 pieces of information overdrafts, by 12% to 2.9bn 2002: 2.6bn : technology equipment which will be complete by June investment product sales of 184m annualised 2004, putting a new telecommunications platform in our equivalent 43% lower than 2002, reecting subdued branch network, head ofce sites and call centres, which market demand and the Abbey-specic impacts of our is faster and easier to use.
withdrawal from the with-profit bond market, declaration At this time last year, we highlighted the need to address last year of a zero bonus for with-profits policyholders, recruitment and retention in some areas of the business, as and the need to restructure substantially our investment well as improving and increasing numbers of customer-facing product ranges, branding and distribution.
To date we have: are now underway: introduced a number of new recruitment and induction protection sales 12% higher than 2002 at 125m measures, with new joiner turnover in our branches and annualised equivalent : and telephone centres now running signicantly lower than general insurance new policy sales of 452,000, down 11% a year ago: on 2002. fundamentally re-organised the stafng and management These new business ows are creditable given the current of our branches.
400 customer advisers have been demands of the change programme on front-line staff, but recruited, and the number of employees qualied to give are below our future aspirations.
mortgage advice has been increased by 27% over the year: tackled service standards in certain areas, partly through Strategic update Personal Financial Services recruiting 150 staff in our banking and savings contact Abbey has made significant progress against the priorities centres they are now consistently achieving industry set out in February 2003. standard service levels and aiming for further improvements: We have introduced a new functional structure based increased training days by 38% from 2002 levels, around the customer, in addition to which, major organisational including almost 130,000 training days in the second half changes implemented include: of 2003 alone double the amount in the first half: and completing the Executive Director team, with the launched our outreach programme, with 60 staff now appointment of Priscilla Vacassin Human Resources actively making calls, and plans to increase capacity Director, Angus Porter Customer Propositions Director further in the first half of 2004. and Tony Wyatt Customer Operations Director : creating a On 24 September, we re-launched the business, clearly 4 Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Business Review and Forward-looking Statements Chief Executives Review continued signalling our intent to deliver a distinctive experience to portfolio down to around 10% of the original 60bn balance.
our customers, and laying out for our people the ways to make We expect most of the remaining assets at that stage to be this happen.
The re-launch also involved: either in workout phase, or be of a moderate credit risk.
making a commitment to simplify and increase consistency in our core banking, mortgages and savings Capital and Dividends ranges.
This has already included replacing six different Capital ratios have improved strongly, reecting the reduction current accounts with just one, grouping similar in Portfolio Business Unit risk-weighted assets, to give a mortgages and savings accounts together, making it Tier 1 ratio of 10.1% and Equity Tier 1 of 6.9% 2002: 9.2% and easier for customers to choose the right account, and the 6.4% respectively.
withdrawal from sale of some low paying savings accounts: The final dividend of 16.67 pence gives a full-year dividend reducing the number of brands we will use in future, of 25 pence, the same as the full year 2002 payment.
As uniting most business areas under the Abbey brand.
previously communicated, the future level of payment will be In 2004 this will mean replacing the Scottish Mutual and targeted to reect the cash earnings of the ongoing Personal Scottish Provident brands for new business: Financial Services business.
The at payment takes into making a commitment to communicate in plain, everyday account the pressure on earnings in 2003, the early stages language, including a rewrite of more than 7,000 customer of the transformation process and our view of the remaining letters.
At 31 December over 2,000 have been completed, execution challenges in Personal Financial Services.
covering most of our banking, savings and mortgage Capital release from the wind-down of the Portfolio letters: and Business Unit is emerging ahead of our expectations as rolling out the first phase of a new advertising campaign.
As highlighted previously, the amount of The second half of the year also saw Abbey launching new capital needed by the ongoing Personal Financial Services and innovative products and services, including a wrap businesses will be inuenced signicantly by the need to service for intermediaries, and offering all customers a multiretain a robust credit standing and the prospective impact manager investment service both direct and through of International Accounting Standards, Basel II, the Financial Independent Financial Advisers.
Services Authoritys Consultative Paper number 195 and related regulatory and accounting issues.
Strategic update Portfolio Business Unit It is our view that, whilst the current ratios may appear high Total Portfolio Business Unit assets of 12.3bn are 80% lower in relation to the Personal Financial Services business as stated than at the start of the year, with a corresponding decrease under existing regulatory and accounting regimes, the net effect in risk-weighted assets of 72%.
of all regulatory and accounting changes could be meaningfully A key priority for 2003 was to tackle the level and negative, leaving us increasingly cautious about the prospects concentration of risk in the portfolio, while bearing in mind the for a one-off capital return to shareholders.
The Life assurance need to extract maximum value for our shareholders.
Excellent charges in 2003 illustrate one of these concerns.
progress has been made, partly through improvement in capital markets, but also through a well-managed disposal Priorities for the next six months process.
A variety of approaches have been adopted, ranging The rapid rate of change will continue, and the rollout of from business and asset sales to closure and wind downs.
many initiatives started in 2003 will start to have a positive Overall, the losses to date on the loan and debt securities impact in the second half of 2004.
We intend to make a portfolios have been lower than the unrealised mark-to-market positive impact on sales and customer retention from further losses reported at the outset by approximately 344m.
improvements to accounts and services, and better marketing.
The progress made gives us confidence that we can Other priorities include: achieve a fair price in the market and complete the remainder introducing the advice model subject to Financial of the plan.
Services Authority approval to all our sales channels, Excluded from the December year end gures and completing the initial re-training of our customerare agreements for the sale of a further 1.0bn of assets, facing people: which include: completing the installation of the new customer an agreement to sell Royal Saint Georges Banque to relationship management software, and continuing GE Capital Bank France, which has mortgage assets to invest in outreach operations: of 381m: and making strong progress with the rationalisation of an agreement to sell 7 7% of the remaining private equity operations and sales servicing, including the relocation portfolio to Coller Capital, representing 289m of assets of United Kingdom functions to larger sites in the net of provisions and undrawn commitments of 162m.
United Kingdom and India: No further loss is expected upon completion as the writing more customer communications in the new style assets were written down to net realisable value prior of language: to agreement.
completing the re-branding of branch fascias, and beginning In total, by the end of 2004 we hope to have reduced the a full branch refurbishment programme from mid-year: Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003 5 Business Review and Forward-looking Statements Chief Executives Review continued securing further cost savings: and Our current view does factor in further downward pressure on further reducing risk and releasing capital from the trading results in the first six months of 2004, largely relating Portfolio Business Unit.
to pressures in our mortgage business, whilst targeting Weve made good progress to date, without a significant enough success from our efforts to allow Abbey to return deterioration in new business and service standards, which to growth in our Personal Financial Services operations in the is testament to the strength of the customer franchise and the second half of the year.
And by the end of 2004, we expect response from our people.
However, as a substantial amount to be able to demonstrate a significant improvement to the allof change remains to be completed, so the risk of an adverse round customer experience starting to set us apart from the effect on business performance remains, particularly through other banks.
Challenges ahead We believe Abbey can stand out as different in United Kingdom Personal Financial Services, and rebuild value for our shareholders.
Luqman Arnold The picture we faced just one year ago was troubling Chief Executive in many respects and the immediate priority was improving risk management, and reducing credit and equity exposures to place the company on a more secure basis.
For Personal Financial Services, 2003 has been about putting the foundations in place, and fundamentally re-engineering the business.
We have to reverse years of underinvestment: we need to deal with margin pressure in the existing book: and we need to build a solid, efficient platform from which we would hope to deliver growth from the second half of 2004.
There is still a lot to do, and significant challenges to overcome.
We do take comfort from the progress we have made so far.
We have exceeded expectations in the pace we are exiting the Portfolio Business Unit, with a much-needed release of capital to the company to strengthen our position.
We are already three quarters of the way to exceeding the 200m annualised cost savings target: we now expect to surpass this amount comfortably, allowing trading costs to be held broadly at at the 2002 level over the 3-year plan period.
To achieve this, we will work hard to ensure that inationary pressures and reinvestment can be offset by the benets from the cost programme.
If we need to reinvest beyond our current plans, we would intend this cost to be offset by targeted revenue improvements.
Given the upheaval the business has had to cope with, the trading results reported today are resilient and encouraging for the future.
We are achieving record levels of mortgage new business, benefiting from further improvements in credit quality, and getting to grips with the cost base.
At the same time our business is being asked to cope with an unprecedented level of regulatory change.
The principles of customer fairness, transparency and protection that are central to the customer-driven regulatory agenda are entirely consistent with, and have helped to shape, Abbeys strategy, business model and brand positioning.
However, the impact on the industry and on Abbey could be significant.
One year into our three-year plan we are confident and on track.
While it is difficult to predict accurately the timing and trajectory of our turnaround, we are entering the middle phase of our transformation, with the foundations substantially laid, but the results not yet visible.
6 Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003
