BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 In our third full year of operation as BG Group, we continued to perform strongly, substantially delivering our 2003 targets and providing value to shareholders.
We are on track to deliver our 2006 programme.
In 2003, we saw an increase in operating profit of 41% while at constant US$ UK a exchange rates and upstream prices, operating profit increased by 28%.
Our total operating profit excluding exceptional b items, has grown by 682% since 1997 due to growth across the business and the transformation of our cost base.
BG Group continued to generate strong operating cash flows and, notwithstanding a substantial five year capital investment programme of 5.9 billion, we ended the year Chief Executives financially strong with gearing of 15.5%.
BG Group delivered a number of key Statement projects during 2003.
Production commenced in a number of new We have continued to Exploration and Production E&P assets, including fields in Egypt and in the UK create value right across North Sea.
The Ballylumford Combined Cycle Gas Turbine CCGT plant in Northern 04 the gas chain and have Ireland entered operations and Atlantic LNG ALNG Train 3 in Trinidad and Tobago a robust strategy for commenced production ahead of schedule in April.
We continue to make good future growth.
progress at Karachaganak in Kazakhstan and expect the Phase 2 facilities to be on-stream in the second quarter of 2004.
E&P will continue to be our centre of Frank Chapman, Chief Executive gravity and a solid base for our company.
Our E&P business continues to perform strongly with external benchmarking source: Evaluate Energy showing our E&P business as one of the top performers in the industry.
Over the three year period 2001 to 2003, BG Group replaced its own proved reserves by 304% whilst also delivering unit finding and development costs of $3.17 per barrel of oil equivalent boe.
BG Group has a hydrocarbon resource base of 6.8 billion boe.
Of this, 4.7 billion barrels or 69% are proved and probable reserves.
This represents over 30 years of potential production at 2003 production rates.
We also have a large resource base of unbooked resources to underpin future growth for the business.
We are a See Presentation of non-GAAP measures, page 140. b Continuing operations only.
For an explanation of exceptional items see Presentation of non-GAAP measures, page 140.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 in the strong position of having, throughput by 14%.
Solid growth was project delivery.
This enables us to secure within todays portfolio, the resources achieved by Comgas in Brazil, due competitively priced supplies and bring to sustain production growth well into mainly to the implementation of a them to market quickly and cost the next decade.
strategy to further develop commercial effectively.
MetroGAS, During the year, we drilled and Global demand for natural gas is in Argentina, made a small operating evaluated 17 wells, with a success rate projected to increase at a significantly profit in 2003 despite tough local of 71%, bringing our five year average faster rate than other principal sources economic conditions and we achieved to 70%.
Successful wells were drilled in of energy supply.
Our strategy will be good sales volume growth in both our Kazakhstan, Trinidad, Egypt and the UK.
to pursue opportunities in existing Indian T&D businesses.
industrialised markets and to build Our LNG business provided strong Power generation will continue to be a good position for long-term growth growth throughout 2003 and will play the key driver of long-term gas demand in key developing markets.
an important role in providing future growth and we will make selective opportunities for the business.
Due to Corporate Responsibility is integral to investments in this business segment increased natural gas prices and lower the organisation and core to our strategy where we believe we can add value.
unit costs, LNG is increasingly a viable and daily operations.
The health, safety This year saw a 4% increase in operating source of natural gas for developed and security of our employees and the profit from our Power segment.
Through our LNG business, communities in which we operate we plan to connect high value markets We have an ongoing process of portfolio remain paramount.
Our Lost Time Injury to competitively priced gas.
management and in 2003 we created Frequency in 2003 remained constant significant shareholder value through at 0.7 per million man hours worked.
Over the 12 months, our LNG production acquisitions and asset consolidation.
In Voluntary contributions to social increased by 155% to 2.8 mtpa.
We also March 2003, we announced the sale of projects totalled 3 million.
consolidated our position as a leading our entire interest in the North Caspian player in the Atlantic Basin through our 2003 was the second year of our Sea Production Sharing Agreement, role in a number of projects and by regional organisational structure, which includes the Kashagan oil field, working with industry partners and which creates more responsibility and for a total consideration of $1.23 billion.
During the year, we accountability in our assets.
We made We expect to complete this sale in the estimate that we delivered around 53% two new Executive appointments to 05 first half of 2004.
This transaction of LNG imported into the US market, develop the regional structure further: demonstrates the significant value we which accounted for 1.1% of US Martin Houston was appointed as have created with our partners in the domestic natural gas consumption.
Executive Vice President and Managing region.
We also announced the sale of Director for North America, Caribbean BG LNG Services LLC BGLS, a our Muturi licence in Indonesia which and Global LNG: and Stuart Fysh was wholly-owned subsidiary, now has rights we expect to complete in 2004.
We appointed as Executive Vice President over 100% of the 630 mmscfd sustainable realised further value through the sale and Managing Director for the throughput capacity at the Lake Charles of our Bacton area assets in the UK Mediterranean Basin and Africa.
In North Sea and Phoenix Natural Gas December, BGLS acquired capacity rights in Northern Ireland.
Last year was another challenging year over 446 mmscfd of capacity at the Elba for the energy industry, but also one In February 2004, we announced our Island LNG regasification terminal, near which saw BG Group delivering industry intention to acquire El Paso Oil and Gas Savannah, Georgia, and related LNG leading performance.
For this, I believe Canada, Inc. for US$346 million.
Also purchase and gas sale agreements.
we owe gratitude to every person who in February 2004, we signed a Sale and We also announced a proposal jointly makes up the Group.
It is their Purchase Agreement with Hardman with KeySpan to develop and upgrade a individual contribution, skills and Resources to acquire exploration terminal at Providence, Rhode Island, to experience that give our organisation properties in offshore Mauritania, increase our capacity at strategic locations its competitive advantage.
As we look West Africa, for $132 million, including across North America.
In Trinidad and forward to 2004 and beyond, I am up to $5.1 million that is contingent Tobago, we received approval for the confident of BG Groups commitment upon attainment of certain exploration construction of ALNG Train 4.
In Egypt, to the achievement of continuing and production milestones.
output from Trains 1 and 2 of Egyptian growth in shareholder returns.
LNG ELNG were sold on long-term The success we have achieved so far contracts, with Train 2 output purchased would not be possible without a robust by BG Gas Marketing Limited.
Our Integrated Gas Major strategy has continued to deliver value Our Transmission and Distribution for the Group across the natural gas T&D businesses are located in markets chain.
We combine a deep understanding which have high growth potential.
of gas markets with outstanding skills During the year, our T&D businesses Frank Chapman, Chief Executive in finding and commercialising gas and performed strongly, increasing Making the most of the UKs natural resources.
By 2006, the UK is expected to be a net importer of gas.
BG Group currently supplies the UK with natural gas and is committed to extending the life of our North Sea assets and the UKs natural resources through selective investments and focusing on new technology and practices.
Norwegian fields offer another potential source of gas for the UK.
BG Group has been awarded operatorship and 100% ownership of three offshore exploration blocks in Norway.
We have also signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Petroplus for the development of an LNG terminal at Milford Haven, Wales, to create an access point for LNG imports helping to fill the gap when there is a shortfall of indigenous supplies.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 07
