Chief Executive Officers Report Together we will continue to deliver value to shareholders and realise our vision to become one of the worlds leading companies.
Charles Goodyear, Chief Executive Officer Two years ago your Company completed a merger that created In Carbon Steel Materials we saw record shipments and a 9 per cent the worlds largest diversified resources company.
Since then we price increase for iron ore on the back of increasing demand from have been fully engaged in delivering on the action items Asia, particularly China.
China was also a key driver for a number necessary to maximise the value of the merger.
of other commodities including alumina.
By maximising our alumina position and delivering excellent cost performance, our Fundamental to our activities has been completing the Aluminium business generated outstanding results.
integration of the two companies, firmly embedding the business model and crystallising our strategy.
It is fair to say that we have Better financial performances were also seen in our Base Metals, achieved all of the stated merger benefits and are well on our Stainless Steel Materials and Diamonds and Specialty Products way to executing our vision and strategic plan, which will businesses due to a number of factors including increased output positively impact the operating and financial performance of across all three businesses and higher prices for copper and BHP Billiton in the years ahead.
The Stainless Steel Materials business made a dramatic improvement from essentially break-even EBIT performance BHP Billiton Charter last year and diamond production was up almost 19 per cent.
Central to our organisation is the BHP Billiton Charter.
This Energy Coal, however, suffered from the combined effects of creates alignment throughout the organisation through a set of stronger currencies, high inflation in South Africa and lower clearly defined values applicable to each employee of the Group.
global energy coal prices that together had a material impact Each of these values is important, but the one I would like to on this business.
highlight is our overriding commitment to health, safety, environmental responsibility and community development Sitting across our businesses is our Marketing group, which is HSEC.
This value driver is a major challenge for a company responsible for coordinating our marketing activities across whose core business is the extraction of natural resources.
This model is different to many of However, we also believe that it is a leading indicator of company our peers and I am pleased to report solid progress in this area.
performance and we are proud of the progress that we have Operating through the hubs in The Hague and Singapore, our made in this area.
Simply put, good performance in the HSEC systems and risk management have greatly improved since the areas is good business.
In addition to our Annual Report, we merger.
At the press of a button, we can now actively manage have released a HSEC Report and I would encourage you to judge our customer credit exposures and understand where our for yourself the progress that we have made in this area.
products sit in the supply chain.
On the customer side, we can now provide better product management solutions to our Operating performance customers and are starting to see recognition for the valueDifficult economic conditions prevailed throughout fiscal 2003. added products that this approach can provide.
We have also Despite this, our businesses delivered solid operating and seen important cross-selling opportunities which asset-based financial results.
In addition, our impressive array of growth marketing would not have been able to identify.
I believe our projects is being delivered on time and on budget, or better.
marketing approach is a unique characteristic of our Company Petroleum, Carbon Steel Materials and Aluminium were the and will be an important source of competitive advantage in the standout performers for the year.
In Petroleum we benefited from years ahead.
a consistently high oil price and volumes overall held up well Growth projects and portfolio management despite natural field decline in some of our major operations.
Another differentiating feature of BHP Billiton is our ability We also continued our run of exploration successes.
In a survey to identify tangible growth opportunities in our businesses.
conducted by PFC Energy, our Petroleum division was evaluated to have an upstream return on capital employed of 29 per cent, At the time of the merger we announced a substantial capital investment program.
Since then, we have completed eight major versus an industry average of 17 per cent.
4 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 projects with a total capital investment of US$2.1 billion.
All of diversification has resulted in an increase in our return on capital the finished projects were completed on or ahead of budget and from 11.0 per cent in 2002 to 13.4 per cent in the last financial schedule.
We currently have 14 projects in development year.
We continue to aim to increase the return on capital in the representing more than US$4.6 billion of future investment.
This is a key area of value creation for BHP Billiton shareholders.
The true indicator of our financial performance is our ability During the year, project milestones included commissioning of to generate cash throughout the economic cycle.
We have Phase IV of the massive Escondida copper mine in Chile, on time demonstrated this admirably in the two years since the merger and US$57 million below budget: commencing aluminium and cash generation will remain a feature in years ahead.
production from the Mozal expansion project in Mozambique, Although cash is strong, our earnings have been adversely five months ahead of schedule and approximately US$92 million impacted by the weak US dollar, in particular against the under budget: start up of production from the San Juan Australian dollar and South African rand.
underground coal mine in New Mexico: and first gas production Innovation from the Bream Gas Pipeline in Australia, three months ahead of The formation of BHP Billiton created a new kind of resources schedule.
In July 2003, we announced the completion of the company, one that was prepared to recognise our historic Zamzama gas project in Pakistan, nearly four months ahead of success and build on it by thinking creatively about our schedule.
This has enabled us to bring The Board also approved three new major projects: a US$1.1 billion forward innovations in areas that may not have been possible investment in the Atlantis oil discovery in the Gulf of Mexico: if we remained separate organisations.
Marketing is one such US$327 million in the Angostura oil and gas discovery in Trinidad: innovation where we have moved away from the traditional and US$230 million in the Escondida Norte copper project in Chile.
asset-based model to a more holistic approach to our customer interaction.
July 2002 saw the demerger of BHP Steel, severing BHPs direct link of many decades with the steel industry.
The year also saw Minerals exploration has been another key area of innovation.
the sale of our indirect interest in Companhia Vale do Rio Doce We have an extensive junior partner program whereby we CVRD for a cash consideration of US$345 million and the sale increase our exposure to major discoveries while giving our junior of our interests in the Agua Rica and Alumbrera copper-gold partner an increased share of the value in lesser discoveries.
We will continue to actively manage our Combining this with leading edge technology such as our portfolio where opportunities present themselves.
proprietary airborne Falcon gravity exploration system has made us the partner of choice for much of the industry and has brought Efficiency gains us opportunities that would not otherwise have been available.
The merger continued to deliver financial savings, with US$285 million in merger benefits achieved by December 2002 Innovation allows us to stay ahead of the game and will continue and another US$310 million cost savings achieved by June 2003. to be important to the Company in the years ahead.
The areas of operating excellence and strategic sourcing are Our people providing us with the bulk of these savings and we continue to This year will see the addition of a seventh BHP Billiton value improve and refine our processes in all aspects of the business.
driver focused on our employees.
For the last two years the focus Around 300 specific projects were completed under the Operating has been on integration and ensuring that we have the correct Excellence banner during the year and we expect the number of structure, strategy and people.
Our organisation now needs to completed projects to grow to almost 1000 in the 2004 year.
evolve to ensure that we are able to realise the full potential We are well on track to meet our overall US$770 million target of our employees, become an employer of choice in the resources in efficiency gains by 2005. industry and are considered by our stakeholders to have one of Financial strength the worlds most outstanding teams.
The success of the merger, the benefits of diversification and People are what make any organisation great and the success of our disciplined financial policies were recognised by Moodys a company like BHP Billiton relies heavily on all its employees and Investor Services with the upgrade of our long-term credit rating contractors.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank our to A2, alongside Standard & Poors existing rating of A.
This dedicated executive team who are working together seamlessly strong credit profile contributed to our ability to diversify our to drive the overall success of the Company.
Id also like to pay funding sources away from bank debt with the issuance of our tribute to the work Paul Anderson and Brian Gilbertson did in inaugural 750 million Eurobond and US$850 million Global driving the integration of the two companies to create a worldBond in addition to an Australian A$250 million issue in the prior class enterprise and global leader in the resources industry and fiscal year.
In February 2003, we also established a US$2 billion a base upon which we continue to grow.
Finally, I would like to commercial paper program to give us low-cost, short-term thank each of our 35 000 employees across the globe for their funding flexibility.
These new facilities have helped lower our contribution.
Together we will continue to deliver value to average borrowing cost to 5.1 per cent today versus 8.3 per cent shareholders and realise our vision to become one of the worlds in the year prior to the merger.
Despite capital investments and exploration expenditure of US$3.0 billion during the year, our strong cash flow and other income enabled us to reduce net debt by US$1.0 billion, to US$5.8 billion.
The combination of our strong operating performance, cost Charles Goodyear, savings, capital investments, portfolio management and funding Chief Executive Officer BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 5
