6 Bradford & Bingley plc Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003 Group Chief Executives review after many months of falling interest rates, markets became more volatile around the middle of the year and interest rates began to rise.
In these conditions we traded satisfactorily and made good progress in the majority of our businesses.
Lending Our core Lending business reached a key milestone in its development with managed selective residential lending assets at 13.6 billion 2002: 7.9 billion exceeding the old building society residential back book of 7.1 billion 2002: 8.9 billion for the first time.
Profit before tax increased by 9% to 228.1 million Our core lending business reached a key 2002: 210.2 million.
All of our lending continues to be secured on property and we do milestone in its development, with managed not make unsecured loans.
selective residential lending assets exceeding Gross new lending increased 70% to 9.9 billion.
The 58% organic growth in new residential the old building society residential back book lending of 6.3 billion was complemented by the for the first time.
acquisition of a series of mortgage portfolios worth 1.4 billion and a 2.2 billion growth in Christopher Rodrigues Group Chief Executive our Commercial and Housing Association lending businesses.
Of the 7.7 billion new residential loans in 2003 2002: 4.6 billion, 61% were buy-to-let, 2002: 52%, 33% were other specialist residential loans 2002: 36% and 6% The Group continues to follow its primary financial press.
Bradford & Bingley is now the were advances to building society back book strategy of growing secured lending assets largest mortgage intermediary in the country.
selectively and funding them with a robust savings business and an increasingly The trading environment in 2003 was mixed: The momentum we reported at the interims international wholesale funding operation.
In the first half year the have also developed two innovative financial advantageous macro-economic conditions net addition to managed residential balances services retailing brands and a strong property helped the markets for lending and was 1.9 billion and commercial balances grew services business which require little capital mortgage broking: 0.8 billion.
Comparable numbers for the but generate valuable fee income.
second half were 2.0 billion and 0.7 billion the housing market suffered during the respectively.
Of the 9.9 billion new loans The transformation of the Group since flotation second quarter but improved during the during the year 78% were residential and 22% is emerging more and more clearly.
The specialist second half: were commercial, in line with the mix achieved lending book is growing strongly and is now in 2002. considerably larger than the old building society consumer appetite for investment products back book.
Our Charcol and The MarketPlace did not improve despite the recovery in financial services brands are recognised and equity markets: respected by consumers and the personal 7 Bradford & Bingley plc Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003 Mortgage Express is a very efficient service with a quick turnaround and decision.
Well presented products - very fair and reasonable.
George Stephens Mortgage Broker, Aberdeen Mortgage Express In a record year for new lending, our Mortgage Express business has grown significantly, building on its reputation as a leading player in the specialist areas of the mortgage market.
Diverse portfolio Commercial Property and Housing Association Finance Lending provide additional revenue, diversity and growth.
Strong growth Portfolio acquisitions from GMAC-RFC have further added to our lending business and complement our strong organic growth.
8 Bradford & Bingley plc Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003 Group Chief Executives review The strong lending growth we delivered in 2003 the continued improvement in loan-to-value markets.
During the year they raised around will begin to flow through into profit towards the LTV ratios as house price inflation raises the 4 billion from overseas markets.
Profit growth lags lending growth market value of the housing stock against for two reasons: which we lend: and They also completed a 250 million issue of Upper Tier II subordinated debt in April and a margins on new selective lending, whilst higher the continued decline in the number and value further 200 million in December as we than those available on vanilla lending, are of non-performing loans.
continued to improve capital efficiency.
lower than those historically achieved on the back book: and LTV ratios on new lending increased to 77% Financial services 2002: 73%.
The LTV ratio across the book Overall, financial services revenues fell by just most of the cost of origination and new loan was 66% 2002: 61% and 45% 2002: 43% over 6% to 135.7 million 2002: 144.4 set-up is absorbed in the year in which the when taking account of house price inflation.
Individual sectors of the business loan is put on the books.
The number of cases in arrears dropped performed quite differently.
despite the increase in the volume of lending.
As the size of the declining back book becomes The proportion of cases over three months in The mortgage broking market was buoyant smaller, relative to the growing selective lending arrears fell to 0.99% of the total book throughout the year and the continued growth in book, profit momentum will increase.
We are well provided against remortgaging showed that refinancing to reduce potential losses and provisions cover has borrowing costs is becoming a way of life for the Over the year, total managed residential improved as a proportion of non-performing UK consumer.
Our mortgage broking related lending balances grew 23% to 20.7 billion loans from 18.6% to 31.5%.
By contrast and commercial lending balances grew 40% to the market for investment products remained 5.2billion generating a total lending balance Savings weak and revenues from the sales of investment increase of 26% to 25.9 billion.
Savings balances increased slightly to 15.1 billion products fell 29% as consumers showed no sign 2002: 15.0 billion.
We remain a safe home for of responding to the well publicised savings gap.
The total lending book is now 80% residential customer deposits offering competitive products comprising 34% buy-to-let, 27% building society and returns.
Balances were maintained in a very Equities recovered some lost ground in the back book and 19% other specialist residential aggressive market for new business.
second half, but continued adverse publicity mortgages and 20% Commercial Property and about mis-selling and the troubles of the Housing Association lending.
The low interest rate environment that prevailed insurance sector were regularly in the headlines for most of the year, compressed margins.
The and small and medium sized investors, our main Our Commercial Property and Housing recent change in the interest rate cycle provides investment market segment, sat on the sidelines.
Association lending grew 40% during the year to an opportunity to develop new products and 5.2 billion.
Our Commercial Lending team has offer improved returns in the coming year.
We have reduced our wealth advisory force in been successful in building relationships with a response to the weaker market.
The total number of larger banks and is an active Treasury number of advisers employed by the Group participant in the commercial property Our Treasury team capitalised on the declining declined from 1,031 to 960. syndication market.
Housing Association lending interest rates in the first half of 2003, adding also increased, although by a lesser amount, to interest income.
Conditions in the second We have continued to expand our financial reflecting the competitive nature of this low risk half did not offer similar opportunities services retailing businesses and have introduced segment of the market.
although the team did position itself well for a number of new products and services, the interest rate rises that occurred in the including personal loan, credit card and general The credit environment in 2003 was benign and latter part of the year.
the credit quality of all our books has continued to be very strong.
Provisions on our balance The key task of the Treasury team during the sheet and in our securitisation vehicles rose 9% year was to fund our rapid lending growth.
This growth is lower than the They have secured a diverse range of funding growth in the balance sheet for two reasons: from the UK, European, US and Asian capital 9 Bradford & Bingley plc Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003 As first-time buyers we saw it as a minefield, but our MarketPlace adviser was excellent at explaining everything - all went through smoothly in weeks whereas a friend who went elsewhere took months - thank you.
Michael & Caroline Rabin Doncaster The MarketPlace Our MarketPlace offices across the country provide customers with access to a full range of financial services offering the best products available to meet all borrowing, investment and proctection requirements.
Largest mortgage intermediary in the country Providing consumers with a choice of mortgages to suit their needs.
Property services Bradford & Bingley Estate Agency and SecureMove give us valuable market insight and our customers a suite of high quality property services.
10 Bradford & Bingley plc Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003 Group Chief Executives review Our new insurance proposition has been well contract surveyors who offer flexibility to Our financial services businesses remain focused received by customers and staff alike which respond to peaks and troughs in demand.
on improving their customer proposition and looks set to halt the decline in insurance their margins.
However, the regulatory change revenues.
The 18% decline to 21.6 million Market outlook agenda will be particularly demanding in 2004.
2002: 26.2 million was largely associated with The lending market remains strong.
As we enter We face new or significantly changed regulation the run-off of the building society back book and 2004 we expect remortgaging will continue to in mortgage lending, mortgage broking and its linked insurance portfolio.
be a major factor in the market.
Equity release insurance, coupled with the forthcoming will gather momentum as a part of long-term introduction of new accounting standards and We acquired two premium advice businesses financial planning.
Many of the new during the year, Holden Meehan, now Charcol regulations will improve market conditions but Holden Meehan and Aitchison & Colegrave, now We expect house prices to continue to rise, their introduction absorbs considerable amounts Charcol Aitchison & Colegrave.
These acquisitions but at a much slower rate than in recent of money and management time.
We expect added scale and further skills to our wealth years.
It is likely there will be a modest these costs will be largely offset by the advice business, strengthening its position in the reduction in the total number of housing programme of operational process mid to high net worth financial planning and transactions as interest rates begin to rise and improvements that is currently underway.
services market for both individual and corporate the shortage of properties coming on to the Overall, we move into 2004 confident that our customers.
The integration is proceeding well and market continues.
Prospective first time buyers business model works and will deliver increasing the businesses have already become valuable will remain challenged by the price of starter value to our shareholders.
parts of the Bradford & Bingley Group.
houses, providing continued support for the lettings market.
Christopher Rodrigues Property services Group Chief Executive Property services revenues were flat year-onWe anticipate the beginnings of an improvement year at 114.4 million 2002: 114.6 million.
in investment product sales as confidence in the The Estate Agency business had a year of two stock market improves, and growing awareness halves while Surveying continued to go from of the savings gap should encourage consumers strength to strength.
to invest more for retirement.
There was a substantial reduction in housing Business outlook transaction volumes during the Spring which, We expect the overall environment for our coupled with a decline in margins, resulted in a businesses to remain relatively benign in 2004. fall in Estate Agency income in the first half to Interest rates are still low and the employment 35.5 million 2002: 42.5 million.
New market is strong and stable.
Provided these management responded by taking swift economic conditions continue, we do not expect corrective action.
Costs were reduced and yield any dramatic changes in market conditions.
and volumes were improved with the result that income for the second half was 41.8 million, Given the strength of our lending pipeline, we only 0.4 million below the same period in start the year confident that we will deliver 2002.
Estate Agency has entered 2004 in a continued growth in our lending balances in stronger position than it entered 2003.
However, we remain cautious lenders and do not plan to participate in the unsecured Our Surveying business, SecureMove, has lending market.
continued to perform well with revenues up 24% at 37.1 million for the full year.
We Estate Agency started 2004 with better acquired the Douglas Duff partnership in pipelines and margins than in 2003 and the October.
SecureMove is now one of the UKs Surveying business will benefit from the largest survey businesses with over 275 acquisitions made last year.
professionals complemented by a network of 11 Bradford & Bingley plc Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003 I found remortgaging so easy.
My adviser was very knowledgeable, and gave clear, unbiased advice on several aspects of my remortgage.
Overall I was very pleased and impressed.
Gary Deardon Cardiff Charcol Charcol is acknowledged as a leading provider of mortgage advice.
During 2003, we have complemented this strong mortgage reputation with the addition of investment advisory services by the acquisition of Charcol Holden Meehan and Charcol Aitchison & Colegrave.
Charcolonline Customers can access Charcol from any location, the online facilities provide access to the full range of mortgages, conveniently and simply.
Awards Charcolonline were winners of Best Mortgage Broker use of technology at the Mortgage Strategy Awards, April 2003.
