6 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2003 Sen P Mahon Chief Executives Review I am delighted with the trading the UK consumer credit market and has performance of the group during 2003, increased its net customers accounts resulting in profits before tax and receivable by 176 million to goodwill amortisation of 122.7 million 1.45 billion at 31 December 2003 for the year.
Strong performances by our whilst, at the same time, maintaining consumer credit operations and Lewis, stable arrears and bad debts.
our debt recovery specialists, together with improved trading from the It is pleasing to report that the divisions corporate division, have all contributed return on average net receivables has to another excellent set of group results.
increased during the year to 9.5%, compared with 9% last year, which Our new five year plan adopted at the reflects continuing strong control over beginning of 2003 sets ambitious the divisions bad debt charge and growth targets for the group.
Despite set up costs targets focus primarily on achieving incurred in establishing our new direct enhanced credit quality and controlled distribution motor finance business, growth in our chosen customer base in Welcome Car Finance, income has risen the UK, together with further at a higher rate than operating improvements in our returns and bad overheads, with the result that our cost debt ratios in the period through to to income ratio in 2003 improved from 31 December 2007.
Good progress 59.1% to 58.3% in the year.
towards achievement of our goals has been made by the group in 2003.
Consumer Credit We are aware that there has been a Consumer Division significant increase in consumer The consumer division continues to borrowing in the UK in recent years.
The contribute the majority of the groups vast majority of this increase has results and has achieved a substantial occurred in areas where we do not increase in profits before tax of 26.7% focus our lending operations, such as to 118.1 million, compared to the remote activities of first mortgage 93.2 million reported last year.
The and credit card providers.
division has maintained a clear focus on Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2003 7 Amounts advanced to our customers Early results for Welcome Car Finance number of loan applications received by continue to be typically small are also encouraging with over 2,500 the consumer credit company.
In unsecured loans average advance new direct repayment customers being particular, applications for direct 1,200, hire purchase for cars 4,000 introduced to the consumer division in repayment unsecured personal loans and secured loans 7,500.
These are the first six months of operations.
In line have almost doubled in the year.
principally repaid by direct debit with expectations, start up losses of through the banking or post office around 2 million have been written off Our five year plan envisages future systems, on a monthly, fortnightly or during the year.
Since its successful customer growth continuing to be weekly basis.
Home collection is launch on 1 July 2003, a further four generated from the direct repayment provided for small value, short term Welcome Car Finance locations have consumer credit market, with a planned advances typically 300 which, at been opened, extending the divisions reduction in the number of customers 31 December 2003, represented 15% coverage to eight sites by the year end.
Our of the companys loan book.
A further seven sites are planned during policy of disengaging from those 2004. sources of business and products The benefits of our new initiatives to where the level of return or incidence of broaden the groups distribution Although the pilot scheme with Barclays arrears do not meet our internal network are already beginning to show Bank PLC proved successful in requirements has continued.
I am particularly pleased with concept, it did not generate sufficient the level of new customers being volumes of leads to support a full rollout At 31 December 2003, the company generated by Dial4aloan, our specialist with its associated costs.
Consequently, had 715,000 customers, of which finance broker, and by Welcome Car this trial ceased at the end of 2003.
Other initiatives to extend our customers and 410,000 home collected distribution channels have proved more customers.
During the course of the Dial4aloan, operating from its recently successful, with the number of key year, there has been a net reduction of relocated call centre in Sale, Cheshire, introducers referring prospective direct 71,000 small value home collected and has increased its volumes by 23% over repayment consumer credit customers retail customers and a net increase of the year and placed business in excess having increased by around 14% to 44,000 in the divisions direct repayment of 250 million with its panel of lenders.
Dial4aloan is now generating over 3 million a month in new, direct The continuing expansion of the Home collected receivables have repayment business volumes for the divisions distribution network is accordingly fallen by 23 million to consumer division.
generating a significant increase in the 219 million at 31 December 2003, a 8 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2003 pic to come Chief Executives Review continued reduction of almost 10% from the start centre, was successfully completed in of the year.
Direct repayment receivables July 2003. increased in the same period by 197 million to 1.2 billion at Our plan to achieve a national network 31 December 2003, a growth of 19.6% of 350 business centres by 2007, in the year.
offering direct repayment and home collected products, is progressing well, There has been no significant increase in with the consumer credit division now the average balances outstanding from operating from 302 separately located customers during the year.
balance for direct repayment customers at 31 December 2003 was 3,948 Feedback on the quality of our products 2002: 3,735 and 533 2002: 513 and services continues to be important for home collected customers.
to us and this is obtained by independent consultants on a monthly We have extended the coverage of our basis.
Their latest report in February branch network to reach more of the 2004 shows a consistent position with local communities we wish to serve, last year, with over 80% of our whilst at the same time amalgamating a customers being satisfied with our number of our smaller, less profitable services.
branches with their nearest neighbours.
We continue to review the on-going Credit Quality suitability of our branch locations, as short term property leases become Our strategy of maintaining credit quality renewable.
is underpinned by our policy of responsible lending and treating We were pleased to acquire a modern, customers with appropriate sensitivity 53,000 sq.
ft. business support centre in when they experience financial Ruddington, Nottingham during the year difficulties.
The success of this strategy at a cost of 8 million.
The relocation of is demonstrated by the divisions our staff to this new facility, which achievement of continuing stability in its incorporates a purpose built training customers arrears levels during 2003, Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2003 9 at around 11% and its bad debt charge When customers experience a longer Debt Recovery remaining stable at 7.7% of net term adverse change in their financial Lewis, the groups debt recovery receivables.
position, account management is specialist, had an excellent year with a transferred from the local branch to a 41.5% increase in its profits to All applications for direct repayment specialist Local Collection Unit branch 3.7 million.
Lewis provides a full debt credit are initially screened centrally LCU.
The LCU is then able to recovery service for external clients using MIDA and SNAP, our bespoke establish a revised repayment schedule which accounts for over 75% of Lewis customer relationship management more suited to the customers current commission based debt collection software.
The role played by LCUs activities.
Third party commission successfully pass this initial screening is fundamental to maintaining our overall income increased in the year by 26.7% are then subject to a rigorous credit quality and arrears management.
pre-lending process, including the A further four LCUs have been opened verification of information provided by during the year, increasing our total The purchase of default debt portfolios potential customers and an assessment network to 36 LCU branches at forms an important part of Lewis of other commitments which the 31 December 2003. activities and this market continues to applicant may have, in order to confirm develop strongly.
Significant investment that the loan is both appropriate and Insurance has been made to ensure that Lewis affordable.
pricing models and processes are Progressive Insurance, our reinsurance robust.
During 2003, Lewis investment A final underwriting decision is taken on company located in the Isle of Man, has in the purchase of such debt portfolios unsecured loan applications by a local again performed successfully, reflecting increased by 28.5% to 13.5 million.
branch manager or, in the case of hire the groups strong growth in direct purchase and secured loans, by a senior repayment consumer credit customers underwriter at our central processing and related receivables.
Funds under Corporate Division units in Nottingham and Hull.
The management increased during the year The corporate division has again presence of our branches in our by 27.8 million to 61.2 million at reported strong growth in profits before customers local communities enables 31 December 2003.
These funds are tax to 7.0 million, representing an our staff to maintain a closer contact invested in a portfolio of low risk bonds increase of 31.5% on the 5.3 million with them and to respond with and bank deposits, of which achieved last year.
Net customers understanding to changes in their short 36.1 million is held for potential future accounts receivable rose by 19.6% to term financial circumstances.
claims and is not available to finance 129.1 million in the same period.
10 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2003 Chief Executives Review continued Operating from four regional centres 16 million.
Our consumer credit located in Manchester, Oxford, Leeds underwriting and customer relationship and Glasgow, Cattles Invoice Finance management software, specifically has performed well, increasing its client SNAP, MIDA Broker and MIDA Per, base by 13% in the year.
continues to be enhanced bringing further benefits to credit quality, arrears Cattles Commercial Finance is primarily management and the efficiency of our involved in hire purchase and leasing customer account handling.
advances to the SME market.
The company had a good year in a In addition, we have made a significant challenging market, with the value of commitment to invest in Project advances made to customers Phoenix, the development of our next increasing by 17% to 49 million.
generation of IT systems, which are anticipated to be operational in 2006. Credit quality in the corporate division Potential suppliers have now been improved during the year, resulting in a shortlisted.
reduction in the divisions bad debt ratio from 2.1% last year to 1.2% of net Funding receivables at 31 December 2003.
The divisions return on average net We were delighted with the strong receivables also improved from 4.9% in support we received from both the bank 2002 to 5.9% in 2003. and bond markets for our two significant fundraising exercises, which were successfully completed during 2003.
Information Technology We continue to make substantial In July 2003, the group raised investment in developing the groups IT 370 million by way of bank syndication, systems, at an annual cost of around which replaced expiring facilities of Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2003 11 237 million and provided additional Net group borrowings increased during Our strategy continues to concentrate working capital for future organic the year by 177 million to 982 million on delivering strong growth and growth.
We were particularly pleased to at 31 December 2003.
In the same enhanced returns in the UK consumer welcome four new banks to our period, shareholders funds increased credit market.
Credit quality, responsible syndication group.
by 44 million to 390 million and net lending and arrears management will receivables increased by 197 million to remain fundamental to our operations.
In December 2003, we identified a 1.6 billion.
At 31 December 2003, the market opportunity to launch a Sterling groups gearing ratio stood at 2.9 times I believe the group has significant Bond issue which raised 350 million, at shareholders funds, excluding opportunities for further success in its a fixed coupon of 6.875%.
This issue, capitalised goodwill, compared to chosen markets.
We have made an which matures in 2014, has significantly 2.7 times at the previous year end.
encouraging start to the new year and, improved the groups funding position together with my senior management and further extended the maturity profile team, I look forward to another Future of our borrowings.
I am pleased with the progress made by An important part of our treasury policy all our operations this year and the is to limit the groups exposure to successful completion of the first year of interest rate rises through the use of our new five year plan.
These excellent derivatives to hedge or fix results could not have been achieved approximately 80% of our borrowings.
without the hard work and total At 31 December 2003, 620 million of commitment of our management and Sen Mahon the groups borrowings were at fixed staff.
I should very much like to extend Chief Executive rates of interest, with an average my personal thanks to all our employees 11 March 2004 maturity in excess of eight years.
