ID1313 Bc AR 2003 v17 24 3 04 3:09 pm Page 3 Chief Executives Review 2003 brought no respite from the tough trading We captured new outsourcing business which, HEAT TREATMENT conditions we faced since mid 2001 when when on stream, will equate to over 20m a Overall sales were at with margins slipping demand for the Groups services began to year of new sales.
In addition, as a result of 1.7 percentage points.
our network capability within each geographical decline, particularly in North America.
North America region, we are expecting to see market growth This trend was quickly exacerbated by the In local currency sales for North America opportunities develop in late 2004 from our events of September 11, political instability dropped 7.3% year on year with margins technology transfer initiatives.
and has continued to affect us through 2003. slipping 3 percentage points.
The Groups future can best be served by Our two largest SBUs, Heat Treatment and We entered 2003 expecting that the decline concentrating on the businesses where we Materials Testing, are in a good position to in the manufacturing economy was about to have strong market positions and excellent capitalise on improving market conditions.
end and we would benefit from all the cost know how, to enable Bodycote to maximise Demand for HIP remains subdued as this is reductions achieved.
Since the downturn its return on capital employed.
more geared to IGT and aerospace markets started in 2001, we reduced the number of which are expected to improve later than Sales for the year were up 1.9% over 2002: heat treatment locations from 58 to 43 and other sectors.
however, this was aided by some small the number of people employed by around acquisitions generating growth of 1.8% and 450.
Cost increases in utilities and medical The Wet Coatings performance, however, favourable currency translation of 1.9%.
insurance offset a lot of the cost reductions continued to decline.
With sales in 2003 of Pricing pressures remained high, the result of that had been made.
Over capacity, and thus 38.0m, it lost 6.0m, had negative EBITDA our customers benchmarking manufacturing pricing pressures, continue to inuence the of 1.8m and over the past two years absorbed costs on a global basis and driving their costs industry.
We have been able to increase market 10m of capital investment.
In response to difficult markets, over share in some areas and have been successful group was established in the late 1990s through capacity in the market and overlapping locations, in concluding additional Strategic Partnerships a series of acquisitions designed to create we closed 13 facilities in 2003, 16 in 2002 and and outsourcing agreements bringing a business which would be synergistic with prospects for growth in 2004 and beyond.
reduced headcount by around 1,100 in this two Bodycotes core heat treatment operations.
We increased our emphasis on management year period.
These actions have primarily These synergies, however, have not training and continued to raise the bar in targeted Heat Treating and Wet Coatings in materialised.
After a thorough evaluation we areas of safety, health and environmental.
the USA, UK, Sweden and France and have have decided to exit the Wet Coating business slightly improved facility utilisation.
Market mix, sector and aim to do so by divestiture in an The Bodycote Quality System, a systematic however, has remained skewed towards lower orderly and timely fashion so we can focus our approach to delivering quality results, is now value added segments with commercial resources on core businesses.
We estimate installed throughout the organisation and has aviation, oil and gas, telecommunications and that this early action will require a charge of advanced to become the Bodycote Management industrial gas turbine market IGT demands c. 35.0m.
This will include non cash asset write System to encompass the new ISO 9001-2000 remaining low.
We have successfully reduced downs of approximately 30m charged in the requirements.
Most sites have successfully 2003 accounts, of which, 19m relates to our cost structure by 15m annualised over the been accredited to the new ISO standard.
tangible xed assets and 11m to goodwill.
past two years, but these gains have been We enter 2004 with a committed and The remaining 5m cash relates to exit costs more than offset by unit cost rises for key streamlined organisation.
Most of the such as redundancy, and these will be charged inputs, most notably our people costs, energy planned consolidation work is now behind in the 2004 accounts.
The exit from this and depreciation.
Reecting all these dynamic us and our base is aligned with market business will remove a cash and profit drain forces, operating margins declined in all demand.
We move forward focused on on the Group and will allow us to re-focus Strategic Business Units SBUs except growth and business development.
attention and develop our core businesses.
Materials Testing where they remained steady.
We have successfully instituted rigorous controls Central European Group CEG In addition to addressing the Wet Coatings Germany, Netherlands, Austria, Switzerland, on capital expenditure and in 2003 generated issue, which was mentioned in our December Czech Republic, Hungary and Liechtenstein 30.3m free cash ow 2002: 22.0m and net 2003 trading statement, we have today cash of 16.1m, after paying the dividend.
announced a fully underwritten Rights Issue.
In local currency sales for CEG grew 2.0% We consider that a combination of equity year on year with stable margins.
Automotive and general engineering end issuance and asset sales will signicantly markets have begun to show some signs Despite difficult market conditions, national improve the financial position and exibility of of recovery in demand while aerospace and strikes and the strong inuence of the Iraq the Group.
Over time, some of the proceeds power generation markets are stabilising.
war at the beginning of the year, this division will be used to support outsourcing, organic was able to deliver a respectable profit margin We made two significant acquisitions during growth and to make selective, focused, bolt on by tight cost control, a strong sales programme, the year.
The first, a patented slurry coating acquisitions for our core SBUs.
There have been high prole marketing and turning around technology developed in Canada which has no material acquisitions in the past two years loss making plants.
been relocated to an existing UK facility with and the few we have made have been in core development support being provided from one businesses and delivered well over 20% return CEG increased market share especially in of our laboratories in Canada.
We remain totally committed to the high added value sectors of the market.
a testing group of three laboratories in the improving the Groups return on capital We continued to develop the outsourcing Middle East.
concept and improved capacity utilisation.
Bodycote annual report 2003 3 ID1313 Bc AR 2003 v17 24 3 04 3:09 pm Page 4 Chief Executives Review Steps into new technology applications such in other areas to keep sales level with 2002. standard technology has attracted global as: laser heat treating joining, brazing of fuel Cost increases, however, led to margins declining.
business and was partly responsible for growth cells, diesel exhaust lters and heat treatment in profits at this facility.
The demand for high value work from the of automotive common rail components helped commercial aerospace and power generation In our Italian facilities we added a unique improve our performance.
sectors continued at depressed 2002 levels.
laboratory specically designed to investigate The Netherlands had a satisfactory performance.
the eld failure of telecom and associated Our new Heat Treatment Centre adjacent to electronic products by utilising various optical Delphi in Gillingham opened in March 2003 and Our international reputation for quality and and analytical techniques.
is performing according to plan.
Our relationship reliable service has helped us to gain market with major international manufacturing rms share with multi-national manufactures in In terms of our geographical market performance, continues to strengthen: offering us opportunities the core UK business suffered in line with UK the automotive and tooling markets of the throughout the Western Hemisphere.
NADCAP Czech Republic, Hungary and Romania.
manufacturing and the effects of globalisation National Aerospace and Defence Contractors on traditional home produced goods.
Our Against a background of declining markets Accreditation Programme audits to meet our Radiographic and Materials Engineering units and strong competition we managed to Rolls-Royce commitment started successfully performed admirably in difficult IGT Aerospace maintain our sales in Austria.
New low and will be completed during 2004.
This markets, and a number of OEM approvals pressure carburizing capacity was installed establishes Bodycote as the first NADCAP and investment programmes should provide for diesel engine applications.
approved source on this side of the Atlantic.
The Health Sciences Focus will be maintained on our plans to division posted an improvement in profit.
Nordic Sweden, Denmark and Finland produce better returns in Switzerland and This business unit will be expanded to take In local currency sales for the Nordic Group Liechtenstein where declining markets and advantage of further regulatory compliance were at a similar level year on year but margins excess capacity have driven prices down.
monitoring for water quality, asbestos in buildings dropped almost 6 percentage points.
and integrated pollution, prevention and In the Central European Group, winning Although sales in Swedish heat treatment control IPPC.
additional outsourcing business remains a were at, low margin sales predominated.
focus to increase utilisation of our existing The European division had strong trading Sales growth in Finland was slightly positive and equipment.
Our Eastern European expansion performances in Sweden, where our Polymer programme to support manufacturers will with tight cost control, margins were acceptable.
Piping laboratory won large outsourced testing also be a key objective.
Co-operation with our French colleagues and programmes from North America and the a Finnish customer led to the development Far East.
In the Netherlands the laboratories France, Belgium, Italy FBI of FinNIT, a new process which extends the won work on large tranches of pipeline and In local currency organic sales for FBI fell 5.4% life of aluminium extrusion dies.
We expect associated oil gas installation work from France, year on year with margins remaining stable.
to offer this service in other geographies.
Similarly, the Italian A major restructuring plan in 2003 absorbed business captured several significant projects Increased competition from a start up company much management time and energy.
Five for programmes in Russia, Turkey and Libya.
in Denmark has resulted in losses.
As a result our headcount have been reduced to improve the situation.
Our Middle Eastern facilities performed well has been reduced by more than 100 people ahead of expectations following the completion but because of the time consuming process MATERIALS TESTING of several significant construction projects in involved in securing government and union Organic sales grew 2.6% year on year and the UAE allied to significant penetration into agreement, the full benefit will not be seen margins remained steady.
oil gas markets in Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan until 2004.
Other rationalisation has involved In very tough economic conditions and market and Iran.
This provided the platform for the the merger of all induction heat treatment at uncertainty, the Materials Testing SBU performed further expansion, both in service scope and Billy Berclau and the return to profitability under in line with expectations, primarily by diversifying geographically, via the acquisition of the new management of the Cluses and Thyez our range of expertise and service offerings.
laboratory interests of Carillion plc in Abu Dhabi, operations.
La Talaudire was modied to house By concentrating on high valued added services Oman, and Dubai.
These laboratories are additional operations and most of the sales the Group won new business and increased now successfully integrated into the Group transferred from neighbouring closed facilities.
A key element to this growth was and the rationale for the development of the New low-pressure carburising investment will the formation of a number of cross-border, division was fully vindicated by securing the focus on emerging automotive applications.
industry specic technical forums which were multi-million dollar contract for provision of an We now have a good base for growth in Italy, able to capitalise on extensive technical on site laboratory for the Dubai Airport extension.
the third largest manufacturing market in Europe, know-how and experience, enabling significant Our North American business Group had mixed after our acquisition of the Gamma group in 2002. opportunities to be grasped.
A number of fortunes, with the Canadian Group unable to innovative projects, indicating the leading United Kingdom match last years performance due to price role the Materials Testing SBU places on Sales in the UK grew 1.1% year on year with erosion in our Quebec Environmental margins reducing by 2 percentage points.
technologically driven expertise, were initiated Pharmaceutical markets.
Our Detroit laboratory in early 2003 and included: The UK heat treatment operations focused on which opened an additional facility, enhancing cost control and improvement in return on The installation in Sweden of BOMIC, our the large scale environmental simulation capital employed.
Sales from new automotive advanced microcalorimetry testing service, capability available.
New chlorine test cells contracts and growth in vacuum brazing and capable of predicting the shelf life of a number for Polymer Piping were installed at Melrose electron beam welding offset price pressures of defence munitions systems.
This world Park to meet changes in the US plumbing 4 Bodycote annual report 2003 ID1313 Bc AR 2003 v17 24 3 04 3:10 pm Page 5 regulations.
Los Angeles continues to be a Specialty Coatings Sherardizing Sheraplex challenge due to the continuing downturn in Specialty coatings consist of processes we Two sites focus on large volume Sherardizing the US Aerospace sector, however a number believe are synergistic with our heat-treating Sheraplex.
Sheraplex has been specified by of significant quality approvals from major business.
These value added services provide, the designer for European and USA foldaway US UK engine manufacturers should provide in the main, functional metallurgical enhancement.
trailer system for the back of breakdown trading stimulus for 2004. trailers.
Sheraplex is being marketed worldwide Slurry Coatings as a cost effective coating system for fasteners 2003 also witnessed a number of advances in Demand for our ceramic slurry coatings increased used on construction projects.
our infrastructure support systems with the during the year in spite of uctuations in the adoption worldwide of our ISO 17025 quality oil exploration and textile markets.
Our emerging Plasma Spray system: the roll-out of our North American market applications are medical suppliers and New contracts have been won for plasma developed LIMS system, which allows clients electronics, the latter requiring an insulating spray of titanium honeycomb parts for Airbus direct access to their data: and nally the setting coating currently under development.
projects at our French facility.
up of divisional marketing centres to control Following our success in the UK, we are now CURRENT TRADING AND PROSPECTS enquiry management, co-ordinate web marketing penetrating the North American and European The results for the first two months of the year and provide market intelligence to our business steel market.
Bodycote is applying K-Tech 17 are in line with our expectations.
ceramic densication on galvanising and steel operating improvements that have already HIP mill furnace rolls, extending their useful life.
been implemented and the actions we are Overall sales declined 1% year on year and A collaboration agreement with a leading UK taking on Wet Coatings, we are confident margins declined 3 percentage points.
2004 will manufacturer to supply tungsten carbide coating in the financial and trading prospects for be a year in which we expect to start improving and a joint marketing campaign is currently the Group in the current year.
our return on capital employed which remains underway in Europe.
Looking further ahead the Group is poised to unacceptably low in this capital intensive SBU.
In June, we acquired the intellectual property move forward as market demand recovers.
North America rights and production equipment for the Bodycote has capable people, productive Aerospace volumes in North America accounted CoatAlloy range of diffusion bonded metallic facilities and the systems to deliver exceptional for 54% of our sales 2002: 54%.
We saw a slurry coatings from Surface Engineered Products quality and service.
The Group will continue halving in IGT sales but this was more than Ltd of Alberta, Canada, as part of our strategy to focus on higher value added work, gaining offset by growth in the tooling and electronics to develop our speciality coating group.
These further market share and winning new markets, which relate to HIPping of powder advanced, high temperature, metallic slurry outsourcing contracts.
The Groups medium metal billets and at screen TV targets.
coatings will be applied at our previously surplus term strategy is to deliver a pre tax return facility at Knowsley, UK to a range of oil and gas on capital in the mid teens.
Equipment installed in 2002, to produce and petrochemical applications.
This coating a transparent ceramic material ALON, In support of our ongoing needs and future dramatically improves ethylene process yield experienced slower than budgeted sales talent requirement for high calibre staff, we and lengthens time between maintenance increase, but we remain confident that this have intensied initiatives to nurture interest requirements offering considerable advantages work will utilise the installed capacity.
Programmes of school for chemical plant operators and is being visits, distance learning through related discipline Europe marketed through our strategic partnership colleges, graduate sponsorship schemes at Positive change came from increased sales of with Manoir Industries S. A. a specialist various European and North American near net shaped powder densication projects.
universities and Prize Paper Competition have Improved welding efficiency in Sweden has Physical Vapour Deposition PVD enhanced Bodycotes prole amongst this reduced operating costs and lead-time for In order to cope with the international nature of important talent pool as Bodycote continues to several key customers.
The offshore oil and the PVD customer base and the strong needs position itself for further growth and development gas business and demand for industrial gas to cross link the coating know how, the 10 and looks forward to the challenges ahead.
turbines, which is the major market for UK facilities have been put under one operating HIP, remained at the levels of 2002 reecting structure.
Specic regional market knowledge continued low global demand.
and coating application know-how is being The merger of our Essen facility with Haag, near leveraged from centres of excellence for global Munich, helped reduce the cost base.
PVD operations that have proven adoption by a major automotive customer is competencies in specic niches will support the John D. Hubbard assisting in gaining application acceptance.
roll-out of those applications into the geographic 9 March 2004 network.
The Tecate, Mexico operation is METALLURGICAL COATINGS supporting marketing and process Wet Coatings development for decorative applications, The acquisition strategy to grow a wet coatings Chassieu, France for tooling and Venlo, group synergistic with our heat-treating network Netherlands for tribological coatings applications.
failed to benefit the Group.
After careful review, we have decided to exit this market in an orderly and timely fashion so we can focus our resources on core businesses.
