03 Chief executives review Chief executives review Boots is consolidating its leadership in health and beauty retailing.
We have one of the most trusted brands on the high street and weve backed it with investment in attractive stores, innovative products and effective promotion.
Our aim is to be the place for health and beauty.
had some successes, but also some brands business that weve created disappointments.
through sustained investment over Boots Dentalcare addresses a fast the past decade.
Now its fast becoming growing market with clear profit a material contributor to group profits potential.
We are making operational with excellent growth prospects.
improvements that will accelerate its Our target is for the business to make progress towards profitability.
Footcare 100m of operating profit within the is a smaller opportunity but, like next three years from organic growth dentistry, ts comfortably with our alone.
It has built significant management brand: customers trust Boots to provide capability and is delivering strong Over and over again in this report youll primary healthcare advice and services growth from a strategy of focusing see one word: simplify.
Our LASIK investment on selected strong brands the transformation of the business, our laser eye correction clinics have seen primarily Nurofen, Strepsils, and Clearasil.
central aim has been to eliminate strong demand from customers and It plans to accelerate that growth by complexity.
were now integrating this business acquiring more brands and revitalising Complexity wastes time and more closely with Boots Opticians.
them, as its currently doing with Clearasil.
It gets Our broader range of services, Overseas, Boots Retail International between our customers and us.
We are piloted in 12 Wellbeing Services BRI is becoming a simpler business.
simplifying our activities, our structure, Centres, proved less successful.
BTC Our original concept a full drug store our systems, our processes.
All in pursuit stores were not the right environment offering proved too capital intensive of a single, simple ambition: to for pampering beauty services, and to establish and too complex to strengthen our position as the leader the alternative therapy market is support.
We now have a low risk, low in health and beauty.
currently too small to be attractive for cost export model, based around Boots Fullling that simple ambition is not a mainstream brand like Boots.
So we own brands and exclusives, which easy in a competitive marketplace.
To have decided to withdraw from this involves opening small implants in host maintain our leadership, we have to do part of our offer.
Having rened this two things: focus resolutely on health We opened six Pure Beauty stores model, we can now greatly simplify the and beauty, with no distractions, and to pilot a specialist premium cosmetics BRI business.
We are closing operations make sure we really are the best.
Customers liked it, but the returns in Europe, slimming support operations simply didnt justify rolling it out.
We are and streamlining activities in South East Focusing on health and beauty closing the stores but will apply successful Asia to concentrate on rolling out the Now that weve sold Halfords, Boots elements of the offer in larger BTC stores.
new model in selected markets.
is dedicated to health and beauty.
Pharmacy is a fundamentally Halfords is a good business and we important part of our offer.
It represents Being the best Todays consumers got a good price for it but it was about a quarter of BTCs sales and is the want excellent store environments, diverting attention from our core activity.
foundation of our authority and advice, service and products.
To meet We are now a single company with two credibility.
Its a market with attractive customer expectations we have to core businesses: BTC and BHI.
long term growth prospects, driven invest in all aspects of retail excellence Health and beauty is an attractive by ageing populations and the prescribing while reducing costs so that we can market our core categories have been of higher cost drugs.
In the UK its offer real value for money.
growing at 4-5% a year over the last growing at 7-8% a year.
We are a UK In the past year weve been three years.
Its also a broad one, leader in pharmacy, and as the market encouraged by how quickly customers encompassing services as well as place changes we will react quickly to respond when we start to get it right: products.
In the past couple of years strengthen our position further.
weve already stabilised the long term weve been running trials to discover BHI is our channel into the decline in transaction numbers, our just how much of that ground we can international consumer healthcare indicative measure of the number of cover under the Boots brand.
Its an attractive, growing customers in our stores.
Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 Chief executives review Weve begun a major investment numbers and driving sales up.
Well for suitable standalone sites.
programme to refurbish all our stores continue to offer value for money this We opened two edge of town stores over four years.
In the past year weve year.
Weve also expanded points for last year and we intend to open a improved some 239, mainly in Central the Advantage Card offer to include further 20 this year.
London, and a further 300 will follow healthcare sales.
Since relaunching the To return to the theme of this year.
card last year weve issued one million simplication, a simpler organisation Weve stepped up our investment new cards.
Its one of the worlds largest is faster and more agile.
Our customers tell us that they loyalty schemes, with nearly nine million strong management team and under really value the knowledge our store active users.
We will continue to use the the leadership of Sir Nigel Rudd and staff have.
We intend to build on that information the Advantage Card gives Richard Baker I look forward to seeing strength.
After increasing training and us to better anticipate customer needs sustained and profitable growth.
introducing new pay packages weve in the future.
seen a measurable improvement in staff We continue to invest in our satisfaction and motivation.
Last year we At the start of the year our on-shelf opened a new automated warehouse product availability was just not good and distribution system costing 10m enough.
A concerted effort raised that replenishes pharmacies every Steve Russell availability of key lines from 90% to morning.
To improve the speed of over 98% in time for the Christmas our dispensing were also investing Chief Executive season.
Across all lines, including key in innovations such as our carousel lines, availability is now over 98%.
By reducing the time one year weve moved from a clearly it takes to dispense a prescription, unacceptable performance to one of it allows our pharmacists, who are the best in the retail sector.
Weve highly skilled healthcare professionals, changed policies and procedures and to spend more time with our customers.
retrained 12,000 people throughout Customers value the difference, and a the supply chain and stores to make typical installation brings a pharmacy sure everyone could play their part.
The improvement in on-shelf To deliver all these improvements availability so far has come from xing while making good returns for our existing system.
Were now in the shareholders, we have to make changes second year of a three year programme behind the scenes as well as in the to completely overhaul the supply chain stores.
Weve made great strides in to deliver a step change in efficiency.
simplifying the Boots organisation and To satisfy customers appetite for driving out costs, and in November we new products, we brought some 1,400 started a new programme aimed at new lines to market.
We increased saving a further 100m in costs.
the distribution of premium cosmetics Our purchasing continues to and now have them in 125 stores.
become keener, and we believe there We joined forces with Adams, the are major savings to be made through leading childrenswear specialist, to outsourcing.
Last year we outsourced launch a new 0-4 years baby and our IT, which will bring savings of toddler clothing range mini mode 100m over 10 years.
The proposed exclusive to Boots.
We launched closure of the Airdrie manufacturing Healthy Living in over 100 stores, plant was announced in February, as offering over 550 products ranging part of a plan to simplify and rationalise from exercise equipment to detoxing production capacity.
And in May this systems, and we signicantly broadened year we announced plans to outsource our Christmas and seasonal ranges.
transport and some of our warehousing.
As promised last year, we invested over 17m in product innovation to Where next?
Last years sales boost sustain our own brands.
Launches was just the start.
Boots is beginning included new brands like Starlet, to reap the benefit of recent investments.
We But if we want to continue to be the introduced over 500 new products best place for health and beauty, we under existing Boots brands and need to be in the right places.
over 120 under Boots-exclusive We have an unrivalled presence brands such as TONI&GUY and on Britains high streets but are Charles Worthington.
Well maintain underweight on edge of town sites.
substantial investment in new product If were going to achieve sustained development to create additional strong growth, we have to address sales opportunities.
Our pilot implants in edge of town The other essential action last year Sainsbury stores were profitable: but was to sharpen our price competitiveness we were unable to agree mutually in commodity toiletries.
This reduced acceptable terms for reaping the margin, but it was a decisive factor in potential benets.
Instead, weve stemming the decline in transaction accelerated our opening programme Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003
