08 Egg plc Annual Report 2003 Chief Executives review Paul Gratton Strong UK profit I am pleased to report that Egg has achieved substantial growth once again, during a challenging year.
The UK business delivered exceptionally good results in an increasingly competitive marketplace, but our one year old French business has had a difficult and disappointing year.
Consequently, this is reflected in a group pre-tax loss of 34 million.
The Egg UK operating profit of 73 million demonstrates The UK business has performed impressively with Egg the benefits of Eggs business model continuing to UK operating profit more than doubling and customer emerge.
Revenues grew almost 30% on the back of acquisition volumes reaching record levels.
Both these record sales volumes and increases in lending balances results were delivered against the backdrop of increasing while expenses were held relatively flat.
This led to our competition and demonstrate the ability of our brand cost-income ratio improving to 51%, well on track to and marketing effort to differentiate the Egg offering and exceed our stated target of 40% by end 2005. Credit target the right people to whom our proposition appeals.
quality remains strong with the card portfolio continuing This was achieved at an extremely low marketing to have significantly lower arrears rates than the industry acquisition cost of 33 per credit card, including brand average.
We are particularly pleased that this strong profit spend, some 40% of the acquisition cost of our direct performance has been achieved in a year where we competitors and 74% of the industry average.
We now continued to invest heavily in growing the customer base have a proven track record of delivering both sustained and developing our business.
In France progress in the first quarter was slow and the Within unsecured lending in the UK we have continued to business initially suffered from high acquisition costs grow our market share of credit card balances to almost and low customer conversion rates.
We responded by 6% while at the same time successfully cross selling appointing a new Chief Executive and senior executive record volumes of personal loans.
Net lending growth team, who together have introduced a range of was an impressive 1.5 billion, an increase of 60% on improvements that saw a turnaround in the key operating 2002 levels, taking total balances to almost 5 billion.
metrics through the second and third quarters.
The new At 1.8 billion, personal loan balances are an increasingly management team also developed a new long-term significant part of our business.
financial plan to create a self-sustaining, scale business in France.
As we announced in October, execution of this plan will take longer and requires a greater level of investment than Egg is prepared to undertake on a standalone basis.
The search for a strategic partner 09 Egg plc Annual Report 2003 and growth has since been superseded by Prudential considering proposals for its shareholding in Egg.
In the meantime we are managing discretionary expenditure tightly in Egg France as we await the conclusion of this process.
With the exception of France it is very much business as usual at Egg as we build on our impressive UK results in 2003.
We are pleased at the ongoing improvements we have made in customer service.
We monitor customer satisfaction regularly throughout the year, and are delighted to report that during 2003 our level of complaints decreased by over 50%.
Equally pleasing is the fact that customer satisfaction levels have increased by 10% across all products measured.
This will remain a key priority for us.
I would like to thank all Egg People for their diligence, dedication and good humour during what has been a challenging and productive year.
Through their continued efforts, various teams and individuals, as well as Egg as a whole, have been recognised for their outstanding achievements by winning prestigious awards, particularly in technology, product innovation, communications and marketing.
