Group chief executives review Dear Shareholder When I wrote to you last time, my team and of new assets, to pay dividends of $5.7 billion and to buy back I had as many questions as answers about the forthcoming year.
$2 billion of our own shares, while maintaining our year-end Would our strategy endure a weak global economy, impending level of net debt at the same level as year-end 2002.
All these war in Iraq, continuing uncertainty over terrorism, increasingly are clear signals of a strong year and a healthy group.
complex regulation and a groundswell of anti-corporate In addition, pro forma return on average capital employed sentiment?
How would our competitors respond to the improved year-on-year from 13% to 16% through a disciplined challenging position we had worked so hard to achieve?
focus on our revenue-generating assets.
I am pleased to say that BP rose convincingly to all The safety of our people remains of prime importance and our these challenges.
The group turned in one of the strongest overall safety performance continued to improve.
The frequency performances in its history.
We closed the year more secure of serious injury among employees and contractors, as measured in our strategic direction, more steadfast in our beliefs and by days away from work cases, has decreased over a five-year more confident in our potential to deliver superior long-run period, from 0.25 in 1999 to 0.10 in 2003.
However, individual total shareholder returns.
incidents led to a large number of fatalities among employees With the retirement of Rodney Chase, deputy group chief and contractors, with 20 people losing their lives, mostly as a executive, and John Buchanan, chief financial officer, we moved result of transport-related incidents.
We deeply regret these new people into leadership positions.
Dick Olver, Byron Grote fatalities and, in response, are tightening our standards on and David Allen, long-term colleagues, have each in their new driving safety throughout the group.
positions added considerable experience and judgement.
Tony Hayward, John Manzoni, Ralph Alexander and Iain Conn, Evidence of progress who are now in charge of our four business segments, have These annual results must also be viewed in the context of added to the strength of our team.
In 2003, we took steps to strengthen We recognize that in our people we possess the talent, the competitiveness of our portfolio of assets, markets and creativity and commitment to deliver consistent and competitive businesses.
The significant milestones were: returns and turn our strategy into reality.
I offer my sincere thanks New exploration and production profit centre progress and appreciation to all our staff around the world.
Our new liquefied natural gas LNG facility in Trinidad started up earlier than scheduled, our new assets in the deepwater Performance in perspective Gulf of Mexico increased production and new discoveries In 2003, we were able to report a strong result, and to invest were made offshore Angola.
Oil and gas production volume growth Our production Our result was $12.4 billion, up from $8.7 billion in 2002. volume increased by over 2% in 2003 compared with 2002.
This was achieved against the backdrop of stronger oil and gas Reserves replacement BPs replacement of reserves prices, which were higher than most had forecast.
During the significantly outpaced production for the 11th consecutive year, underlying oil demand increased as the world moved out year, a milestone that underscores our distinctive ability of recession and the economic boom in China continued.
to renew the assets that underpin our future growth.
OPEC maintained a managed supply throughout the year, despite First LNG deliveries In the third quarter, the first cargo of well-publicized disruptions in Venezuela and Iraq, and inventories LNG was delivered from Trinidad to the Bilbao electricity remained low.
generation plant, in which BP has a 25% interest.
This was Our improved result was founded on cash from our operations, followed by the first delivery of LNG, owned by BP, to the which rose 12% to $21.7 billion.
This strong cash flow gave us reopened Cove Point regasification terminal in the US.
the flexibility to use $2.5 billion to strengthen our pension funds.
TNK-BP The agreement between BP and the Alfa Group Excluding this pension funding, BPs operating cash flow and Access-Renova to form TNK-BP was completed in August.
rose to a total of 25% above 2002 levels.
In addition, we The new operation is proceeding well.
BPs $6.8 billion divested $6.4 billion of assets.
We used this cash flow to invest investment gave us a 50% stake in the third largest oil $14.0 billion in organic capital expenditure, to acquire $2.6 billion producer in one of the worlds great hydrocarbon basins.
6 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2003 New possibilities The future Caspian pipeline funding After more than two years of In the process of becoming a major oil and gas company through monitoring and scrutiny of the projects environmental and mergers and acquisitions, we have established common values social impact and an extensive public consultation process, and processes throughout the group so that we can act with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development greater alignment.
This allows us to harness the restless energy approved up to $250 million in loans to the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan and imagination of our people within a management framework BTC pipeline, managed by BP.
The pipeline is on track for that has clarity of central strategic purpose and unified control.
start-up in the first half of 2005.
I believe this framework will drive operational excellence and BP Ultimate launch BP launched BP Ultimate in the UK in competitive shareholder returns over time.
October, building on the success of Amoco Ultimate in the As we realize the possibilities before us, we also recognize US and other recent European launches.
This upgraded diesel the challenges they bring.
Good performance year by year is not and unleaded fuel delivers greater performance with fewer enough.
We have to demonstrate that we can be a sustainably emissions than standard fuel grades.
successful company in the long term, making a meaningful Customers for oil products We have redirected our branded contribution to a sustainable world.
We are continuing to products to appeal to more customers and promote our brand develop practical responses to the critical issue of climate change.
We have also extended our brand footprint with the We are working to develop cleaner, more efficient fuels for our rollout of the new BP Connect offer, the reimaging of many customers.
We continue to strive to ensure that our activities sites in the US and Germany, and the expansion of our not only benefit our shareholders but create mutual advantage presence in new markets such as China.
for our customers, suppliers, partners and communities wherever SECCO One of Asias largest petrochemicals complexes, located we operate.
in Shanghai and 50%-owned by BP, was half-way to completion To do that, we must be guided by our values, being inclusive by the end of 2003, on track for production in 2005. and meritocratic, having high ethical standards, striving for Divestments More than $6 billion in proceeds from divestments transparency and recognizing our impact on society.
Most resulted from our programme of high-grading our portfolio.
importantly, we must continue to renew our human capabilities by attracting, retaining and developing some of the worlds Strategy in context best people.
Ten or so years ago, it might have been easy for BP to accept We have come a long way, but there is much more to do.
the status quo, to hold on to our heritage, accepting our position We are guided by a clear strategy, with a talented and committed among middle-tier oil companies and offering shareholder returns workforce.
The future is full of excitement and the future, as with average prospects for long-term growth.
Fortunately, BP is always, has just begun.
not a company whose character and aspirations allow it to accept the status quo.
Indeed, recent history points to many examples where BP has acted as first mover to create distinctive asset and market positions.
We saw greater opportunity for sustained growth in shareholder value by attaining global scale, with all the opportunities and efficiencies that such a position brings.
Over the last few years, we have continued to transform our exploration and production segment in the drive for secure The Lord Browne of Madingley and competitive returns.
While continuing to seek maximum Group Chief Executive productivity from our existing base of oil and gas fields, we 9 February 2004 have also created a balanced portfolio of six new material profit centres: the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, Trinidad, Azerbaijan, Angola, gas in Asia Pacific and, most recently, Russia.
At the same time, we have reinvested significant cash into our customerfacing businesses to build a strong second leg for the group.
7 As a supplier of energy, our job is to fuel the worlds 8 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2003 possibilities.
BP as we know it today began to take shape just five short years ago.
In that With a report about drilling for oil?
time, we have brought together new Marketing products?
assets, people, technology, values and The fact is, neither this company, nor this knowledge to form a group that now fully industry will ever be successful if they competes as one of the leaders in the oil focus only on history.
Our new era requires new answers from us, coupled with new Because things are changing.
