Group Chief Executives Review The momentum in our business has accelerated and we face the future with even greater confidence in our strategy.
skills and experience to manage a year before.
It is clear that a top ten broader product range, supported by position is crucial and we are delighted research expertise.
Where necessary, to be moving ahead relative to some we have attracted new specialists others in that top list.
Behind the scenes, new The market share for ISIS retail structures have been developed to business held steady over 2003 in ensure we focus only on what is core spite of our focus being on enhancing to ISIS, while extracting costs from investment performance, developing the business in line with the ambitious the new brand, rationalising the range targets we set ourselves.
of investment funds and recruiting In our Life and Pensions business specialist managers.
Focus in 2004 we have successfully embedded will revert to marketing and ISIS is Keith Satchell the Isle of Man-based international now well positioned to grow its share Group Chief Executive operation we purchased in 2002, of this retail market in the coming year also from Royal & SunAlliance an and beyond.
acquisition which brought us people of profitability great experience and talent, as well as Our new business gains are all the opening up significant new markets to more significant as they have not us, particularly in the Far East.
Across been achieved at the expense of new the whole Life and Pensions business business margin, which I am pleased we have continued to develop our I commenced my Review of 2002 to report has increased again in 2003 technological capabilities, building by stating that we were committed on our reputation for innovation.
This to 18.6%, up from 17.5% in 2002 and to building the market presence of both is giving us an important edge in 15.7% in 2001.
One contributory factor our core businesses Friends Provident negotiations with potential business has been the withdrawal of some Life and Pensions FPLP and ISIS Asset partners as well as providing the competitors from the UK market, or Management ISIS and delivering platform for significant future growth.
from certain sectors of it, as referred outstanding service and products to to by the Chairman.
This has afforded us our customers.
One year later I am Market share the opportunity to improve slightly our delighted to report that in 2003, we Evidence of growing our presence margins on specic products.
Another have advanced considerably in line is best reected in the amount of dimension is the growing contribution with those objectives.
The momentum new business placed with us.
Our new to new business from our enlarged in our business that was evident this life and pensions business was up 14% international operation, where margins time last year has accelerated and on 2002, against a UK market which fell are generally higher.
International we face the future with even greater by 14%.
Our market share increased to business accounted for 16% of our confidence in our strategy to deliver 4.3% compared with 3.4% in 2002 and overall new life and pensions business sustainable growth in the years ahead.
we are now in 9th position for attracting in 2003 compared with 14% in 2002 the highest levels of UK new business, ISIS Asset Management, the listed and only 10% in 2001.
This increase up from 10th position at the end of 67% owned subsidiary of Friends would have been higher had it not been 2002.
This is a small but significant Provident, has been fundamentally for the outbreak of SARS, particularly advance.
In last years Report, I pointed reshaped during the course of the in the Far East, and then the conict to the apparent concentration of market year, initiated by the need to integrate erupting in the Middle East, both of share between the top ten groups of Royal & SunAlliance Investments which dampened the international life and pensions companies.
This trend RSAI purchased in 2002, quickly and markets more than in the UK.
has continued, with 72% of new effectively.
The overriding aim, which business being shared between the top has been achieved, was to ensure the ISIS achieved an operating margin ten, up from 70% in 2002 and 66% the best people were retained with the of 33% in 2003, up from 28% the Annual Report & Accounts 2003 5 Group Chief Executives Review continued Overall, we have the scale to compete with the biggest, evidenced by the comparative progress we have made over 2003. previous year and well above the our Appointed Representative channel.
controlling our costs, enhancing the average for the asset management This, like outsourcing, has the effect of service we provide to our customers industry, reecting underlying stability removing xed costs from our business and, most signicantly, enabling us to of revenue and tight control over costs.
or turning them into variable costs, over accommodate much higher volumes which we have greater control.
Structure expect these changes to result in Across the Group we routinely Brand annual cost savings of some 18 million review our structures in anticipation The rebranding of our Asset from 2004 onwards, after incurring of the future shape of the marketplace Management business, from exceptional costs of around 14 million and to ensure that those activities, core Friends Ivory & Sime to ISIS, has in 2003.
We believe this restructure to supporting our strategy and business been executed both externally and is the right way forward but regret focus, operate efficiently and effectively.
internally, embracing a distinctive that redundancies were unavoidable: Outsourcing to specialist organisations is creative approach using the strapline I offer my unreserved thanks to those considered, not only to gain commercial THIS IS REALITY and supported by who have had to leave us for their advantage but also, where practicable, a consistent advertising campaign.
considerable contribution to our to enhance the career prospects for The prole of ISIS as an authoritative progress over recent years.
A current investment house has been high as a Technology result, together with an active public example is the heads of agreement The application of technology signed between ISIS and JP Morgan, relations programme bringing good and e-commerce remains a key referred to later in this Report, media coverage.
We encourage our differentiator for the Group.
Across outsourcing a number of administrative investment professionals to actively the Life and Pensions business it is functions to a larger specialist firm promote the brand.
releasing people from repetitive and in a manner which protects the jobs The branding of the Life and Pensions of the ISIS employees involved.
traditional activities to focus more business is also in the process of exclusively on serving our customers Last year I reported that a pilot was refreshment, retaining the strong in a manner which is being increasingly underway to evaluate the potential for elements of the existing brand while recognised.
There is a growing adopting a cleaner more confident outsourcing to India a number of our life propensity amongst Independent style in keeping with the confidence and pensions business processes.
This Financial Advisers IFAs and their we have for the business to prosper.
pilot proved the case for outsourcing, customers to access our products and but only where quality of service was services online, accounting for virtually Group summary and outlook not compromised and the integrity of all our new group pensions business, Whoever coined the phrase change customer contact maintained.
At the 31% of new stand-alone protection is the only constant was certainly end of 2003 we had some 120 trained describing the environment in which business with potential to increase people in India with plans to extend this our industry operates.
We have seen further, and 70% of new Investment in 2004, making India an important site considerable change over recent years Portfolio Bond business during 2003. for new business data capture activities.
and expect regulatory and structural Our outsourcing to India is limited Our constant aim is to operate from change to remain a feature of the compared with other companies and single technology platforms in both industry in the foreseeable future.
we seek always to balance the business our businesses.
In ISIS, a single Front Nevertheless, we have demonstrated case for outsourcing with the values Ofce System has been implemented, real resilience in establishing that shape the way we operate and and in the Life and Pensions business genuine growth momentum in our our commitment to customer service.
we are actively transferring the ex-Royal businesses under the most difficult & SunAlliance international business of circumstances, and our confidence We also announced the restructure onto the Friends Provident single in our future success is unwavering.
of our sales distribution model in 2003, platform.
This approach brings We are confident of further profitable resulting in the closure of our direct numerous benefits in terms of market share gains in 2004. sales operation but an expansion of 6 Friends Provident In the Life and Pensions business, markets stabilise and consumer I offer my sincere thanks to all staff we await the Governments decision confidence returns.
Overall, we for their commitment and for the great regarding the level of price capping and have the scale to compete with the endeavours they make for the good of the simplicity of the sales process for biggest, evidenced by the increase the Group.
2003 was a very demanding the so called stakeholder products.
We in market position we have achieved year for all parts of the Group with are urging the Government to move in 2003.
There are significant growth volumes of customer enquiries higher, away from the current 1% cap to allow opportunities in the three product financial conditions testing and new the prospect of a sufficient return on sectors on which we currently focus business harder to nd in an uncertain capital so that we can embrace these protection, group pensions and savings environment.
We have taken positive new products enthusiastically.
Beyond and investment for those providers action to address these issues, and that, we believe we are well positioned with the right range of products and the the response of our people across the for the regulatory developments expertise to support and develop them.
Group has been both admirable and envisaged in the ways products are It is our focus on these three sectors, professional, as always.
It is now clear that these plus our international operations, that the Friends Provident Group is in their changes will be evolutionary rather than underpins our improving margin and, good hands.
We continue to build our more importantly, higher contribution IFA market share and, in particular, to profits from new business.
relationships with major IFA rms and The offshore market also has significant other distributors, believing ourselves to growth potential, with good margins.
be an attractive partner for distribution Keith Satchell We fully intend to build our international agreements or multi-tie arrangements, Group Chief Executive presence still further, as would be benefiting particularly from our expected for one of the leading offshore technological capability and the players, and have a medium-term target importance we place on good service.
for at least 20% of our new business to We believe our decision to close our come from outside the UK.
direct salesforce, effective early 2004, is the right one and we are delighted For ISIS Asset Management, we are that more than 250 people from that equally confident about the future salesforce have chosen to maintain outlook, supported by improving their link with Friends Provident by investment performance and applying to become members of operational efficiency.
There are, Appointed Representative rms.
This we believe, currently too many fund is a positive endorsement of the quality managers and investment funds and of our company, our products and the therefore consolidation is the logical straightforward way we do business.
We will continue to consider opportunities to grow by acquisition The UK market will continue to but will concentrate efforts on organic be a difficult one in the short term growth in any event.
We expect asset but it will remain our primary focus.
managers to continue to polarise Although there will no doubt be some between the large and small and new regulatory challenges emerging, ISIS intends to be one of the large, a number of major, long-running successful players.
We believe the issues are likely to be resolved this keys to future success are investment year bringing greater clarity for the industry and shareholders.
It is a performance, diversication of revenue, market that holds considerable a robust financial standing and a long-term opportunity, which will recognisable brand and we are fully be increasingly realised as equity focused on all four.
