Chief Executives Statement James Crosby Chief Executive Last years performance was characterised by increased market share, improved efficiency and good growth in profits for shareholders 4 HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 advances were 0.79% 0.84% end 2002.
The average LTV Creating value for shareholders provisions charge of 1,025m 832m 2002 on new lending fell to 61% 63% 2002 at the HBOSs distinctive strategy continues to end of the year and the average LTV across create value for shareholders and customers.
sees coverage of non-performing advances Our determination to offer customers value by total closing provisions and interest in the whole book remained at 43%.
for money and transparency makes HBOS the suspense at 48% 51% in 2002.
In traditional banking products HBOS most powerful force for competition in UK continued to gain at others expense with Strong income growth, sound cost control financial services.
Across HBOS, last years sales of 1m new credit card accounts and and the realisation of merger synergies performance was characterised by increased 1.2m bank accounts.
These gave us an enabled HBOS to achieve further significant market share, improved efficiency and good improvements in efficiency with the estimated 16% market share of new sales growth in profits for shareholders.
of credit cards with balances rising 21%.
cost:income ratio falling to 41.6% against An estimated 25% of the new and switcher Profit before tax and exceptional items 45.2% in 2002. market in bank accounts helped us to achieve rose by 27% to 3,885m.
Each division The increase in underlying costs of 9% a 55% growth in credit balances.
recorded growth in profits with Retail up included 46m as a result of the acquisition 19%, Corporate up 21%, Business Banking As targeted, a substantial increase in of Rothschild Asset Management, an up 32%, Insurance & Investment up 51% and operating income achieved on a stable additional pension charge of 62m and 30m Treasury up 3%.
cost base saw Intelligent Finance break even in respect of the exchange rate movement on in December.
For the year as a whole its Underlying earnings per share increased BankWests expenses.
For 2004, the growth in losses reduced significantly to 53m from by 22% to 68.5p.
In line with our policy underlying operating expenses is targeted to 147m in 2002. of increasing the level of dividend cover to be 5% or less.
2.5 times, the Board is proposing a full year Retail asset quality remains robust.
NonDuring 2003, HBOS deployed its capital dividend of 30.9p, 5% higher than last year, performing assets were stable at 1.80% of resources to support 15% growth in risk which takes underlying dividend cover to closing advances 1.78% 2002.
The charge weighted assets, to finance the 436m 2.2 times 1.9 in 2002. for provisions as a percentage of average acquisition of the BankWest minority and advances was 0.30%, 5bps higher than in 2002 to fund the previously disclosed 500m The Group RoE rose to 17.7% 15.9% 2002. with the increase in provisions reflecting both As expected, the impact of capital raising injection into Clerical Medical.
Nonetheless the changing mix of lending and the normal combined with lower underlying returns a 67% increase in retained earnings, the issue ageing of the loan portfolio.
from Insurance & Investment resulted in only of 641m of innovative Tier 1 capital and an increase of 3.7bn in Tier 2 capital saw the a modest increase in Group Target RoE to The Retail cost:income ratio fell to 47.8% total capital ratio rise from 10.4% to 11.1%.
2002 52.5%, the direct consequence of sales And at 7.6% 7.9% in 2002 the Tier 1 ratio growth, improved productivity and continuing A marked acceleration in the growth of remained firmly within our target range.
tight cost control, as costs grew by 3.2% deposits up 16%, an increased requirement target 3%.
for wholesale funding and reduced capital During 2003, 296m of revenue synergies earnings partly offset by improved business and 286m of cost synergies contributed Insurance & Investment mix were the main reasons for the 6bps a combined 582m to the Groups results, In both Insurance & Investment, in rapidly reduction in the Group net interest margin comfortably exceeding the full year target of consolidating markets, HBOSs distribution 470m.
We remain on track to deliver our to 177bps.
Retail and Corporate margins strength and low cost advantage enabled us declined by 9bps and 6bps to 190bps and target of 800m of merger synergies by 2005. to record further market share gains in the 171bps respectively.
Largely the result of IT integration is now largely complete and in UK.
Sales of general insurance products rose a shift in business mix arising from its particular, the process of decommissioning all by 19%.
In a contracting market, investment expansion, Business Banking margins were legacy systems in Retail remains on target.
Divisional Performance: As was the case in 2003, we do not expect Retail HBOSs distinctive consumer strategy competitive pressures to bear down on profit before continued to generate strong sales and margins in 2004.
We therefore expect our deposit growth ambitions and increased income growth from a tightly controlled cost tax and wholesale funding to result in a not base.
Profit before tax and exceptionals rose significantly different movement in the by 19% to 1,698m.
Group net interest margin this year.
exceptional As promised, growth in savings balances HBOSs stable credit performance is a accelerated.
Taken together with credit reflection of the resilient performance of the balances in bank accounts, total balances items up 27% UK economy, the effectiveness of our credit increased by 11bn 7bn in 2002 to 115bn, assessment techniques and the comparative increasing HBOSs share of UK Household to 3,885m bias within our balance sheet towards higher Sector Liquid Assets to an estimated 15.7% quality asset classes.
we believe we are heavier in residential In 2003 our strategy in the mortgage market mortgages whilst remaining comparatively continued to fide-emphasise re-mortgages, light in unsecured personal and SME lending given their comparatively unfavourable risk and in corporate lending.
Nonetheless, the Total non-performing assets as a percentage collective reach and service quality of the of advances were unchanged at 1.75% 2002 five HBOS mortgage brands delivered an 1.75%.
Closing provisions as a percentage of above target market share for net mortgage HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 5 Chief Executives Statement continued product sales were stable as we closed in on value for money, even in difficult investment Customer lending growth 5.2bn slowed our goal of being No.
With profits products to 11%, the direct result of our improved product sales in the UK.
Coupled with a accounted for only 8% of Clerical Medicals capability and success in selling down debt significant turnround in short-term intermediary sales in the UK.
Nonetheless, together with the planned repayment of fluctuations in investment returns, this total UK intermediary sales were resilient, some large high profile exposures.
The same enabled profit before tax and exceptionals to down just 10%, whilst overall intermediary strategy saw an acceleration in the growth increase by 51% to 887m.
sales fell 17% in tough markets.
Wealth of non-interest income, 26% higher than management sales showed real signs of a year earlier.
Deposit balances advanced by Insurance profits rose by 11% to 445m improvement in the second half.
as HBOS turned its low cost distribution 17% at the half year, for the year as a advantage directly into value for consumers Accounting for around a third of loans, our whole, sales for St. Jamess Place Capital and attractive returns for shareholders.
largest industry sector continues to be were only 3% lower than a year earlier, Sales of household and repayment insurance construction and property.
Our focus here as high net worth investors confidence products increased by 20% and 9% lies primarily in the property investment began to recover.
respectively, whilst sales of motor insurance sector where in the first instance the credit policies were up 69%.
esure saw almost Business Banking exposure is assessed against quality rental 800,000 motor and household policies Business Banking started to deliver the covenants.
We continue to have limited sold and is expected to break even in the required payback for the major investment exposure to commercial developments.
first half of 2004. made in taking our SME products and services Credit quality was relatively stable which is into England and Wales.
We have achieved In the 4th quarter we launched two new reflected in a slightly reduced provisions our interim SME market share target of 6%, developments designed to enhance future charge of 0.70% of average advances 0.72% in one year early.
Profit before tax and growth.
First Alternative, our newest joint 2002.
Non-performing assets were 1.65% of exceptionals rose by 32% to 404m.
venture with Peter Wood, capitalises on advances 1.56% at end 2002. esures existing investment in infrastructure.
The newly established business hunters field By enabling HBOS to meet the needs of nonA long standing reputation for innovation, force and the direct business bank are both standard drivers it extends our distribution coupled with the ability to make things gaining customers at the expense of our reach for motor insurance.
As from the end happen, have enabled Corporate to seize the peers.
Customer lending balances increased of December we started to underwrite our by 7.5bn 32% while deposits grew by 40% huge opportunities presented by the creation household insurance business previously to 17bn.
The investment required in people, of HBOS.
In the process we have built market with Royal & Sun Alliance and all such systems and infrastructure was substantially leading positions, most notably with our business will transfer to HBOS on renewal completed in the second half of last year Structured Finance, Integrated Finance and during 2004.
As an underwriter, HBOS will leading to an 11% increase in underlying Joint Venture offerings where our positioning recognise its profits from household operating expenses in 2003.
However, as as the one stop shop for the full range of insurance later than was the case as a targeted, for 2003 as a whole, the cost:income underlying banking products continues to be commission earning introducer.
As disclosed ratio reduced to 53.0% from 55.7%.
a clear source of competitive advantage.
previously, this will have the one off effect A more stable market in motor residuals of reducing reported profits in 2004 by Treasury made for better trading from both our motor around 76m.
Treasury profit before tax and exceptionals finance and contract hire vehicle management of 239m were 3% above those achieved A significant reduction in negative short-term businesses, both of which benefited from the last year.
Growth in sales of Treasury products fluctuations in investment returns meant that withdrawal of key competitors.
to the HBOS Group and its customers investment profits rose by 134% to 442m Bank of Scotland Ireland has proven to be 189m in 2002.
However, reduced margins particularly successful in challenging the on in force business and assets under existing providers of financial services with a management as a consequence of lower number of product innovations.
Bank of average stock market levels during the year Underlying Scotland Ireland now has over 19% SME and one-off costs associated with the market share with lending growth of 17% and acquisition of Rothschild Asset Management growth in deposit balances of 34% in local earnings per saw profits based on long-term assumptions currency in 2003. i. e. excluding short-term fluctuations and changes to economic assumptions fall by share up 22% Growth in Business Banking has not been at 19% to 416m.
the expense of credit quality.
Such strong growth in assets meant that, as a percentage Last year we began a significant re-structuring to 68.5p of advances, non-performing assets fell to of our intermediary and bancassurance 1.97% 2.21% end 2002 whilst the provisions operations.
To be completed in early 2005, charge, as a percentage of average advances, this will result in a significant enhancement to fell to 0.49% against 0.70% in 2002. the long-term profitability of our investment business.
In the meantime, progress made to Corporate Banking date contributed to the improvement in new Increasingly benign market conditions and business profitability to 25% of equivalent attractive margins allowed Corporate to premium income 22% in 2002, achieving our sustain momentum without any increase in medium term target of 25%.
risk appetite or a move outside long established areas of expertise.
Profit before Bancassurance sales, which rose 21%, once again underlined the power of simplicity and tax and exceptionals rose 21% to 826m.
6 HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 up 65% on a like for like basis very largely HBOSs mortgage strategy where we now offset a decline in the wholesale interest expect to trade at or, if appropriate, below margin and enabled Treasury to sustain our stock share for net lending 23%.
The rate of growth in demand for unsecured Our Treasury operation is focused on the personal credit has slowed.
Although there generation of high quality earnings.
In 2003, are few signs of deterioration in retail credit 70% of revenues were derived from the conditions, here too we remain vigilant for management of funding and liquidity and any contrary indicators.
the provision of products and services to the We do not expect corporate credit HBOS Group and its customers.
Our work in with such an internally focused strategy, asset progress remains strong and we expect quality is very strong.
We avoid sub to benefit from a further recovery in investment grade investments and at the end corporate activity.
of 2003, over 99% of our total portfolio was rated A or above.
No credit provisions were More stable equity markets should see required in the period.
confidence gradually return to investment product markets.
More specifically the HBOS Treasury Services was very active in significant reduction in demand for with funding for the Group, successfully launching profits products and the advent of the first two covered bond issues in the UK depolarisation both favour HBOSs multimarket as well as raising 11.5bn from brand distribution led strategy.
Both the UK and European authorities are BankWest proposing extensive regulatory change, Last year saw BankWests profits recover stretching from capital adequacy to treating strongly, rising 25% in local currency.
Regardless of the scale of growth in both retail and business lending, such change, which should in any case favour coupled with robust margins and an larger companies such as HBOS, it is improving credit experience, all contributed important that everything we do runs with to this step-change in performance.
the grain of regulatory policy.
Indeed our In September HBOS completed the shareholders have every right to demand that acquisition of the minority in BankWest.
we regard regulation as another opportunity We are currently engaged in bringing to create comparative advantage versus BankWest closer together with our other our competitors.
Australian activities, BOSIAL, Capital Finance As we complete the task of extracting the and St. Andrews Insurance, to create HBOS promised merger synergies, so 2004 should Australia.
This will greatly enhance our ability see HBOS reach some important financial to create value for shareholders from our benchmarks.
With cost growth restricted to Australian assets.
5%, the underlying cost:income ratio is Outlook and prospects expected to fall through 40%.
As promised at As previously announced, the Group is the time of the 2002 capital raising, retained now organised around four Divisions: Retail, earnings will be capable of supporting double Insurance & Investment, Corporate and digit balance sheet growth without straining International Operations.
The results for the Tier 1 ratio.
Most important of all, 2 years Dividend 2004 with re-stated comparatives for 2003 of strong asset growth with significant gains will be presented on this basis.
in efficiency and now an acceleration in nonper share up interest income, should see us reach our The UK economy is strengthening and the benchmark return on equity 20%.
Under interest rate cycle has turned.
However, 5% to 30.9p current industry structures, we regard these despite the increase in public sector benchmarks as sustainable.
spending, the need to achieve a smooth transition from consumer to investment led The inherent growth characteristics of UK growth points to only modest rate rises.
financial services will be the backdrop for HBOS growth beyond 2004, particularly as Low interest rates, a benign employment UK market shares re-align in the aftermath market and the shortage of housing stock of consolidation.
As a number of competitors will continue to underpin the housing market also look outside the UK for their primary in 2004.
And indeed the market has seen growth prospects, the opportunities increase a buoyant start to the year.
Even so, after for a strong HBOS to grow at the expense of 3 years of a strong housing market, there is the competition.
We have, and will continue to tighten our lending criteria.
In the James Crosby short-term therefore, this will be reflected in Chief Executive HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 7
