Group Chief Executive Officers Review continued the acquisition of APB in October 2002.
Progress in electronic broking We have the FRA-Cross system enables traders Innovation In addition to our progress in the Outlook Although the US energy markets since seen some increases in the penetration of interest rate swaps to input all their established markets we had an excellent year Integration of the ICAP and BrokerTec then have been subdued, mainly due to of electronic broking in the fixed income unhedged positions their FRA exposures in several new products that are developing businesses is now a priority.
We expect that the Enron collapse, we remain positive securities markets but fully electronic or mismatches onto the FRA-Cross rapidly.
The three products below generated the cross connection of our platforms will about the sector.
We intend to make broking is just one aspect of automation website which then automatically matches almost 9% of our total operating profit be completed by September 2003.
This further acquisitions in the energy market that suits the more liquid and commoditised one exposed FRA with another.
The system in the year ended 31 March 2003. will allow us to optimise our connectivity to build a leading global business.
As a result, ICAP has adopted covers sterling, euro, Swiss francs, US dollars with our customers systems and maximise Credit derivatives have been one of the a hybrid model bringing together electronic and emerging markets trades.
We have the resources Europe This was another very successful most significant developments in our and voice broking on the same platform.
200 traders at 80 banks are using FRAto complete this work with our existing staff 1 year for our business in Europe and profit markets in the past few years with liquidity These systems now cover a wide range Cross which has matched transactions and suppliers.
increased from 54.3 million to 63.4 million.
growing rapidly after a slow start.
ICAP of fixed income markets: in the US, in worth $1 trillion since its launch by ICAP In the fixed income securities markets, credit in particular did not make any real headway Market conditions remain good for ICAP a range of US Treasury securities and in January 2002. volatility kept the eurobond markets busy.
until two years ago but we are now the and our position is extremely strong.
By repurchase agreements, in Australia, Japan, 1 UK government bonds and the distressed As anticipated, electronic broking losses number two broker in these markets.
creating such a powerful combination: South Africa and the UK in government bonds debt markets were also active.
As a result were reduced from 13.8 million in the According to the British Bankers Association the worlds largest voice and electronic and euro eurobonds.
of determined efforts by management, previous year to 8.6 million in the year the credit derivatives market has doubled interdealer broker, we can continue to a small number of product areas that had Automation has many other guises including ended 31 March 2003.
However, the in size during the past year and is forecast increase our market share organically and previously not been profitable moved into the extension of screen-based price discovery BrokerTec acquisition will single handedly to double again in 2003. through selective acquisition.
Volatility in the oil market to new markets and the implementation transform our global electronic broking ICAP has a leading market position in UK that markets continue to be busy, we as a result of tensions in the Middle East of STP across a wide variety of voice and activities into significant profit in the electricity derivatives, offering both a screen have set a budget for profit before tax, resulted in a record year for our European electronic broking products.
based and voice broked service.
goodwill amortisation and exceptional energy businesses.
The interest rate on a number of technologies and has tailored Products for hedging inflation have items to exceed 140 million in the Information services Market data from derivatives business saw the benefits of them to meet the automation challenges developed very quickly in Europe during current financial year.
ICAPs broking activities is used to create a very strong franchise and was able to in different markets: the past 15 months and ICAP has been a variety of information products that are capitalise on moves in medium and longer at the forefront of the expansion of inflation the i-Swap system has successfully distributed to market participants and data term interest rates.
We now have a very significant completed installation in 22 leading vendors including Reuters, Bloomberg market share and are now expanding this Asia The acquisition of Nittan Capitals derivatives trading banks in Europe.
Many Michael Spencer market into the US.
In addition, we have voice broking businesses in Singapore, i-Swap extends ICAPs voice broking with data vendors have reported a decline in Group Chief Executive Officer recently established an agreement with Hong Kong and Thailand has enabled us sophisticated screen based broking and data revenue this year but ICAP has Goldman Sachs and Deutsche Bank to 1 to build a leading market position in Asia.
STP solutions for interest rate swaps, continued to expand data sales and profit promote economic derivatives, which will The integration of these businesses is now overnight index swaps and forward rate increased from 7.8 million to 8.1 million.
With a total of 600 staff and agreements.
Using proven technology, the The information services division will benefit a strong network of ten offices, ICAP is system is delivered over a private network from the data sales contracts which BrokerTec the largest interdealer broker in the Asia to wholesale market customers providing brings with it.
Overall the local interest rate them with enhanced price dissemination, 1 profit loss before tax, interest, exceptional items but derivatives markets were not particularly value added data and reduced trade after charging goodwill amortisation active but there was a strong performance processing costs through STP: from our fixed income businesses.
We the development of ICAPs screen based believe that a stronger and more profitable systems for the money and forward foreign business will emerge in the financial year to exchange markets is expected to increase 31 March 2004 as the benefits arising from transparency for our bank customers.
the acquisitions made and a reorganisation They will also be able to access increased of our Asian bond business in Japan and liquidity from offices across our network: Hong Kong are realised.
1 profit before tax, interest, exceptional items but after charging goodwill amortisation 8 ICAP plc Annual Report 2003 ICAP plc Annual Report 2003 9 Group Finance Directors Review The Group reported a strong financial performance in the year ended 31 March 2003.
Turnover, profit, EPS and dividend per share increased significantly.
Continuing emphasis was placed on improving operating profit margins, effective cost control and efficient cash management.
The Groups cost base Operating margins If this was excluded, last years margin would Acquisitions The Group reported profit of 123.7 million in the financial year to 31 March 2004 is The Group continues to focus on operating have been 19%.
The current years margin During the financial year the Group made before taxation, goodwill amortisation and anticipated to increase by some 3.5 million profit margin enhancement through a of 18% includes 2 million of incremental a number of acquisitions.
Further details exceptional items: this represents a 39% as a consequence of higher insurance combination of growth in market share and costs relating to the Groups i-Swap initiative.
of these are disclosed in note 14 to the increase over the prior year.
premiums and an increase in the UK the application of strict cost controls.
The Excluding these costs, the margin for the Financial Statements.
There operating profit margin performance of our financial year would have been 19%.
Turnover grew by 26%, with most of the First Brokers On 30 April 2002, the will also be additional rent and depreciation voice broking businesses and by geographic Groups broking operations continuing to Our businesses in Europe continued Group acquired First Brokers, the leading charges as a result of the relocation of our region is summarised below.
benefit from uncertain and volatile financial to benefit from strong trading conditions New York interdealer broker in US dollar US operations to New Jersey, some of which markets.
Excluding contributions from The securities broking margin increased in the region.
Its results may be offset by the receipt of local state acquisitions in the year and foreign exchange from 11% to 14% assisted by the strong have been consolidated into these financial grants to be receivable annually over the The Asia Pacific margin has been affected movements, turnover growth was 13%.
recovery in our US operations which have statements as from May 2002.
Effective cost management by the difficult trading environment in Japan a large securities broking component.
corporate bond markets have been very Each of the Groups three geographic continues to be a major objective.
and has also been impacted by the integration active during the year and this has benefited regions achieved year-on-year turnover The reduction in the derivatives and money of the recently acquired businesses in the Broker employment costs, the largest First Brokers financial performance which growth of between 9% and 12% in their broking margin needs to be set in the region.
We believe that a stronger and more component of the Groups cost base, have has exceeded pre-acquisition expectations.
The best growth rate following context: the margin for the prior profitable business will emerge in the financial been maintained at 54% of Group turnover was achieved in the US business following year benefited from a 1.5 million release year to 31 March 2004.
The first deferred consideration payment for the third year in succession demonstrating its strong recovery from the World Trade in bad debt provision no longer required.
of 13 million was made in May 2003 and the Groups determination to maintain control Center disaster.
If the adverse effect of the was paid entirely in cash.
The Group did not over broker remuneration.
The variable depreciating US dollar is excluded, US take up its option to fund it in part by the Year ended Year ended component of broker remuneration cost, 31 March 2003 31 March 2002 revenue growth was 21%.
Turnover growth issue of shares.
which is linked to revenue and profit growth, in the voice broking segments was 11%.
Activity has now increased to more than half of this APB APB was acquired by ICAP for an initial Securities broking 14% 11% Costs continue to be tightly controlled.
A further element of the Groups cost cash payment of $15.5 million on 4 October Derivatives and money broking 18% 20% Although they increased over the prior year base, estimated to be 7% of Group turnover, 2002.
Further payments, contingent on the by 103 million 23%, costs increased is of a variable nature.
future earnings of the business, will be Geographic region by only 19.4 million 7% if the impact made over four years.
The payment in 2003 The strong revenue performance, combined Americas 12% 8% of acquisitions, currency movements and will be paid in cash.
Future payments due with prudent cost management, has enabled Europe 20% 19% higher revenue and profit-linked bonuses in 2004, 2005 and 2006 may, at ICAPs the Group to increase its operating profit Asia Pacific 6% 11% were excluded.
This increase is in part option, be made either wholly in cash or by margin to 17% in the financial year ended explained by the impact of higher business way of a mixture of cash and shares.
APBs 31 March 2003 15% in the prior year.
Note volumes on variable costs such as clearing results were consolidated into these financial Operating profit margin is profit before interest and exceptional items but after goodwill amortisation for the Groups costs.
The Group has also invested in certain statements from October 2002. continuing operations.
growth areas, for example, credit derivatives 10 ICAP plc Annual Report 2003 ICAP plc Annual Report 2003 11 Group Finance Directors Review continued Asian businesses ICAP acquired from Exceptional items Earnings and earnings per share EPS the centre.
Capital expenditure is rigorously The table below summarises the key Nittan Capital its voice broking businesses The Group received a further 16.2 million The 37% growth in adjusted earnings reflects controlled and monitored by the Groups elements that make up the 18.9 million the increase in pre-tax profit, a constant annual budgeting and regular forecasting in Singapore where we already owned of insurance receipts in respect of the World increase in net funds.
Most items can be effective tax rate, and a slight increase cycles.
All acquisition opportunities are the 20%, Hong Kong and Thailand.
The total Trade Center disaster in the financial year linked back to the Groups FRS1 cashflow in minority interests.
subject of detailed due diligence and financial consideration for the acquisition is estimated to 31 March 2003.
It is anticipated that statement and related notes.
However, the evaluation, including the use of discounted to be in the region of 25 million, payable we will receive a final payment of some 14.1 million exceptional items outflow We continue to believe that adjusted EPS, cash flow and return on investment in cash, of which 18 million was paid on 5 million of material damage insurance requires further explanation and is made which reflects the businesss true cash techniques and criteria.
completion with the remainder becoming receipts in the financial year to 31 March 2004 up as follows: operating exceptional items earnings, is the most appropriate EPS payable in November 2003.
These businesses making a total of 33.1 million received paid 8.3 million, capital expenditure of measurement ratio.
This excludes goodwill The Groups FRS1 cash flow is set out on page were consolidated into these Financial from insurers in respect of the World Trade 21.2 million, offset by insurance proceeds amortisation and exceptional items, but 38 of the Financial Statements.
in respect of tangible fixed assets of includes share capital which is contingently Consistent with previous years, cash flow 15.4 million.
Apart from a small proportion issuable in respect of the First Brokers and BrokerTec During the financial year the Group incurred is best understood by reference to the of the 8.3 million which relates to Asia APB acquisitions.
Following the exercise On 7 May 2003 the Group completed the 3.1 million of expenses in connection with movement in net funds defined as cash, Pacific, all of these cashflows are in respect of SAYE and executive share options, the acquisition of BrokerTecs fixed income restoring the business following the World current asset investments less overdrafts number of shares in issue has increased by of the World Trade Center disaster.
securities businesses for a consideration Trade Center disaster.
The full-year effect of this will of 180 million.
The initial consideration our US operations moved into new premises A particularly encouraging feature of cashflow be seen in the new financial year.
On this basis, net funds, as defined in note for the acquisition was satisfied by the issue in New Jersey and this brings to a close the this year has been the strong working 31 c of the notes to the Financial Statements, Adjusted EPS increased by 33% to 77.3p of 11,989,509 new ordinary shares.
Up to World Trade Center disaster related costs.
capital management as is highlighted in increased during the year by 18.9 million and basic EPS was 77.0p.
an additional 6,744,099 new ordinary shares the table below.
There were a number of rationalisation to 184.6 million 2002 165.7 million.
will be issued after one year, the final number Dividend costs associated with the acquisition of of which will be dependent upon the first Subject to shareholder approval, a 23p final the Asian businesses and these are Year ended year revenues earned by the acquired dividend is proposed.
This compares to 18p 31 March 2003 reflected in a 1.7 million exceptional businesses and ETC, ICAPs existing electronic m in the prior year and would result in a full-year charge in the year.
Furthermore, there was trading platform.
dividend of 30p, which represents a 25% Profit before tax 123.7 a 0.6 million loss on the sale of the Groups increase on the prior year.
This is the third In the year ended 31 December 2002, the investment in Nittan Capital Group Ltd. Joint ventures and associates 3.2 consecutive year that we have been able to unaudited profit before exceptional items Depreciation 15.8 The integration of BrokerTec and the increase the dividend and reflects the strong of the BrokerTec businesses acquired was Net capital expenditure 16.0 Groups existing electronic operations has earnings performance and the outlook for $20.5 million.
Tax 35.7 begun and will result in exceptional costs in the new financial year.
The full-year dividend Working capital and other 11.3 Net synergies are anticipated to be at the financial year to March 2004.
In the UK is two and a half times covered.
95.9 least 2.2 million in the financial year the Group is relocating its London offices in Cash flow Acquisitions investments 36.4 ending 31 March 2004.
After taking these mid 2004 and this may also result in some The effective management of cash resources Dividends 26.5 synergies into account it is expected that exceptional costs.
Exceptional items 14.1 the transaction will be broadly EPS neutral Regular reviews of cash retained in operating Taxation Net funds inflow 18.9 in the year to 31 March 2004. subsidiaries are undertaken and where The effective tax rate, which excludes excluding goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
appropriate surplus cash is repatriated to goodwill amortisation and exceptional items, has been maintained at 34%.
The increasing profit contributions from the US, a high tax jurisdiction, could result in a 1 to 2% rise in the Groups effective tax rate next year.
12 ICAP plc Annual Report 2003 ICAP plc Annual Report 2003 13 Group Finance Directors Review continued It is estimated that 75% of the Groups net Following the exercise of SAYE and executive The Group does not hedge its translational Accounting developments funds is held by operating subsidiaries share options some 2.5 million shares foreign exchange exposures.
The impact of There have been no new accounting standards to meet regulatory capital, commercial and were issued resulting in an increase of foreign exchange movements on the Groups issued which required implementation by general working capital requirements.
This can 19.2 million in the share premium account.
results is mitigated by translating the profits the Group this year.
vary from time to time depending upon The difference of 15.6 million between the of its overseas subsidiaries at average exchange The Group continues to monitor accounting territorial profit mix, regulatory capital rule exercise price and market price has been rates.
Where appropriate, structural hedges developments and in particular the move to changes and counterparty perception of the charged to the profit and loss reserves in via inter-company debt are put in place to International Financial Reporting Standards.
appropriate level of capital required to be accordance with current accounting standards.
further mitigate translational foreign exchange retained in the business.
The only major translational Return on capital Risk management foreign exchange exposure is to the US The return on capital employed for the year, As at 31 March 2003 borrowings were nil The identification, control and monitoring dollar, where a 10 cent movement would measured by dividing the post-tax profit and there was a small overdraft of 1 million.
of risks facing the business remains a key have a 1.5 million impact on pre-tax profit.
before goodwill amortisation and exceptional During the financial year the Group renewed management priority and steps have been items by the average capital employed in its banking facilities and now has in place a taken to enhance our risk management Interest rate management the year after adding back goodwill written three-year 50 million loan facility with four procedures.
The key risks include operational, Cash balances are invested only in off: at 31 March 2003 41.9 million, at commercial banking institutions.
This facility is credit, market, treasury and reputational investments of appropriate quality not less 31 March 2002 24.9 million, increased essentially of a working capital nature, although risk.
Details of our approach to risk than AA rated and for a duration of no from 29% to 30%.
20 million can be utilised for acquisitions.
management are provided in the Corporate longer than two years.
Limits are in place Governance statement on pages 21 to 23. to ensure that restrictions are in existence The new financial year Balance sheet as to the amount of funds that can be The financial priorities for the forthcoming Net assets increased by 66.8 million Foreign exchange invested in any one institution.
This is year are to integrate satisfactorily the during the year, and as at 31 March 2003 The Group hedges its transactional foreign subject to regular review by the Treasury BrokerTec acquisition and to increase our were 263.2 million.
exchange exposures by the use of foreign Committee.
The overall philosophy is one profit margins through a combination of exchange contracts and options.
The The Groups tangible fixed assets increased of capital preservation, liquidity management growth in market share and effective cost Groups major exposures are to US dollar by 22.8 million during the year principally and then yield enhancement.
We plan to achieve this against and euro inflows into the UK.
A 10 cent due to the reinstatement of our US operations a continuing background of strong cash movement in the US dollar before hedging The Group has an exposure to interest rate following the World Trade Center disaster.
has a 2.5 million impact on profit before movements in a number of geographic tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional regions.
The main exposures are to US The acquisitions undertaken in the year have items.
A 10 cent movement in the euro interest rates where a 1% movement in resulted in a significant increase in goodwill before hedging has a 4 million impact.
interest rates has a 1 million sensitivity held on the balance sheet.
This will As at 1 May 2003, the Group has 61% of its to the profit and loss account, and to UK increase substantially following the acquisition Jim Pettigrew US dollar exposure for the year to 31 March interest rates where a 1% movement of BrokerTec.
Group Finance Director 2004 hedged at $1.52 and for the year impacts profit and loss by 0.5 million.
Deferred consideration is payable in respect to 31 March 2005 3% is hedged at $1.50.
At present the Group has not hedged any of the First Brokers and APB acquisitions Given the recent euro appreciation against of its variable interest rate exposure.
and is dependent on their future performance.
sterling, the opportunity has been taken to At the Companys option part of this start hedging the Groups euro exposures.
consideration may be paid by way of issue As at 1 May 2003 the Group had 30% of of shares and this is reflected in the balance its euro exposure for the year to 31 March sheet as contingent share capital.
The cash 2004 hedged at a blended euro rate of element is included within creditors.
The rate that is actually achieved will vary according to the spot rate at maturity.
14 ICAP plc Annual Report 2003 ICAP plc Annual Report 2003 15
