Annual Report 2003 11 review by chief executive officer and managing director - Stephen Koseff and Bernard Kantor Overview The past year the group was faced with the challenges of an exceptionally testing operating environment.
Concerns about political developments and the turmoil in the Middle East exacerbated negative market sentiment.
The poor economic backdrop placed extreme pressure on equity markets which were further impacted by the widespread corporate scandals.
This resulted in the poor performance of the FTSE All Share Index and the JSE All Share Index which fell by 32.1% and 30.3% respectively.
With a tough global economy, volatile political environment, and troubled equity markets, business challenges were abundant.
Weak equity markets negatively impacted Investecs equity-related businesses such as Investment Banking, Stockbroking and Private Client Portfolio Management.
The Asset Management division, although not immune to weak equity markets, demonstrated particular resilience and continued to build capacity and expand its markets.
In South Africa, the groups Banking Activities were unable to capture market share and repeat their performance of the previous year.
The groups results were also affected by the weak performance of the Trading Activities in the UK and the closure of the interest rate and repo desks.
Market conditions further impacted the group with a substantial loss of 8.9 million incurred in the Traded Endowments business.
On the positive side, solid growth from the groups Private Banking activities and the strong performance of the South African Trading and Assurance Activities offset the weak performances referred to above.
12 Annual Report 2003 Despite the challenging operating environment, Investec made significant advances during the financial year to address the key issues affecting financial performance.
Accordingly, the group made considerable adjustments to align its cost structure with the declining revenue environment.
In certain business units, a number of strategic initiatives aimed at streamlining operations and realigning strategies were implemented.
Steps were taken to restructure many of the groups underperforming operations, divesting of non-core activities and implementing measures to improve efficiencies.
This led to a substantial decline in headcount and a permanent reduction of the groups fixed cost base which should lead to further costs savings in the year ahead.
Salient financial features: - Operating profit before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation declined from 158.6 million to 84.8 million.
This was largely as a result of the weaker performances of the groups equity related activities, referred to above, as well as a 9% depreciation of the average Rand Pound Sterling rate during the period under review.
- Annuity income as a percentage of total operating income increased from 68.7% to 71.3%.
- Cost to income deteriorated from 72.0% to 79.8% and ROE declined from 19.4% to 12.4%, both reflecting the difficult operating environment.
- Capital adequacy declined marginally from 13.1% to 12.6% as a result of a slight increase in riskweighted assets.
- Notwithstanding this, the board is recommending a final dividend of 28 pence per share which, together with the interim dividend of 26 pence per share paid in December 2002, amounts to a total dividend of 54 pence, largely the same as for 2002.
This years dividend is covered 1.81 times by EPS before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation and 1.68 times by headline EPS, as determined in UK GAAP.
For more details on the groups performance in the period under review, see pages 11 to 61.
Dual Listed Companies structure established The group made a significant strategic advance during the period under review, with the establishment of a Dual Listed Companies DLC structure in July 2002.
The DLC structure enabled the group to issue four million Investec plc shares for a consideration of 33.2 million, at a time when financial markets were exceptionally difficult.
As a consequence of the groups rapid international expansion, it now competes in an increasingly international business environment, where the availability and cost of capital is vital.
The DLC structure is expected to enhance the capital raising capability of the group, lowering its cost of capital and improving access to international capital markets.
The listing is an exciting development for Investec and a landmark event in its history.
It brings the group closer to its mission to be one of the worlds leading specialist banking institutions and enhances its ability to expand within its chosen markets.
US operations rationalised Investecs business in the US was particularly vulnerable to the dramatic decline in equity markets and incurred operating losses before exceptional items and the amortisation of goodwill of 15.6 million.
During the financial year, the group decided that it was not prudent to sustain ongoing losses in the US Annual Report 2003 13 business.
Accordingly, the US strategy was reviewed and steps were taken to significantly rationalise the operation.
The two main operating entities, Investec Ernst and Investec Inc. were dramatically restructured as follows: - The private client stockbroking business was sold to management in May 2002.
- The clearing division of Investec Ernst was sold to Fiserv Securities in August 2002 for US$44 million.
- The Investment Banking operations were wound down, which involved the closure of the research, equity sales and trading businesses and the sale of PMG Advisors.
The remaining US business now comprises fixed income trading operations, an Israeli Nasdaq equities trading desk, and legal and operating support for the rundown of the Investec Ernst business.
The operational losses of these discontinued operations amounted to 16.7 million before amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items.
An exceptional loss arose on termination of these businesses of 9.4 million.
The latter represents 19.7 million in respect of the write down of assets, closure costs including settlement of legal and contract obligations and provisions for future costs to be incurred on the winding down of these businesses.
This was offset by a net profit of 10.3 million on the disposals highlighted above.
In addition, goodwill of 19.0 million was written-off with respect to the termination and disposal of these businesses and included as an exceptional item.
UK businesses streamlined and resized In the UK, the group posted an operating profit before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation of 22.3 million, a decrease of 65.6%.
The strong performance of the Private Banking business was negated by the poor performance of the equities related businesses, which were badly affected by adverse market conditions.
In particular, a lack of corporate advisory and capital market activity had a severe impact on Investec Investment Banking and Securities.
The group recognised that it was necessary to adjust its cost base to compensate for the decline in revenues.
The divisions costs were significantly reduced from a peak annualised rate of 29 million to 18 million, with a decline in headcount from 148 to 98.
Notwithstanding this, the retained corporate client list was strengthened and market share gains in large stocks increased from 1.3% to almost 2.2% of UK agency commissions.
The Treasury and Specialised Finance division experienced difficult trading conditions and the group decided to close the interest rate repo desk, which was capital intensive and used significant counterparty lines.
This was partially negated by the solid performance from relatively new Banking Activities emphasising the groups strategy of building a high level of margin and other annuity related income.
Sound Rand performance from Southern Africa operations Operations in South Africa recorded operating profit before exceptional items and amortisation of goodwill of 68.5 million, decreasing by 16.2%.
The depreciation of the Rand of some 9.2% during the period under review had a negative effect on the results expressed in Pound Sterling of those Investec businesses that generate revenues and profits in Rand terms.
14 Annual Report 2003 The groups Private Banking, Assurance and property divisions performed solidly during the period under review.
This was partially offset by the poor performance of the Traded Endowments business which was still included under Investec Limited for the financial year of 8.9 million and by the weaker performances of the Investment Banking and Treasury and Specialised Finance divisions.
The group continued to restructure and rationalise the life assurance activities acquired from Fedsure Holdings Limited.
During the period, two further transactions were concluded, namely the reinsurance of the annuity business with Capital Alliance Limited, and the reinsurance and transfer of some of the businesses of Investec Employee Benefits to Liberty Group Limited.
The Fedsure acquisition is now finally bedded down, with the rationalisation and integration process complete.
We are pleased to note that the findings of the Financial Services Board FSB report, in respect of Fedsure Life, concluded that Investec had acted reasonably and in the interests of policyholders as a group and that Investec had implemented reasonable measures to deal with the situation it inherited.
Once again, this demonstrates the groups ability to deal with an adverse situation swiftly and effectively.
Solid platform in Australia Substantial progress was made during the period under review to develop Investecs business in the Australian market, with profit before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation improving substantially to 6.0 million from 1.2 million in the previous year.
In August 2002, the Australian operation was granted a banking licence which has opened up many growth opportunities for the business.
The group successfully enhanced its capabilities in the market with the establishment towards the end of the period of a Project Finance business that is already contributing to the business.
The corporate advisory business of Investec Wentworth secured a significant share of transactions at a time when merger and acquisition activity and capital raisings were substantially down in the Australian market.
Furthermore, Investec Private Equity was well placed to take advantage of the attractive opportunities provided by the weak equity markets.
The group now has a solid platform in Australia with a quality client list and effective corporate network from which to build and grow the business.
Israel affected by weak operating environment The deteriorating operating environment experienced in Israel during 2002 persisted in 2003 with a fragile geopolitical situation that culminated with war in Iraq.
Public confidence in the stability of the financial sector was somewhat shaken due to the discovery of a massive fraud which led to the collapse of a small domestic bank and the near collapse of the larger Industrial Development bank which suffered significant bad debt write downs.
As a result, margin compression and a significant fall-off in capital market activity had a negative impact on the results of the groups Israeli operations.
Annual Report 2003 15 Notwithstanding this, the bank remained profitable, posting a profit before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation of 3.5 million.
The group successfully increased its mutual funds under custody from NIS5 billion in the previous year to NIS9.9 billion at the year end.
Investec Bank Israel is now considered to be a dominant player in this activity.
Empowerment deal provides opportunities for the group The release of the Mining Charter in 2002, and the aftermath in the South African market, provided the impetus for companies in the financial services sector to proactively prepare for the Financial Services Charter.
Accordingly, Investec is currently participating, along with other financial institutions in South Africa, in drafting the guidelines for the new Financial Services Charter.
The charter is expected to strengthen the banks operating environment by leading to greater inclusion and empowerment of all segments of South African society.
Investec recognises that a crucial element for the Financial Services Charter, and indeed for the sustainability process in South Africa, is the pursuit of black economic empowerment.
The group recognises that while it had taken significant transformation steps - internally, through its employment equity process and, externally, through its support of black owned and managed companies - Investec still needed to address the transformation of its ownership structure.
During the period under review, Investec showed its commitment to black economic empowerment by addressing the transformation of its ownership structure.
Following the financial year end, Investec Limited announced that it had entered an empowerment transaction with Tiso Group Tiso, Peu Investment Group Peu and the broad-based Entrepreneurship Development Trust.
In terms of the transaction, Tiso, Peu, the broad-based Entrepreneurship Development Trust and an Investec Employee Share Trust collectively acquired a 25.1% stake in the issued share capital of Investec Limited.
The acquisition encompasses all Investecs businesses, including its four main pillars of Investment Banking, Asset Management, Private Client Activities, and Treasury and Specialised Finance.
The transaction is both a significant step in the groups empowerment strategy and a landmark development in the South African banking sector.
Furthermore, the transaction opens up many opportunities, as Investec will be considered a black empowerment group with positive implications for the protection of existing activities and creating a strong position for the group in respect of new business flows.
Strategic direction The two strategic impediments to Investecs strategy of being one of the worlds leading specialist banking groups have now been eliminated.
The establishment of the DLC structure is an important strategic development as it allows the group to enhance its capital raising capability and improves access to international capital markets.
In addition, the recent empowerment transaction shows Investecs true commitment to transformation and ensures the group remains competitive and relevant in the South African market.
Investec now also has an opportunity to operate on the back of a strong, existing platform, with the capacity to deliver quality services successfully to key segments of the South African economy.
16 Annual Report 2003 Investec remains exposed to equity markets and it has taken strategic steps during the period to address this.
The group remains focused on building critical mass in its banking activities in order to balance its UK business model.
The group will also continue to drive the business organically, both in South Africa and Australia, recognising that not all products and services can be replicated in all markets.
An essential pillar of Investecs strategy is that it does not try to be all things to all people.
Rather, the group seeks to build well-defined businesses, focused on serving the needs of select market niches where it can compete effectively.
It is important for Investec to reinforce its commitment to a specialised and focused approach, building business depth rather than business breadth.
Acknowledgements Investec has a team of talented people whose passion, energy, diversity and entrepreneurial spirit are integral to our success.
We would like to thank all employees for their invaluable contribution and relentless determination, which have remained constant in very trying conditions.
Furthermore, we would like to acknowledge and extend our sincerest appreciation to the Chairman and Board of Directors.
We value the contribution of all our directors and thank them for their guidance and ongoing commitment to the group during a very difficult period.
As the challenges for Investec continue, we remain committed to our values and disciplined, agile and accountable culture, as well as to generating sustained, meaningful value for clients, shareholders and employees.
Prospects In the past year, Investec took far-reaching steps to streamline and rationalise its operations, recognising that weak market conditions could remain for some time.
We remain mindful that in the short term, our performance is subject to conditions in the markets in which we operate and there are many unpredictable external influences that can affect performance.
Investec is soundly based and well capitalised and our businesses have demonstrated their resilience in an adverse environment.
We will continue to monitor our cost base carefully, focusing on improving financial performance and maintaining or improving market share.
Our strong niched businesses, together with a renewed focus on core activities, provide a solid base to deal with a tough operating environment, while preparing us for opportunities that lie ahead.
Stephen Koseff Bernard Kantor Chief Executive Officer Managing Director
