CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Investing for growth In a difficult year for markets, the London Stock Exchange has improved its competitive position as the leading provider of equity markets services in the European time zone.
This has been achieved in an increasingly competitive marketplace that faces major structural and regulatory change.
Over the last year, we have also launched of equity markets services.
We continue a series of growth initiatives.
In February, to shape the growth of capital markets we acquired Proquote, a low cost financial worldwide by removing cost and regulatory market software and data services supplier.
We are now In December, we announced an equity linked by flexible business agreements to derivatives partnership with OM.
EDX the most international exchanges in Africa London is being launched along with a and Asia.
We have the technology, expertise new covered warrants market.
Using our and experience to offer a range of exchange extensive database of financial market services on a global scale and we are information, we are developing a suite actively seeking to extend our network of new data products within a Corporate of exchange and markets relationships.
Data Warehouse, and we aim to become the definitive global numbering standard Strong finances with our new SEDOL products.
Collectively, We have produced a strong financial these initiatives will require continuing capital performance.
Turnover increased 10 per investment in the next financial year.
They cent to 237.3 million and operating profit represent important growth opportunities before exceptional items and goodwill and will diversify our business.
amortisation increased to 81.7 million, a rise of 16 per cent.
Earnings per share We remain committed to the creation of increased 6 per cent from 17.1 pence to a competitive single market in Europe, in 18.1 pence per share.
Adjusted earnings which the London Stock Exchange intends per share excluding exceptional items and to be the most prolific and efficient provider 6 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2003 Clara Furse Chief Executive goodwill amortisation rose 14 per cent, experience to our business and will from 18.3 pence to 20.9 pence per share.
This year we also created a Regulatory Strategy team to focus This creditable set of results reflects the on the challenges presented by international overall resilience and quality of our business, regulatory reform, where we have a key role achieved in increasingly competitive markets to play in promoting the development of and against the backdrop of uncertain more open and competitive capital markets, economic conditions.
We remain well particularly in Europe.
positioned to take further advantage of the opportunities presented by the dynamic Market activity environment in which we operate.
Trading volumes in the UK equity market reached 40 million bargains, an increase over Management team the previous year of 23 per cent.
Our SETS We continue to recruit and attract talent electronic order book, which trades the UKs from across the financial services industry most liquid securities, has again driven the to add to our skilled management team.
growth in trades, producing a record 27.5 In March, we announced the recruitment million bargains, an increase of 58 per cent of Karen Young and Roberto Rivero to head on the year.
Despite difficult market up and deliver important initiatives in our conditions, a total of 202 companies were Information Services division.
In May, we admitted to our markets, including 81 Initial were delighted to welcome Martin Graham Public Offerings IPOs.
as our new Director of Market Services.
These hires add vital expertise and We have the technology, expertise and experience to offer a range of exchange services on a global scale and we are actively seeking to extend our network of exchange and markets relationships.
INVESTING FOR GROWTH 7 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED Issuer Services The creation of EDX London forms the cornerstone of our entry into the rapidly While the last year has been a difficult one growing over-the-counter derivatives market for issuers, our markets have proven to be and provides exciting potential for building on the most resilient worldwide.
We attracted Londons position as a centre for international 69 per cent of all IPOs in Western Europe equity derivatives trading.
while AIM continues to set the pace as the worlds leading market for smaller quoted Information Services companies.
We have attracted more issuers from around the world, including our first Following a strategic review, we identified Chilean company and our first Russian a number of new opportunities to sell the share offering.
In order to continue to wealth of real time and historical data we attract companies from key markets, we possess, opening up additional revenue are strengthening our links in specific areas, streams and reducing costly market notably with Chinese mainland companies inefficiencies for our customers.
The first and within the Nordic region.
In Europe, stage of the Corporate Data Warehouse was we are promoting our markets within the introduced in May 2003 and will form the framework of the European Commissions basis for an expanding range of information Financial Services Action Plan.
products by enabling us to customise data for customers.
The introduction in January 2004 of a global identifier for securities based on Broker Services the SEDOL code will add another new service Electronic trading through the SETS order and will promote and streamline cross-border book continues to rise strongly.
Our acquisition of Proquote presents invested significantly in trading system an exciting growth opportunity into the capacity and will extend our trading services financial market software and data services with the planned introduction of SETSmm, sector.
Our RNS company news service has a new trading mechanism to support FTSE risen to the challenge of operating within a 250 securities.
We have made the trading competitive environment with a range of new process cheaper and more efficient through products and over 90 per cent of FTSE 100 new services, such as the RSP Gateway companies using its services.
The covered warrants market was successfully introduced in October and is showing healthy growth.
8 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2003 Leading-edge technology Looking ahead Leading-edge technology lies at the heart of We are determined to capitalise on our our business and our strategy for growth.
position as the worlds most global equity Over the last six months, a complete review markets business.
The steps we are taking of future technological requirements and to internationalise our products, services opportunities has produced a platform for and customers will promote the gradual but technology-led growth.
We continue to certain globalisation of capital markets.
work with world-class suppliers such as Global financial markets will become ever Accenture, Hewlett Packard and Microsoft more competitive.
This is good news for the to deliver exceptionally robust, high quality Exchange: the outstanding quality of our technology to our market.
Our roadmap for markets, our products, our technology and the future will enable us to deliver new our staff mean we are well placed to exploit products and services more quickly and the opportunities opened up by increased cost effectively than ever before.
We will persist in lobbying policy makers to take the measures required New headquarters to promote fair and open competition within Our relocation to Paternoster Square near the UK and across Europe.
St Pauls Cathedral in the second quarter of Our international reputation for quality and 2004 represents an important investment in integrity is a major asset.
We are proud our business, our market and our future.
of that reputation and will continue to build Work is on schedule and the completed on it.
headquarters will provide a modern, outward-looking and efficient working environment.
In April 2003, the Corporation of London resolved to approve the redevelopment of the Stock Exchange Tower site in Old Broad Street.
The new scheme will double the amount of office space available and creates an attractive investment opportunity for Clara Furse potential purchasers.
Chief Executive We are determined to capitalise on our position as the worlds most global equity markets business.
