CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT In 2003 Northern Rock delivered excellent results including: EARNINGS PER SHARE OF 66.6 PENCE AN INCREASE OF 19.8% RECORD PRE-TAX PROFITS OF 386.8 MILLION AN INCREASE OF 18.6% RECORD GROSS LENDING OF 17.3 BILLION AN INCREASE OF 37.6% ON 2002 RECORD NET LENDING OF 8.5 BILLION AN INCREASE OF 27.1% AND A Adam J. Applegarth MARKET SHARE OF 8.2% ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT UP BY 24.0% TO 52.0 BILLION COST RATIOS REDUCED YET AGAIN UNDERLYING COST : INCOME RATIO DOWN TO 29.8% 19.3 MILLION COVENANTED TO THE NORTHERN ROCK FOUNDATION TO SUPPORT CHARITABLE CAUSES Cost control is key to our strategy, allowing profitable growth of the business and the manufacture of competitive products for our customers.
During 2003 we continued to seek further efficiencies, reinforcing our position as the lowest unit cost UK lender.
Our cost base absorbed the effects of extra resources in our retention programme, the costs of running the Legal & General banking subsidiaries acquired in 2002, as well as additional pension and national insurance costs.
However, growth in operating expenses was contained within our strategic range compared to growth in assets under management and total income.
As a result, underlying costs to assets under management fell to 0.41% and underlying cost to income ratio fell to 29.8%.
7 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT continued As part of the underpinning of our longer-term unit cost drive we reviewed both our Head Office infrastructure and Distribution network.
One key aspect of cost efficiency is the centralisation of administration into the North East of England and during the year we announced the next 30 million phase of physical expansion at our Head Office, together with the acquisition of additional new premises at our administrative site in Sunderland.
In response to changing customer preferences we also closed 20 small branches and announced the opening of 10 new flagship mortgage branches to extend our mortgage origination capacity.
An exceptional gain of 7.3 million from the sale of our credit card portfolio to The Co-operative Bank earlier in the year more than compensated for the one-off costs of 5.6 million associated with these changes.
LENDING During 2003 we once again delivered record levels of low risk lending.
Gross lending was 17,315 million, an increase of 37.6% over the previous year, with net lending of 8,514 million, an increase of 27.1%.
The housing market remained active, underpinned by low interest rates, low unemployment and a restricted supply of new housing.
As a result, residential lending remained particularly buoyant.
We achieved gross residential lending of 15,212 million, an increase of 44.5% over 2002 and net residential lending of 7,861 million, an increase of 37.7%, which represented 8.2% of the UK market.
Our mix of new residential lending during the first half of 2003 reflected customers preferences for short term fixed rate products, taking advantage of the low interest rate environment.
8 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT continued Later in the year, as the price of fixed rate products increased, discount and tracker products were more in demand.
Our credit bundling product, together, which combines a secured and unsecured loan at one price and in one monthly repayment, continued to be popular.
We remain at the forefront of providing a competitive choice of products for homeowners and homebuyers, whether they are new or existing customers.
Redemptions have also increased along Northern Rock should not be viewed simply with remortgaging.
Our policy of allowing as a proxy for the housing market.
We are a existing mortgage customers genuinely to major player in the wider mortgage market, transfer to any of our new products and our which importantly includes remortgaging.
focus on retaining customers, have ensured 2003 saw a significant increase in the level that our level of residential redemptions of remortgage activity as homeowners took remains well below our natural share.
full advantage of house price increases and The interim report on the UK mortgage competitive mortgage pricing.
This accounted market by Professor David Miles for 40% of our lending during the year and recommended that greater transparency remains an important part of our growth is needed, with the implication for the plans.
Re-financing by borrowers is likely to industry that existing customers are, remain buoyant, particularly as a result of a in effect, subsidising new borrowers.
reduction in the incidence of overhanging Northern Rock has embraced transparency redemption charges in recent years, which and for the past two and a half years, reduces the cost to the borrower of through our Open Book policy, has changing products or lender.
allowed existing customers access to the same range of products as new customers.
Our business strategy is, therefore, not dependent on front-end lending being subsidised by back-book customers, as our sector leading cost efficiency and competitive product pricing allow us to deliver attractive returns to shareholders.
The report also acknowledged that the mortgage market is highly competitive.
As ever we welcome competition.
Personal unsecured and commercial lending continue to be more muted as we grow these books at a steady, prudent pace.
Our unsecured lending remains focused on customers with whom we also have a secured loan relationship and our commercial lending is all secured on bricks and mortar.
9 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT continued FUNDING Funding remained strong during 2003.
All three funding arms retail funding, wholesale funding and securitisation continued to perform well, moving us towards our medium-term goal of balance sheet lending being funded by an equal balance of retail and wholesale funds.
Our retail funding franchise remains an important part of our funding strategy.
The increase in retail balances during 2003 was CREDIT QUALITY 1,007 million.
We have a broad distribution platform of branch, The credit quality of our lending is excellent and continues to be postal, telephone and on-line accounts, as well as offshore and tightly monitored and controlled.
Our monthly behavioural scoring Ireland operations, which we will continue to develop.
In particular system confirms there are no early warning signs of credit we have seen strong growth in our Tracker Online account, which deterioration.
Even though mortgage balances have grown significantly now has balances of almost 3.0 billion.
We also funded strongly we have not increased our appetite for risk.
Our level of residential in fixed rate bonds and ISA accounts where clarity, transparency mortgage arrears of more than three months duration, at only 0.45%, and the increased security provided by contractual guarantees remains about half the industry average.
The average indexed loan to have been key factors in reducing volatility and providing customer value on our mortgage book is 55%, offering a high level of protection confidence.
We continue to develop new products with our partner against unforeseen adverse changes in the wider economy.
Legal & General, for those customers who require a link with the equity markets.
Risk assessment and credit management techniques ensure that the credit quality on our unsecured and commercial books also Northern Rocks Treasury function acts as an integrated part of the remains robust.
During the year we sold our credit card portfolio, business and facilitates wholesale funding, securitisation issues and of 217 million, to The Co-operative Bank.
Net new wholesale funding totalled 3,317 million, increasing balances to 17.0 billion.
Our wholesale funding Our provisioning policies remain prudent and we have no residential provides a balanced mixture of short and medium term funding and loan exposure outside the UK, nor any exposure to unsecured diversification of the investor base has continued.
We completed commercial lending or leasing.
our first Euro fixed rate issue raising 750 million.
Also, in October 2003 we raised US$600 million of Floating Rate Notes achieving FUTURE STRATEGY 40% placement with Asian investors.
During the year, the rating Our strategy of combining competitive products, effective distribution agency Moodys confirmed an upgrade to our long term credit and efficient customer service, driven off a low unit cost base works rating from A2 to A1, which will further benefit the diversification well.
We will continue to develop our business so that it is highly of our investor base and the cost of wholesale funding.
focused, resilient and expandable to meet our growth aspirations.
Our residential securitisation programme is firmly established as a We expect the housing market to slow, but activity will be underpinned reliable source of funding, a reflection of the high credit quality of by relatively low interest rates, continuing low levels of unemployment Northern Rocks loan book and the huge investor appetite for this and a restricted supply of new housing stock.
The attractive pricing for type of financial instrument.
During 2003 we issued 7.7 billion of new customers and the removal of overhanging redemption charges securitised notes.
Assets under management subject to securitisation should ensure that levels of remortgaging will more than offset the level now amount to 15.7 billion, representing 36% of our lending of slowdown in the housing market.
This should enable us to achieve portfolios.
Securitisation, with increasing diversification, will our strategic growth range of 15% - 25% in high quality, low risk, continue to play an important role in funding our future growth assets under management.
plans as well contributing to capital efficiency.
We are focused, we have a unit cost advantage, we retain existing customers well and are increasingly good at attracting new loans.
Our broad funding platform, efficient distribution network and continued investment in buildings, systems and people will enable us to originate and service increased volumes of profitable business.
We are therefore well placed to continue to deliver strong growth in high quality, low risk assets and thereby enhance shareholder value.
10 D F Baker Chief Operating Officer R F Bennett Group Finance Director EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS There were 11 full Board Meetings held during the financial year.
The number attended by each Director was as follows: Non - Executive Directors Sir John Riddell, Bt.
CVO, MA, CA Chairman 11 Dr M W Ridley, BA, D. Phil - Deputy Chairman 10 11 C Taylor Company Secretary A J Applegarth Chief Executive Sir David Chapman, Bt.
DL, B. Comm 10 Executive Directors A J Applegarth, BA 11 N A H Fenwick, MA appointed 12 November 2003 2 D F Baker, BSc, FCIB 11 Sir Ian Gibson, CBE 10 R F Bennett, FCA, ACMA, IPFA 11 N Pease, BA 9 Sir George Russell, CBE, D. Eng.
BA 10 C Taylor, LLB - Company Secretary D Wanless, MA, FCIB, MIS 11 12
