Chief Executives Statement | 07 GOOD RESULTS WERE ACHIEVED IN FIVE OF OUR SIX BUSINESSES IN 2003, AND IMPORTANT STEPS WERE TAKEN TOWARDS OUR STRATEGIC GOALS JIM SUTCLIFFE, CHIEF EXECUTIVE A YEAR OF SOLID PROGRESS Group adjusted operating profit for 2003 was Net fund inflows were strong.
Our US asset Nedcor, we have conducted a thorough review 650 million, equivalent to 10.0p per share management business produced a good result of Nedcors balance sheet, the results of which 2002: 724 million and 11.3p respectively.
$4.7 billion net inflow and our two UK have impacted Nedcors and Old Mutuals Group adjusted operating profit in Rand terms development businesses Selestia and profits for the year.
was R8,041 million, equivalent to 123.8c OMAM UK made a significant impact for per share 2002: R11,431 million and 179.0c the first time, with 341 million of net external Nedcors new management has focused its respectively.
Solid profits in our core South inflows.
In South Africa, we were able to reduce energies on plans to ensure Nedcor returns to African life assurance business, good profit the outflows within our Employee Benefits producing results commensurate with its status growth in our US and UK businesses, and business, and the maturity bubble of the last as a premier South African bank.
These include excellent results from some of our smaller units few years started to reduce.
With stronger achieving world-class service and expense were offset by a collapse in earnings at Nedcor.
equity markets and these net inflows, total benchmarks.
To ensure the problems of 2003 The strong Rand further boosted the Sterling assets under management, which form the are not repeated, plans are being put in place results, but adversely affected the results when basis for much of our revenue, grew 12%.
to address all areas of the business.
expressed in South African currency terms.
Return on equity was disappointing at 13.9%.
Our 51% owned South African general insurance For Nedcor to trade optimally, it needs capital Our adjusted embedded value increased by business, Mutual & Federal, had a very good on a par with its peers, and we have therefore 5% to 4,124 billion at 31 December 2003, year, assisted by strong underwriting margins agreed to support its underwritten R5 billion 1 equivalent to 107.5p per share.
rights issue announced on 23 February 2004.
That issue will be priced not later than Life assurance sales were 5% lower than in Nedcor, our 52% owned South African banking 25 March 2004.
2002 and the value of new business after tax subsidiary, produced very poor results in 2003, at 105 million was 19% lower.
Low consumer heavily impacted by the cost of holding excess confidence led to a decline in the market for US Dollars as the Rand strengthened.
Margins 1 single premiums in South Africa, and the were affected by fixed rate debt and deposits, The securities offered in the rights issue will not be registered under the US Securities Act of 1933, and may not be offered demand for fixed interest-based products which were expensive as interest rates declined.
or sold without registration or an applicable exemption from the returned to more normal levels in the USA.
Tom Boardman was installed as Chief Executive registration requirements.
in December and we deployed Bob Head, Prices and values of, and income from, Nedcors shares may go We are confident we retained our market our director of Group Strategy, as acting down, as well as up, and an investor may not get back the amount shares in both countries, and our US life sales Chief Financial Officer pending recruitment of a invested.
It should be noted that past performance is no guide to future performance.
Persons needing advice should consult an were still more than double the level Fidelity & permanent replacement.
Seven new Executive independent adviser.
Guaranty Life achieved prior to our ownership.
Committee members were also appointed.
Nothing in this document constitutes an offering of securities in the Margins at our South African and US life Together with the new management team at United States, Canada, Australia or Japan or otherwise constitutes businesses improved strongly in the second an invitation to any person to acquire securities in any company within the Group.
half after a difficult first six months.
08 | Chief Executives Statement WE HAVE ANNOUNCED OUR PLANS TO LEAD NEDCOR TO RECOVERY Nedcor is an important part of Old Mutual: provider based in Bermuda, for a nominal OUTLOOK decisive action has been taken to address amount, and it produced $165 million in sales We have much to do to recover from poor its problems and management will not in eight months.
In addition we provided capital 2003 results, but we enter 2004 with renewed countenance any shortfall from the highest to support the organic growth of our US life determination, and with equity markets around standards of integrity and transparency.
New business, where assets grew by 27%, and the world at higher levels than last year.
We governance procedures have been introduced our UK development businesses did well.
In have taken the necessary steps to put Nedcor to ensure stronger oversight of the banks South Africa, we announced plans to acquire on the path to recovery.
affairs and to ensure the coherence of Nedcor a further 37.1% of Mutual & Federal through with Old Mutual standards and strategy.
a mechanism that includes an offer to all We will continue to apply top quality investment minority shareholders.
skills, be they in equity, lending, real estate or In December we presented to London-based elsewhere, to help our clients build and protect investors our view on the South African During 2003, we discovered the personal their savings and investments.
We expect our Financial Sector Charter, which sets out involvement of the principals of Pilgrim Baxter industry to grow as those savings and objectives for involving previously disadvantaged in market timing that had been halted in 2001, investments accumulate, and we intend to individuals in that country in financial services and they left the business.
This matter remains provide a correspondingly growing stream of businesses.
We see many opportunities for the subject of legal process.
South Africa and for Old Mutual arising from that Charter and will continue to inform the Our capital position at 31 December 2003 Jim Sutcliffe markets on our progress in addressing its was strong.
We raised preference capital during Chief Executive objectives during 2004. the year and this had a positive impact on our 17 March 2004 gearing, which was 19.4% at year end, well We took some important strategic steps during inside our limits.
Strong South African equity the year.
Gerrard, having been put back on the markets in the second half provided additional path to profitability, was sold for an attractive capital, which has allowed us to support the price.
We acquired Sage Life, a variable annuity Nedcor rights issue comfortably.
WE WILL CONTINUE TO APPLY TOP QUALITY INVESTMENT SKILLS TO HELP OUR CLIENTS BUILD AND PROTECT THEIR SAVINGS AND INVESTMENTS WE INTEND TO PROVIDE A GROWING STREAM OF EARNINGS TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS HARNESSING SKILLS WITHIN OUR BUSINESS WE AIM TO BENCHMARK OUR PERFORMANCE INTERNATIONALLY TO DELIVER WORLD-CLASS CUSTOMER SERVICE Asset growth, profitable sales and a strong capital position at the end of the past year have combined to provide a firm base for the future.
Nedcors governance procedures have been strengthened: integrity and transparency are of paramount importance to us across all our businesses.
We foresee great potential for Old Mutual to capitalise on the current opportunities for growth in the South African financial services sector.
