chief executives review Mortgage Trust Mortgage Trust had loans under management of approximately 2.2 billion at 30 September 2003, of which approximately 51% were buy-to-let loans and the balance owner occupied mortgages.
In the three months from acquisition to 30 September 2003, Mortgage Trust advanced new loans of 216.3 million.
Following the acquisition, the focus on the mid-market buy-to-let sector has been maintained, whilst the current account mortgage product, which generated inadequate margins, was withdrawn.
The launch of a new series of products and the rebranding of the business as Mortgage Trust were all completed by the year end.
Considerable progress has been made since acquisition in integrating a number of the functions of Mortgage Trust with those of the Group.
In September we announced that up to 160 positions at Mortgage Trust's operations centre in Epsom will become redundant over the course of the next financial year, with the majority expected during the first half of the year, as support and administrative functions are transferred to the Group's offices in Solihull and London.
New business activity will remain in Epsom.
This process has inevitably created uncertainty and difficulties for staff at Mortgage Trust, who have continued to display the highest standards of professionalism and commitment.
The entire redundancy costs of approximately 3.9 million associated with the reorganisation have been expensed in the year ended 30 September 2003.
But for this charge, Mortgage Trust traded profitably in the post-acquisition period and is currently trading profitably.
Completion of the reorganisation will result in a more cost efficient operation, favourably impacting the Group's cost to income ratio in future years.
NHL book The NHL book had reduced to 176.7 million, from 230.5 million at 30 September 2002.
The performance of this book, which we continue to manage carefully, has remained satisfactory over the year.
10 THE PARAGON GROUP OF COMPANIES PLC THE PARAGON GROUP OF COMPANIES PLC 11 Funding chief executives review Conditions in the capital markets deteriorated during the early part of the financial year as economic and war fears created uncertainty for investors.
To protect margins and avoid issuing at suboptimal coupons, the Group held back on its securitisation programme for the first half Consumer finance of the financial year, instead increasing the size of its asset origination warehouse facilities from At 30 September 2003 the Consumer Finance book stood at 888.9 million, up from 830.7 450 million to 900 million at 30 September 2003.
This allowed the Group to weather the million at 30 September 2002.
Aggregate loans of 479.8 million were advanced during the year, poorer market conditions without restricting asset origination.
Originations by Mortgage Trust compared with 430.8 million in the previous year, an increase of 11.4%, with the principal focus are funded by an additional warehouse facility which, at 30 September 2003, was 450 million being on secured loans.
As previously reported, this has been a deliberate policy to develop a and in due course originations by Mortgage Trust will be consolidated with those of the rest higher quality book with greater defensive properties during a time of rising consumer indebtedness.
Paragon Personal Finance The recovery of the securitisation market enabled the Group to complete, in June 2003, a Over the twelve months to 30 September 2003, Paragon Personal Finance has significantly 250 million securitisation by Paragon Mortgages No.
5 PLC denominated in Sterling and, enhanced its reputation as a prime participant in the broker introduced secured loans market in October 2003, the Group completed a 715 million securitisation by Paragon Mortgages through the maintenance of a portfolio of innovative, competitive products alongside the No.
The notes were issued in Sterling, Dollars and Euros.
operation of technologically advanced application and loan processing systems.
In the year The securitisation contained a 98 million pre-funding reserve which was used to purchase to 30 September 2003, the business advanced secured loans of 298.9 million, almost double further mortgage assets from the Paragon warehouse in November 2003. the previous year's level of 151.9 million, while unsecured lending declined to 8.6 million from 40.4 million.
During the year the junior notes on three of our buy-to-let securitisations, Paragon Mortgages 1, 2 and 3, were upgraded by the rating agencies, reflecting the exemplary performance of The broker introduced secured loans market remains buoyant: whilst competitive pressures our buy-to-let mortgages.
are expected to increase during the coming months, Paragon Personal Finance will continue to develop its service proposition and maintain an innovative focus on its product range in response to competitive challenges.
Sales Aid Finance The retail and car finance divisions are now consolidated under the title of Sales Aid Finance.
As we reported in the pre year-end trading statement, in pursuing the objective of expanding Nigel S Terrington Chief Executive the Groups involvement in the more credit-defensive secured lending areas, we have continued 15 December 2003 to limit originations within the retail and car finance sectors.
As a result, new loan advances by the division were reduced to 172.3 million during the year ended 30 September 2003, from 238.5 million in the previous year.
We have utilised the opportunity afforded by the limitation on new lending in these areas to review our operations and associated costs and to make changes where appropriate.
For example, all retail finance administration was transferred in-house during the year and organisational and processing changes have been introduced within the car finance area to improve operational efficiency.
As we anticipated at the half year, trading conditions within these markets remain difficult.
Our emphasis remains on managing business volumes consistent with our overall strategy of maximising the proportion of our consumer lending which is secured on property.
12 THE PARAGON GROUP OF COMPANIES PLC THE PARAGON GROUP OF COMPANIES PLC 13 board of directors Nigel S Terrington Nicholas Keen John A Heron Pawan Pandya David M M Beever Christopher D Newell David A Hoare Gavin A F Lickley Jonathan P L Perry CHIEF EXECUTIVE FINANCE DIRECTOR DIRECTOR OF MORTGAGES CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR CHAIRMAN AGE 64 AGE 44 AGE 45 AGE 44 AGE 39 AGE 62 AGE 43 AGE 53 AGE 57 Jonathan Perry joined the Nigel Terrington joined the Nicholas Keen joined the John Heron joined the Group Pawan Pandya joined the David Beever joined Paragon Christopher Newell has been David Hoare has been a Gavin Lickley joined Paragon Group as a non-executive Group in 1987 and became Group in May 1991 and in January 1986.
He was Group in December 1988. as a non-executive director in a director of Altium Capital non-executive director since as a non-executive director in director in June 1991 and Chief Executive in June 1995, became Finance Director in appointed as Marketing Director He was appointed as Chief October 2003.
He is Chairman Limited formerly Apax 1993 and is Chairman of October 2002.
He retired from was appointed Chairman in having held the positions of June 1995, having previously in 1990 and in 1994 played Operating Officer in July of KPMG Corporate Finance, Partners & Co. Corporate Virgin Express Holdings PLC, the Board of the Investment January 1992.
Between 1997 Treasurer and Finance Director.
held the position of Treasurer.
a pivotal role in re-establishing 2002, responsible for all Vice Chairman of London & Finance since 1990.
He is Duncton PLC and Target Banking Division of Deutsche and 1999 he was VicePrior to Paragon, he worked in Prior to joining the Group he the Groups mortgage lending operational and IT areas Continental Railways Ltd and also a director of Artemis Worldwide Express Limited Bank AG in April 2000, having Chairman, Investment investment banking.
He is a worked in corporate banking, operations as Managing of the Group.
Prior to joining a non-executive director of Investment Management and Principal and Director of previously been Head of the Banking Division, HSBC member of the CFD Management treasury and capital markets.
Paragon, he worked in JJB Sports plc and Volex Group Limited.
He is a Chartered Talisman Management Limited.
Banking Division and Chairman Investment Bank plc.
Committee of the Finance and He is Chairman of the As Director of Mortgages, he is foreign exchange, credit plc.
He was previously a Vice Accountant and joined He previously held the position of Morgan Grenfell & Co Limited.
Previously he was a Director Leasing Association.
He was Paragon Credit Committee.
responsible for both Paragon risk management, marketing Chairman of SG Warburg the Board of Paragon as of Chief Executive at Laura Ashley.
He is now Chairman of Inexus of Morgan Grenfell & Co previously the Chairman of the Mortgages and Mortgage Trust.
& Co Ltd. a non-executive director Group, a licensed Independent Limited for 15 years.
Intermediary Mortgage Lenders He is currently Chairman of the in November 2001.
He is Gas Transporter and Chairman Association and was a member Intermediary Mortgage Lenders Chairman of the Paragon of SAV Credit Limited, a credit of the Executive Committee of Association, and is a member of Audit Committee.
He is Chairman the Council of Mortgage Lenders.
the Executive Committee of the of the Paragon Remuneration Council of Mortgage Lenders.
14 THE PARAGON GROUP OF COMPANIES PLC THE PARAGON GROUP OF COMPANIES PLC 15 Professor A D Chambers resigned from the Board on 8 August 2003 and Mr M J R Kelly resigned from the Board on 15 October 2003. directors report On 15 October 2003 Mr J A Heron and Mr P Pandya were appointed to the Board.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, Mr J P L Perry, Mr N S Terrington, Mr D M M Beever, Mr J A Heron and Mr P Pandya will The directors submit their Report and the Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2003 retire and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-appointment at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
None of these directors which were approved by the Board on 15 December 2003. has a service contract with the Company requiring more than 12 months notice of termination to be given.
Principal activity Mr D A Hoare will retire from the Board at the end of the Annual General Meeting.
The Company is a holding company co-ordinating the activities of its subsidiary companies.
The principal activities of the Group continue to be the operation of its first mortgage and None of the directors had, either during or at the end of the year, any material interest in any contract of significance with the Company consumer finance businesses.
The Chairmans Statement and the Chief Executives Review on pages 4 to 13 contain a review Substantial shareholdings of the Groups business during the financial year, its current position and future prospects.
As at 30 November 2003, being a date not more than one month before the date of the notice convening the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the Company had been notified of the following interests of more than 3% in the nominal value of the ordinary Results and dividends share capital of the Company: The results for the year are shown in the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account on page 32.
Ordinary Shares % Held The directors recommend a final dividend of 3.7p per share 2002: 3.0p per share which, together with the interim dividend of 2.6p per share 2002: 2.1p per share paid on 31 July Schroder Investment Management Limited 18,320,946 15.4% 2003, makes a total of 6.3p per share.
After dividends, retained profits of 32.8 million Barclays Global Investors Limited 8,425,158 7.1% 2002: 30.6 million have been transferred to reserves.
Insight Investment 6,934,063 5.8% Merrill Lynch Investment Managers 5,847,781 4.9% Directors The Paragon Group of Companies PLC ESOP Scheme 5,425,156 4.5% The interests of the directors at the year end in the share capital of the Company, Morley Fund Management 5,367,757 4.5% all beneficially held, are shown below.
Threadneedle Asset Management Limited 4,882,481 4.1% Legal & General Investment Management Limited 4,751,498 4.0% At 30 September 2003 At 30 September 2002 or on appointment JP Morgan Fleming Asset Management 4,542,000 3.8% Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares M & G Investment Management Limited 4,376,361 3.7% of 10p each of 10p each Corporate social responsibility J P L Perry 309,579 301,549 During the year the Group has drawn together its policies in relation to corporate social responsibility and issues such as community N S Terrington 99,219 99,219 involvement, the fair and equal treatment of staff, employment of disabled persons, employee participation, health and safety, commitment N Keen 44,116 36,086 to diversity and the environment.
All these matters are detailed in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 19 and 20.
D M M Beever appointed 8 August 2003 - - D A Hoare 37,650 34,650 Charitable contributions M J R Kelly 3,365 3,365 Contributions to charitable institutions in the United Kingdom amounted to 11,085 2002: 17,495.
Information on the Groups charitable G A F Lickley appointed 21 October 2002 30,000 - activities is given in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 19 and 20.
Close company status So far as the directors are aware, the Company is not a close company for taxation purposes.
In addition, certain directors had interests in the share capital of the Company by virtue of options granted under the Companys executive share option schemes and awards under the Creditor payment policy Paragon Performance Share Plan, details of which are given in notes 30 and 31 on pages The Company agrees terms and conditions with its suppliers.
Payment is then made on the terms agreed, subject to the appropriate 59 and 60.
There have been no changes in the directors interests in the share capital of the terms and conditions being met by the supplier.
The trade creditor days figure has not been stated as the measure is not appropriate to the business.
The directors have no interests in the shares or debentures of the Companys subsidiary companies.
16 THE PARAGON GROUP OF COMPANIES PLC THE PARAGON GROUP OF COMPANIES PLC 17 directors report corporate social responsibility The Group believes that the long-term interests of shareholders, employees and customers Auditors are best served by acting in a socially responsible manner.
As such the Group ensures that On 1 August 2003, Deloitte & Touche, the auditors of the Company, transferred their business to Deloitte & Touche LLP, a limited a high standard of corporate governance is maintained.
liability partnership incorporated under the Limited Liability Partnership Act 2000.
The Company has given its consent to treating the appointment of Deloitte & Touche as extending to Deloitte & Touche LLP with effect from 1 August 2003 under the provisions of section 26 5 of the Companies Act 1989.
A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as the auditors of the Company will be proposed Equality and diversity at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Group is committed to providing a working environment in which employees feel valued, respected and able to contribute to the success of the business, and to employing Details of resolutions to be proposed as special business at the Annual General Meeting a workforce that recognises the diversity of customers.
Employees are requested to co-operate with the Groups efforts to ensure the policy is implemented in full.
Resolution 6 Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 states that the directors may not exercise a companys power to allot its unissued shares The Groups aim is that employees should be able to work in an environment free from unless given authority to do so by resolution of the shareholders in general meeting.
discrimination, harassment and bullying and that employees, job applicants, customers, retailers, brokers and suppliers should be treated fairly regardless of: The present authority of the directors to allot the unissued ordinary share capital of the Company was granted at the previous Annual General Meeting on 11 February 2003 and will expire at the end of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Resolution 6 race, colour, nationality, ethnic origins or community background seeks to renew, for a further year, the present authority of the directors to allot ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal value gender, sexual orientation, marital or family status of 4,327,000 representing approximately 36.3% of the Companys issued capital at 30 November 2003 and being one third of religious or political beliefs or affiliations issued capital plus shares issuable under option.
The directors have no present intention of exercising this authority, which will disability, impairment or age expire at the conclusion of the following Annual General Meeting.
real or suspected infection with HIV AIDS Resolution 7 membership or non-membership of a trade union Under Section 89 of the Companies Act 1985, any shares allotted wholly in cash must be offered to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings, but this requirement may be modified by the authority of a special resolution of the shareholders and that they should not be disadvantaged by conditions or requirements that are unjust in general meeting.
The authority given at the previous Annual General Meeting will expire at the end of this years Annual General Meeting and Resolution Composition of the workforce, at all levels, is reviewed on an annual basis and employee 7 seeks to renew it.
The resolution authorises the directors to allot shares for cash, other than to existing shareholders in proportion satisfaction with equality of opportunity is monitored as part of the annual employee to their holdings, up to an aggregate nominal value of 595,500, representing approximately 5% of the Companys issued share feedback surveys.
Human Resources policies are kept under regular review to ensure that capital at 30 November 2003. they are non-discriminatory and promote equality of opportunity.
In particular, recruitment, selection, promotion, training and development policies and practices are monitored to ensure Resolution 8 that employees have the opportunity to train and develop according to their abilities.
This resolution, which is being proposed as a Special Resolution, will enable the Company to purchase, in the market, up to a maximum of 11.9 million of the Companys ordinary shares approximately 10% of the issued share capital at 30 November 2003 Employees involvement for cancellation at a minimum price of 10p per share and a maximum price of not more than 105% of the average middle market The directors recognise the benefit of keeping employees informed of the progress of quotation for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately the business.
Employees have been provided with regular information on the performance prior to purchase.
and plans of the Group, and the financial and economic factors affecting it, through both The directors would not expect to purchase ordinary shares in the market unless, in the light of market conditions prevailing at the information circulars and management presentations.
time, they considered that to do so would enhance earnings per share and would be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Any purchases made by the Company will be announced no later than 7.30 a. m. on the business day following the transaction.
The Group operates a Sharesave share option scheme which enables employees to benefit from the performance of the business.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on behalf of the Board.
The directors encourage the involvement of employees at all levels by the staff appraisal process and through communication between directors, team leaders and teams.
The staff appraisal system used by the Group is designed to assist employees in developing their careers within the Group and to identify and provide appropriate training opportunities.
John G Gemmell Company Secretary 15 December 2003 18 THE PARAGON GROUP OF COMPANIES PLC THE PARAGON GROUP OF COMPANIES PLC 19 corporate social responsibility report of the board to the shareholders on directors remuneration This report has been prepared in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Environmental policy Regulations 2002, which introduced new statutory requirements for the disclosure of directors The Group complies with all applicable laws and regulations relating to the environment remuneration in respect of periods ending on or after 31 December 2002.
The report also and operates a Green Charter, implemented by: meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and describes how the Board has applied the Principles of Good Governance relating to directors ensuring all buildings occupied by the Group are managed efficiently by our remuneration.
As required by the Regulations, a resolution to approve the report will be Facilities Team and building surveyors, for example: proposed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company.
using low energy lightbulbs where necessary maintaining building temperatures within CIBSE guidelines UNAUDITED INFORMATION using light controls to reduce lighting in unoccupied areas ensuring energy audits are carried out as part of condition surveys Remuneration Committee providing facilities and negotiating contracts to enable staff to re-cycle used The Committee consists of three non-executive directors: Gavin Lickley, David Beever and products such as waste paper, toner cartridges, etc Christopher Newell.
controlling business travel and providing opportunities for staff to travel to work in various ways, including installing cycle racks and showers where possible The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee is Gavin Lickley.
None of the directors comprising displaying a Paragon Green Charter at all sites to encourage staff to be the Committee has any personal financial interest other than as a shareholder, conflict environmentally friendly at all times of interest arising from cross-directorships or day-to-day involvement in running the business.
Health and Safety The Committee determines the Companys policy on executive remuneration and specific The office environment is managed so as to comply with the requirements of the Health compensation packages for each of the executive directors.
No director contributes to any and Safety at Work Act 1974, Workplace Health, Safety and Welfare Regulations 1992, COSHH discussion about his own remuneration.
The Committee also reviews the level and structure Regulations 1988, Disability Discrimination Act 1995, Fire Precautions Workplace Regulations of remuneration of senior management.
1997 and the Control of Asbestos at Work Regulations 2002.
In determining the directors remuneration for the year, the Committee consulted Mr J P L Perry Appropriate procedures have been established to monitor and maintain the Groups Health Chairman, Mr N S Terrington Chief Executive and Mr D A Hoare Non-Executive Director and Safety standards.
Monitoring is undertaken internally and by external consultants and and former Chairman of the Committee about its proposals.
The Committee also appointed training is organised for staff from time to time.
New Bridge Street Consultants LLP to provide advice on structuring directors remuneration packages.
New Bridge Street Consultants LLP advised the Company on various sundry Charitable contributions remuneration matters during the year.
The Group contributes to registered charities serving the local communities in which it operates.
The Group supports the fund raising efforts of its employees raising money for a designated Remuneration policy charity each year through the Charity Committee.
The Companys policy is to ensure that executive directors are fairly rewarded for their individual performance, having regard to the importance of retention and motivation.
The performance measurement of the executive directors and the determination of their annual remuneration packages are undertaken by the Committee.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by the Board.
In forming and reviewing remuneration policy the Committee has given full consideration to Section B.
1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
The remuneration packages of the individual directors have been assessed after a review of their individual performances and an assessment of comparable positions in the financial sector and comparably sized FTSE 350 companies from all sectors.
All executive directors are remunerated by a combination of fixed and performance related elements.
Fixed remuneration consists of salary, pension scheme contributions and benefits in kind.
Performance related remuneration consists of participation in the annual bonus plan and the award of share options and of shares under the performance share plan from time to time.
The performance related elements of remuneration are intended to provide a significant proportion of the directors' potential total remuneration.
20 THE PARAGON GROUP OF COMPANIES PLC THE PARAGON GROUP OF COMPANIES PLC 21 The Paragon Performance Share Plan was approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 11 February 2003.
The maximum award is report of the board to the shareholders twice salary in any financial year.
When aggregated with option grants under the Paragon 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme the maximum on directors remuneration award will be over shares with a value of twice remuneration in any financial year.
Under the plan the vesting of awards is subject to a relative TSR target requiring the Company to at least equal the median performance of its peer group, being the constituents of the FTSE All Share Banks Salary and Speciality and Other Finance sectors, in order for any part of an award to vest.
Awards will only fully vest provided at least upper quartile An executive directors salary is determined by the Remuneration Committee at the beginning performance is achieved and there are no opportunities to re-test performance.
In deciding appropriate levels the Committee considers remuneration levels within the Group as a whole and relies on objective research which gives up-to-date information TSR has been selected as the performance measure for these awards because the Remuneration Committee believes it is the clearest measure on comparable companies.
Executive directors contracts of service, which include details that aligns the interests of executives with those of other shareholders.
The Company's TSR performance and that of the peer companies is of remuneration, will be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
independently calculated by New Bridge Street Consultants LLP before being reviewed and confirmed by the Remuneration Committee.
Performance bonuses Executive directors are also entitled to receive options under the Paragon 1999 Sharesave Scheme, on the same terms as other employees.
Bonuses are earned under performance related schemes, based upon individual performance and that of the Group as a whole, at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Bonuses are Performance graph normally paid in October but are accrued in the year to which they relate.
Executive directors The following graph shows the Companys performance, measured by TSR, compared with the performance of the FTSE All Share Speciality and are encouraged to defer a proportion of their bonuses for up to three years, the unpaid Other Finance sector index, also measured by TSR.
The Speciality and Other Finance sector has been selected for this comparison because it is element being invested in the Companys shares.
the index that contains the largest number of companies in the comparator group used by the Company to determine the vesting of awards under the Performance Share Plan for executive directors.
Pension contributions During the year, two of the executive directors were members of the Group Retirement Benefits 5 Year Return Index for the FTSE All Share Speciality and Other Finance sector as at 30 September 2003 Plan, to which the Company contributes at the same rate as for all members, while in respect of Mr J P L Perry the Company paid monthly contributions into his personal pension scheme.
300 Dependants of executive directors who are members of the Group Retirement Benefits Plan are eligible for a dependants pension and the payment of a lump sum in the event of death 250 in service.
The pension arrangements provide for a pension of 1 37.5 of basic annual salary to a maximum of 2 3 for every year of eligible service.
Where pension contributions are 200 capped, additional payments are made to enable further provision.
150 The changes in pension entitlements arising in the financial year, the disclosure of which is required by the Financial Services Authority, are given in note 8 to the accounts.
There have 100 been no changes in the terms of directors pension entitlements during the year.
There are no unfunded promises or similar arrangements for directors.
50 Share options and other share awards The Companys policy is to grant options to directors under the Paragon 2000 Executive Share 0 Option Scheme at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, taking into account individual 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 performance, up to a maximum of twice annual remuneration in any financial year.
For options to be exercisable, the scheme requires the Company's total shareholder return TSR over at The Paragon Group of Companies PLC least three years, to be higher than at least half of the TSRs for the following companies selected FTSE All Share Speciality and Other Finance Sector from the FTSE All Share Banks and Speciality and Other Finance sectors: Abbey National, Alliance & Leicester, Cattles, Hitachi Credit UK, London Scottish Bank, Northern Rock, Provident Financial and HBOS, these being a range of companies which, in the opinion of the Remuneration This graph shows the value, by 30 September 2003, of 100 invested in The Paragon Group of Companies PLC on 30 September 1998, Committee, are engaged in businesses similar to the business of the Group.
compared with 100 invested in the FTSE Speciality and Other Finance index.
The other points plotted are the values at the intervening financial year ends.
22 THE PARAGON GROUP OF COMPANIES PLC THE PARAGON GROUP OF COMPANIES PLC 23 report of the board to the shareholders statement of directors responsibilities on directors remuneration in relation to financial statements The directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare financial statements for each Directors contracts financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the All executive directors hold one year rolling contracts in line with current market practice and Group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss for the financial year.
the Remuneration Committee reviews the terms of these contracts regularly.
The directors consider that in preparing the financial statements on pages 32 to 73, the The current contracts are dated as follows: - Company has used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by J P L Perry 3 June 1993 amended 4 March 1998 reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and that all accounting standards which N S Terrington 1 September 1990 amended 16 February 1993 they consider to be applicable have been followed.
N Keen 6 February 1996 J A Heron 1 September 1990 amended 14 January and 8 February 1993 The directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company keeps accounting records P Pandya 1 October 1994 which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Company and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
In the event of early termination, the directors contracts provide for the payment of salary in lieu of notice.
The directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open Of the directors seeking re-election at the Annual General Meeting, Mr J P L Perry, to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and Mr N S Terrington, Mr J A Heron and Mr P Pandya each have a service contract with other irregularities.
Non-executive directors All non-executive directors have specific terms of engagement and their remuneration independent auditors report is determined by the Board, subject to the Articles of Association.
The fee paid to each non-executive director was increased from 22,500 per annum to 25,000 per annum to the members of The Paragon Group of Companies PLC from 1 August 2003 and the additional fee paid to the chairmen of the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee was increased from 2,500 to 5,000.
We have audited the financial statements of The Paragon Group of Companies PLC for the year ended 30 September 2003 which comprise the consolidated profit and loss account, the Current terms of engagement apply for the following periods: balance sheets, the consolidated cash flow statement and the related notes 1 to 42 together D A Hoare 1 January 2002 to 1 January 2005 with the reconciliation of movement in consolidated shareholders funds.
These financial C D Newell 1 November 2001 to 1 November 2004 statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also G A F Lickley 21 October 2002 to 21 October 2005 audited the information in the part of the directors remuneration report that is described D M M Beever 8 August 2003 to 8 August 2006 as having been audited.
Non-executive directors are not eligible to participate in any of the Companys incentive This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section or pension schemes.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee will be available to answer questions report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept on remuneration policy at the Annual General Meeting.
or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
AUDITED INFORMATION The information on directors emoluments, pensions, share options and the Paragon Performance Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Share Plan contained in notes 7, 8, 30 and 31 has been audited and forms part of this report.
As described in the statement of directors responsibility, the Companys directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with applicable Signed on behalf of the Board United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
They are also responsible for the preparation of the other information contained in the Annual Report including the directors remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
Gavin A F Lickley Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 15 December 2003 24 THE PARAGON GROUP OF COMPANIES PLC THE PARAGON GROUP OF COMPANIES PLC 25
