Robin Robin Ashton, Chief Executive Our business At Provident Financial we pride ourselves on knowing our customers well and offering simple financial products tailored to their needs.
This thinking underlies each of our three divisions UK consumer credit, international, and motor insurance.
Its one reason why customers keep coming back again and again.
6 Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2003 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Our strategy Provident Financial has successfully 7 provided home credit in the UK for well over a century, and in the Republic of Ireland for more than sixty years.
By the mid-1990s, however, it was Provident now operates in 7 countries clear that the UK home credit market was maturing.
We needed, therefore, to refresh our strategy for the next phase of our growth and so began a twofold Were also making good progress on the second process of developing home credit internationally leg of the strategy broadening our product range.
and broadening our product range in the UK.
With the acquisition in 2002 of the car finance business, Yes Car Credit, and the market test of the The group has changed dramatically as a result.
new Vanquis Bank credit card, we are adding different Since 1997, when we signed up our first customer in but related products to attract new customers and Poland, our international business has grown rapidly.
to offer more to those we already serve.
The original overseas operations in Poland and the Czech Republic are already making a substantial These strategies offer plenty of scope for further contribution to group profits while Hungary and growth.
As we move ahead, our priorities are to Slovakia continue to make good progress.
The new introduce home credit to further overseas markets, pilot operation in Mexico is just the latest step in expanding in the measured, controlled way that has a story of vigorous and profitable expansion.
served us well so far: and to develop our new credit products in the UK, taking these into overseas markets when the time is right.
UK consumer credit division 1 UK home credit Yes Car Credit Vanquis Bank International division 2 Poland Czech Republic Hungary Slovakia Mexico Motor insurance division 3 Provident Insurance 7 Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2003 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 916m 37,900 36,800 credit issued by UK home credit cars sold by Yes Car Credit credit cards issued by Vanquis Bank UK consumer credit The heart of our UK consumer credit division is our home credit business small loans, with affordable repayments, collected every week from the customers home.
But the product range is broadening.
The division now provides car finance and is also testing a new credit card.
8 Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Paul Paul Watch, branch manager, Yes Car Credit, Portsmouth, UK Looking back over the year, Im amazed at how busy weve been.
Theres a real buzz from selling more cars to more customers and giving them a better deal than they might have thought was possible.
9 Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2003 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW UK consumer credit 1 Customers take out their loans for a wide variety Home credit the core Whats been happening of reasons.
Some spend the money to help of our UK business in the UK home credit fund Christmas, birthdays or holidays or on other market?
Although UK consumer credit is now special family events.
Some use the cash to buy broadening its product range, the bedrock household items or consumer electronics.
In UK home credit has operated for over of the division remains the home credit other cases, the loan is used to spread household a century and clearly its services will be business which serves 1.6 million customers.
costs over the year or to help in emergencies.
in demand for many years to come.
Nevertheless, we need to recognise that The service is popular for very clear reasons.
the market in which it operates is changing.
Its personal, friendly, convenient and flexible.
After a long period of economic growth and high The business lends small sums of money the 95% employment, the typical Provident customer has most popular loan is for 200 to people from steadily become better off.
She and it usually is all walks of life.
Our customers have moderate of UK home credit customers say they she tends, therefore, to have less need for small incomes and need to manage their finances find their agent helpful and friendly sum credit and so borrows less frequently.
They want, therefore, to borrow small same time, our customers have increasing access amounts with minimal financial risk and so Provident home credit provides a service that its to other forms of credit particularly credit cards welcome the structure and discipline of a customers appreciate and value.
We are proud to and overdrafts.
offer a high quality service that recognises our For these reasons, its clear that the potential for Repayments are affordable and are collected by customers needs.
expansion in the UK home credit market is limited.
agents every week from the customers home.
While we aim to achieve modest profit growth in Payment arrangements are flexible and most 2004, we recognise that we cant rely on home importantly our customers never have to face credit alone in the UK.
To keep succeeding, we additional or unexpected charges.
93% need to introduce other products that are distinct, relevant and attractive to our target market.
customer satisfaction rating in UK home credit 152.6m UK home credit profit before tax increased by 2.5% Provident home credit provides a service that its customers Muriel appreciate and value.
Home credit customer Muriel, Leeds, UK My agent sat down with me in my living room to sort out the loan I needed for my holiday.
Paying back weekly really suits me.
Thats good value in my book.
10 Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Leanne & Jessica Vanquis Bank employees, Chatham, UK The same underlying values apply to these newer businesses as to home credit.
A new division Vanquis Bank In 2002 we formed the UK consumer credit In the same way, the Vanquis Bank credit division.
This includes not just UK home credit, card test recognises that many of our but the car finance business Yes Car Credit, customers like plastic that they welcome and Vanquis Bank.
both the flexibility and the feeling of being 7.4m in the financial mainstream.
The same underlying values apply to these newer businesses as to home credit.
All the businesses But many want a card with a low credit limit recognise and respect their customers needs and small, affordable repayments to help them and aspirations.
Some may have little or no credit Vanquis Bank net receivables history.
Others may have had credit cards in the past but, because of events in their lives such Yes Car Credit as changes in their income or the breakdown of a relationship, have been unable to manage Yes Car Credit provides finance and a high their credit card and, consequently, have been quality, reliable car to customers, making sure excluded from this important source of credit.
that the repayments remain affordable.
Vanquis Bank seeks to meet this need Its also a friendly way to do business.
The fact 252.4m by developing a product that offers all the that we set the credit limit before the customer advantages of plastic, but keeps the chooses a car avoids the embarrassment that customer firmly in control.
could otherwise occur if the customer first selects a car and then finds that they cannot arrange finance for it.
Yes Car Credit net receivables Vanquis Bank maintains more personal contact with its customers than most other credit card providers Yes Car Credit provides finance and a high quality, reliable car to customers 11 Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2003 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 1.6m UK consumer credit customers choose Provident home credit in the UK Our customers also appreciate Providents With these advantages, its no wonder that UK home credit friendly, personal service.
Their contact with the satisfaction ratings are extremely high, at 93%, why so popular?
company is through an agent who knows them and that 83% of customers would recommend Peoples perception of home credit is individually and calls every week at a convenient Provident home credit to family and friends.
sometimes at odds with the reality.
The 12,000 UK agents typically come from We know that most of our customers have discussion of our performance and strategy, the same communities as their customers and choices when it comes to credit.
Nearly two-thirds its important to emphasise the features of many were customers themselves before have a bank account, almost a third have a credit the service that make it so successful.
card and many others make use of agency mail At Provident we lend responsibly.
We have to, The weekly visit from the agent also provides order catalogues.
Nevertheless, they choose because our loans are unsecured.
Furthermore, the encouragement to put aside the repayment Provident home credit because they like the we pay agents based only on the money they every week.
Regular, face to face contact helps service and the flexibility, convenience and value collect, not on what they lend, so its in their customers to stay in control of their credit and that we offer.
For a small, short-term loan, quickly interests not to lend more than people can keep up to date with their repayments.
and easily repaid, Provident is a rational choice.
In an age of internet banking and call centres, this Our product recognises what life is like for people personal service is highly valued.
Customers know on modest incomes, who need to manage their theyll get a sympathetic response if they get into finances carefully.
With Provident home credit difficulties that the agent understands the ups there are no penalty charges for late or missed and downs of life and can help them manage their 31% payments a feature that makes home credit personal and household finances.
quite distinct from credit cards, bank loans and 60% On the face of it, our APR looks higher than for virtually every other form of lending.
All costs other sources of small sum credit.
But direct are included in a single, up-front charge that comparisons are misleading.
The APRs quoted by of UK home credit customers see from the start.
Whatever happens, customers have a other lenders usually do not include the cost of the amount to be repaid never goes up.
of UK home credit credit card credit insurance or penalty charges if customers customers have a Therefore, when customers take out a loan, miss payments.
Similarly, the AERs on overdrafts bank current account they know exactly how much theyll have to pay do not include the monthly administration back.
Thats a great attraction for people on charges or the charges levied when the account tight budgets who want to avoid nasty financial goes above the overdraft limit.
It keeps them in control and provides Provident home credits APR includes not just the reassurance that every pound repaid reduces the interest charge but the cost of the agents the loan balance by the same amount.
weekly visit and the cost to Provident of never imposing any extra charges.
Provident home credits call centre Our objective is provides a service to its branch network modest profit growth in what is a mature and increasingly competitive market.
Through on-going research, we know our customers are highly satisfied with our home credit service 12 Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2003 31% of UK home credit customers have an overdraft facility Getting better at what we do Although the UK home credit market is mature, we aim to achieve modest growth in profits by improving our service and modernising our offer.
In 2003 we took a fresh look at how we run our UK home credit business.
We sharpened functions such as credit management, devolved responsibilities to local managers, improved communications 200 between head office and employees, and made the organisation faster on its feet all with the aim of taking better care of customers and making the business more efficient.
An increasingly competitive market In recent years the range of sources of small sum credit available to our customers is the most popular Provident home credit loan in the UK has increased.
In particular, the use of credit cards and overdrafts alongside, or instead of, home credit has risen.
In this competitive environment it is vital that we continue to provide a distinct offer, tailored to our customers needs, and become even better at what we do.
Our objective is modest profit growth in what is a mature and increasingly competitive market.
We aim to achieve this through the quality of our service and by constantly balancing volumes, costs and bad debt.
Debbie, Grant & Diane Home credit customer Debbie with her son Grant, and agent Diane, Leeds, UK My agent arranged the cash I needed for my new computer.
She calls every week so I dont even have to go out to make the repayments.
13 Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Paul & Robert Paul, home credit customer, with Robert White, Provident home credit development manager, Huddersfield, UK The scary thing about a lot of loans is whats in the small print.
It was great to discover Provident where everythings clear and you know from the start exactly what you have to pay.
14 Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2003 A RELIABLE, SUPPORTIVE, CARING APPROACH TO ALL WE DO Jenny& James Jenny, home credit customer, and her grandson James, Halifax, UK It really helps to have people you can trust.
And I know I can trust my agent Liz to understand my situation and be sympathetic if I have to miss a payment.
15 Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2003 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Ellen Yes Car Credit employee, Portsmouth, UK UK consumer credit Yes Car Credit How weve done Whats next?
this year In the coming year, we intend to capitalise Why expand into car on the natural growth of the market whilst In our first full year of ownership, weve finance?
also increasing our share by further extending expanded the number of branches from For many customers in our target market, our branch network and geographic coverage.
20 to 26, with five more planned in 2004. buying a family car is the single most This is expected to generate further In addition, Yes Car Credit now finances all of the important transaction they will undertake substantial growth.
vehicles it sells as compared with only 75% when and most will need credit if they want to we took it over which is good for margins.
In looking to broaden our product range, car finance As expected, Yes Car Credit has performed was, therefore, a natural choice.
We sold nearly 38,000 cars in 2003 up from 31,000 in 2002, and increased Yes Car Credit supplies good quality, threeto profits substantially to 11.2 million 2002 five-year old vehicles, financed at competitive 6.6 million assuming the benefit of lower rates of interest plus insurance policies to cover funding costs from membership of the Provident repairs and write-offs, and the loan repayments group throughout the year.
if the customers circumstances change.
This way, the owner is protected against future financial surprises and the car is kept on the road which encourages the customer to keep paying back the loan.
Another reason for acquiring Yes Car Credit was 70% its direct contact with the customer something we believe to be very important.
Unlike the 26 conventional car finance model, Yes Car Credit 6% deals face to face with its customers rather than with car dealers.
Firstly, Yes Car Credit does not have to share its profits with a dealership.
Secondly, it is able to ensure Yes Car Credits market Yes Car Credit has 26 Yes Car Credit profit before tax that the customer drives away in a high quality is estimated to grow by branches nationwide up 70% to 11.2 million vehicle another important factor in making sure 6% a year the customer is satisfied.
Besides fitting well alongside our home credit business, Yes Car Credit made an attractive acquisition as a fast-growing, entrepreneurial business in an expanding market.
We sold nearly 38,000 cars in 2003 At Yes Car Credit we have direct contact with the customer 16 Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Kerrie Yes Car Credit customer, Portsmouth, UK Vanquis Bank 36,800 Why a credit card?
Vanquis Bank credit card customers For many consumers, having a credit card opens the door to the modern economy.
It allows them to shop by telephone or over the internet and is accepted in most countries throughout the world.
That said, many people particularly those on modest incomes are excluded, or exclude themselves, from having a card.
They may have been refused a card in the past or may never have been invited to apply for one.
Or they may be concerned that they might lose control of their spending.
With such customers in mind, we hope to offer a distinctive credit card that meets their needs and concerns.
What we envisage is not a replica of anything that already exists, but an offer specifically tailored to customers needs.
The aim is to offer the convenience and flexibility of using a card while preserving those stay in control features that make home credit so useful to people who need to watch their spending.
To test the possibilities, we recruited a team of credit card professionals, gained a deposit taking licence in February 2003 for our company, Vanquis Bank, and launched a pilot project in April.
The 36,800 cards weve issued so far cover a range of features.
There are cards with very low credit limits, cards with a higher APR but no penalties for missed payments, cards with fixed repayments so that monthly outgoings stay constant, cards that allow customers to repay every week or fortnight, and so on.
We are testing a range of offers to see what works best.
We also maintain more personal contact with our customers than many credit card providers, with credit vetting by telephone and further calls when a first payment is due or if a payment has been missed.
We now intend to monitor the performance of this portfolio before deciding in the second half of 2004 whether or not to proceed to a full-scale roll-out.
The test cost 6.7 million in 2003 and is likely to cost about 9 million in 2004.
We believe that there is unfulfilled demand in the UK market for a credit card designed to meet the Laura Vanquis Bank employee, needs of people earning Chatham, UK modest incomes.
17 Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2003 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW International customer growth 1,244,000 960,000 708,000 466,000 138,000 16,000 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 International Our fast-growing international division has businesses in Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary and Slovakia, and a pilot operation in Mexico.
It has proved conclusively that we can be successful in overseas markets.
18 Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Beatriz, Jaime, Daniela & Beatriz Home credit customers Beatriz and Jaime with their daughters Daniela and Beatriz, Puebla, Mexico All Beatriz really wanted for her birthday was a bike.
With a Provident loan I was able to spread the cost and get her the bike she always wanted.
19 Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2003 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 98% International growth in Polands profit before tax 2 Meeting a need How weve done On track to meet this year our targets Since starting our international expansion just seven years ago, weve achieved The international division made excellent In 2003 the division passed some significant excellent growth, all of which has been progress during 2003. milestones.
Customer numbers rose by 30% to 1.2 million The number of agents passed 17,000 and From a standing start in 1997, our international and credit issued by 26% to 361 million.
customer numbers passed one million, putting division now serves 1.2 million people.
We have Profit before tax increased from 8.6 million us well on the way to reaching our target of built a business that has nearly 3,000 employees, to 29.3 million.
1.6 million customers in central Europe.
over 17,000 agents and operates from 145 towns Our largest and most established markets of Another milestone in the year was expanding and cities in five countries.
Poland and the Czech Republic are developing outside Europe with the start of our pilot These are countries where the home credit as expected and producing very good profits.
market didnt exist before Provident moved in.
The newer businesses in Hungary and Slovakia Our aim, in the medium-term, is for the central For the first time, customers wanting credit had are increasing their customer numbers rapidly European businesses to contribute a profit of a quick, convenient alternative to local banks or while start-up losses, in each case, were smaller 90-100 million per annum.
In 2003 they to borrowing money from friends and family.
As than in 2002. contributed 38 million towards divisional profits the soaring number of customers makes clear, and so are well on the way to achieving this.
theyve seized the opportunity with enthusiasm.
One reason for our success in central Europe is the way weve been able to learn from our 29.3m experience in each market and apply the lessons learnt as we move to the next.
Each market entry international profit before tax involves a careful process of market research followed by a pilot operation.
Only when were certain its working do we step up the investment and expand more rapidly across the country.
72% Agnieszka Home credit customer Agnieszka, Warsaw, Poland I like the fact that my agent calls at my growth in the Czech Republics home and collects my repayments when profit before tax its convenient for me and that if I have to miss a week there are no extra charges.
20 Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Andrea Home credit customer Andrea, Puebla, Mexico Provident made it possible to go on holiday and I can enjoy it all the 102m more because Im not worried about extra charges on the loan.
There people live in Mexico wont be any nasty surprises.
Since starting Our fifth international country, Mexico, is We expect further strong growth from the undergoing the same careful evaluation that international division in the coming year with our international characterised our entry into central Europe.
each country making good progress towards We have a rigorous procedure for selecting its long-term targets.
expansion just a new country and researched a number of Our trial in Mexico will continue at a likely possibilities before deciding that Mexico best seven years ago, cost of 3-4 million in 2004.
Well also matched our criteria.
continue to research other potential home weve achieved Mexico is a large and attractive market with credit markets with a view to possible entry a population of 102 million.
The outlook for in 2005. economic growth is positive and inflation is excellent growth.
Our research suggested substantial potential demand for home credit and given these findings we decided to go ahead with a pilot.
In August 2003 we based our operation in Puebla: a large city located 70 kilometres from Mexico City.
The early stages have gone very well.
We 2,600 have now established the first office and recruited and trained the first local employees who, it is expected, in due course, will form the top and middle management of the Mexican operation.
home credit customers in Mexico We now have over 100 agents and 2,600 customers.
We still have a lot to learn, however, and the pilot will continue until early 2005 when we will make a decision on how to proceed.
Puebla is a large city located 70 The first Mexican employees are In Poland, Provident Polska is We now have nearly 3,000 kilometres from Mexico City now helping to build the business producing very good profits employees in our international in our newest market division 21 Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Barbara, Jerzy & Wiktoria Home credit customers Barbara & Jerzy with their granddaughter Wiktoria, Warsaw, Poland The good thing about Provident for me is the way my agent understands my circumstances.
I can make repayments that are convenient and I know exactly what I owe.
My agent makes sure that I can afford the repayments when I ask for a loan.
22 Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2003 IN 2003, WE EXPANDED OUR SUCCESSFUL HOME CREDIT MODEL INTO MEXICO Agnieszka & Klaudia Home credit customer Agnieszka with daughter Klaudia, Warsaw, Poland Im not surprised that Provident Polska is growing so fast.
Lots of people around here are customers and we keep telling our friends how good it is.
23 Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2003 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 188.2m 28.6m profit before tax gross written premiums Motor insurance Provident Insurance is one of very few UK motor insurers to earn profits throughout the insurance cycle.
Provident Insurance focuses on underwriting motor policies for women As a result, insurance premiums have fallen during 2003.
Claims costs, drivers, customers wanting non-comprehensive insurance and drivers however, have continued to rise, so margins for the industry are contracting.
of the second car in the family.
It has a number of distinctive strengths Some insurers are already trading at a loss and more are expected to do long experience: a good understanding of the risks it underwrites: very low so as we go through 2004. operating costs based on advanced systems and processes: a flexible cost While most insurers are willing to cut or hold prices to keep up their volumes, structure that allows it to expand or contract very quickly: and a sharp our strategy is very different.
focus on generating added value for shareholders.
We set our prices to earn a sufficient return on equity.
So, during a cyclical The motor insurance market is extremely competitive.
Customers are well downturn when this makes us look expensive, we lose some customers.
informed and generally choose the lowest-priced policy.
The market goes When premiums and the cycle turn up, our rates become attractive once through clear pricing and profit cycles and is currently in a down-cycle.
more and we gain customers.
We cut our cost base to match changing Price competition is fierce with traditional insurers vying for market share volumes and so remain profitable throughout the cycle.
both with direct writers and with newer entrants such as supermarkets.
The past year has, therefore, held no surprises.
Premium rates in the market decreased by about 1%.
We increased ours by 8%, in line with claims cost inflation.
Policyholder numbers fell by 23% to 587,000 and gross written premiums fell by 22% to 188.2 million.
Profit before tax fell 20% to 28.6 million.
The downward trend is likely to continue in 2004.
While it does so, we 587,000 will keep our prices more or less in line with claims inflation, writing fewer policies but remaining profitable and earning a good return on equity.
motor insurance policyholders 24 Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Tim Tim Richards, motor insurance employee, Halifax, UK Investing in the best technology allows us to assess the damage to a customers car and make claims decisions very quickly which all makes for better service and lower costs.
25 Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2003 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Corporate responsibility The way we operate as a business is guided both by societys expectations and by our own high standards of corporate behaviour.
These determine how we relate to customers, employees and agents, how we run the business, and how we interact with all our stakeholders.
FTSE4 Business Good in the Community CR index Provident is one of the Provident is a member Top 100 Companies of the FTSE4Good index that Count 10,000 people involved in Sally Provident-funded West Yorkshire Consultant to Playhouse projects our environment programmes 26 Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Good corporate behaviour is not just the right thing to do, its also in the best interests of the business.
How have we reported Managing our CR on our corporate performance responsibility In 2002 we set up a new management structure to carry our CR programme forward.
Under this structure, we sought to keep This year, in response to stakeholder feedback, improving our CR performance during 2003 the 2003 corporate responsibility report is and the work continues in 2004. available online at www.
These pages contain a summary of our Specific management structures for occupational activities.
health and safety and environmental issues are in place and are described later.
Wider CR issues, The online report includes our policies, including the social and economic aspects of performance data, case studies, and the what we do, are addressed through a CR working opportunity to give feedback.
This takes account of the operational and strategic interests of the business divisions as we put new measures in place.
We often try out new What does corporate ideas through pilot initiatives before applying the responsibility mean lessons learned across the group.
Our business affects the lives of millions of people customers, employees, agents, shareholders, business partners, suppliers, Marek community and environmental groups, and many more.
Participant in the Provident-funded Trampolina project, Poland Corporate responsibility, or CR, means listening carefully to what people expect from Provident and finding ways to manage these relationships and the different demands on the company.
84% Providents Business in the Environment score Our community programme offers new opportunities to people who live and work in areas where we operate 74% Providents Business in the Community CR index score 27 In 2003 all UK-based employees and agents received a summary CR report Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2003 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Corporate responsibility By way of offering more to our UK customers, Doing the best for Looking after through Vanquis Bank weve market-tested our customers our employees a new concept in credit cards designed to meet Good products For Provident, corporate Ours is a business based on relationships the particular needs of those on modest incomes.
responsibility is first and foremost about offering relationships with customers, relationships To provide more customers with the opportunity of our customers the financial products and services with agents, and relationships with employees.
buying a high quality, threeto five-year old car on they want.
We offer simple, affordable credit credit, weve continued to expand Yes Car Credit.
More than most companies, therefore, we rely with flexible terms and transparent charges.
on good people doing their jobs extremely well We lend across the socio-economic spectrum, And in our motor insurance division we supply and supporting others in doing theirs.
For this to but typically to customers with moderate incomes.
motor insurance policies for women drivers, happen, we identify the issues of importance to We believe that including these customers customers wanting non-comprehensive insurance our employees training, health and safety, and so in the financial mainstream in a responsible, and drivers of the second car in the family.
on and manage them in such a way as to ensure well-managed way is one of the most important Good value While many other types of lending a safe, supportive working environment one in social benefits that Provident provides.
include only the interest charge in their quoted which everyone can contribute and succeed.
APR excluding extras such as administration costs Our focus on internal development has proved and penalty charges, Provident home credit its value in the large number of senior people includes everything in the up-front repayment Provident home whove come up through the organisation.
Although the quoted APR may make it Indeed, our initial international expansion was look expensive, it generally offers very good value credit includes possible only because we had good people in the compared to other forms of small sum credit.
If UK to head it up helped, of course, by the high you then add the services of the agent and the all its charges calibre employees weve been able to attract in reassurance of no extra charges, its clear why so our newer markets.
We now have a very successful many customers say theyre getting an excellent secondment programme to help transfer skills in a single, deal.
In all these ways, we meet our customers needs, up-front charge, Training Training and development are vital expand the business and generate wealth for to our business.
We place great emphasis on employees, agents, investors and suppliers, so customers recognising talent and developing people to while also contributing to wider society through the peak of their abilities.
know exactly Each division has its own training and development department that offers an extensive programme of where they stand.
These range from induction courses for all employees to a new, tailored management development programme delivered by the University of Bradford School of Management.
Our training programmes are constantly evolving to take account of individual needs.
Our employees also benefit from regular performance appraisals with their managers.
We run a series of research surveys We have set up a confidential to help us track customers views advice line for our employees 28 Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Zeinab, Theresa & Daniel Participants in the PACK community programme Working with people from a variety of backgrounds will bring new ideas to the business and increase innovation.
We also commissioned an external audit of our The community health and safety arrangements and procedures in Our community programme aims to help part of the group to identify areas for the people who live and work in the areas in 53 improvement.
which we operate in other words, customers, businesses started by young people with potential customers, agents and employees.
the help of The Princes Trust and Provident In co-operation with local partners, we aim Diversity to offer new opportunities and to play our We recognise that we need to do more about Consultation and communication We know part in the development of neighbourhoods valuing the cultural and other differences of that for people to do a good job, they need to and communities.
the people we work with including customers, feel involved to understand how they contribute In terms of funding, our main project in 2003 suppliers and employees.
Among other to the wider goals of the business and be aware was PACK Provident Action for Creative Kids benefits, working with people from a variety of the opportunities open to them.
To this end, which is run in conjunction with the Youth Hostels of backgrounds will bring new ideas to the we run an extensive programme of internal Association in England and Wales and its sister business and increase innovation.
PACK is a three-year For this reason, we identified diversity as a priority partnership which enables children from schools for our CR working group during 2003.
It was clear within Education Action Zones to take a two-day Health and safety we could enhance our data gathering in order to break at a youth hostel, with activities linked to gain a better picture of our present situation.
As We take our health and safety responsibilities the UK National Curriculum.
For many children, a first step, therefore, we completed an extensive seriously and have a clear structure for the its their first taste of the countryside.
The first survey of the data available throughout the group management of health and safety within the breaks took place in 2001.
To date, more than in order to set a baseline for measurement in the Provident group.
A health and safety steering 100 schools and 3,000 pupils have taken part.
We are now analysing this data before we group, chaired by an executive director, move ahead.
prepares an annual report for the board.
Weve also sought to address diversity issues Our health and safety programme continued through pilot projects chosen by the divisions.
during 2003 with some notable achievements.
For example, managers from our motor insurance During the year, all subsidiaries were able to certify division teamed up with managers from the West compliance with the group health and safety Yorkshire Playhouse in a diversity training project.
We also analysed the key performance indicators relating to different types of accident Managing diversity is included in the objectives or and incident in order to identify trends and job descriptions of some of our managers.
Their develop strategies for dealing with them.
At the performance in this area forms part of their same time, we brought Vanquis Bank and Yes Car assessment and contributes to their performanceCredit into our health and safety programme.
A development manager passes on Training in diversity helps people to Art education outreach project Our support of The Princes Trust the benefit of his health and safety understand each other and work Talking Pictures gives young people, like magician training better together Steven Frayne, the chance to start their own business 29 Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2003 WE CONTINUE TO ACTIVELY SUPPORT COMMUNITY SCHEMES LIKE THE WEST YORKSHIRE PLAYHOUSE Lisa, Dan &Katie Lisa, West Yorkshire Playhouse creative education manager, with programme participants Dan and Katie, Leeds, UK Getting the support from Provident Financial for our work in the community has been great.
Its not just the money, its their encouragement and enthusiasm that has helped create a unique relationship.
30 Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2003 2003 SAW PROVIDENT LENDING THEIR SUPPORT TO A HOLISTIC DRUG REHABILITATION UNIT IN DURHAM David, Sam & Ruth David, Sam and Ruth, participants in a joint Provident and West Yorkshire Playhouse diversity training project, Leeds, UK Teams work better when you understand how different people think and when theres real communication between colleagues.
Thats something were working on.
Its bound to benefit the business.
31 Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2003 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Corporate responsibility Weve continued our association with the West Yorkshire Playhouse in Leeds, sponsoring its art Minimising our effect education programme which takes the work of the Playhouse into local schools and seeks to place on the environment art at the heart of the community.
2003 was another productive year for our Weve again supported The Princes Trust in its work in providing loans to young people in West Yorkshire environment programme.
Our score of 84% who want to start their own business.
As well as contributing financially, we help the Trust to select the in the Business in the Environment survey most promising candidates and provide mentors from our workforce to support successful applicants.
was the second year running that Provident So far weve helped over 50 new businesses in this way.
For the last four years weve supported the Free Form Arts Trust in its regeneration project, Building Our environmental performance is managed Communities, which helps local people to improve their environment.
through an environment strategy group, chaired We also continue to work with Quest for Economic Development to improve employment opportunities by finance director John Harnett.
This is supported for young, South Asian students in Bradford, as well as supporting LOuverture which uses arts and by a working group drawn from across the business media projects to build self-confidence and unleash hidden talents in children.
The London boroughs divisions to address operational issues.
of Lambeth, Lewisham, Southwark and Tower Hamlets are the main beneficiaries of our work with During the year, we implemented our LOuverture.
environmental management system in two new countries, Hungary and Slovakia.
Employees in Weve always had strong links with the visual arts.
Over the last two years, our Talking Pictures both businesses have shown great energy and programme has helped pupils from nine inner-city schools to study paintings in their local galleries enthusiasm in taking on this new challenge and and to use the experience to create their own oil paintings back at school.
We have also lent pictures have already made good progress towards an from our own collection of paintings to a school in Bradford and we will extend the project to more ISO14001 environment management system to schools in 2004. match those already implemented in the UK, As part of our commitment to responsible lending, we support a number of debt counselling Poland and the Czech Republic.
organisations such as Credit Action, Money Advice Trust and Christians Against Poverty.
In addition, weve extended our programme of Alongside these centrally-supported projects, our business divisions each run their own community external verification so it covers every division.
In the UK, our home credit and motor insurance businesses have focused on directly Full details are available in the CR report at benefiting the communities in which their customers live.
Employees have gone into local schools www.
to support industry days, make-over gardens and help children with their reading, as well as supporting In the UK, our second internal audit has been local charities.
Overseas, the Hungarian team collected and distributed over 1,000 books to children, completed.
All recommendations have now been whilst Poland has created the Trampolina project which provides schools with new sports equipment, implemented and the programme will be extended and the Czech Republic has been involved in a major tree-planting initiative in the Jizersky mountains.
Weve also made good progress in working with Working with suppliers our suppliers, improving the efficiency of our Managing our large number of suppliers is vital to the smooth running of the group.
There are operations and increasing the environmental responsibilities on both sides.
As a result, weve managed to cut our consumption of water, For our part, we offer fair terms and have an excellent payment record.
In return, we expect our suppliers energy and paper, while also reducing the waste to operate to agreed guidelines.
Our motor insurance business, for example, sets certain environmental we produce.
standards for the garages and salvage agents with which it works a move that has saved costs and improved efficiency for all involved, as well as helping to reduce our impact on the environment.
32 Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Agnieszka, Piotr, Alicja & Marta The team who created the Polish environmental legislation register, Warsaw, Poland Learning in order Looking forward Finding out more to improve Were determined to keep making progress We are committed to good corporate in understanding our responsibilities to society.
behaviour, both because its the right thing In 2003 we joined Business in the Community That said, weve so far concentrated on the to do and because its in the long-term BitC and took part in its regional and national more immediate and straightforward issues interests of the business.
activities gaining valuable experience in and progress is likely to be harder in the future.
We ask all stakeholders to keep supporting our Which is not to say we wont keep trying.
Please continue to take an interest in Also, for the first time, we entered BitCs corporate One of the tasks in hand is to improve the how were doing and give us your comments responsibility index as a way of benchmarking way we collect and analyse data for CR and suggestions.
Your involvement is valuable our progress against other companies.
Here weve completed an and really does make a difference.
delighted to achieve a score of 74% and be named initial exercise to collate available information as one of the Top 100 Companies that Count To find out more on how were doing, take from existing business systems.
This has proved in the index.
a look at our 2003 corporate responsibility useful in identifying potential areas for further report which offers detailed reporting consideration.
It has also revealed gaps and information and case studies.
The report is inconsistencies in definitions and data that were available at www.
com where now acting to correct.
Once weve done that, you can also download and print it and give well be better able to decide which areas we 2003 us your views.
Provident entered the Business in the Community 2003 corporate responsibility index Another first in 2003 was the publication of a summary of last years printed CR report and the Robin Ashton distribution of 15,000 copies to employees and Chief Executive agents.
The aim was both to inform and to ask for 16 March 2004 feedback, and the responses we received have proved invaluable in guiding our future plans.
In many ways, employees and agents are both our best allies and our sternest critics in helping to find ways to act responsibly and improve performance.
A good year for our CR programme Member of FTSE4Good the index of the UKs most responsible companies Setting targets for our environment programme with the help of Business Scored 84% in Business in the Environment survey in the Environment Named as one of the Top 100 Companies that Count in Business in the Communitys corporate responsibility index with a score of 74% Exceeded many of our environment targets 93% of customers satisfied with Providents UK home credit service Extended our verification programme to cover more of our data and activities Launched employee edition of our 2002 corporate responsibility report Closer partnership with suppliers is Extended our environment programme to Hungary and Slovakia helping Providents motor insurance business to cut costs and improve its environmental performance 33 Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2003
