GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW In my review in last years Annual Report, I talked about annual and terminal bonus rates in the UK in 2003 which the importance of our international reach and diversity of affected the shareholder transfer from the long-term fund.
earnings and the need to manage the business prudently In these difficult markets, our continued focus on value and in challenging market conditions to preserve our strong in particular higher margin business enabled us to report a competitive position and growth prospects in each of Group new business margin of 38 per cent, a level that we the markets we operate in around the world.
have broadly maintained over the last five years.
This was particularly important during 2003 when instability in international markets, volatile bond and POSITIONING THE BUSINESS FOR GROWTH equity markets and an uncertain economic outlook all Prudential Corporation Asia PCA maintained its strong had a negative impact on consumer confidence for much record of growth, reporting an increase of 16 per cent of the year.
Against this background, we maintained our in APE sales and one per cent in new business achieved clear focus on investing for value and allocated capital to profits at CER.
PCA has well-established life insurance and those areas of our business generating higher returns.
fast-growing mutual fund operations across the region and Specifically, we continued to grow our Asian operations: we estimate that it ended 2003 with top-five market shares increased Jackson National Lifes market share in core in eight of its 12 life insurance markets, two of its seven product areas on a self-financing basis: and grew our mutual fund markets and for Hong Kongs Mandatory shareholder-backed businesses in the UK.
Gross investment in the business in 2003 was just under 150 million and we plan to maintain this There were some increasingly positive trends in the third level of investment both this year and in 2005.
However, and fourth quarters as markets began to stabilise and sales based on current business plans and as more of our started to recover, and we ended the year in good shape.
individual businesses in Asia become net generators of We have one of the strongest UK life funds in the industry, cash after financing their own development, we expect PCA our capital position is strong and we are well placed to to become a net capital contributor to the Group in 2006. manage the business for growth.
Asia is one of the fastest-growing regions for savings in the world and PCA remains focused on delivering long-term, GROUP RESULTS profitable and sustainable growth.
Total Group insurance and investment sales of 31.5 billion were up 11 per cent on 2002 at constant exchange rates With approximately 70 per cent of the worlds retirement CER.
On an annual premium equivalent APE basis, assets, the US is a key market for us.
In Jackson National insurance sales for the year were down 12 per cent at CER Life JNL, we have one of the few life insurers to have to 1.6 billion but sales in the fourth quarter increased by a significant market position across the range of fixed, nine per cent on the third quarter.
Total Group insurance and variable and equity-linked products and when combined investment funds under management as at 31 December with its broad distribution mix, this allows JNL to operate 2003 were 168 billion compared with 150 billion at the successfully across the economic cycle.
Despite equity end of 2002 at CER.
market volatility and the low interest rate environment during the year, JNL delivered strong results in 2003 with New business achieved profits of 605 million decreased MSB operating profits up 15 per cent at CER.
It remained by 18 per cent at CER, reflecting lower sales volumes in focused on delivering value from retail markets while the UK and the US, and total achieved basis operating actively managing capital.
Retail sales of 3.6 billion profits of 794 million were down 27 per cent at CER.
represented JNLs second best year and over 90 per cent Modified statutory basis MSB operating profits decreased of JNLs sales during the year came from products launched 17 per cent to 357 million at CER, principally due to lower WE ENDED 2003 IN A STRONG POSITION AND OUR INTERNATIONAL DIVERSIFICATION, FINANCIAL STRENGTH, AND BROAD RANGE OF PRODUCTS AND DISTRIBUTION CHANNELS MEAN WE ARE WELL PLACED FOR FUTURE GROWTH.
04 PRUDENTIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 since the beginning of 2002, demonstrating its strength in MAXIMISING OUR STRENGTHS product design and execution.
Over recent years, JNL has The influence of changing demographic trends is having developed into one of the leading life insurance companies a huge impact on our business.
Saving for retirement and in the fragmented US market and with its low cost base, the management of capital in retirement have become flexible and innovative product range and broad distribution growing issues in many of our markets, fuelled in the mix, JNL is well positioned to benefit from the upturn in the West by increasing longevity and ageing populations and US savings market.
in the emerging markets by increased urbanisation, market liberalisation, improving education standards, and a rapidly The UK remains the toughest market in which we operate.
growing middle class that wants to save more of their Uncertain equity markets, low interest rates and the income.
Prudential is in a particularly strong position to continuing government and regulatory reviews on the take advantage of these demographic changes, given future of the industry have caused consumer appetite for our international diversification and financial strength.
long-term savings to remain weak.
As a major international financial services group, one of Against this background, Prudential UK has maintained its our key strengths is our ability to maximise the synergies financial strength and focused on higher margin products that exist across the Group for the benefit of our customers.
where it has competitive advantage.
It has also grown Each of our business units around the world is focused market share in key product areas, developed innovative increasingly on sharing ideas and expertise in areas such new products, strengthened and diversified its distribution as customer service, product innovation, distribution and capabilities and maintained its focus on cost management.
For example, the opening In 2003, the long-term fund earned a return of 16.5 per cent of our customer service centre in Mumbai was an initiative and over the last 10 years it has generated a compound on which Prudential UK worked closely with PCA who annual return of 8.6 per cent, reflecting the benefits of our already had considerable experience of the Indian market: diversified investment policy.
The fund remains well capitalised PCA used JNLs product and systems expertise to help and is one of the strongest in the UK.
The free asset ratio launch a new variable annuity product in Japan and Korea: at the end of 2003 was approximately 10.5 per cent without and the launch of the Flexible Investment Plan in the UK taking account of future profits or implicit items.
Although was based on the concept behind JNLs Perspective II we remain relatively cautious for the UK in the first half variable annuity which allows customers to tailor individual of 2004, we believe that the long-term demographics are product features and benefits to their specific investment attractive and that as consumers increasingly look to financially needs.
As we continue to grow internationally, this ability strong and trusted brands when making their investment to maximise the synergies that exist across our businesses decisions, Prudential UK is well placed for growth.
is essential as we look to gain competitive advantage in our M&G maintained its good track record of profitable markets and grow the value of the Group.
growth and investment performance, increasing its underlying profit by 43 per cent and total funds under OUTLOOK management by 12 per cent.
This strong result reflects 2003 was a tough year for the life insurance industry M&Gs focus on effective cost control and the strength but we ended it in a strong position and our international of its diversified product range in retail fund management, diversification, financial strength, and broad range of institutional fixed income, pooled life and pension funds, products and distribution channels mean we are well property and private finance.
Egg continued to make excellent progress in the UK.
It more than doubled its operating profit to 73 million, increased its customer base to almost 3.2 million and it now has a market share of almost six per cent of UK credit card balances.
In France, Egg has 130,000 customers with 66,000 credit cards in issue.
Egg France reported an operating JONATHAN BLOOMER loss for the year of 89 million and Group pre-tax losses GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE were 34 million compared with 20 million in 2002.
