Group Chief Executives review 04 Group Chief Executives review 05 We have kept in place many of the successful cross-business In 2003 we continued our focus on teams established during the NatWest integration.
With the skills delivering strong growth organically and built up during that process, they have now turned their attention to further improving our service to customers and our efficiency.
Customer numbers Our customers rose across all our divisions.
Our It has been particularly pleasing to see again good growth in cost:income ratio, a key measure of our customer numbers across all our businesses.
We are proud of the large numbers of awards our businesses have won this year efficiency, improved to 42%.
Our profit for products and services.
before tax, goodwill amortisation and We are the only bank in the UK to give our customers the option integration costs increased by 11%, to call their local branch.
We believe that what matters is that customers have choice: some prefer to use telephone or internet and our adjusted earnings per share banking while others prefer to speak to one of our customer increased by 11%.
service advisers who are all based in the UK, Europe or the US, close to the customers they serve.
These are pleasing figures, the more so since they demonstrate Our people a consistently strong performance over the last decade.
The Our people have delivered everything that has been asked of strength and diversity of the Group we are building gives us them and more, particularly during the integration of NatWest.
continued scope for growth and creates many strategic options.
We are committed to retaining their trust and loyalty, meeting their development needs and are complementing our extensive Good organic growth last year is indicative of the focus and range of training with new and enhanced leadership commitment to building our existing businesses.
We believe our staff are the key to our growth with the exception of Wealth Management, increased their and that they should share in the success they have helped to contribution to the Group, with particularly strong performances create.
We have again set the staff profit share at 10% of basic from RBS Insurance and Retail Direct which achieved growth of salaries.
As a result of growing volumes across our businesses, 32% and 25% respectively.
we have increased our staff numbers again this year.
We announced eight acquisitions during 2003.
Some of these Our shareholders were concentrated on product areas where we saw considerable We made the final Additional Value Share payment of 1.5 billion, scope for both growth and efficiency improvement.
The meaning that a total of 2.7 billion has been returned to shareacquisition of Churchill Insurance Group, completed in September holders by this means, following the acquisition of NatWest.
2003, positions RBS Insurance as the UKs second largest general insurer.
The purchase of First Active plc by Ulster Bank, Our underlying capital generation continues to be good.
We completed in January 2004, has greatly strengthened our have the capital strength to grow our existing businesses and presence in financial services in Ireland.
take advantage of acquisition opportunities when they arise and when we see value for our shareholders.
Other acquisitions reinforced the geographic reach of the Group in Europe and the US.
Citizens made three more bank By maintaining our focus on the fundamentals of growing income, acquisitions and is now the 13th largest commercial banking improving efficiency and maintaining credit quality, we are organisation in the US by deposits.
The purchase of the credit confident that we can continue to deliver superior sustainable card and personal loans portfolios of Santander Direkt in value to our shareholders.
Germany expanded our European consumer finance operation.
Coutts enhanced its position in international wealth management Fred Goodwin, Group Chief Executive with the acquisition of Bank von Ernst in Switzerland.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Group Chief Executives review
