Chairman and Chief Executives review Capital gains, Capital growth: Chairman Peter Cawdron and Chief Executive David Mansfield review Capital Radios progress and look forward to the year ahead 2 | Capital Radio plc | www.
com OUR PROGRESS AND FUTURE PROSPECTS Following a challenging few years for the radio industry, do you see any signs of improvement?
Our business is all about people: our listeners in the The first months of the current financial year have communities we serve, the customers who advertise on shown some growth.
Revenue in October was up 8% and our stations and the talented people we employ across November looks likely to be up around 4% against the the Group.
In the 2003 Annual Report some of our own same period last year.
Advertising revenues in the people review our performance over the past year and government, household supplies and cosmetics categories look at the opportunities for future growth.
have performed well over the last year and an increasing number of advertising campaigns are being booked further We start with our Chairman, Peter Cawdron and Chief in advance, providing greater revenue visibility for Executive, David Mansfield answering questions on the December.
This indicates that the month will be in positive Groups activities, performance and strategy for growth.
We therefore expect to see six consecutive months of growth from July to December 2003.
How has the Group performed this year?
Industry forecasts indicate that radio revenue will It has been another difficult year for media companies grow approximately 5% in the year to September 2004. in general and Capital Radio has been no exception.
We continue to believe that sustained growth will Trading conditions in our markets have been tough for return to the radio advertising sector over time and most of the last financial year, with a slight improvement that it will continue to outperform display advertising.
Group revenues for the last financial year were down 4% year on year and underlying Group profit before tax was down 18% year on year.
How have the brands performed over the past year and in particular, your London station 95.8 Capital FM?
This performance reflects tough operating conditions In 2002 we restructured our business around four key in the third year of the advertising recession and our radio brands and implemented a portfolio management significant exposure to the cyclical national advertising strategy.
Restructuring was an important decision for market.
Within this operating environment, we have us and it enabled the Group to offer a strong proposition concentrated on running the business effectively, while for national advertisers.
In 2003, 45% of our top 200 firmly managing our cost base.
This year, we reduced advertisers were buying airtime across all four of our net debt, maintained the dividend level and had an radio brands, demonstrating considerable movement interest cover of 16x.
over recent years and proving that this is the right strategy for achieving long-term growth.
As a Group, while we lost some audience at Londons 95.8 Capital FM, we have grown our total number of However, this year we recognised that our London listeners in the quarter to September 2003 to 7.7 million flagship station, 95.8 Capital FM, required greater with audience gains in the Xfm, Century FM and Capital creative and programming focus at a senior level.
Our progress in growing our stations We therefore initiated structural, management and outside of London demonstrates our strategy of programming changes to tackle increased competition developing a portfolio of complementary radio brands and declining audiences.
This culminated in September with strong local appeal.
with the announcement of the stations new breakfast show presenter.
We are confident that in time, these moves will reverse the recent decline in audience figures at 95.8 Capital FM.
What is important to remember is that, across London in an increasingly competitive marketplace, the Group has maintained its leadership position, supported by the other radio brands in our portfolio: Xfm, Capital Gold and imminently Choice FM.
com | 3 Chairman and Chief Executives review Outside London, where we generate over 50% of Group of the show.
We knew this would be a challenging revenues, we have seen some notable successes.
The time for our listeners, but we also knew these disruptions Century FM Network has had a particularly promising year were necessary for the shows long-term future.
with 105.4 Century FM becoming the Northwests leading We believe that in Johnny Vaughan, our new breakfast commercial radio station.
With a record number of show presenter, we have the best catalyst to attract listeners and share of listening hours across the listeners to the station.
In addition, we have network, our success with Century FM is an made substantial structural, management important example of the Groups ability and programming changes to the to acquire and grow successful radio station to give listeners a more brands.
Our other radio brands, consistent approach across the day.
Capital Gold and Xfm, continue to perform well, taking advantage of We are confident that we will end the brand extension opportunities including year with key issues at 95.8 Capital FM new digital platforms, compilation CDs, resolved and we will be better positioned events and publications.
to take advantage of the eventual upturn in the advertising market.
In the last 12 months we have also restructured and strengthened our Commercial Division with new, brand focused national and local sales teams now in With more customers advertising across the Groups place.
We are confident that these changes will have a brands, what will Choice FM add to the portfolio?
positive effect on our commercial operations.
Having acquired a 19% stake in Londons Choice FM in 2001, we announced on 19 November 2003 that we would be enhancing our London portfolio by acquiring Staying with London, will revenue be affected by the remaining 81% share of Choice FM with effect from recent audience losses at 95.8 Capital FM?
This announcement was made subsequent We expect to see limited short-term effect on our to our preliminary results announcement and the signing revenues.
Any impact is considerably offset by audience of our Financial Statements on 13 November 2003.
The gains at our other London stations and around the additional consideration will be satisfied by the issue Group.
Also, we increasingly sell advertising packages of approximately 2.5 million Capital Radio shares.
across all of our stations, so many key advertisers buy For indicative purposes, at the closing share price airtime across the Group not just on 95.8 Capital FM.
prior to announcement, these would be valued at In addition, advertising price is determined by the approximately 11.7 million.
number of listeners a station has, referred to in the industry as reach.
95.8 Capital FM remains Londons Choice FM owns and operates two FM radio licences, leading commercial station with 2.3 million listeners broadcasting urban contemporary music to a potential more than any of our commercial competitors.
audience of 5.8 million adults in London.
This was a transitional year for the station and we Choice FM is a good investment for us because it has believe that the majority of recent audience losses potential to grow its audiences and it complements were attributable to changes to the breakfast show.
our existing portfolio of stations in London.
The station As we prepared to replace Chris Tarrant, the shows will strengthen our London audience proposition to presenter of over 16 years, we recognised how important our advertisers and put us in a much stronger position it was to secure the right personality.
Over the last year, to directly target our commercial radio competitors.
we trialed new presenters and worked on the format 4 | Capital Radio plc | www.
com We already sell Choice FM airtime to national advertisers Our strategy for long-term future growth: and will see increased benefits when we bring it fully Our aim is to increase our exposure to into the Capital family of stations in the new year.
the national radio advertising market by increasing the number of commercially attractive listeners we deliver to our What are Capitals plans for growth and what advertisers.
This aim is at the heart are the implications of the Communications Act?
Capital Radio has grown dramatically over the years of all of the decisions we make about from two stations and 3.6 million listeners in 1992 to future strategy.
our current 20 analogue stations, 50 digital licences and 7.7 million listeners nationally.
We believe that there is still plenty of room for organic growth within We are confident that we can achieve our existing branded radio networks, but we will growth by: also focus on growing our business by exploiting new  Continuing to invest in our portfolio technologies such as digital radio.
In addition, we will make acquisitions where we see the right strategic fit of complementary, nationally and the opportunity to create shareholder value.
recognised radio brands while maintaining strong local appeal The new regulatory environment, which will be brought  Pursuing strategic acquisitions about by the Communications Act, will present a number that will add value to the Group of opportunities for us to expand through acquisition.
As the UKs leading commercial radio group, Capital  Expanding our radio brands onto has lobbied hard to change local radio ownership new platforms to create new rules which now ensure that a minimum of two local sources of revenue commercial broadcasters and the BBC can operate in any  Exploiting new technologies such one radio market.
We believe that the two plus one rule as digital radio will provide the most significant changes to the radio landscape.
However, while the Communications Act will  Continuing to employ and develop also open the doors to non-EU ownership, commercial the best creative talent in the UK radio in the UK will still be governed by strict rules on radio industry.
With our strong financial position and infrastructure, we are well placed to take advantage of the new opportunities for growth, including the acquisition of the right assets at the right price as regulatory changes make this possible.
What are the long-term prospects for Capital?
While we have seen some positive signs in our current trading, we feel that its still too early to predict a return to sustained advertising growth.
However, our stations give advertisers access to the UKs most commercially attractive group of listeners across a unique portfolio of complementary radio brands.
We therefore remain confident that there will be an eventual upturn in the advertising market and believe that our structure, cost base and national position make us well placed to take advantage of any improvement when it occurs.
