Schroder Ventures International Investment Trust plc Chairman and CEOs Statement CAPITAL RAISINGS We are pleased to announce an encouraging set of results, In what was a difficult fund raising environment, especially in despite a difficult operating environment, with fully diluted net the public markets, SVIIT raised a total of 96.9 million of new assets per share increasing by 3% to 458.7p 526.6 million.
capital during the year: 49 million through a placement of convertible bonds in May and August and 47.9 million from PORTFOLIO PERFORMANCE an equity placing in October.
The proceeds from these Against a backdrop of continued economic uncertainty, capital raisings will be used to continue our strategy of conict in the Middle East and a weakening US$, the portfolio investing in buy-out and development capital funds of companies continues to perform well, generating cash managed or advised by Permira or Schroder Ventures and and repaying debt, in spite of a slight decrease in portfolio for general corporate purposes.
NEW NAME The portfolio is sensitive to currency uctuations, which have SVIIT has grown signicantly since it was launched in May affected both valuations and individual company earnings.
In 1996 and is now a FTSE 250 company and one of the largest terms of valuations, the portfolio has benefited from the investment trusts listed on the London Stock Exchange.
This, strengthening of the euro against sterling over the year, coupled with the growth of SVIITs fund advisory business despite a weakening US$.
On the other hand, the and the fact that the Schroders name is not our own, has 4 depreciating US$ has impacted a number of SVIITs portfolio highlighted to the Board the need for SVIIT to create its own company earnings, particularly those with euro costs and name, better reflecting its business activities and US$ sales.
Despite this, cash generation and debt independence.
Accordingly, we will be seeking shareholder repayment, in addition to an increase in comparable EBIT approval at the forthcoming AGM to re-name the Company multiples, has meant that the majority of the portfolio as SVG Capital plc, with the advisory businesses re-naming valuations have remained relatively robust in local currency to SVG Advisers.
As SVG Capital plc, we will continue our investment strategy, SVIIT has reported compound annual growth in net assets and the relationships with Schroders, Permira and the per share over five years of 10%, which compares to Schroder Ventures international association remain as negative compound annual returns of the FTSE All-Share before.
Subject to performance, SVIIT will continue to invest and FTSE World Index of 4% and 3% respectively.
in the buy-out and development capital funds managed or advised by Permira and Schroder Ventures.
Our advisory businesses will continue to work closely with Schroders as NEW FUND COMMITMENTS the investment adviser to both the Schroder Private Equity Permira Europe III Fund of Funds I and II.
Schroders and its clients remain As announced in the December 2003 Newssheet, SVIIT major shareholders in SVIIT.
increased its commitment to Permira Europe III to 508 million at the funds final closing.
OPERATING REVIEW It is almost three years since the launch of the fund advisory P123 business within SVIIT and we are pleased with progress to P123 had a final close in December 2003, having received date.
The business has grown successfully both in terms of commitments from external investors of 167 million.
SVIIT revenues and funds under management and we now have transferred 105 million of assets in Permira Europe I and II 24 employees.
to P123 in return for a 38% holding in the company.
Therefore, at its final closing P123 had 105 million of We started the fund advisory business in 2001 and the secondary assets in Permira Europe I and II and an uncalled difficult fundraising market that ensued in the following three commitment of 367 million to Permira Europe III.
years required the team to react quickly to new challenges Schroder Ventures International Investment Trust plc Chairman and CEOs Statement continued BOARD CHANGES and initiatives.
The private equity side of the business Andrew Sykes will step down from the Board of the Company currently advises four products, with combined third party on 31 March 2004.
The Directors would like to thank Andrew funds under management of over 800 million, with a further for his major contribution to the Company since his two products expected to be launched this year.
equity business, which we started just over a year ago, has successfully launched two products with combined OUTLOOK commitments and assets in excess of 55 million.
Although On the investment side, the environment continues to show early days, the performance of both the private and public signs of improvement as conglomerates continue to be equity products has been good.
under pressure to restore balance sheets over leveraged by Private Equity acquisitions in the late 1990s.
Relatively low interest rates in The Schroder Private Equity Fund of Funds II is scheduled to Europe, although likely to increase over the medium term, have a final close in April 2004.
To date, the fund of funds remain supportive of current investment activity.
has received commitments of 147 million and we hope to There is clear improvement in the environment for exits, with achieve the target of 200-250 million at its final close next increased activity in the capital markets and signs of month.
Through the use of its warehouse facility the fund of renewed interest by trade participants for strategic assets.
funds has already made commitments of 95 million to 5 We are cautiously optimistic that if the improved environment seven private equity funds in the US and Europe.
for exits continues it will have a positive impact on SVIITs Public Equity portfolio of companies during the year.
The Strategic Recovery Fund had a final close at 15 million in January 2004.
The fund will invest in lowly valued publicly quoted companies using private equity techniques and where the potential for strategic change can be seen.
The fund will aim to invest in five to seven companies operating in a number of industries and geographic areas.
John McLachlan The SVIIT UK Focus Fund, the Dublin listed OEIC that was Chairman launched in August last year had net assets of 26 million at 31 December 2003 and has since grown to over 40 million.
The fund now has 25 investments and has produced a 16% return since its launch.
NEW BVCA GUIDELINES In August 2003, the British Venture Capital Association BVCA published new valuation guidelines for private equity.
Nicholas Ferguson The 31 December 2003 portfolio valuation was performed in Chief Executive accordance with these new guidelines and there was no 26 March 2004 material impact on the overall valuation of the portfolio.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING An Annual General Meeting will be held at 12.00pm on 29 April 2004 at 31 Gresham Street, London, EC2V 7QA and will, as in previous years, include a presentation on the activities of the Company.
