Chief Executives Review A number of significant achievements and events influenced our performance in 2003 and shaped the outlook for the Group going forward.
The basis for our success is our strategy for sustainable long-term growth, supported by our ongoing drive for cost reduction and performance improvement.
This not only enabled us to deliver profit before tax, goodwill and exceptional items of 50.8 million, backed by strong cash generation, but also positions the Group for further growth in 2004 and beyond, despite Network Rails decision to take all rail maintenance contracts in-house.
Strong cash management resulted in a substantial second half cash inflow of almost 100 million and net cash at the year-end of 75.8 million.
Nottingham Express Transit NET We have completed the infrastructure contract for NET and the John McDonough tram system is now fully operational and open to the public.
Returns Chief Executive on our 3.4 million 12.5 per cent equity interest in this project are expected to be in line with our original investment model.
A sustainable new profit stream from PPP equity sales In addition to ordinary profit before tax, goodwill and exceptional items of 50.8 million, we made an exceptional tax-free net profit of 11.2 million on the sale of our 4.1 million equity interest in the Darent Valley Hospital PPP project.
The proceeds from this sale supported the Directors previous valuation of the Groups total PPP equity portfolio of approximately 115 million.
We plan to continue selling our PPP equity stakes in mature projects and the Boards current intention is to continue to return a proportion of the profits to shareholders, whilst re-investing in new PPP projects to generate further returns.
Further investment of between 20 million and 30 million is already planned in seven new projects, which have recently reached financial close or for which we are the preferred bidder.
Re-cycling our PPP equity stakes in this way will create a new sustainable profit stream for the Group, which we expect to be tax-free in 2004 and 2005, given the Group has substantial capital tax losses and can claim tax relief by way of substantial shareholder exemption on certain projects.
Rail maintenance Network Rails announcement in October 2003 that all rail maintenance contracts are to be taken in-house by September 2004 came as a complete surprise to the industry, given earlier public assurances from Network Rail that it would not do this.
As previously announced, we estimate that the loss of rail maintenance contracts will reduce our operating profit by around 7 million in 2004 and by 15 million in 2005.
However, the precise effects will depend on the timing and terms under which contracts are transferred to Network Rail, which remain subject to negotiations with Network Rail.
04 Carillion plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Cost reduction and performance improvement The pursuit of cost reduction and performance improvement is fundamental to the long-term success of our business.
In 2003, unavoidable increases in pensions and insurance costs of 18 million were covered by cost reduction.
Our drive to do things smarter, better, faster will play a major part in helping us to achieve our target of improving the Groups operating margin by one per cent over the next three years.
Health and Safety In 2003, the Groups Accident Frequency Rate reduced by 24 per cent to its lowest ever level of 0.34 accidents reportable under the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations per 100,000 hours, which we expect to rank with the best in our industry.
However, as the Chairman 1 has commented in his statement, this has been overshadowed by the deep sense of shock and sadness felt by all our people following the tragic rail accident on the West Coast Main Line in February 2004.
A summary of our Health and Safety, performance and programme for continuous improvement can be found on pages 14 to 17 of this report.
As usual, we shall report in more detail in our 2003 Sustainability Report, which will be published in April.
Sustainability Creating a more sustainable business through understanding, measuring and improving the impacts we have on society and the environment, is not only an important part of risk management, but a differentiator that is helping us to deliver 2 our business objectives and our strategy for growth.
A summary of our programme for sustainable development and our performance in 2003 can be found on pages 14 to 17 of this report.
More detailed information will be published in our 2003 Sustainability Report in April.
Order book In 2003, we continued to win work in all our key markets and maintained our year-end order book at 5 billion.
The composition of our order book continues to reflect our strategy, with 70 per cent of the 5 billion now in our growth markets of Services and PPP Investments and 70 per cent for 2005 and beyond.
In addition, our pipeline of probable new orders is at its highest ever level at around 2.5 billion.
1 We are creating some of the most 2 Carillion seeks to build relationships exciting and effective spaces in the with the communities in which it world.
At the Great Western Hospital operates.
We do this through working Restructured for growth in Swindon, we have integrated our with national and local environmental In 2003, we completed our current restructuring programme skills including project finance, design, and community organisations.
Pictured to improve operational efficiency and accelerate the delivery of construction, maintenance and life-time here are pupils from the Prince Albert asset management to produce a stateSchool in Birmingham on a work our growth strategy.
We have created three major new business of-the-art hospital that is also one of experience visit.
groups Health, Transport and Business Services aligned with the UKs most sustainable buildings.
Each is driven by the needs of its customers and capable of delivering fully integrated solutions, from project finance through design and construction to lifetime maintenance and facilities management.
These three new businesses together with our Private Finance, Crown House, Building Developments and International Regional businesses are supported by common shared services and a lean head office function.
The acquisition of Swedish Rail Systems in June 2003 for 2.9 million has enhanced prospects for growth in our Transport business and the disposal of four more non-core businesses Expanded Piling, Markfield Insurance and two materials testing facilities in the Middle East, for a total of 7.0 million will help us focus senior management time and resources on our growth market sectors.
05 Carillion plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Chief Executives Review continued Aligning our people and strengths with growth markets Transport Our Transport business is one of the UKs leading providers of road and rail infrastructure services.
Carillion was the most successful contractor in the UK roads sector in 2003, winning long-term maintenance contracts for the Highways Agency and Surrey County Council with a combined value of nearly 400m and a 65m Early Contractor Involvement contract for the Highways Agency to upgrade the A74 to motorway standard in Cumbria.
This success has continued in 2004 with the award of a maintenance contract for Warwickshire County Council and financial close on the A249 PPP project, together worth over 240m.
Markets and outlook Transport In transport we are focused on the heavy rail and roads markets.
Capital investment in the UKs heavy rail network is forecast to grow by between 5 per cent and 10 per cent per annum over the next three years.
The outlook for enhancement projects and track renewals therefore remains positive.
In particular, further investment in West Coast Route Modernisation, which is expected to be at least 5 billion, and being selected as a framework contractor by Network Rail for its new 2.5 billion track renewal programme, will continue to create significant opportunities for our rail business.
We will continue to have a strong presence in UK rail maintenance, because our contract to maintain the Channel Tunnel Rail Link, worth up to 120 million over 10 years, is unaffected by Network Rails recent decision on maintenance.
Following the acquisition of Swedish Rail Systems, we expect significant opportunities for growth in Scandinavia.
For example, the Swedish rail authorities plan to outsource an additional Aligning our people and strengths with growth markets 500 million per annum of infrastructure work by 2008.
Health The outlook for road construction and maintenance is continuing growth.
In construction, we are targeting the 11 billion Our Health business is one of the UKs leading providers of programme of projects being procured under the Governments integrated infrastructure and services solutions and is focused Early Contractor Involvement and PPP initiatives and were on five market sectors PPP hospitals, ProCure 21, Independent awarded two major projects worth nearly 200 million in Sector Treatment Centres ITSC, Local Improvement Finance 2003.
In maintenance, we are seeking to increase our 11 per Trust LIFT projects and non-PPP facilities management cent share of the 800 million a year Highways Agency market, by expanding the range of services we provide.
We also continue In 2003, we reached financial close on our sixth UK PPP hospital to target large maintenance contracts for Local Highway and became preferred bidder for a further UK hospital and for Authorities, a market worth around 800 million a year and Canadas first two PPP hospitals four hospitals together worth growing at 5 per cent per annum.
Our success in winning a around 2.3bn.
We also reached financial close on our first ISTC, major contract for Surrey County Council in 2003 has been became preferred bidder for our first LIFT project and were followed by a similar contract for Warwickshire County Council, selected as a framework contractor for ProCure 21. early in 2004, together worth over 240 million.
Health The UK health market is set to grow rapidly as a result of the Governments commitment to increase annual spending on health by some 40 billion to 105 billion by 2008.
Within this market we are targeting five specific sectors PPP hospitals, Independent Sector Treatment Centres ISTC, Local Improvement Finance Trust LIFT projects, ProCure 21 and non-PPP facilities management.
PPP hospitals will continue to be one of our most important growth sectors, with over 20 further concessions for major hospitals, worth around 15 billion, due to be let as early as 2005.
We are a market leader in this sector and expect to build on the progress we made in 2003, which included reaching financial close on our sixth UK hospital and becoming the 06 Carillion plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 preferred bidder for a further UK hospital and for Canadas first Aligning our people and strengths with growth markets two PPP hospitals.
These four hospitals are together worth Business Services around 2.3 billion.
With planned new investment of some 12 billion in ISTCs, LIFT In Business Services we have brought together our Building and and ProCure 21 projects between 2004 and 2008, we shall be Services businesses to improve our ability to offer customers seeking to build on the presence we have established in these cost-effective, integrated solutions.
In 2003, we reached financial close on our first ISTC, became preferred bidder for our first LIFT project, were selected Our Building business is a UK leader focused on the retail, by the NHS as one of its principal partners for ProCure 21 and high-rise urban residential and office sectors of the commercial were awarded our first ProCure 21 contract.
Non-PPP facilities building market and on PPP construction.
Our Services business management continues to be an important growth sector for us.
provides integrated facilities management services for over 2 With annual NHS expenditure of around 1 billion in this sector, 500,000m of public and private sector estate.
Its customers we will be seeking to add to the four long-term contracts we range from blue-chip companies, including Coca-Cola, HBOS already hold, worth around 42 million per annum.
and Microsoft to Government Departments, including the NHS, Ministry of Defence and the Royal Parks.
Business Services Our Business Services business is focused on two UK markets private sector facilities management and commercial building.
In commercial building, we continue to target the offices, retail and urban high-rise residential sectors.
The downturn in the South East, particularly in office developments, continues to be offset by buoyant markets in the Midlands and North.
Consequently, the order book is healthy and we expect growth in our commercial building activities in 2004.
In facilities management we are targeting a market worth around 5.5 billion a year and growing at 5 per cent per annum.
The acquisition of Citex Management Services in 2002 considerably strengthened our presence and capability in this market.
We therefore expect to build on the success we had in 2003 in winning a 90 million contract for Telewest Broadband and grow this area of our business in 2004.
Crown House, our mechanical and electrical engineering business, made good progress in 2003.
It achieved an overall breakeven performance on substantially reduced turnover and it exited the year trading profitably with a very strong order book.
Our Building Developments business once again delivered excellent results and we expect this performance to continue in 2004.
Overall, the outlook for our International Regional Businesses remains positive.
In Canada, we expect further growth in our Business Services and PPP investment activities, following the good progress made in 2003.
In the Middle East, we expect our traditional construction market to remain strong and to grow our facilities management business.
In France, trading conditions in 2003 were the most positive for several years and this is expected to continue in 2004.
Therefore, the outlook for the Group is encouraging and we expect to deliver healthy growth in 2004 and beyond.
John McDonough Chief Executive, 10 March 2004 07 Carillion plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003
