Group Chief Executives Review The Group has achieved strong results in 2003.
We are establishing a track record of consistent delivery.
In 2003 we improved performance despite a challenging environment, with the SARS virus in East Asia, the war in Iraq and the low interest rate environment globally.
This has demonstrated the strength of our management, the motivation of our people and the resilience of our business.
Two years ago, our management team made a commitment to improve the Banks financial performance.
Since then, operating profit has increased from $1.1 billion to over $1.5 billion.
Return on Equity has improved from 12.0 per cent to 15.3 per cent.
Earnings Per Share EPS has grown from 66.3 cents to 89.6 cents, up 35 per cent.
The key for us going forward is to deliver against a balanced scorecard of sustainable revenue growth, tightly controlled costs, increasing EPS and improved Total Shareholder Returns.
At the same time we have to invest in our brand and ensure our staff are engaged.
This will involve making some trade-offs on key metrics.
In 2003 we took advantage of good profits in the first half to invest in our Consumer Banking business and lay further foundations for growth in 2004.
We deliberately traded short-term improvement in our costincome ratio to accelerate growth.
However, we remain focused on costs and we expect an improvement in our cost-income ratio this year.
6 Provision for bad debts and contingent liabilities $ million 801 731 712 536 470 99 00 01 02 03 We have also traded revenue to reduce Wholesale Banking Despite a low interest rate environment, the risk of parts of our business, and Objective: Drive returns we are generating more customer we are seeing the benefits of this in the We committed to improving returns in revenue from our capital.
Given the reduction in our bad debts, which came Wholesale Banking by changing the momentum of customer business we down 25 per cent.
shape of the business, reducing the risk will continue to do so.
profile and achieving positive jaws In short, we have grown our business.
the gap between revenue growth and Our performance on bad debts in We have delivered better returns and cost growth.
Wholesale Banking has been we have invested for growth.
outstanding, underpinned by very strong We have rationalised our customer base.
Sustaining this excellent We have also improved our processes We traded revenue for risk reduction, performance will be a challenge as the and controls.
We have become a more which is reflected in our improved bad level of non-performing loans continues tightly disciplined Group.
We have also invested in new to reduce.
However, tight risk is stronger and we have a clear product capabilities, particularly in our management remains a cornerstone of strategic direction.
The result has our Wholesale Banking strategy.
been a low level of bad debts, Our aspiration is to be the worlds best diversified revenue streams and We have controlled costs firmly, scaling international bank, leading the way in improved returns.
back in unprofitable segments and Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
geographies such as Latin America.
We In 2003, profits increased by 18 per will continue to pace investment with I see the past two years as the first cent, driven by revenue growth of seven capital capacity and revenue growth.
phase of our journey towards this per cent.
There was tight control on Consumer Banking aspiration: performance improvement costs and an outstanding net bad Objective: Grow revenue and bringing returns to a higher level.
We are now entering the next phase In Consumer Banking we have built which will be about growth, investment Customer revenue growth of 11 per cent market share in a number of markets and continued delivery.
more than offset a decline in revenue and produced strong revenue growth.
from asset and liability management.
Our 2003 priorities Our investment in building a broad Overall we increased our Consumer Last year we outlined to you the following range of more value-added, less capitalBanking profits by 19 per cent in 2003. agenda for 2003: intensive products, such as derivatives, fixed income and structured products, Revenue grew strongly outside of Hong Drive returns in Wholesale Banking is bearing fruit with our customers.
Kong, but fell in Hong Kong as a direct result of the actions we took to contain Grow Consumer Banking revenue Our strength in foreign exchange was the personal bankruptcy problem that Accelerate growth in India recognised by awards from FX Week as has affected Hong Kongs banking Leverage opportunities in China Best Bank in Emerging Asian Currencies industry.
In 2004 we expect to see a and Best Bank in Emerging African return to revenue growth in Hong Kong Drive technology improvements Middle East Currencies.
as the consumer-led recovery there We have made good progress.
We have made excellent progress in trade finance, increasing revenue by 10 per cent in 2003.
The launch of B2BeX, our internet platform for trade sourcing, payments and financing, has been a success.
There are now over 450 companies using this.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Standard Chartered 7 Group Chief Executives Review Costs rose as we deliberately accelerated In the United Arab Emirates UAE we investment in new markets, new launched new credit card products, products and new service platforms in expanded our investment services the second half.
This included launching unit and made improvements to our Consumer Banking in South Africa and branches.
We also began the launch South Korea: launching the Manhattan of our internet banking service across credit card in Singapore and the region.
MortgageOne in new markets: expanding distribution and upgrading phone and Our progress in Consumer Banking was internet banking across a number recognised in the Lafferty Retail of countries.
Banking Awards the industry benchmark where we were named In 2003 we saw double-digit revenue Best Retail Bank in Asia Pacific.
growth in most markets and, in some, growth of more than 20 per cent.
Credit We enter 2004 with real impetus and card revenue grew strongly and we are Consumer Banking will continue to be making good progress in the personal an engine for future growth.
Our mortgage business Standard Chartered in Africa, Middle India performed very well, particularly East and South Asia has performed well.
Objective: Accelerate growth MortgageOne, an innovative off-set Our knowledge of our markets and our long-term commitment, have earned us mortgage product, which continued to In India we had a good year on the good relationships with customers, host capture market share.
back of robust revenue growth.
We are a very visible name in the community.
Our In Indonesia and India, in particular, we Our customer base and brand businesses in the UK and the Americas continued the expansion of our branch recognition is growing rapidly along are an important part of our international networks.
In Thailand and Taiwan we with our product range and we have network.
They play a key role in originating have seen a significant increase in a better balanced business.
business for our markets in Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
revenue, with personal loans and wealth Chris Keljik management products proving We have diversified our product base Group Executive Director particularly successful.
to include mortgages and we have seen strong growth in mortgages and Malaysia achieved good growth in investment services.
Traditionally, our profitability, helped by mortgage sales India Consumer Banking business was and a decrease in bad debts.
liabilities-led which resulted in short term margin pressure.
However, our expanding mortgage book means that assets are now growing strongly which should generate good revenue growth in 2004.
8 Bringing banking to Afghanistan First rupee option We paved the way for the regeneration of financial Our investment in options services by becoming the first international bank capabilities meant we were to open in Afghanistan following the war.
Our able to respond when the Kabul branch will supply secured transactions and Reserve Bank of India international money transfers.
The Banks granted permission to commitment to Kabul sends a powerful message offer foreign currencyon the positive future of the country, rupee options.
We said Mike OBrien, the UKs then Minister issued Indias first ever of State for International Trade such option, of US$30 million, and Investment.
for Reliance Industries and have since done the same for a number of other key clients.
Issuing onshore rupee options underlines our position as the largest international bank in India.
Winning courage At the 2004 Standard Chartered Marathon in Hong Kong, two Kenyans won the half marathon.
Henry Wanyoike right, 29, is blind and demonstrated great courage and stamina to become the first-ever blind runner to win a race in Hong Kong.
Our sponsorship of marathons in Hong Kong, Singapore, Mumbai and Nairobi showcased the vibrancy and potential of each city, and reinforced brand awareness in surrounding communities.
Standing up to SARS Our Hong Kong office sent an important signal of Standard Chartereds commitment to Hong Kong by organising a mass shopping trip for its staff at a time when public confidence was rock-bottom The Shoppers against SARS rally, involving more than 1,000 staff, demonstrated our belief that Hong Kong is one of the Standard Chartered is committed to most vibrant markets in Asia.
taking decisive, innovative action to act as the Right Partner in Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
We are dedicated to expanding our business in these markets.
First Foreign Corporate Retail Bond in Hong Kong We broke new ground in Hong Kong by launching the markets first ever foreign corporate retail bond issue.
The offering, on behalf of Ford Motor Credit Company, underlined the potential for growth in Hong Kongs local bond market, and helped re-emphasise Hong Kongs position as an international finance centre.
Standard Chartered acted as sole underwriter in this milestone transaction.
Both the initial issue of HK$500 million and an additional tranche of US$60 million were fully subscribed.
Courageous Courageous Group Chief Executives Review We continue to build our branch and We are confident we can show distribution network and opened significant improvement in Hong Kong branches in nine new cities in 2003. as a consumer-led revival takes hold.
Consumer Banking saw renewed Our Wholesale Banking business in India revenue growth in the second half.
We has followed our client focused growth increased our penetration in the mortgage strategy.
We bank half of Indias top market, and bankruptcy bad debts fell.
300 corporations and our Global Markets In the fourth quarter, losses related to capability is gaining external recognition.
the personal bankruptcy issue fell to $29 million, the lowest since 2001 and We have achieved a lot but India is a down from $40 million in quarter three.
market where we have big ambitions.
The challenge for us now is to rebuild a We are aiming for long-term sustainable quality asset base in unsecured lending.
growth and to achieve that we will continue to diversify our product base, We have announced that we are seeking improve our risk management and to incorporate our Hong Kong business strengthen our distribution capabilities.
locally, which will underpin our strategy for growth in Greater China.
Hong Kong and China Objective: Leverage opportunities We continue to take advantage of growth The Groups long-term confidence in in the Pearl River Delta.
The Closer Hong Kong is being rewarded and we Economic Partnership Agreement saw excellent growth in operating profit.
between Hong Kong and China is We have made truly excellent progress with Although we witnessed a turbulent six fundamental to the development of regard to the debt charge.
This reflects the months due to SARS and the impact of this region.
rigour of our assessment disciplines and the the personal bankruptcies issue during anticipatory quality of our processes within the first half of the year, there was a China remains very much on our what is always a dynamic business remarkable turnaround in sentiment in agenda.
We are seeing good organic environment.
growth and increased profitability from Richard Meddings Group Executive Director our business in this market.
We also continue to explore opportunities for acquisition and minority stake investments.
10 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Shared service centres Growing consumer boost efficiency markets The total number of staff at We responded to growing our Global Shared Service markets for Consumer Banking Centres GSSCs in Chennai, services and met our India and Kuala Lumpur, shareholders demand for Malaysia, rose to 4,300 during greater investment in this 2003.
We expanded our functions into these hubs has operations in India and continued to deliver substantial increased the availability of savings though improved use mortgages, credit cards and of resources.
Priority banking Each customer is unique, and to meet their individual requirements, Standard Chartered has developed Priority banking, which caters to the needs of high net-worth individuals, and is available at more than 60 Priority Banking Centres in 20 countries worldwide.
Standard Chartered responds to Priority banking customers needs by providing constant access to a privileged service throughout our international network.
Being the Right Partner means being aware of the needs and concerns of all Standard Chartered stakeholders, and moving swiftly to meet them.
Risk management Seeing is Believing An increasingly proactive approach to risk management has enabled us to reduce the There are over 45 million blind level of bad debt across our business.
people in the world today, the Anticipating potential problems earlier, and majority of whom reside in our core working in partnership with customers to markets, in Asia, Africa and the manage accounts, has made a positive Middle East.
Eighty per cent of impact across all areas of our business.
cases could be prevented or cured if people had access to the right knowledge or treatment.
Our ongoing Seeing is Believing campaign has so far raised enough money to restore the sight of over 56,000 people around the world.
Responsi five Responsi five Group Chief Executives Review Technology and thirdly, continued but focused Objective: Drive improvements investment in our infrastructure.
The Group has made significant progress There will be further infrastructure in 2003 towards improving operational investment in 2004, but it will efficiency.
We have now built the capability be targeted, focused and and capacity needed to underpin our tightly controlled.
growth strategy going forward and Other performance highlights I am proud of what we have achieved in Africa this area.
We can single out Africas performance, where operating profits increased by This has not been done through any 50 per cent in 2003. grand cutting-edge solution: but through focused and disciplined project prioritisation and investment, and through Wholesale Banking is central to our the courage and tenacity it took to build growth and is producing high returns.
our hubs and move to standardisation Consumer Banking is comparatively and centralisation of processes.
small, but we are in the process of transforming it from a traditional savings Our franchise in Asia has been refocused We have continued the expansion of the bank to a modern consumer bank by on growth opportunities.
In particular, we shared service centres at Chennai in migrating product capability from Asia have started the process of repositioning our Hong Kong business through local India and Kuala Lumpur in Malaysia.
incorporation and integration with our now have 3,300 employees at the two Pearl River Delta business.
Across the sites, accounting for 11 per cent of our Core countries like Kenya and Ghana Asia region, both Consumer and Wholesale workforce.
Nearly half of our world-wide produced strong growth and there are Banking have delivered strong results.
Not technology staff are now in Chennai.
great opportunities for us to grow our only has our financial performance exceeded footprint in the two biggest economies expectations, but we believe our reputation Our strategy for Technology and in the region, South Africa and Nigeria, for sound governance and participating in the communities we serve is second to none.
Operations going forward has where we are under-represented.
Kai Nargolwala three elements: Group Executive Director In South Africa, we re-entered the market rigorous vendor management: in August 2003 with a branch opening taking the hubs into the next phase and the acquisition of the digital of evolution.
The first phase was financial services company 20twenty.
Going In Nigeria, our revenue, albeit still forward we will re-engineer these relatively small today, increased 50 per processes to ensure best-in-class cent in 2003 and we plan to double the turnaround times and service, and number of branches to six this year.
also to deliver further cost benefits: Our performance was recognised by The Banker magazine, which named us Bank of the Year in Africa for 2003.
12 Ethnic breakdown Cricket tour sponsorship of employees During 2003, we sponsored the first-ever We employ 30,000 people full England cricket tour to Bangladesh.
This was a source of considerable national Last year we recruited pride in Bangladesh, where cricket is the 125 graduates split equally national sport.
The tour helped raise between genders and awareness of our various community representing 21 different initiatives and also supported the launch of nationalities, using a global a new cricket-linked credit card.
Leadership in foreign exchange Standard Chartered is the 8th largest US dollar clearer in New York, largely based on our expertise in emerging markets currencies.
In 2003, London recorded the largest turnover of FX trades.
Our Hong Kong Treasury operates one of the largest dealing rooms in the North East Asia region, incorporating the latest, state-ofthe-art risk management technology.
We are a regional currency specialist as well as a leading price maker in Hong Kong dollar treasury instruments and North East Asian currencies.
Custodian Bank in China During 2003, we were granted custodian bank status for Standard Chartered enables individuals Qualified Foreign Institutional Investors, by the Peoples Bank of China.
This positions to identify opportunities to be the Right us well for the opening up of the Chinese A-share stock Partner around the world.
We believe market to foreign capital.
We have been acting as the cash-clearing bank for the the diversity of our business helps B-share market in Shenzhen since 1992 and our strong build stronger relationships and a relationships with Chinas regulators complement our better service.
connection with the worlds prominent institutional investors.
Positioning for growth in South Africa Standard Chartered entered the consumer banking market in South Africa for the first time since withdrawing from the country under apartheid.
The acquisition of 20twenty, a local digital financial services company, ensures we are well positioned to take advantage of the potential for growth in this market.
20twentys founder and CEO Christo Davel, was appointed Head of Consumer Consumer Banking in South Korea Banking in South Africa.
Our presence in Asia expanded further with the launch of Consumer Banking services in South Korea, as reported in local newspaper headlines above.
This complemented our existing Wholesale Banking in the country.
We now offer personal loans under the Standard Chartered brand, and will introduce new products and open branches over the coming months.
Standard Chartered also holds a 9.8 per cent stake in Koram, South Koreas sixth largest bank.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Standard Chartered 13 International International Group Chief Executives Review We became the sponsor of the Hong Risk Kong marathon in 1997.
This event has We have significantly enhanced our become an enormous success and we capability in risk management over the have started three new marathons in past two years.
We have strengthened the key cities of Singapore, Mumbai our analytical capability and tightened and Nairobi.
These are high profile our controls.
events and a great way to be part of the community.
Although 2003 presented us with a challenging risk environment, bad debts Our aspiration to lead the way sets out fell by 25 per cent to $536 million.
We our direction for future growth.
Our new have benefited from a relatively benign customer service strategy provides an credit environment in Asia, but this opportunity to drive this forward.
substantial reduction proves that our efforts to improve our risk profile, We are in an industry thats not including our willingness to sacrifice renowned for its service and recognise revenue, have paid off.
We have started by learning from some of the With the ever present threat of terrorism, great service companies retailers, corporate collapses and rapid changes in currency markets, we remain vigilant airlines and hotels to improve our Our ability to excel amidst a tough economic and keep a tight control of risk.
backdrop is testimony to the fact that we have an unique franchise, filled with a tremendous amount of drive, energy and Brand and service This will not involve major investment.
Our brand promise is to be Two core elements of our strategy are It is about processes, behaviour and the Right Partner to our customers.
Our our brand promise and our commitment culture.
We believe that our ability to innovative approach to sales and marketing, to excellent customer service.
out-serve our customers expectations together with a robust risk framework, has is fundamental to unlocking put us on a strong growth path across the Brand recognition has improved shareholder value.
significantly since our brand re-launch Mike DeNoma Group Executive Director 18 months ago.
We are adding the launch of this outserve initiative as a new item for our 2004 priorities.
14 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Islamic banking Price Solutions financial kiosks We understand the need to We launched the Groups first financial tailor products to the needs kiosk in Malaysias premier shopping of our customers.
The kiosk forms an unique and more recently MESA, we marketing channel for the sales of offer a wide range of Islamic Consumer Banking products such as banking products that comply mortgages, credit cards and business with Shariah principles.
The financial kiosk is are Malaysias largest managed by our fully-owned distributor of Islamic unit trusts subsidiary, Price Solutions.
and have recently signed a distribution agreement with the countrys two top Islamic insurance providers.
Mini credit card launch Our credit cards became a fashion statement in Hong Kong and India, when we broke the conventions of design to launch a mini credit card.
The VISA Mini Card is half the size of a regular credit card and is perforated in the corner allowing it to be attached to key rings or mobile phones.
It is helping to bring purchasing power closer to customers finger-tips during Hong Kongs economic recovery.
Creative thinkers think beyond predictable solutions.
Thats how Standard Chartered approaches each challenge, ensuring our business is based on innovative and perceptive thinking.
Manhattan credit card launch Our Manhattan credit card is the first credit card for Asian markets that is tailored to customers spending patterns.
Manhattan offers tiered interest rates, according to customers spending behaviour and risk profile.
In Singapore, Manhattan offered an APR as low as 12 per cent and its high profile advertising campaign right, aimed at young professionals, achieved awareness of 74 per cent in just four weeks.
The card will B2BeX wins award be rolled out in India, Malaysia Our online trading platform, B2BeX, was awarded the and Thailand during 2004. prestigious Wharton Infosys Business Transformation Customising interest rates Award for 2003.
B2BeX allows businesses to exchange allows us to balance credit documents and data on one integrated online system, risk management with saving up to 10 per cent in trading costs.
B2Bex is expansion in consumer now used by more than 450 companies.
Creative Creative Group Chief Executives Review Our people Our 2004 priorities We employ over 30,000 people in Accelerate Consumer Banking growth 56 countries and territories.
More than Drive returns in Wholesale Banking half our employees are educated to degree level, while 26 per cent Step-up growth in India possess a post-graduate qualification.
Build China options New talent is vital for future performance.
Deliver technology benefits Using a global online system, in 2003 Begin out-serve journey we recruited 125 graduates to our management trainee programme, split Outlook equally between genders and The past twelve months have seen representing 21 nationalities.
considerable change in the outlook for business.
A year ago there was a lot of Our focus is on helping our people play uncertainty about the direction of the to their strengths by identifying and global economy with the war in Iraq, developing their talents.
Our talent followed by the SARS outbreak in management process covers 93 per East Asia.
Now the mood is more upbeat, Since 2000 we have been systematically particularly in our markets.
However, The Bank is in very good shape and has improving employee engagement.
we are well aware that the world is still real momentum.
In 2003 we delivered a Central to this is our employee prone to the threat of terrorism as well strong financial performance, won market engagement survey.
In 2003, 95 per as corporate and economic shocks.
In share across multiple markets and made cent of employees participated.
It significant investments in our business to addition, there are concerns over the continues to highlight strong year on generate future growth.
We are confident impact of the weakness of the US dollar.
year increases in our employee that we will continue to make good progress in 2004. engagement.
Nonetheless, we believe that we have a Peter Sands management team that can deliver Group Executive Director consistent performance despite shortterm economic conditions, as we proved last year.
We have again delivered strong financial performance and our businesses have good momentum.
We are confident that we will be able to take advantage of the significant growth opportunities in our markets in the year ahead.
Mervyn Davies, CBE Group Chief Executive 18 February 2004 16 Bank of the Year for Africa Institutional Investor Research Group Award The Banker magazine awarded Standard Chartered the Bank of the Year Award for In a survey conducted by Institutional Africa, after we expanded our operations Investor Research Group, sell-side analysts in South Africa and the Ivory Coast and voted Standard Chartered as having the returned to the Nigerian market.
Our most improved performance in investor strong performances in Zimbabwe, relations within the financial industry category.
Tanzania, Kenya, Botswana and Ghana As part of our 2003 analyst itinerary, we were cited, along with the range and organised an investor trip to our hub in quality of our financial services and a Chennai.
I thought that the discussion was strong record for innovation.
hugely impressive until I had the tour of the premises.
That was truly exceptional, commented James Alexander, M&G.
Partnering Hutchison around the world Standard Chartered has a long-standing relationship with the Hutchison Whampoa Group of which their Ports division, Hutchison Port Holdings, is the worlds largest independently owned operator of container terminals.
Grace Fung Oei, Head of Large Corporates for Standard Chartered Hong Kong is pictured with John Meredith, Hutchison Port Holdings Group Managing Director, at Kwai Chung in Hong Kong, which is one of the busiest ports in the world.
Earning the trust of all our stakeholders is central to the way that Standard Chartered does business.
We are committed to transparent reporting and good corporate governance, and providing responsible products and 150 years of partnership We have been a trusted partner for 150 years.
services to meet customers needs.
Our management continues to reflect the breadth of our operations.
In total, 70 nationalities are represented in our senior management, reflecting our presence in 56 countries.
Adopting the Equator Principles We enhanced our long-established social and environmental risk processes by adopting the Equator Principles in 2003.
These have been developed following International Finance Corporation guidelines and cover the financing of projects in industries such as mining and forestry.
Under the principles, we will only provide loans to projects which are socially and environmentally responsible.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Standard Chartered 17 Trustworthy Trustworthy
