commenced Phase III studies with CDP870 Europe was impacted by enforced price in Crohns disease, and entered four new cuts, in addition to the expected loss of drugs into man, an unprecedented level of certain co-promotion revenues.
These innovative During the last 12 months we have new programmes are a result of the continued to strengthen the senior increased resources available to the management team of Celltech, and are Company since its acquisitions of delighted to have recruited a number of Chiroscience and Medeva, and have new senior leaders, including Grahaem enabled Celltech to build a strong and Brown as Director of Development, Mark sustainable early-stage pipeline under the Bushfield as Research Director for our strong leadership of Melanie Lee.
This Cambridge facility, David Sherwood as It is now close to a year since my critical mass in R&D was further enhanced Director of Group Quality and, most appointment as Chief Executive and by the addition of OGS oncology recently, Daniel Greenleaf as President of during this time my overriding operations and inherited storage disorder our US Operations.
All of these observation is of a highly innovative programmes during 2003. individuals bring substantial skills and company, full of exceptional talent.
last 12 months have seen a number of There has also been a significant changes within Celltech, most restructuring of Celltechs commercial Looking forward into 2004, Celltech has significantly the decision by Pfizer to operations towards a specialist-focused a number of important forthcoming hand back rights to CDP870.
In this regard, Celltech is milestones across all parts of its business.
unexpected development has required somewhat unusual for a company at its Most significantly, following the return of Celltech to assimilate rapidly many stage of development in making the CDP870 rights from Pfizer, there has activities that had been carried out by transition to a fully integrated biotech been a great deal of interest from major Pfizer, and has been impressively handled company with a strong commercial arm pharmaceutical and biotechnology by the many people involved.
This also ready to launch products from its own companies in collaborating on CDP870.
represents an excellent opportunity for research.
Having a tried and tested Celltech is currently in partnering Celltech to maximise the value of this organisation in place is an important discussions and aims to conclude these product for its shareholders.
factor in ensuring a successful launch of during the second quarter of 2004.
In number of our earlier stage programmes Celltechs management has also made a particular, the acquisition of Dipentum will also generate important clinical data, number of difficult decisions during the has provided an excellent entre to the and we have several important product last year aimed at strengthening the gastroenterology community and this launches in our Commercial Operations.
overall business, in particular the closure product has performed well in the hands of the Seattle site, engaged in very earlyof Celltechs sales forces.
In this years Annual Report we have stage research, and of a satellite chosen to illustrate how Celltechs manufacturing facility in California.
These Celltech has also expended considerable employees work together towards changes will allow Celltech to free up effort in making innovative new products achieving our common goals.
All of our resources to reinvest in strengthening its available to its sales forces.
During 2003, employees contribute to the success of development and late-stage research Celltechs once-daily attention deficit Celltech through their exceptional operations, and in the life cycle hyperactivity disorder ADHD product, efforts, and I would like to thank our management of key marketed products.
Equasym XL, was filed for approval in the staff for their efforts in supporting The management team also completed UK and is expected to be launched in Celltechs goal of becoming a global the acquisition and successful integration European territories during 2004, with biotechnology leader.
of Oxford GlycoSciences OGS, which the European organisation able to build brought substantial benefits to the on experience with this product in the Company at no net cost.
Celltech also in-licensed the specialist treatment, Xyrem, from Orphan Medical, The last year has seen a number of and provided responses to the FDA changes in Celltechs product pipeline.
approvable letter for its new cough Whilst there were unexpected product, Codeprex, planned for launch in disappointments, including the 2004.
Existing operations continue to discontinuation by Merck of a PDE4 perform well, especially in the US, Dr Gran Ando inhibitor Phase II trial, Celltech although the sales performance in Chief Executive 2 Celltech Annual Report 2003 Chief Executives Statement Financial results Product sales and royalties: 353.3 million 7%: 12% at constant exchange rates CER.
Net pre tax profit pre exceptional items and goodwill : 52.2 million 4% : excluding other income, net profit grew by 17%.
Earnings per share pre exceptional items and goodwill : 16.0p 3%.
Year-end cash and liquid resources 155.0 million.
Post tax results on a UK GAAP basis after goodwill amortisation and exceptional items: loss of 53.9 million, 19.5p per share 2002: loss of 45.8 million, 16.7p per share.
New alliances and acquisitions Successful acquisition and integration of Oxford GlycoSciences OGS.
Long-term microbial manufacturing agreement with Lonza.
Collaboration with Biogen on CD40 ligand for autoimmune and inflammatory diseases.
In-licensing of Xyrem, a new treatment for narcolepsy, from Orphan Medical.
R&D operations Pfizer agrees to return rights to CDP870.
Initiation of Phase III studies with CDP870 in Crohns disease.
Entry of four products into Phase I clinical development: CDP484 and CDP323 for inflammatory diseases, CDP791 and CMC-544 for cancer.
Entry of CDP146 into preclinical development.
Achievement of key milestones in Amgen collaboration on osteoporosis.
Approval of Zavesca, for Gauchers disease, in the US and Israel.
Commercial operations Product sales: 259.2 million 6% at CER, with 22% growth in key marketed brands at CER.
Completion of sales force restructuring in the UK, France and Germany.
