Chief executives review We believe that the fundamental drivers of profitability within our brand units will continue to improve as we broaden and deepen the relationships we have with our customers.
Overall the group delivered a to the full year impact of the 2002 of 935 million.
This was and branch reform of systems and strong performance in 2003 with acquisitions in Texas.
Despite primarily due to the net receipt processes will genuinely transform adjusted basic earnings per the unseasonably warm on the disposal of Goldfish the customer experience which share up 11% on 2002.
This was weather, turnover in British Gas Bank, partially offset by both our is at the heart of the profitability delivered despite the impact of increased with positive year-onpurchases of the Roosecote and of the business.
We are now the second consecutive year of year contributions from energy, Barry power stations, and allocating 40 million to the warm weather which, unusually, home services and telecoms.
deferred consideration on the programme for costs which were in 2003 also brought with it higher 2002 acquisition of customers in previously in other British Gas commodity costs: both of these Group operating profit of Texas.
Operating cash outflow budgets: for example property depressed reported margins 1,058 million was up 14% on discontinued activities of costs, post-commissioning in our gas supply businesses.
301 million mainly reflected the running costs and the cost of However, the underlying The lower profits in British repayment of Goldfish Bank staff back-filling.
Together with strength of the Centrica Gas residential and Centrica deposit accounts.
some additional home services model with its unique balance Business Services, due to the functionality now specified of upstream and downstream impact of weather and higher Lower spend in respect of the 10 million we expect the positions, together with the commodity and transportation business transformation programme to cost around positive impact of acquisitions, costs, were more than offset programme within British Gas 400 million.
We have decided has enabled us again to deliver by significant improvements was the main contributor to the to extend both the pilot and record profits despite these in other units, particularly North reduction in net capital deployment phase for the crossadverse external factors.
America, the AA and CEMG, expenditure and financial selling technology and are now and the full year contribution investment, down 120 million at around nine months behind the Turnover and profitability from Centrica Storage.
original timeline: this decision Group turnover excluding was taken to ensure the integrity Accord trading revenue was Cash flow, capital expenditure The groups net cash inflow of the system and to preserve our 11.7 billion in 2003, up 17% and acquisitions before management of liquid customer service levels as we from 2002.
Increases were Group operating cash flow from resources and financing was roll-out to the wider user base.
achieved in all of the main continuing operations, including 652 million, against a net The delay in implementation is customer facing businesses as dividends from joint ventures and outflow of 918 million in 2002. not expected to materially impact well as in the industrial and associates, before exceptional either costs or benefits from the wholesaling division of the payments was 1,321 million for Outlook programme.
The next two years Centrica Energy Management 2003 compared with 795 million We believe that the fundamental will be challenging as we put the Group CEMG.
An increase of drivers of profitability within our remaining elements of the systems growth came from North 141 million to 1,463 million customer facing brand units will infrastructure in place and the America up 112% due mainly in operating profit before continue to improve as we investment continues in the depreciation was supplemented broaden and deepen the wider transformation programme.
Operating profit m by a decrease in petroleum relationships we have with our The first material net financial revenue tax PRT payments of customers through innovative benefits are still expected in 2005 03 897 1,058 109 million and the acceleration product offerings and improved and we retain our 2005 margin 02 809 932 in 2002 of transportation service and targeting.
This will target for British Gas at 8%.
be underpinned by further 01 511 679 investment in our gas and power With churn rates within the 00 452 526 In 2003 there was a asset base.
British retail energy industry considerable reduction stabilising, we expect recent 99 335 424 in acquisition expenditure British Gas is now part way levels of customer losses in gas After goodwill amortisation and compared to the prior year.
through its transformation with and gains in electricity to be exceptional charges, including joint ventures and associates.
Receipts from disposals net of the heavy financial investment in maintained throughout 2004.
Before goodwill amortisation and acquisitions were 292 million hardware and software having As yet it is too early to assess exceptional charges, including joint ventures and associates.
versus net expenditure in 2002 taken place.
We believe this root the precise effect of the price rise Including joint ventures and associates, before goodwill amortisation.
04 Centrica plc report 2003 Operating profit by business m 2003 2002 British Gas residential 206 244 Centrica Business Services 51 65 Centrica Energy Management Group 561 519 Centrica Storage 40 1 The AA 93 73 One.
Tel 4 2 Centrica North America 130 63 Other operations 5 Goldfish Bank 27 40 Group 1,058 932 Including joint ventures and associations, before goodwill amortisation.
in January 2004 aimed at restoring years.
An integrated Our progress in 2003 has only gross margins to 2002 levels.
A the first material spend on our single customer services been possible because of the key aim for us will be to build on renewable generation assets organisation will help to further efforts of our employees.
We our success in 2003 in retaining as, with successful surveys, we deepen the customer relationship recognise that the further growth in gas, and gaining in electricity, begin construction of the 90MW and enhance the cross-selling of Centrica depends on having a greater proportion of higher offshore wind farm at Barrow.
people with appropriate skills value customers.
To assist the We are also actively seeking who are committed to the success expansion of the British Gas further assets in North America, In order to maintain its competitive of the company.
I am pleased brand, early in 2004 we will trial particularly in Texas, where position in the UK telecoms that in 2003 we achieved a very a wholesale line rental WLR we aim to acquire electricity market, One.
Tel is establishing high response rate to our telecoms solution in the UK generation plant to support a call centre in India.
We expect employee survey which allows which would allow us to provide our retail business.
this to lower the cost base us to identify the issues and a single bill to customers for significantly while maintaining areas for improvement as we both line rental and call charges.
We have taken measures over the current levels of customer progress our people strategy.
This will enhance the customer recent years to increase the service.
A successful trial in 2004 experience and give us the deliverability from our gas fields.
of a WLR solution will further In summary, our strategy has platform we require to While on average, over the enhance the customer experience.
always been and remains to accelerate the growth of medium term, gas production maximise long term value by British Gas Communications from Morecambe will decline by In North America we have deepening our relationships with and so further contribute to around 10% per year, we expect achieved a scale which allows customers assisted by sharing strengthening the relationship production levels in 2004 to be us to move steadily forward.
knowledge and best practice we have with our customers.
We will add organically to our across the company.
At the same top-line with a concentration time we must achieve a cost of With Centrica Business Services We have an ongoing programme on value.
Alongside this we will goods advantage through optimal we will seek to consolidate our of maintenance work on our use our new business services upstream procurement.
This position as the leading supplier Rough storage asset which organisation to support our strategy and our clear focus on of energy products to the will further improve the current retail positions and value delivery, including valuecommercial sector in Britain.
operational performance enter new markets, targeting adding acquisitions when Having integrated the of the asset and reduce the medium sized enterprises identified, will enable us to grow businesses acquired over the risk of material outages.
With with a full range of energy and both top-line revenue and, last two years, we are now this, and the market-driven related services.
We continue to through improving operational concentrating on investing movement in the summer pursue acquisition opportunities performance, bottom line earnings to transform the customer winter gas price differential, we but, in the current regulatory in the medium term.
We remain experience, on enhancing expect Roughs profitability to environment and given our committed to a financial structure, our ability to react to market exceed our initial expectations concentration on value, these including appropriate debt changes and on cross-selling.
and to show a marked year-onare likely to be complex and levels, which best rewards our year improvement.
We expect this to We intend to add to our gas and include, in 2004, another significant power asset portfolio in 2004.
The AA will continue to seek The competitive environment step towards our targeted We continue to target further revenue growth through valueis likely to continue to develop dividend payout ratio of 40%.
investment of around adding product developments at different speeds across 100 million per year in gas underpinned by further Europe in the short term.
reserves to support our UK improvements in operational However there is a clear customer demand and we also efficiency.
We expect to see timeline for deregulation and intend to increase our equity real benefits from the roll-out of we are well positioned to enter hedge in electricity in the UK new technology to the roadside the available markets at the with an investment of around patrols with improved service right time and when the right Sir Roy Gardner 250 million over the next three to our customers and reduced opportunity appears.
Chief executive Centrica plc report 2003 05
