AstraZeneca Annual Report and Chief Executives Review 04 Form 20-F Information 2003 Chief Executives Review $2.5 billion in the year.
Globally annual sales regulatory submission, this time for long reached $3.3 billion, less than three years term uses of Exanta in conditions such as after its first introduction in the US, making it the prevention of stroke in patients with one of the most successful launches ever of atrial fibrillation.
In summary, 2003 has been an exciting Seroquel continues to grow strongly in the year of great achievement.
I would like to anti-psychotic market where its attractive acknowledge the tremendous support I profile makes it the agent of choice for have received from my executive team increasing numbers of physicians and and to recognise the immense contribution patients.
Sales in 2003 were $1.5 billion and made by our creative, hardworking and now, with the approval of a major new committed employees around the world.
In 2003, AstraZeneca made excellent indication, the treatment of mania Their combined efforts have already progress establishing itself as a world associated with bipolar disease, Seroquel achieved a great deal.
There is now much leading pharmaceutical company focused looks set to play a key part in our future to do to realise the potential for outstanding on the research, development, manufacture growth.
growth and financial performance from this and marketing of valuable prescription strong base.
medicines and creating the platform for top AstraZenecas cancer portfolio also made tier financial performance in the coming strong progress during the year with The external environment is changing and years.
First launches of Crestor, the further excellent data supporting the use of our industry has to change with it.
development of marketed products such as Arimidex 2003 sales $519 million in the Demographics and technology continue to Iressa, Nexium and Seroquel, and the first adjuvant treatment of breast cancer, strong drive demand for healthcare and for our approval for the revolutionary antisales for Faslodex $77 million which was products with the result that governments coagulant, Exanta, herald the passage into launched in 2002 in the US, and the and payers face increasing pressure to an exciting new era for the Company.
successful US launch of Iressa 2003 global control costs.
At the same time the disparity sales $228 million for the treatment of late of healthcare between the developed and Our sales and marketing teams around the stage non-small cell lung cancer.
the least developed nations continues to world now have the opportunity to realise grow and the industry finds itself at the the full potential of our successful research The year also saw significant developments centre of much of this debate.
It is in this and development and, through wise in AstraZenecas cardiovascular business environment that AstraZeneca has to investment and a continuing drive for including the launch in the US and 20 other succeed if it is to create value for all its improved productivity, deliver enduring markets of the lipid-lowering drug Crestor stakeholders.
The hard work of the last five growth of shareholder value.
The treatment of years has positioned us well.
We recognise lipid disorders is a major priority for and understand the challenges the future In addition to good progress with the new healthcare systems around the world and holds and we look forward to meeting those products, we have also expanded our the profile of Crestor, which allows challenges in 2004 and beyond.
global presence with investments in physicians and patients to achieve guideline research, development, manufacturing and lipid levels quickly and easily, gives us an marketing in important emerging markets.
opportunity to build a major new franchise in As a result of these and other initiatives, one of the largest sectors of medicine.
AstraZeneca has become one of the fastest Following successful introduction into a growing pharmaceutical companies in, number of other markets, launch in the very among others, Japan, China and Mexico.
important US market has gone well and Sir Tom McKillop early sales progress is encouraging.
An Chief Executive During 2003 the performance of the new important new study CHARM supporting and growth products in the Companys the use of Atacand 2003 sales $750 million revitalised portfolio $8.2 billion largely in heart failure and the continued growth of offset the decline in global sales of Seloken Toprol-XL 2003 sales $1.3 billion Losec Prilosec, Zestril and Nolvadex $3 have also helped to reinforce a leading billion.
This transformation, achieved position in cardiovascular medicine.
without a decline in top-line sales, from a company that faced the biggest threat from After a lengthy development programme patent expiries in the industrys history, into involving more than 30,000 patients, I am the one with perhaps the best growth pleased to report that the oral antiportfolio, is something of which our coagulant Exanta met important milestones employees are justifiably proud.
In December we gained our first approval in France for this Nexium, for gastrointestinal disorders, has breakthrough medicine in the prevention of maintained strong momentum despite an blood clots following orthopaedic surgery.
In As scheduled, in December we also filed in the US alone, Nexium achieved sales of the US, Canada and Europe our largest ever
