Chief Executives statement Ben Verwaayen, Chief Executive, explains that BT will create value for shareholders by its passion for customer service, its focus on profitable growth and its commitment to broadband.
A year ago, I said that there were three main parts to & we are the UKs leading internet service provider BTs strategy.
This year, Im saying the same thing.
for small and medium businesses First, we have a passion for customers.
Second, we & the order book for our solutions business is very have broadband at the heart of BT and BT at the strong and orders worth 3.6 billion were taken during heart of broadband.
Third, we have rigorous the 2003 financial year, including a major e1 billion financial discipline.
contract to manage Unilevers worldwide By concentrating on these three priorities we can communications network for seven years & continue to reward shareholders, drive down debt and we promised that our major European operations invest in the business where it matters.
would break even at the EBITDA level and, thanks to First and foremost, we are passionate about our market success and efficiency programme, customers.
Every time we deal with a customer, we delivered & our goal is to deliver an excellent experience an new business revenues among wholesale experience which is simple, but also complete.
customers other telecoms operators and internet We are working to meet the needs that customers service providers grew by 85% year on year & have today.
And we are innovating to meet the needs and, very importantly, overall customer they will have tomorrow.
dissatisfaction was signicantly down by 37% for the This means getting ever closer to customers, company against the target we set of 25%.
understanding their lifestyles and businesses, Broadband is the biggest opportunity for growth establishing long-term relationships with them.
Its no exaggeration We are proud to serve individuals, families, small to say that it will be as important to our future as or medium-sized businesses, and global corporations.
voice telephone calls were to our past.
Broadband is In the past year, our passion for customers has more than just another product.
It is a whole new way delivered results.
It sparks off tremendous demand & consumers and businesses are now more satisfied and is growing at a rapid rate connections having with the way we provide and repair their services, increased almost fourfold in the 2003 financial year.
as shown by our satisfaction surveys Our record over the past year shows how we are & packages such as BT Together, which has meeting this demand: ten million residential customers, have been a major & at 31 March 2003, we had around 800,000 ADSL success story.
From June this year, BT Together will be asymmetric digital subscriber line connections, and we even simpler, making minute-by-minute charges for are well on the way to reaching our target of one million evening and weekend calling a thing of the past this summer 6 BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2003 & two-thirds of the UK population is now connected In this network, we are creating a new engine for to an ADSL-enabled exchange, and our development growth: simultaneously offering lower operating costs of new business models, coupled with technological and higher performance.
breakthroughs, could put 90% of the UKs homes and These then are the priorities that we have been small businesses within reach of broadband services focused on in the past year and that we will remain within the next few years.
focused on in the year ahead.
And as well as signing up customers, we are Our success will depend not just on making our moving quickly to offer them inspiring new services.
strategy work but on the way in which we make it work.
Our understanding of what customers want is growing The new corporate identity that we unveiled at the every day and we are making sure that the company beginning of April 2003 defines the kind of company is able to provide it.
For example, new broadband we are now and need to be in the future.
services were launched, offering music Dotmusic on Central to that new identity is a commitment to Demand, sport Sportal on Demand, and education be simple and complete in all we do.
And that, in turn, the BT Learning Centre.
means living our brand values.
Our third key priority is financial discipline.
We put Being trustworthy means consistently delivering on our heart into customer service, but also into a our promises.
Helpful means listening and responding.
Being straightforward means keeping things simple As the broadband record shows, we have to meet and clear, and inspiring means constantly working the demands of our customers in a way that also serves to create new communications possibilities.
And we the interests of shareholders in other words, it has have to do everything with real heart showing passion to be nancially responsible and sustainable.
Financial discipline is not the same thing as cost Those values, of course, can only be lived through savings.
Its about doing things smarter, raising the people and, of course, our strategy can only be bar, proving that it is possible to do more with less.
delivered by the teams of motivated people throughout We did substantially reduce operating costs and, the business.
It simply couldnt happen without them.
in addition, we very carefully targeted our capital They breathe life into it.
And Id expenditure, which was 2.4 billion during the 2003 like to thank them for their loyalty and their hard work.
financial year, a 21% reduction on the previous year, on a like-for-like basis.
We are investing to transform our network.
Equipment designed for 20th century services is making way for a true 21st century network, delivering the broadband, multimedia services that todays customers require.
It will also deliver these services in the way many of todays customers now demand Ben Verwaayen them for example enabling customers to congure Chief Executive and adjust their services themselves.
