Chairman and Chief Executives overview 2003 was a challenging year for Hanson, with We have disposed of non-core or underperforming difficult trading conditions in North America and operations.
During the year we completed the sale the UK plus US dollar weakness and increased of our cement and ready-mixed concrete operations pension costs.
Turnover including joint-ventures in Texas.
We sold our ready-mixed concrete business and associates was 3,956m, marginally below in Singapore and made a small asset exchange in the prior year of 4,000m.
profit before taxation and the USA.
We also made various disposals in India, exceptional items of 320m was 8.7% below last Indonesia and Germany.
year after charging reorganisation costs of 11m.
Capital expenditure during the year was 208m, Operations in the UK, Australia and Continental 45.4% above the prior year.
Approximately half of Europe & Asia reported continuing trading profit this is directed towards margin enhancing projects ahead of last year.
Group operating profit was down that are intended to deliver efficiency, cost or 9.0% to 394m with the major inuences being revenue benets.
US dollar weakness and an increase in pension Asbestos costs of 26m.
In 2003 we continued to generate We continue to provide regular updates on substantial operating cash ow of 537m 586m, the number of asbestos claims made against the 626m.
Interest cover on operating profit before group, the most recent being our preliminary results exceptional items and goodwill amortisation announcement issued on February 19, 2004. remains strong, conrming our solid financial Whilst the number of claims made against the position see page 26 for details.
group has continued to rise, as anticipated, the net Reorganisation cost of resolving asbestos claims after insurance Seeking maximum operating efficiency to counteract was $4m $4m, $1m.
Further detail on the asbestos increased cost pressures and to improve margins, claims against certain of our US subsidiaries and the in June we changed our business structure and the remaining insurance cover available is set out on management of some of our principal operating units.
pages 28 and 29 and in note 27 of the notes to This streamlining has made us more responsive to the accounts of the Annual Report and Form 20-F. market conditions.
The executives now responsible Dividend for our businesses have an average of over 20 years The Board recommends a final dividend of 11.95p of Hanson and sector knowledge, indicating the 10.85p per share see the investor information depth of experience within the group.
Cost reduction section for payment details.
This, together with the will continue.
interim dividend paid last September, makes a total Corporate development of 16.95p 15.4p for the year, a 10.1% increase.
In line In line with the groups progressive dividend policy, with our strategy of expanding in our core products future dividend payments will reect a balance between and markets, we reinvested 153m in acquisitions.
our strong cash ow and the strategy to grow the Most of the activity was in the USA where the largest business through further capex and acquisitions.
acquisition was of the aggregates producer, Better Corporate governance Materials, for $152m 93m.
Six other acquisitions Our good reputation is one of our most were also completed in the USA.
This requires open accounting, acquired a quarry in Spain and aggregates and readycommunicating with the communities in which we mixed concrete operations in Australia.
We also operate and full commitment to health and safety completed a joint-venture of our Australian cement and environmental standards.
We will continue to make bolt-on acquisitions in line with our strategy while securing the mineral Outlook reserves necessary for long-term growth.
With the start of the key UK and US trading season still some months away, the current outlook for  and associates and pre-exceptional items 2 Chairman and Chief Executives overview 12:09GMT A view from Hanson PLC head ofce, London, UK.
Alan Murray, Chief Executive, right.
Jonathan Nicholls, Finance Director, centre.
2004 is broadly positive in each of the four regions.
The UK outlook is dependent on the Governments Translated profits will again be affected by US dollar housing and infrastructure initiatives helping to raise weakness.
Nevertheless, a more resilient trading activity levels and overcome the impact of higher environment in the USA, price increases, a newly pension costs.
In other major markets, Australia and restructured US management team and ongoing Spain look set to enjoy another strong year, while cost reduction measures across the group should Asias performance should improve thanks to ensure a return to growth.
In the groups principal market, North America, Hanson has many strengths our cash ow market conditions have improved over the past six through the business cycles, our focus, our people, months and this provides a good base for 2004. our assets and our market positions.
We will continue First half comparisons in the USA are anticipated to increase our investment in capital equipment to to be stronger, given the poor conditions experienced improve productivity.
In addition, we will progress our at the start of last year.
The second half may be successful programme of bolt-on acquisitions in inuenced by the speed of implementation of our key markets and products while continuing SAFETEA, where any extended delay could have to provide investors with dividend growth.
implications for the current outlook.
Chairman and Chief Executives overview 3
