statement by the chairman and the chief executive At the beginning of 2003, when we looked ahead we believed it would 1.3 billion following the rights issue and the Synetix and Huntsman be another challenging year for business.
Certainly markets in quarter International divestments, and as a consequence of strong cash one were difficult, and in ICI we also faced particular business issues.
It is time to look forward.
Now, at the beginning of 2004, we believe we have made progress on Renewed performance a number of fronts.
We also are cautiously optimistic of an upturn in With our third quarter results, we offered shareholders an updated the business climate but wary of predicting its timing.
strategy for profitable growth and set out new financial targets.
Our 2003 Performance objective is to become the genuine leader in formulation science.
2003 has been challenging indeed, and while we experienced success We aim to achieve this by combining our outstanding knowledge in some areas, the results for the year overall were less than satisfactory.
of customer needs with our leading edge technology platforms to We are determined to change that.
Trading conditions in 2003 were develop products that provide improved performance for customers generally tough, and we take no comfort from knowing that peer and consumers.
We have, and will continue to build, a portfolio of companies were also finding it difficult to make much progress.
businesses which are leaders in their respective industries.
We do not believe, at this time, that shareholders best interests would be served Although demand for our products grew in China and other large by a major divestment.
This doesnt mean never, and we will continue Asian markets, it was generally weak elsewhere in the world.
to consider small bolt-off divestments.
But it does mean that shareholder Sales and profits during quarter one were particularly affected by value needs to be delivered in the near-term by achieving substantial a combination of sharp increases in raw material and energy costs, performance improvement throughout todays ICI.
We must continue which especially hit National Starch, and lower sales by Quests to strive for ever-increasing levels of effectiveness, not rely on European food business, mainly as a result of business lost following favourable market conditions to drive profit growth.
the customer service problem in 2002.
It became plain that quarter one profits would fall well below expectations, prompting the ICI We will concentrate on growth regions and markets in order to Board to issue a trading statement in March 2003.
National Starch maximise shareholder value creation.
Our review of the Groups raised prices, which has since helped partially to offset the sharp businesses and the opportunities available to them showed we must cost increases.
In Quest we have seen no obvious sign of a further strengthen our capabilities in crucial areas, improve the allocation of significant erosion of business in its European foods unit during 2003, our resources to ensure we invest in markets with the greatest although equally, no obvious improvement in sales.
potential for profitable growth, and drive cost and capital effectiveness harder than ever.
However, in quarter one it was also clear that far-reaching changes were needed.
Beginning within the senior management team, the It is essential to be competitive on cost, but not enough.
Of course Board appointed a new Chief Executive in April and also named we must be efficient in managing procurement, manufacturing and Charles Knott, formerly National Starchs Chief Operating Officer, to distribution.
But we must also improve our marketing, pricing and lead Quest.
David Hamill joined the Board from Royal Philips Electronics customer relationship skills in order to maximise shareholder value.
in December as the new Chairman and Chief Executive of ICI Paints.
Continuous innovation is essential to create commercially successful Fulfilling the succession plan the Company had announced in June, products.
Our customers will buy elsewhere unless we command their Lord Trotman retired as ICI Chairman on 31 December 2003. loyalty with innovative, superior or unique formulations that create We also decided on a course of action to improve ICIs performance, competitive advantage for their goods.
starting with measures to reduce costs and rebuild margins in order Our specific financial targets for the next four years, announced with to deliver long term income growth.
These included a worldwide our strategic plan, are: restructuring programme aimed to achieve more than 100 million of benefit to the profit and loss account in 2005.
This included planned to achieve average comparable sales growth at or better than real productivity upgrades in ICI Paints, which we brought forward, and growth in gross domestic product: a series of operating efficiency improvements in the specialty to improve trading margins before exceptional items and goodwill chemicals businesses.
amortisation steadily by an average of 0.5% each year: and Thanks to the determined efforts of our people and the tentative to improve after tax returns on capital employed by an average of economic upturn in the USA in the third and fourth quarters, 1% each year.
performance improved after the first quarter.
Nevertheless, only the Paints business achieved profit growth for the full year, and Group Successful delivery of these targets should lead to average annual profit before tax, exceptional items and goodwill amortisation for the earnings per share growth before exceptional items and goodwill year, at 341 million, was 15% below last year, underlining the need amortisation of more than 10%.
Talented, committed people The price of restructuring has been high for both employees and Inspired product renewal and refreshment is the key to our future growth, shareholders.
And we cannot ignore the possibility that other tough and it will require all our research and development, manufacturing decisions may yet be necessary.
But significant uncertainties that expertise, consumer insight and process understanding to achieve faced the Group 12 months ago have been resolved, or at least our objectives.
Innovations result from relentless effort by everyone, quantified.
The triennial review of the ICI UK Pension Fund by every day, from the laboratory to the production line to the support far the Groups largest was completed.
There is great talent within ICI and our challenge is to make sure refinancing agreement with Ineos Chlor and completed the sale of ICIs that ICI is a place where people feel proud to work and a business remaining interests in Huntsman International Holdings.
ICIs debt, which is totally committed to success, never rationalising failure, but which stood at 2.9 billion at the end of 2001, has been reduced to always striving to perform.
ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 7 statement by the chairman and the chief executive continued Some might think our task is a daunting one but we know first hand the quality, dedication and stamina of ICIs staff and do not doubt their commitment to deliver success.
Behind the disappointing numbers, there were significant successes during 2003, such as growth in Asia, a number of successful product launches in Paints, growing sales for Nationals nutritional modified starches, and key wins in fine fragrances, among others.
The teams that faced tough times with determination and resolve deserve congratulations as much as those who achieved sales growth in Asia.
We remain committed to the highest standard of corporate governance, financial control and reporting.
Our responsibilities as Chairman and Chief Executive of ICI are principally to the owners, employees and customers who have put their trust in us.
We thank them for their support and hope to report substantial progress next year.
Peter B Ellwood CBE Chairman John D G McAdam Chief Executive Lord Trotman Alex Trotman, who retired as Chairman in December, served ICI with distinction during a tumultuous period.
Lord Trotman joined ICIs Board as a Non-Executive Director in 1997 as ICI completed the acquisition of the Speciality Chemicals businesses from Unilever.
He became Chairman at the start of 2002 and led the campaign to reduce ICIs debt, strengthen its balance sheet and ensure continued adherence to good corporate governance.
His experience, wisdom and integrity have been invaluable to his colleagues on the Board, and to the entire ICI Group.
8 ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003
