Group Chief Executives Statement Our priorities in 2003 were to: drive profitable Core UK Banking revenue growth: maintain tight cost control: 2003 was an important year for Personal Financial Services PFS, where the ongoing repositioning of the business resulted in stronger retain our prudent and considered approach to financial performance.
Our three priorities for PFS in 2003 were to: risk management: and accelerate the execution deliver value to customers through more integrated banking: improve productivity: and improve the customer service to make Barclays easier of our strategic agenda.
We made improvements to the full range of consumer finance products These priorities were all met.
and we are, as a result, much better placed to meet our customers Financial performance was strong, with a record set of results.
The response from our customers has been positive and achieved a 20% increase in profit before tax.
Return on equity was 17% encourages us to accelerate our efforts.
For example, the scale of and earnings per share increased by 26%.
Capital remained strong with demand for our new savings range pushed Barclays branded savings a tier 1 ratio of 7.9%.
Our long-term credit rating continued to be into a leading position in the UK market for new savings ow.
We increased the dividend by 12%.
The Woolwich, now fully integrated within Barclays, has positioned us 2003 marked the end of our four-year 2000 to 2003 goal performance as a major player in the mortgage market.
In 2003, this enabled us to cycle.
At the outset, the goals were communicated to shareholders.
The deliver a good profit performance from the mortgage business while primary goal of delivering top quartile total shareholder return relative maintaining a commitment to prudent lending and developing attractive 1 to a global peer group was achieved.
Total shareholder return for the product features for customers.
We extended the Openplan proposition, four-year cycle was 31%, resulting in a ranking of third out of twelve.
pioneered by The Woolwich, across the Barclays franchise.
With This compared favourably to the 16% total average return for the peer 2.6 million customers already signed up in the UK, Openplan has become group and with the decline of 28% for the FTSE 100 Index.
A more the spearhead of our strategy to deliver integrated banking services, complete report on performance versus all goals is outlined in the where we reward customers who bring us more of their business.
Financial Performance section on page 6. Business Banking is our largest single business and operates in markets Four years ago we embarked on a strategy to become one of the worlds that are critical to wealth generation and job creation in the UK.
We ranked 9th in the world by over 730,000 businesses, ranging from small businesses with turnover market capitalisation at the end of 2003.
In achieving this, our primary of less than 500,000 to large enterprises with turnover of greater focus was, and continues to be, on organic growth.
was on in-ll acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic alliances to Business Banking delivered a strong financial performance in 2003, accelerate strategy execution for each of the businesses.
The rate of a clear indication that customers liked what we have been doing.
corporate development activity has accelerated during this period with an increasingly strong track record in integration.
We broadened our products and services and increased our specialisation in the sectors we serve.
We also maintained our focus 2003 was also a year where we continued to make good progress in on improving efficiency.
Our risk management processes are integrated advancing our strategic priorities.
within the day-to-day business activity, which enables us to manage the overall portfolio in a prudent manner.
In October 2003, we announced the creation of UK Banking, which comprises most of PFS, Business Banking and most of UK Premier previously managed within Barclays Private Clients.
This new grouping, led by Roger Davis, will allow us to offer a more integrated service to our UK personal and business customers.
Note 1 Peer group for 2003: Abbey, ABN Amro, BBVA, BNP Paribas, Citigroup, Deutsche Bank, HBOS, HSBC, Lloyds TSB, Royal Bank of Scotland and Standard Chartered.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2003 3 Group Chief Executives Statement Global Businesses Wealth Management Our third priority is to build a leading wealth management business in Barclays has made good progress in executing its second strategic the UK and Europe.
Despite the harsh climate of the last couple of years, priority through its three distinctive global businesses Barclaycard, this business and its growth and development opportunities remain a Barclays Capital and Barclays Global Investors.
Each is well placed for strategic priority for Barclays.
During 2003 we took steps to accelerate further rapid expansion and we have invested substantially over the our progress, and in doing so to equip Barclays Private Clients BPC to last few years to develop differentiated business models and superior bounce back as the environment for wealth management businesses offerings for our customers and clients.
Our ability to offer customers a fully integrated Barclaycard delivered another record year of results in 2003. service for both banking and investment management services means The business demonstrated attractive growth prospects in the UK market that we believe we are well placed for success.
We started to see some and overseas.
Its strong focus on execution, innovation, and customer early improvements in performance during the second half of 2003, service, combined with a prudent approach to risk, provides competitive which was accelerated by the acquisition of Charles Schwab Europe advantage.
Barclaycard International achieved a full year profit for and latterly the acquisition of Gerrard.
We expect to build on this base the first time.
We plan to accelerate the rate of expansion in the in 2004. international business.
The strategic alliance with the Standard Bank In addition, by moving our domestic mass afuent business, UK Premier, of South Africa, announced in August 2003, and the launches into the to UK Banking, we have refocused BPC on private banking, stockbroking, Republic of Ireland and Portugal in January 2004, represent first steps.
investment management and offshore banking.
We are moving away In January 2004, we brought together all Barclays UK consumer credit from a model overly dominated by the domestic market to a global business and Barclaycard UK into a single management grouping for product model which has been successfully implemented in Barclays the first time.
Barclaycard is led by Gary Hoffman.
Barclays Capital, our nancing and risk management focused investment bank, had a record year.
International Retail and Commercial Banking Barclays Capital demonstrated that it can deliver earnings and growth The fourth strategic priority is to grow our presence in retail and on a sustained basis in variable market conditions.
This performance commercial banking in selected overseas markets.
In 2003, we built on was achieved while we invested heavily in product origination and our strong platform in Spain with the acquisition of Banco Zaragozano, distribution capabilities.
We continued to diversify the product range more than doubling our branch network, our customer base and our and expanded into new geographies and attracted new clients.
assets, while creating further opportunities for in-market synergies.
Barclays Capital has an emphasis on nancing and risk management that The Spanish market is one of the strongest in Europe and has a wellhas been well received by clients around the world.
In 2003, we saw good regulated and competitive banking sector, with customers who value new issuance volumes and Barclays Capital achieved fourth position in innovation and service.
the global all debt league table.
The expansion in the US is particularly In October 2003, we announced the creation of Private Clients and noteworthy, where our growing reputation earned us the lead in 49 dollar International, under the leadership of David Roberts, to accelerate denominated bond issues for US clients compared to only one as recently growth of retail and commercial banking activities outside the UK as 2000.
We achieved a top ten ranking in the US investment grade including our presence in Spain, France, Portugal, Italy, Egypt, Africa, corporate debt league table for the first time, more than doubling our and the Caribbean and to build Barclays wealth management market share.
Barclays Capital is well placed to grow further.
Barclays Global Investors BGI had a record year and continued to be a global leader in the institutional investment management market.
BGI now has some US$1 trillion in assets under management, including over US$100 billion of net new assets acquired during 2003, demonstrating that the strong investment performance, combined with its proven risk controlled asset allocation processes and quantitative methodologies, are attractive to clients.
BGIs Global iShares product range has been a great success and has catapulted BGI to number one in assets under management in the exchange traded funds ETF market in both the US and globally.
BGI is known as the worlds leading indexer.
Less well known is that its advanced active business has over US$200 billion assets under management as it extended its successful investment philosophy and techniques to new areas.
We have high expectations for the future.
In October 2003, we announced that Barclays Capital and BGI together would constitute Wholesale and Institutional, led by Bob Diamond, to accelerate the development of world class global businesses in these markets.
4 Organisational Fitness The final strategic priority is organisational tness which, for us, encompasses all the key competencies essential to execute our strategy and deliver top quartile financial performance on a sustained basis.
These include information technology, risk management, human resources, marketing, brand management, productivity and value-based management disciplines.
We believe that strong execution capabilities underpin superior performance.
Two examples worthy of note in the human resources area are our ground breaking new staff pension scheme, afterwork, and the agreement with our union partner UNIFI to manage the impact on employees of outsourcing.
Both demonstrate our rm commitment to becoming an employer of choice without compromising our ability to drive the business forward.
We have adopted value-based decision making in everything that we do and at all levels in the business from the development of strategy, to planning, risk management and reward systems.
Overall, we have benefited not just from more consistency and clarity in our strategic development, but also from a stronger sense of accountability throughout Barclays.
Committing to standards and goals has been an important element of the value-based management process.
We believe in the galvanising effect of stretching goals, and they have served us well.
It is no coincidence that cumulative economic profit for the goal period 2000 to 2003, while short of our original goal, was double the economic profit delivered over the prior four-year period.
We have embraced another set of stretching goals for 2004 to 2007.
Our primary aim, to achieve top quartile total shareholder return, remains unchanged.
In addition, we will continue to have economic profit and efficiency goals internally to support the value creation process.
We believe that, given current and expected market conditions, a compound annual growth rate in economic profit in the range of 10% to 13%, which would translate into cumulative economic profit generation of 7.3 billion to 7.8 billion, will be required to deliver top quartile shareholder return over the 2004 to 2007 goal period.
Delivering strong results on a sustained basis requires world class efficiency and all businesses will be expected to meet or exceed top quartile performance relative to comparable peers in their sector.
We will continue to report progress relative to these goals regularly.
In summary, Barclays performed strongly in 2003.
Our thanks go to our employees worldwide who have coped with continuous change, done more business with existing customers and acquired new customers.
They have delivered improved services across the board to the customers we are privileged to serve.
Matthew W. Barrett Group Chief Executive Barclays PLC Annual Report 2003 5
