Chief Executives Review We have rationalised the portfolio, fide-geared the balance sheet, made progress on the development programme, maintained full occupancy levels and strengthened our team Toby Courtauld The financial year that ended in March can be characterised by a number of factors: Chief Executive continued portfolio rationalisation with disposals totalling some 216 million: a fide-gearing of the balance sheet using sales proceeds to repay 31% of outstanding debt: some solid progress on our development programme: the maintenance of approaching full occupancy levels despite the challenging London occupational markets: and a significant strengthening of both the team and the way we run, and measure the performance of, our business at Great Portland.
This time last year in my first Chief Executives Review, I outlined three key areas for the new management team to address under the headings of Capital Structure, Asset Strategy and our People and Processes.
On each count, I am pleased to report that we have made good progress and we are better positioned today than we were twelve months ago.
Following the use of 197 million to repay debt, including the purchase of our 3 130 million 10 4% Debenture 2021 in April 2002, financed by property sales during the year, the Group now has net gearing of 32% down from 47% at the start of the year and an average interest cost on the outstanding debt of 6.6% down from 7.8% at the start of the year.
Over the past 24 months the liability side of the balance sheet has been entirely restructured.
Through both redeeming and purchasing debentures, the FRS 13 adjustment to NAV has been almost eliminated, at 4p per share, as compared to 32p per share in 2001.
Great Portlands balance sheet, therefore, is clean and transparent as a result of this restructuring.
We have cash and undrawn bank facilities of 313 million providing us with the capacity to exploit value-enhancing opportunities as we unearth them.
In the meantime, the crystallisation of reversions through rent review settlements during the year, together with the reduced interest charge, has increased interest cover from 1.9 times in 2002 to 2.7 times this year.
In considering our capital structure, we review continually the amount of capital we believe we will require, particularly in the context of the state of the market and our prospective development and acquisition programmes.
We remain of the view that the current weak state of the London property market will provide us with ample opportunity to profit from our balance sheet strength in the near future.
Building on my predecessors refocusing of the portfolio into central London, during the year we refined our asset strategy through a detailed property planning exercise that helped us to identify which assets would produce acceptable, risk-adjusted 10 Annual Report 2003 Chief Executives Review returns when measured against our cost of capital, and which would not.
As a result of this analysis, we capitalised on the strength of the investment market particularly from private investors to dispose of 28 ex-growth or mature properties for 215.6 million, exactly in line with their March 2002 book value.
In each case, these were assets with little opportunity for us to add any further value due to their level of over-renting and weak local market.
Following these sales, the bulk of our disposal programme has now been completed.
With the relatively benign outlook for general asset price inflation in the UK economy and the central London markets currently showing declining rental trends, we have to sweat our assets harder in order to generate outperformance.
This means taking a pragmatic approach to, for example, lettings, lease renewals and rent reviews in order to keep our portfolio as close to fully let as possible.
Simultaneously, we must constantly be on the look out for opportunities to strengthen the rental cash flow generated by each property.
Good examples of this approach during the year are the lease renewals of tenancies accounting for some 10% of the Groups annual rent roll before they were due to expire, thereby avoiding the risk inherent in re-letting these units in a weak occupational market.
As a result our void level at 3.0% remains low, and in central London, where 95% of our portfolio is based, it stands at 1.9%, significantly lower than central London market levels.
Recycling shareholders capital is an integral component of our asset strategy.
Once we have brought a propertys cash flow to maturity, we look to dispose of the asset in order to reinvest the capital into immature propositions situations where we can add value through our management efforts.
At 21 Bloomsbury Street, WC1 we lengthened the Governments lease and simultaneously sold the investment to an institutional investor generating a profit of almost 3 million.
At the other end of the spectrum, in the first major acquisition by the new team, we contracted to purchase Metropolis House on Tottenham Court Road, W1.
This 1960s, largely vacant and dilapidated tower provides us with the opportunity for a major refurbishment to deliver 100,000 sq.
ft. of grade A West End office and retail space in 2005, when, we predict, the market will be short of new high quality floor plates.
Of significant importance during the year has been the strengthening of the team at Great Portland and the modernisation of some of our systems and processes.
This work is now largely complete and we now have a first class group of professionals working in an atmosphere of constructive dynamism.
Chief Executives Review Annual Report 2003 11 The recent alignment of leases in Camomile Street and Bishopsgate, EC2 provides the opportunity for a redevelopment of over 250,000 sq.
ft 12 Annual Report 2003 Outlook Whilst we have made good progress in addressing some of the key themes I outlined at the beginning of the year, we are operating in a challenging occupational environment with the supply of office space currently outstripping demand.
We will continue to offer our existing and prospective occupiers flexibility in our approach to their requirements with our sights set firmly on generating new rental income and keeping the void rate low.
We will focus much of our attention this year on new business both on looking outside the portfolio for interesting acquisitions, and on bringing our development prospects forward.
We have the nucleus of a high quality, medium-term development programme emerging, recently supplemented by the nearer-term opportunity at Metropolis House.
With the important caveat that we are still witnessing unrealistic price expectations on the part of many vendors, with careful timing and imaginative stock picking, we expect to start the process of replenishing the rent roll with income from acquisitions that will provide us with medium-term, real growth prospects.
Great Portland has a clear, well communicated strategy, a committed management supported by strong, entrepreneurial property and finance teams and significant reserves of balance sheet firepower.
This is an exciting combination and I am looking forward to meeting the challenges from this enviable position of strength and reporting to you on our progress.
Toby Courtauld Chief Executive Chief Executives Review Annual Report 2003 13 Our 1.0 million sq.
ft. portfolio north of Oxford Street contains four development opportunities of potentially 500,000 sq.
Rent reviews at 160 Great Portland Street, W1 achieved 4.0 million, up from 2.2 million previously 14 Annual Report 2003 Great Portland Street Great Portland Street Portland Place Portland Place Harley Street ylebone Road Mar GREAT PORTLAND STREET REGENTS PARK New Cavendish Street A revised planning application for the major refurbishment at 190 Great Portland Street, W1 will be submitted in the summer Annual Report 2003 15 Marylebone High Street
