8 Chief Executives Review Introduction 2003 proved to be a very successful year for Cobham.
significant progress was made in the implementation of our long-term strategic plan whilst delivering excellent financial results.
New orders worth 925m were achieved and the order book at the end of 2003 stood at 1.2bn.
Organisation Cobhams business has been organised into three specific product and service groups: Aerospace Systems The Cobham group enters 2004 with a Avionics strong order book of 1.2bn, a streamlined Flight Operations & Services.
organisation, a balanced portfolio of Aerospace Systems, under Andy Stevens, is a new group companies and its activities aligned with dedicated to the design and manufacture of fluid and air priority military expenditure confident that distribution, life support, countermeasures, air refuelling and aviation auxiliary mission equipment.
the business will continue its growth prole through 2004 Geoff Cooper and Alex Hannam continue in their roles of group managing director, Avionics and Flight Operations & Services respectively.
I am confident that the executive team now in place will ensure Cobhams continued success in the years to come.
Strategic direction The key tenets of Cobham strategy are: to sustain earnings growth in our existing businesses and to support further organic and acquisitive growth: to strengthen our focus and retain a balanced portfolio of companies which are leaders in their particular eld: to seize opportunities as they arise with the aerospace and defence industry consolidation: and to create an environment which encourages, rewards and motivates staff at all levels within the organisation.
The group has, throughout 2003, worked steadily towards meeting these aims.
Not least has been the achievement of sustained earnings growth in a dynamic and challenging business environment.
Allan Cook COBHAM PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 9 Components for Euroghter Typhoon supplied by Cobham have a ship set value of some 800,000.
The successful acquisition of thirteen companies during this well placed for any increase in the world demand, although it is period, coupled with organic growth, has ensured a strong difficult to predict when this will occur.
Prospects Work is being undertaken to ensure improvements in the The Cobham group enters 2004 with a strong order book of groups operational performance as part of our continuous 1.2bn, a streamlined organisation, a balanced portfolio of improvement programme.
The divestment of Westwind to companies and its activities aligned with priority military GSI Lumonics in December 2003 has further balanced our expenditure, confident that the business will continue its product and service portfolio and improved group underlying growth prole through 2004. profitability.
In January 2004, the Ministry of Defence announced that the The group continues to invest in new products, processes, AirTanker consortium, in which the group has a 25% facilities and people development to create a positive, shareholding, had been selected as the bidder which offers the challenging and productive working environment for its best prospect of securing a value for money PFI service for the employees.
future strategic tanker aircraft FSTA a 27 year programme to supply air refuelling capability to the Royal Air Force.
It is The groups success in 2003 gives us confidence in our strategic expected that a contract will be awarded in 2005, allowing direction.
substantial benets to the group companies engaged in the Markets supply and support of equipment and through the groups The aerospace and defence market is polarised between the shareholding in AirTanker.
Cobham has experienced The underlying strength of Cobham is based on the key growth in its military business, particularly in the USA.
However, positions which have been established in existing and future growth in European defence business is subject to budgetary work platforms and programmes.
This in turn relies heavily on pressure and there is a widening gap in research and market intelligence, excellent product technology and services development spending between other NATO countries and and the enthusiastic support of all employees.
with the progress achieved in 2003 and remain confident of In the civil aviation market the volume of air trafc has now sustained success in the future.
stabilised following the downturn after 11 September 2001, the conict in Iraq and the SARS virus epidemic.
Airbus has, for the first time, outpaced Boeing in the supply of civil airliners.
Allan Cook Chief Executive Cobham remains a major supplier to both companies and is 18 March 2004
