Chief executives review Ian J Henderson Group chief executive During these demanding times, we have been rigorous in our approach to managing the Group to ensure that we maintain our reputation for delivering consistent results in difficult economic and property market conditions.
We are not complacent and recognise that we have to work hard to increase income at a time when our business partners are facing challenging conditions.
We are pleased that the results show a strong contribution from our new division, Land Securities Trillium.
LAND SECURITIES ANNUAL REPORT 2003 08 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Chief executives review From left Ian Ellis, Francis Salway, Ian Henderson, Andrew Macfarlane and Mark Collins Portfolio management Development In a capital-intensive business with significant investment plans, we are mindful of the The Groups investment portfolio, the In our interim report in November we said importance of providing investment returns majority of which is managed by Portfolio that we believed one of our competitive Management, underpins our activities.
The advantages is our ability to maintain our that exceed our cost of capital.
While this remains challenging given the London office total portfolio is diverse, with 254 properties, development activity through market cycles.
market conditions, all our activities are 2,000 occupiers and low property specific risk.
However, we regularly evaluated against the target returns we have The portfolio is now structured to provide the review the timing and extent of our set for each business unit.
protection offered by diversity while, at the development programme in light of market same time, being sufficiently focused to give conditions to ensure that the risks involved Structure of the report us market leading positions in most of our are manageable when markets weaken.
We have consistently endeavoured to remain areas of activity.
at the forefront of our industry in terms of The Groups financial strength and internal reporting and disclosure standards.
This year We have and will continue to recycle the risk management controls allow us to add value capital invested in the portfolio through an by progressing aspects of the development we have changed the format of the report to improve clarity and to present all the analysis active programme of sales and purchases to programme in such a way that we position pertinent to the Group in one place.
We have ensure that the properties we own provide schemes for future construction to take best future growth opportunities.
As described advantage of improving markets.
As a result, included on pages 68 to 83 a business analysis section that comprises details of the valuation in more detail in the Portfolio Management we have scaled back our central London review on pages 16 to 19 we are driving the activities but will progress our retail and its analysis, a market report and a number of statistics in respect of the investment performance of our properties through development programme and the projects portfolio, our development programme and intensive management.
our total property outsourcing activities.
We hope that you find this new format helpful.
LAND SECURITIES ANNUAL REPORT 2003 09 Chief executives review Total property outsourcing as a landlord.
The survey highlighted some evidenced by our project at Kent Thameside.
We believe that the prevailing market areas where we could improve our performance Third, we believe that continuing to drive conditions are positive for Land Securities and, although we exceeded the benchmark on innovation in the marketplace through Trillium, as occupiers seek to release capital most criteria, we continue to look at how we products such as Landflex will keep us at the and focus on their core business activities.
can further enhance our service levels.
We forefront of our industry in terms of The current contracts are performing well and were also delighted to note the impressive anticipating future trends and meeting our making a significant contribution to Group customer satisfaction ratings arising from customers changing accommodation needs.
Although progress has been slower surveys among our customers in the than anticipated in concluding new business Department for Work and Pensions DWP The downturn in the central London office we are active in a greater number of and the BBC.
market, particularly in the City, has adversely negotiations than seen previously and affected the performance of this part of the maintain our ambitions of growing this Competitive environment investment portfolio and our ambition to business so that it contributes 25% of our Although the UK property market is relatively generate returns from development may, future operating profits in four years time.
mature, there are numerous opportunities to therefore, be delayed.
However, the central create value through development, active London market comprises a series of subCustomer service management and the provision of efficient markets, all of which have different occupier We are making good progress with our focus customer service.
There are also emerging characteristics.
With a range of development on customer service and have been active in markets and sectors where we can exploit our opportunities in several of the core subbuilding strong relationships across the Group competitive advantages of financial strength, markets, we are one of the few businesses that with our occupiers and clients.
The introduction scale and the ability to innovate.
The first of can satisfy occupier demand for new, large, of a Group client relationship management these is total property outsourcing.
While this modern office buildings across central London system has allowed us to formalise relationship market is still in its infancy and competition is between now and 2008. management procedures across the business fragmented, we believe that not only the and help ensure that we are pro-active in strength of our balance sheet but also the London is one of the main engines of the UKs responding to our customers.
infrastructure and expertise we now have in growth and it is essential that we maintain its place at Land Securities Trillium should enable attraction to business at large as one of the To date, the results of customer surveys across the Group to lead this market.
The second is foremost global financial centres.
The Group activities have been encouraging.
In an major regeneration projects, where we can infrastructure of the capital continues to be independent survey conducted with retailers take a long-term approach to master planning neglected, although the Prime Ministers in nine of our centres, 80% of those surveyed complex schemes, while realising value recent commitment to chair the Thames would be willing to recommend Land Securities throughout the life of the scheme.
This is Gateway Committee is encouraging.
It is vital LAND SECURITIES ANNUAL REPORT 2003 10 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Chief executives review that this commitment is translated into a real Financial structure and strategy Risk management and business planning investment in both existing services and new As reported in the financial review on page 13, We continue to evaluate our risk management following the review of our capital structure processes.
As a result, we have implemented ones such as Crossrail.
and financial strategy in 2002, we established a new risk management procedure across the that we had surplus equity capital after taking business and put in place a comprehensive risk At present, the retail property environment remains stable, although it continues to be into account the capital required to execute management plan that has been reviewed and dependent on consumer demand.
As a result, during the year approved by the Board.
We are satisfied that we carried out a structured return of capital to the level of risk within the organisation is downturn will inevitably affect retailers profitability, their growth plans and demand shareholders which contributed to a rise in the commensurate with a business of our size Groups gearing to 47.3%.
Subsequently, we and believe that we have the appropriate for retail space.
However, retailers are adapting quickly to changing consumer also issued 600m of bonds to refinance controls and procedures in place to manage demands and new entrants continue to seek short-term bank debt.
to build their presence in the UK market.
With a portfolio of dominant shopping centres, While continuing to invest in total property We have also augmented the Groups business outsourcing and development, we still remain planning process by adopting the balanced development plans for six major new schemes and a large number of retail warehouse parks, committed to pursuing a prudent financial scorecard approach, to ensure that our we are well placed to strengthen our strategy and a progressive dividend policy.
people and our business units are firmly focused on achieving the Groups longand relationships with retailers and satisfy their requirements.
Recognising that the business has grown more short-term goals.
complex, we completed during the year a As a result of the changes in our business, review of the Groups finance function.
This Prospects we have invested in new skills and new resulted in a number of changes, including the We look forward to taking advantage of the creation of a Group Tax, Treasury, and opportunities that todays markets offer and operations.
While this has resulted in an increase in the Groups cost base, we have Insurance department to strengthen and believe that our strategy, people and financial thoroughly reviewed costs to ensure that we integrate these functions.
strength leave the business well-placed to are maximising efficiencies and benefiting make good progress across all its operations.
from the economic advantages of our scale.
