UK as systems installation and maintenance.
Chief Executives review Our customers continue to look to us to We secured a five-year contract with the reduce their costs, improve service levels Charity Commission for England and and free up their own resources by Wales, for whom we are deploying a outsourcing discrete IT infrastructure new Windows XP-based infrastructure, services.
As a result, in 2003 we saw integrated data network and IP telephony Our customers continue a further increase in service revenues service.
We also won a contract to to look to us to reduce and a growth of 9.2% in our UK contract provide a disaster recovery solution base.
Our continuing focus on reducing and managed data back-up services their costs, improve our own cost base achieved a 9.1% for the Department for Transport.
service levels and free up reduction in the sales, general and their own resources by administration SG&A expenses of We saw a significant increase in Computacenters UK business.
Windows XP deployments in 2003, outsourcing discrete IT driving growth in product volumes and infrastructure services.
We were awarded two major Managed fuelling demand for our broad range of Services contracts, by Abbey and Infrastructure Integration Services.
Major HBOS plc, in the first half of the projects included the implementation year.
Under the terms of the former of a standardised IT infrastructure for contract, valued at 70 million over Places for People, and a fully supported five years and covering all of Abbeys in-room entertainment and business 28,000 employees, Computacenter services system for Londons Dorchester has responsibility for the design, Hotel.
We also project managed the implementation and management of testing of 135 application systems for Abbeys entire desktop infrastructure.
At HBOS, the scope of Computacenters existing Managed Services contract, The UK market for IT expenditure announced in 2002, has been extended remained generally subdued, although and we now manage 38,000 desktop demand from the public sector remained PCs, approximately half of the HBOS strong and there was a substantial estate, under a three-year agreement.
improvement in the telecommunications Together, these two contracts entail market.
Elsewhere, and particularly in the transfer of some 300 staff to financial services, corporate customers Computacenter under TUPE regulations, maintained their cautious approach.
Whilst product volumes were satisfactory throughout the year, Computacenters Government successes included a product revenues in the UK fell by six-year Managed Services agreement 11.3%.
This was largely due to a with North Yorkshire County Council for substantial price decline, driven managing the councils IT infrastructure, by the weakness of the US dollar, of other than its communications approximately 20% on desktop and equipment, and providing services such laptop computers.
Mike Norris Chief Executive 6 Computacenter plc The server product market was generally and expertise in areas such as more buoyant, as organisations focused performance measurement, sourcing on consolidating their legacy IT and supplier management.
infrastructures by replacing large numbers of network servers with fewer, We remain fully committed to meeting but more powerful central computers.
standards for quality, the environment As a consequence we saw increased and equality of opportunity.
During sales of high-end servers, with revenues 2003 we achieved UK certification to from the sale of Sun Microsystems international environmental standard computers increasing by 12.8%.
ISO14001 and the international quality standard ISO 9001:2000, both by the We won a significant Technology British Standards Institute.
In the area Sourcing contract to provide technology of race relations, we renewed our and services to the UKs Ministry of partnership agreement with the Defence via the Defence Communications Commission for Racial Equality.
This will be our third major catalogue procurement Germany contract, following the similar agreements In 2003 CC CompuNet performed well we have with the Inland Revenue and the in a difficult market.
Operating profit grew Office of Government Commerce.
to 8.7 million, despite a revenue decline of 10.9% to 635.2 million.
Reductions Our distribution business, comprising in SG&A costs helped profitability and, CCD and Metrologie, outperformed its as in the UK, we were able to grow our sector and grew revenue by Managed Services business.
approximately 14.9% on the previous year, maintaining a close relationship Following the acquisition of CC with HP, its principal product partner.
CompuNet in early January 2003, an extensive integration programme was RDC, our re-cycling and remarketing initiated.
This focused upon sharing best arm, saw its profits rise for the fifth practice across the Group and leveraging consecutive year since its acquisition central resources to improve the scope, by Computacenter in 1999. quality and cost-effectiveness of CC CompuNets offerings.
We were awarded a We were delighted to receive the major Managed Services specialist award for Excellence in This programme led to the creation of a contract by Abbey, Sourcing and Procurement at the new services enablement function, to allow 2003 European Supply Chain Excellence transfer of best practice in the Managed valued at 70 million Awards, organised by Logistics Europe Services area, and the introduction of a over five years and and Cap Gemini Ernst & Young.
The new sales and management structure, covering all of Abbeys award recognised the quality of our similar to that in the UK.
end-to-end approach to purchasing significant investments in new stock Service Operations Centre, Hatfield Our Service Operations Centre allows us to monitor remotely and, where necessary, resolve our customers IT systems problems before they affect end-users.
Computacenter plc 7 GECITS acquisition in 2002.
Computacenter Chief Executives review utilisation of Professional Services staff in France also designed, installed, integrated continued France was particularly low in the first half and supported the IT infrastructure for the and this contributed significantly to the G8 summit in Evian.
With the aim of growing its government Measures to address these issues, business, Computacenter France including steps to increase Professional acquired AB Microconseil, a small IT Services utilisation and reduce SG&A reseller specialising in that sector.
The management and warehouse systems expenses, led to an improvement in acquisition involved the transfer of some and launched our e-commerce system, underlying performance in the second half 30 employees and brought several new Computacenter Connect, in Germany.
Computacenter France also accounts including the General Councils embarked upon a maintenance reof Hauts fide Seine, Seine Saint-Denis We are confident that these developments, engineering initiative modelled on a similar and Seine et Marne.
together with such initiatives as the project completed successfully in the UK.
introduction of a new pay plan, customer The pan-European management structure, Other businesses profitability reporting and enhanced established following the CC CompuNet financial management systems, establish acquisition, is proving to be of particular Austria a solid basis for future profit growth.
benefit in addressing the turn-around On January 2, 2003 we acquired of Computacenter France, which GECITS Austria, subsequently renamed CC CompuNet worked with other remains a high priority for the Group.
Despite showing Computacenter companies to secure improved performance over the figures a four-year international Managed Costs of 3.1 million relating to measures reported by GECITS for the second half Services contract with Deutsche Brse aimed at improving French performance of 2002, performance of this business has AG, Frankfurt, servicing their employees are included in the operating result for been disappointing, with an operating loss across Germany, Luxembourg and the UK.
These measures, together with of 1.5 million for the year on revenues of Other successes included a contract for a other initiatives currently underway, give us 49.0 million.
However some significant Linux migration awarded by the Deutscher confidence that a strong foundation new business was won during the year, Bundestag the lower house of the German is being built to return Computacenter including a contract for the hardware parliament.
Noteworthy new Technology France to profitability.
maintenance of the entire desktop Sourcing contracts included Wstenrot & estate of BAWAG-PSK, a leading Wrttembergische, and Aachener und Despite the weak market, Computacenter Austrian bank, and a systems roll-out Mnchener Versicherungsgruppe.
France continued to attract significant for  Austria.
These included La Poste, France RATP, Paris City Hall and the General Belgium and Luxembourg Difficult market conditions led to a Council of Paris, for whom we will supply Our business in Belgium and Luxembourg disappointing performance from desktops, laptops and networking BeLux saw 37.2% revenue growth Computacenter France, which made an technology.
Our French business was also during 2003, primarily from increased operating loss of 2.7 million on revenues successful in winning important contract product sales in new customer accounts.
The cost base of the extensions with customers, including Results improved significantly, showing an French business remains too high, partly UNEDIC Assurance Chmage, Conseil 89.9% reduction in operating loss to 0.4 due to the challenges of integrating the Rgional fide Haute Normandie and million, with the strongest contribution International Support Centre, Kerpen The International Support Centre provides a range of Managed Services, such as help desk support, to international customers.
All technical analysts are required to speak a minimum of two languages and coverage is 24x7.
8 Computacenter plc coming from existing Managed Services contracts.
Revenues in the year were Associated with this approach, we have 17.3 million.
also begun to deploy tools and processes across the Group.
These include During 2003 our BeLux operation Computacenter Connect, our e-commerce opened a new Luxembourg office in the system, and the implementation of a citys financial district.
Major wins included Group-wide HR information system.
We technology sourcing for companies such are also in the process of making our as Clerical Medical Investment Group integrated Services Management Tool part of HBOS, Pioneer Europe and Suite SMTS, which we use to track and Reynaers International.
We also won manage customer support requests, a two-year extension to our SWIFT available across the Group.
desktop outsourcing contract and delivered major technology refresh In July our former ICG International projects for the BP Solvay joint venture Computer Group partner network company and Owens Corning.
became an extension of Computacenter International, the internal division Biomni responsible for supporting customer Computacenters share of Biomnis operations across multiple countries.
operating losses reduced again in 2003 The former ICG partners will remain to 0.3 million 2002: 1.3 million.
independent, but will be the preferred partners of Computacenter in international Group business.
The move is designed to give Across the Group, we maintained our Computacenter greater control of focus on programmes designed to international service delivery and to give reduce our cost base and to leverage our partners greater access to our our resources more effectively.
CC CompuNet Following the German and Austrian I am very pleased with overall Group worked with other acquisitions, we introduced a panperformance in 2003.
The increasingly Computacenter European management structure and international character of Computacenter companies to secure a made further progress in the closer placed fresh demands upon the integration of our European businesses.
management team, to whom I offer four-year international This facilitates the transfer of expertise and my thanks for their admirable response.
Managed Services contract best practice across the Group, to enable We will continue to take advantage of with Deutsche Brse AG, the delivery of ever more competitive the many opportunities we see in our service to our customers.
This structure markets whilst maintaining a rigorous Frankfurt, servicing also allows us to work more closely with control over our cost base.
their employees across major vendors who are operating, or Germany, Luxembourg intending to operate, pan-European and the UK.
Consultants meeting, Kerpen Mike Norris Computacenters consultants Chief Executive Officer are skilled in a wide range of disciplines, including data centre server technology, thin client computing, storage solutions, network infrastructures, security, enterprise management and messaging directory services.
