In the Republic of Ireland, our national station, Today FM, continues to In competitive advertising markets, SRH has continued grow in strength and stature and hopefully will be added to in the near to steer a carefully thought out course, resulting in future.
In keeping with our policy of strategic expansion, we recently significant revenue and profits growth and an announced that, subject to regulatory approval, we had agreed to acquire the Dublin station, FM104, which recently had its licence expanding portfolio.
I believe our game plan has renewed for a further ten years.
The station complements Today FM been proven to be the correct one and the structure perfectly in that it is targeted specifically at the under-35 year olds in the of our group allows us to react quickly to market Dublin area.
We have already received approval from the regulatory authority, the Broadcasting Commission of Ireland, but now await the conditions and opportunities.
findings and recommendation of the Competition Authority.
SRH is the largest independent commercial radio operator in Scotland It is an important part of our operating philosophy that stations and and throughout the island of Ireland.
The addition of a further two large staff be deeply involved with the communities they serve and we are regional stations Vibe 101 and Vibe FM in England and, indeed, Wales, particularly proud of the enormous sums of money our stations and adds to our growing influence when set alongside Wave 105 in the staff have raised for childrens causes and charities, in particular, over Solent area and CFM in Cumbria.
Our belief in local programming, local the years.
At the same time, many community and other events would staff, management and sales teams sits well with the Governments simply never happen were it not for the involvement, commitment aspirations now to be expressed via OFCOM, the new regulatory body.
and enthusiasm of my colleagues throughout the group.
It would be Perhaps more importantly, however, it is a policy that delivers results, invidious of me to single out any one station: all have been outstanding.
enhancing shareholder value while feeding listener and staff satisfaction.
Digital and Internet Our two new Vibe acquisitions are now benefiting from the SRH While some may comment that our approach to digital and internet touch, with brand new state-of-the-art studios, improved office facilities, developments has been overly cautious, I believe that we have adopted staffing levels and local management linked in to central support a prudent approach.
As a company, we believe in pioneering and systems as required.
I am particularly pleased that we have been able innovation: we believe in development and stretching the boundaries.
to continue our policy of promoting our own talent wherever possible The history of commercial radio, which is so intertwined with our group but still bring in new blood where we believe that to be appropriate.
and its individual components, is testimony to that.
But, as in every other In the case of the two Vibe stations, we have done just that, bringing in walk of life, timing is all important and we have been able to develop the highly experienced Beverley Cleall-Harding to the Bristol-based Vibe our digital and internet activities in a thoughtful and carefully controlled and transferring Gary Robinson from Inverness to Anglia, thus allowing manner.
While there are some signs that digital listening is growing, Danny Gallagher to achieve an equally well-deserved promotion from frequencies via terrestrially based multiplexes able to accommodate all Radio Borders to Moray Firth in Inverness, leaving his deputy, Stuart local services remain limited or unavailable in many parts of the country, McCulloch, to take over as General Manager with a first foot on the and other digital platforms are developing.
All our main radio services in managerial ladder.
During the course of the year, Northsound realised the UK, including the two more recent acquisitions, are carried on digital a long-held ambition when it moved from its Victorian schoolhouse in multiplexes, and live on their individual websites.
Additionally our digital Aberdeen to new purpose-built headquarters.
The sale receipts arising only service, 3C, continues to provide the only service of its kind in the from the disposal of the schoolhouse covered all the costs involved.
country and is available on all SRH-owned multiplexes plus a number of others, together with its own website.
Our internet sites benefit from continual refreshment and are increasingly becoming an important adjunct to our radio sales and promotion revenue, with links now into River Records, our newspapers and other useful sites.
the chief executives review 12 srh annual report and accounts 2003 Publishing To help exploit this valuable archive, the company has formed River Score Press was formed in 1995 specifically to break into selected Records, and appointed record industry supremo Jimmy Devlin as local weekly newspaper markets and that remains its focus.
We have Managing Director under my Chairmanship.
Starting at the popular managed to put together a strong portfolio of papers in Scotland, music end we have begun the process of cleaning and digitalising the Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland.
Each grouping of papers recordings, entered into a special series of agreements with Universal is managed locally, somewhat similarly to our radio stations, with Music and begun discussions with selected artists no longer tied to any printing presses strategically centred in each of the jurisdictions.
In the meantime, Universal has selected its first list of recordings of artists in which it has a continuing interest and The publishing division comprises weekly papers that are less would wish to release during 2004, and other major record companies susceptible to the cover price wars of the daily press and draw the bulk with which we are in discussion may do likewise.
of their revenue and editorial material from within their own circulation areas.
This makes them less vulnerable to external revenue volatility, I believe that River Records has the potential to become a potent force up or down, and provides a firm base for steady and continual growth.
and a good revenue earner for the group which, in turn, will continue We were able to add four further titles to our stable last year making to supply it with valuable new material.
a total of 43 in all, a very strong and attractive complementary division to our radio operations.
Group strategy We intend to continue to build our strength across radio and weekly As in radio, our press titles are a crucial part of the communities they press, grow audiences and circulation, improve operating margins still serve and of which our staff are, of course, themselves members.
While further and make selective acquisitions while husbanding our financial the two divisions are operated separately, there can be areas where resources.
In radio we are poised on the edge of a new era that will joint activity is appropriate and the cross-fertilisation of ideas and views provide great opportunities and reward those companies able to be can often lead to some creative and innovative outcomes.
Two of our fleet of foot and see the future.
newspapers in the Republic of Ireland Leitrim Observer and Longford Leader moved to new premises during the year, providing staff with We have maintained our focus and resilience over the last twelve vastly improved working conditions.
months, resulting in the good performance we have been able to announce.
Our appetite for continual organic development will continue.
Im particularly pleased that our operating margins in publishing have There are gold seams everywhere if you look for them, and nowhere grown and that our new acquisitions and their staff have taken so is that more true than across SRH, where our most important seam quickly to the SRH way of life.
I continue to believe that there are more consists of the people who make the company what it is.
To all of them additions we can make to Score Press and further improvements we I offer my heartfelt thanks for their support and enthusiasm.
They are can produce from within our current operation.
the power that produces the results we are able to celebrate.
River Records Uniquely among the major commercial radio groups, SRH has retained much of the material the stations have recorded over the years.
These recordings, running to thousands of hours, range from pop to classical music, and from drama to interviews with people of note and in every walk of life.
The recordings stretch back to the early 1970s and of course continue to be added to each day.
Richard Findlay Chief Executive 20 November 2003 I believe our game plan has been the structure proven to be the of our correct one group allows us to react quickly to market conditions and opportunities 13
