10 Slough Estates Annual Report 2003 Chief Executives review 11 Slough Estates Annual Report 2003 The attraction of a secure income stream means that in the current uncertain economic conditions there is still strong investment demand for well-let properties These results reflect the fact that the Group cut back Balance sheet on development some 18 months ago in anticipation An external valuation of the Groups UK investment of the more difficult property markets that we have properties was undertaken, as at 31 December 2003, by experienced in 2003 and this has impacted on the our valuers, CB Richard Ellis and DTZ Debenham Tie Leung, reported profits.
Demand in 2003 has been slow and both of whom were appointed in 2003.
The valuation this has underlined the importance of our strategy reconfirmed the previous valuation process.
with its focus on suburban flexible business space which has allowed the company to avoid the worst The valuation fall of 97.7 million or 2.7 per cent to of the downturn, relying on a strong rental income 3,563.9 million on the Groups fully-owned worldwide stream from our excellent and well-located portfolio properties was partly offset by a surplus on property joint of international business parks and UK shopping centres.
ventures of 10.8 million or 4.7 per cent.
The inclusion of retained earnings and other minor capital changes resulted Results in a 2.7 per cent reduction in diluted net assets per share Profit before tax and exceptional items fell by 3.4 million to to 505 pence before application of FRS 19 deferred tax, 140.1 million.
Core property investment income was also or a decrease of 3.3 per cent to 464 pence per share lower, down by 3.3 per cent to 135.7 million.
Both numbers after provision for deferred tax.
were affected by the need to expense the interest on land held for development in the second half of 2003.
Pre-tax In the UK the revaluation deficit was 89.7 million, 3.3 per profits excluding exceptional items would have been up 2.0 cent down on last years valuation.
Surpluses in the retail per cent at 146.3 million without the requirement to expense 7.8 per cent and industrial 1.8 per cent sectors were interest on vacant land.
The decision to slow development more than offset by the 19.1 per cent and 25.5 per cent in 2002 meant that work on site was halted on our major deficits on offices and development land respectively.
land holdings at Farnborough and Cambridge and this meant that current accounting rules required there was a need to The attraction of a secure income stream means that in expense interest on these holdings until the development the current uncertain economic conditions there is still process resumes.
Work on our largest development holding at strong investment demand for well-let properties.
This Farnborough is expected to resume in the next few months.
demand has continued to offset concerns about short-term rental growth prospects and, as a result, yields are broadly Pre-tax profit of 103.8 million after exceptional items was unchanged from those reported at this time last year.
39.6 million down on last year due mainly to a provision of 37.9 million on our residential leisure development at In the US the valuation was down by 8.2 million or Quail West in Florida, which reflected the sales downturn 1.3 per cent.
The health science laboratory portfolio was that this business has suffered in the last two years.
more resilient than the multi-tenanted mixed-use product in the San Francisco area, the latter suffering from Adjusted basic earnings per share decreased by 4.2 per cent increased vacancy in that area.
Basic earnings per share were 19.6 pence, a 6.2 per cent fall.
The underlying effective tax rate before In Belgium, and France there was an overall deficit of exceptional items and FRS19 deferred tax was 11.1 per 0.6 per cent.
A 1.0 per cent surplus in France, reflecting rent cent 8.2 per cent in the prior period.
indexation, was offset by a 1.5 per cent deficit in Belgium due mainly to declines in rental and occupancy levels.
Dividends A final dividend of 9.2 pence per share is recommended The balance sheet remains very strong and conservatively which, together with the interim dividend of 5.8 pence geared with a net debt to equity ratio of 64 per cent adjusted per share, represents an aggregate distribution of 15 pence to exclude FRS19 deferred tax, or 69 per cent after accounting per share, an increase of 7.1 per cent for the year and a for FRS 19.
At the end of 2003 the Groups debt totalled five-year compound return of 7.6 per cent per annum.
1,667.1 million or 1,507.8 million net of cash deposits.
12 Slough Estates Annual Report 2003 Chief Executives review continued The Groups average interest rate on borrowed funds was well-located land with planning consents across all our 6.68 per cent, with an average maturity of 10.8 years.
markets, Slough Estates is well placed for the expected upturn in the market.
We have a total future development Review programme of some 1 billion on 147 hectares of land for One of the most significant changes that came out of the next five to eight years.
the Strategic Review has been the internal structure of the business, in terms of reporting and the overall management Occupancy by rent for 2003 is marginally down on 2002 regime.
Such changes are not obvious to the outside world but overall there seems a high level of stability in these but are fundamental to the success of the business.
figures, which we believe to have levelled off at around In 2003 we have streamlined the reporting structure and 90 per cent.
In 2004 we are gaining confidence about the in particular in the UK leasing area we have centralised outlook in property markets as global economic prospects the management into one team, which has helped us to improve but it may be next year before we see a strong step up our efforts in leasing and to improve the process.
We currently have only 67,000 sq.
m. of space under construction, 40 per cent The UK Retail business is now under new leadership and the down on 2002 levels and with 45 per cent pre-leased, team will review some extensions in existing centres but will but we expect this figure to increase in 2004. also explore how to manage assets more actively.
In the area of human resources, a new Director of Human Resources Our stated plans to exit from our non-core assets, which was appointed in the Spring.
A new rewards package has represent only three per cent of our asset base, are now been introduced which sets out clear targets for performancein place.
We are preparing for the sales of our investments based remuneration across the business.
We firmly believe at Quail West and Tipperary Corporation, but we have that these changes will be a strong force for motivating our decided not to sell our investments in venture capital funds people and will maximise the contributions from the most since they are still producing excellent returns.
We will not, talented individuals in what is a strong team of people.
however, be committing any more funds to these activities.
2003 has shown the defensive attributes of Slough Estates The Power Station has had another difficult year due portfolio, with strong cash flow generation and low gearing.
principally to the new plant being delivered late and Our leased portfolio reflects strong covenants from our with many faults which had rendered it initially unfit largest customers, such quality names as Fiat, Masterfoods, for purpose.
We are now focused on making the plant, Centrica, Pfizer, DHL, Deloitte & Touche, Microsoft, O2 operate profitably before reviewing our options further.
Overall, our top 20 customers provide some 31 per cent of Group income.
The wide spread of Review of activities businesses from our total customer base, which amounts to UK over 1,700 names worldwide, and covering a wide range of It has been a year of consolidation with a reduced market sectors is a further source of strength.
The diversity development programme reflecting the quieter market of business and strength of covenant is reinforced by long conditions.
In 2003 there were only two speculative and two leases, with a worldwide average of 11.5 years to run, so pre-let project starts as our focus has been on preparation, giving us a high degree of income security.
The contracted in terms of planning, and on leasing our existing buildings.
We income stream for the next 5 and 10 years of 73 per cent have submitted over 30 planning applications during the year and 50 per cent respectively when compared to our current for various developments, refurbishments and changes of use.
This calculation is made on the most pessimistic and improbable assumption of no new lettings In terms of leasing the new restructured leasing team has being made and every tenant break clause being exercised successfully let 84,000 sq.
m. a notable achievement in a in the intervening period, when in reality we can expect a difficult year.
One change that has helped the management continued flow of lettings.
In the last five years 78 per cent of our West London properties has been the creation of of our customers have not exercised their lease breaks and a new virtual estate, theLHR.
com, which brings together a majority of customers in fact renewed their leases.
16 West London properties into one integrated estate with common estate management and leasing.
It remains the case that new lettings for larger buildings have been more difficult to achieve, however, new leases With a more encouraging economic and market outlook for existing space increased by 37 per cent from 2002 and for 2004 and beyond, a number of new development leases of new space increased by 31 per cent.
We expect to projects are being brought forward.
Work is under way increase the number of speculative developments in 2004. on two more pre-lets for HR Owen and WH Smith for It is important, with the lead times involved in bringing starts in the first quarter 2004, and in January work started product to the market, that we are prepared for the on two smaller projects, a business unit in Slough and an anticipated stronger markets in the next 18 months.
office courtyard scheme in Kings Norton.
In early 2004 With a strong balance sheet and an excellent supply of we will review the prospects for speculative developments at Farnborough, Slough, West Drayton and Portsmouth.
13 Slough Estates Annual Report 2003 On the Slough Trading Estate the company has been Slough Estates sold land and buildings in Elgin, Illinois working with Slough Borough Council on the replacement for $6.7 million of the current Trading Estate Simplified Planning Zone SPZ to follow on from the expiry of the existing SPZ Continental Europe in January 2005.
Also, a new integrated transport strategy Slough Estates has had a successful trading year in is being introduced to the Trading Estate.
It will comprise Continental Europe in all three countries.
There were a new bus service which will be funded by Slough Estates, property sales in Belgium at Pegasus II, Strombeek and Slough Borough Council and First Group.
This Public Private Kortrijk, in France at St. Fargeau and in Germany at Kapellen.
Partnership will significantly improve the local transport.
In terms of new developments we are constructing Significant progress has been made in 2003 on the another light industrial park in Frankfurt of some 9,000 Development Brief Area DBA at Farnborough Business sq.
m. of which some 14 per cent is pre-let.
A new office Park, working with the regulatory bodies concerned as well development at Kortrijk, in Belgium, of 4,000 sq.
m. is being as other stakeholders, to ensure the key heritage buildings built which has been pre-let and forward sold.
Perhaps the are drawn into the planning process in a sensitive but most exciting development is at Le Bourget near Paris economic fashion.
m. first phase of a light industrial park is under construction which is 38 per cent pre-let.
2003 Major Events Letting to DHL of a 22,750 sq.
m. distribution warehouse Sale of the Pentagon Shopping Centre in Chatham, Kent for at Kapellen, just outside Dsseldorf 54 million at an initial yield of 6.89 per cent January 31,000 sq.
m. let in France Letting of Building 7400 1,776 sq.
m. let in Germany Research Park to Drake Electronics the largest commercial letting in Cambridge in 12 months April Tax transparent property trusts Letting to Agusta Westland, the helicopter manufacturer, Property investment funds of part of 25 Templer Avenue at Farnborough at a rent Reference is made elsewhere to the possible introduction of 275 per sq.
m. April of PIFs into the UK and we will be reviewing our options Completion and letting of new 2,210 sq.
m. purpose-built in forthcoming months.
What is clear is that the distribution centre to UPS and a pre-let to Knorr-Bremse anticipation of PIFs in the UK has been a strong driver of 3,372 sq.
m. both at Emerald Park, Bristol August in the share prices of the quoted property sector in the Acquisition of nine hectares of land at Manor Royal, second half of 2003 including strong support for Slough Crawley, Sussex for 25 million November Estates share price.
The PIF debate has far-reaching Six lettings completed at newly re-branded West London implications for Slough Estates as it has started a debate portfolio, theLHR.
m. of about how best to hold property assets both at home warehousing manufacturing space December and abroad.
In particular, we had already been looking New 4,293 sq.
m. speculative development warehouse at our substantial health science assets in California, scheme completed at theLHR.
com December as there may be attractions in the medium term to monetise these assets, and a US REIT structure may North America be the best way to hold these assets.
The North American business has had a successful year with underlying occupancy of 91.7 per cent, although Outlook temporarily two buildings, 333 Oyster Point and Allerton, In 2003 the Group has delivered a good set of results have caused occupancy to fall to 87.3 per cent, but the in what have been challenging markets for property first building is scheduled for demolition and the second companies.
The slower growth in 2003 was inevitable for redevelopment, and so both buildings will only be following our decision in 2002 to cut back on the in the statistics for a short period.
development programme as we believed that we faced a tougher business environment.
This earlier caution has In 2003 Slough Estates leased 67,000 sq.
m. of new and been shown to be fully justified by subsequent events with existing space.
During this period clients vacated some weaker demand for our products in 2003.
m. and there were total client renewals of forward with a greater degree of optimism than at any 14,000 sq.
m. time in the last 18 months and believe that demand will Five buildings were completed at Britannia Oyster Point, recover in 2005.
Therefore, it is important that we ensure South San Francisco, a total of 45,000 sq.
m. that we have sufficient product available to meet this rising The third phase of the Pfizer Sugen campus at Pointe demand and this will mean increasing development activity Grand, South San Francisco, of 6,300 sq.
m. was completed in 2004, so preparing for the upturn in the market.
m. were completed on the Pfizer campus at Torrey Pines Science Center, San Diego Ian Coull Chief Executive
