This has been a year of considerable challenges for the Group, Chief Executives Review with our businesses delivering mixed results.
Most impressive among them has been the performance of WHSmith News where underlying profits grew by 10 per cent.
However, on-going tough trading, following a rather lacklustre Christmas, resulted in a profits decrease at WHSmith UK Retail of 7 per cent to 90m.
One aspect of our business that has tended to dominate recent discussion of WHSmith has been our presence in the United States.
The well-documented economic downturn in the USA, exacerbated by the terrorist attacks of September 11th, had a serious and lasting effect on travel in North America.
This, in turn, had an inevitable impact on both our American businesses retailing in airports and hotels.
What tended to be omitted from these discussions was that WHSmith had run these businesses for the best part of 20 years.
Therefore, though we obtained respectable prices for these operations and their disposal will signicantly enhance our earnings, the exit from the US market has an element of sadness.
That said, during the past two years our American operations have taken up an inordinate amount of management time and attention.
Now, we will be able to invest those resources in the core areas of the Group.
Retailing As I intimated at the outset, the largest part of our business is also, in some ways, the most challenging.
There are a number of achievements in our UK Retail business of which we can be proud and some experiences in the past year from which we can learn.
On the positive side, this summer we opened our striking 16,000 square foot concept store in Guildford.
It has been specically created to help us define the changing face of WHSmith.
During the course of that on-going process, we will be able to test and rene many aspects of our business in order to ensure that we retain our position as one of Britains best-known high street brands.
Because it is critical that WHSmith continues to develop its product range, store environment and service offer to meet the changing needs of our customers.
Future success in this highly competitive retail sector will be based on a more thorough, practical understanding of shifts in customer motivation, buying habits, expectations and attitudes.
In all of this, the on-going Guildford experiment will be a powerful tool for WHSmith.
Our efforts at sourcing innovative, appealing, and higher margin products in the Far East have also been a noteworthy success.
Keeping up with the latest trends, the number of stationery ranges we now produce is increasing every year.
These WHSmith branded products are also being sold directly to our businesses in Australia and New Zealand and we are working hard to ensure that in this trade our suppliers conform to internationally recognised standards of corporate responsibility.
We can also be proud of the implementation of the final stage of RETEK.
This system will vastly improve our stock replenishment It has been a challenging year for and merchandise management systems, giving us greater exibility the Group and particularly for our in product ranges.
However, the agreed sales of our US operations will enable management to re-focus resources on our core businesses.
3 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Looking back: looking ahead Chief Executives Review Traditionally this is meant to be a review of the past year.
continued However, since it was also my last full year as Chief Executive I would like to take this opportunity to step back a bit further to put the last six years into perspective as well.
During that time we sold Waterstones and Virgin Our Price and we bought John Menzies and Hodder Headline.
In doing these transactions we sought to focus our retailing businesses on the WHSmith brand, to extend the geographic area in There can be no ignoring the fact that our retail performance which we operated and to enter the closely related sector for Christmas 2002 was disappointing.
Whilst we grew profits and of book publishing.
generated good cash ow, our sales performance was below par and our communication with customers over the Christmas season On the financial front, between 1997 and 2003 we increased profits failed to achieve the essential share of voice needed to drive sales.
in UK Retail by 87 per cent and strengthened the balance sheet.
In the second half of the year, while our sales performance was Just as importantly we also returned 250m to shareholders and a reliable annual dividend helped to boost investor confidence.
We can never afford to miss out on the opportunities that a successful holiday trading period Less tangible, but no less significant, have been the changes can bring.
Although we anticipate that Christmas 2003 will be very in culture within WHSmith.
Today, we are a more committed, competitive and bring further margin pressure to the high street, inclusive business, able to attract the people we want: people we believe that our offer and communication has been improved who can make a difference to the future of the Company.
This is true at every level of the organisation throughout each Beyond the UK, our Aspac operation continues to perform of our businesses and is particularly relevant to the appointment of my successor as Chief Executive, Kate Swann.
in line with our expectations.
Our efforts in building our brand in Australia are continuing with two trial stores.
We are now running Kate and I will build a relationship based on candour and trust.
a business that is considerably more efficient than when we bought She is certain to make a fantastic contribution to the future it and the implementation of SAP, which is underway in Australia, of WHSmith and I very much look forward to working with will drive further efficiency.
Whitcoulls, in New Zealand, has her in my new role as Chairman.
delivered a strong performance, with profits up 16 per cent to 3m.
This review is also an opportunity to express the entire companys News Distribution gratitude to my predecessor in that role, Martin Taylor, who is retiring.
Over the last two years we have focused on building relationships at both ends of the supply chain and I am happy to report that the Martin has been instrumental in shaping WHSmith in many ways.
reputation of WHSmith News is continuing to improve.
This is A superb coach and mentor, Martin has always balanced rapier confirmed by the results of our first published and independently intellect with genuine warmth and humanity.
He leaves with the audited customer satisfaction survey.
The customer satisfaction affection of everyone at WHSmith.
We wish him much happiness.
results continue to improve and this follows a period of concerted team building and significant investment in the right systems, Richard Handover technology and facilities.
It also comes at a time when we are Chief Executive seeing innovation and promising growth in the sector with the 16 October 2003 magazine market growing this year by 3 per cent.
Publishing Hodder Headline did well to maintain its profits in the year, despite the schoolbook funding crisis throughout the country.
We are hopeful, but not certain, that more schoolbook funding may be available later in the current year.
In consumer ction our market share has grown to 14 per cent, and the continuing success of authors such as James Patterson, Martina Cole and Wendy Holden is particularly noteworthy.
Just as importantly, we continue our quest to nd and contract with new and established best-selling authors.
Among the worlds leading authors joining us this year is Penny Vincenzi.
The acquisition of John Murray, bought in May 2002, is progressing well.
Under its first full year of ownership, in February 2003, we integrated the warehousing and IT systems and employees from John Murray are now located with the rest of Hodder Headlines team at our ofces in Euston Road, London.
4 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003
