3 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2003 Chief Executives review Overview I was pleased to be appointed Chief Executive in July 2002, following 11 years developing our Consumer Foods division.
During the year, Dairy Crest has continued to make good progress, despite testing conditions in the commodity cheese market, where prices were at ten year lows.
The key driver of the Groups performance has been its portfolio of brands, including Clover, Cathedral City, Frijj and the Yoplait brands, all of which have demonstrated continued strong volume growth and increased market share.
The acquisition of the St Ivel Spreads business is proving to be a sound strategic and financial fit.
This, together with the downsizing of our ingredients business through the planned closure of our butter and powder facility at Chard, will improve the quality of our earnings.
Drummond Hall, Chief Executive The business is well placed to continue to grow through further development of its branded and added value products and to compete effectively in commodity areas from well-invested facilities.
During the year we completed the integration of the Unigate dairy and cheese business, delivering the synergies forecast at the time of the acquisition.
Our super dairy at Severnside became fully operational towards the end of 2002.
Very importantly, our major capital investment programme will be completed in the current year and the business will therefore generate increasingly strong cash flows.
Financial results Group turnover including the share of the joint ventures turnover and the benefit of the St Ivel Spreads acquisition in November 2002 was slightly down at 1.33 billion, which principally reflected the impact of our strategic withdrawal from less profitable retail milk business in the first half of last year, together with lower volumes and realisations in commodity cheese.
Group operating profit, including St Ivel Spreads but before operating exceptional items and goodwill amortisation, increased by 5% to 97.5 million, with a strong improvement in the second half as expected.
Adjusted profit before tax was 76.8 million, compared with 73.7 million last year.
After taking account of goodwill amortisation and 21.5 million of net exceptional charges associated with the restructuring of the Group, reported profit before tax was 47.8 million, up 65% from last year.
Adjusted earnings per share increased to 46.4 pence from 45.2 pence per share.
Strategic developments In November we completed the acquisition of the St Ivel Spreads business.
This comprised the leading brands Utterly Butterly, St Ivel Gold and Vitalite, together with the UK licence for the Carapelli brand, and a well-invested manufacturing facility in Kirkby.
The integration with our existing spreads business is largely complete and the combined spreads business has performed ahead of our original expectations.
We also acquired an exclusive licence to use the St Ivel brand in perpetuity across spreads, juice and dairy products, excluding cottage cheese, yogurts and desserts.
We believe this brand will add value across our business.
We are downsizing our ingredients business with the planned closure of our butter and powder manufacturing facility at Chard and the consolidation of these operations at Severnside.
During the year significant new industry butter and powder capacity came on stream, which has made it increasingly difficult to source the required level of milk for our business.
By retaining the facility at Severnside, we will continue to have the ability to balance our milk supply efficiently and to supply our major ingredients customers.
This will reduce our exposure to the commodity markets.
These important strategic moves underline our commitment to improving the quality of our earnings.
4 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2003 Chief Executives review continued Investment programme Dairy Crests second super dairy at Severnside became fully operational towards the end of 2002.
This, together with the closure of our dairy at Kidlington, represented the final step of the restructuring and capital investment programme following the acquisition of Unigates dairy and cheese business in July 2000.
The Group is now well placed to develop its position in supplying fresh milk to retailers and to benefit from any industry consolidation.
Our net investment of 41 million in our creamery at Davidstow is progressing well and is on track to be completed in spring 2004.
This will support the continuing strong growth of our brands Cathedral City and Davidstow.
The completion of these major projects means that future capital investment should return to levels broadly in line with depreciation.
Customer focus We place great emphasis on developing strong relationships with our major customers across all our businesses.
We are investing in further improving service levels and a major programme of category development.
This programme has involved extensive consumer research, insights from which are driving our business development plans in both brand and retailer brand sectors with our customers.
People Dairy Crest recognises the key role our people play in improving business performance and therefore the Companys success.
We are increasing investment in our people and, in particular, focusing on management development of key personnel to ensure that all our businesses will continue to compete effectively.
Two of our businesses household and cheese achieved the Investors in People standard and it is our intention that the other businesses in the Group will follow over the next couple of years.
We have benefited from our move in September 2002 to our new Head Office at Claygate, which has enabled us to consolidate our principal management activities on one site.
Our final salary pension scheme is increasingly recognised as an important benefit and one that we plan to continue to support.
Outlook I believe the business is in a strong competitive position and is well placed to deliver shareholder value.
Our brands have started the year well.
The planned closure of the butter and powder facility at Chard is expected to have a broadly neutral impact on the current year.
Industry cheese stocks have reduced but there are still some excess stocks of mature cheddar which will continue to affect margins in the first half.
However, margins are expected to improve progressively through the year and the Groups performance is again likely to be weighted towards the second half.
Overall we expect profits for the year, including the full year benefit of the St Ivel Spreads acquisition, to show good progress and the Group to be strongly cash generative.
J W D Hall, Chief Executive 9 June 2003 5 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2003 St Ivel Spreads In November 2002, Dairy Crest completed the acquisition of St Ivel Spreads from the Uniq A strong branded position in the UK spreads and Group for a consideration of 86.5 million, satisfied wholly in cash and funded from new butter market.
Market share by volume St Ivel Spreads comprises leading brands Utterly Butterly, St Ivel Gold and Vitalite, together with the UK licence for the Carapelli brand, and a well invested manufacturing facility in Other 8% Kirkby.
Dairy Crest also acquired an exclusive licence to use the St Ivel brand in perpetuity Own label Dairy Crest 19% 23% for use across spreads, juice and dairy products, excluding cottage cheese, yogurts and desserts.
Arla 16% Unilever The acquisition provides Dairy Crest with an attractive position across the spreads and 34% butter market, which has a retail sales value of over 825 million.
The market is segmented by consumers into the taste sector comprising butter, spreadable butter and dairy Source: AC Nielsen 52 w e 19 April 2003 spreads and the health sector comprising low fat spreads, sunflower spreads, olive oil based spreads and nutriceuticals.
The taste sector accounts for 63% of the market by value and includes the Dairy Crest brands Clover, Utterly Butterly, Country Life, Country Life Spreadable and Willow.
Dairy Crests Argento, Carapelli, St Ivel Gold and Vitalite fall into the health sector, which accounts for 33% of the market by value.
The remaining 4% of the market is accounted for by cooking fats.
Launched in 1977, St Ivel Gold is a low fat spread with a delicious buttery taste and is made with semiskimmed milk, making healthy eating easier.
Launched in 1983, Vitalite is a sunflower spread for all the family.
The brand was made famous by the Launched in 1995 Utterly advertising campaign Butterly is a delicious using the Desmond spread made with Dekker Israelites buttermilk, appealing to song Oh, Oh, Vitalite.
consumers who dont take life too seriously, Launched in 2000, which is why Utterly Carapelli is the only Butterly sponsors branded spread Europes only professional made with Italys wingwalking team.
Number 1 extra virgin olive oil.
Building brands is our business
