06 Our focus this year has once Chief Executives more been on organic growth Review within all of our businesses.
Our strong cash flow and Even within recent weeks reducing debt places us in a we have seen a gradual position to acquire attractive improvement in our markets.
Charles Sinclair Chief Executive Daily Mail and General Trust plc Lord Rothermere has referred in his We are also working on the cost side of statement to our improved profits, despite our businesses.
One development over difficult markets.
The financial year started the last two years has been the creation of a well, but the expectation of war in Iraq centralised accounting centre for Northcliffe.
resulted in deteriorating conditions early This operation is now beginning to perform in 2003.
Since the war ended, we have work, such as payroll services, for the seen a gradual improvement, with a UK subsidiaries of other divisions.
Similar marked acceleration in recent weeks.
co-operation is happening in the United States, where, for example, common medical Our focus this year has once more been on plans have been established.
I hope that organic growth, with new exhibition launches, this trend to shared services continues.
extensions of Teletext on to new platforms, the establishment of new radio stations We continue to support our defined benefit in Australia and the creation of a new pension schemes for our UK newspaper terrorism risk analysis model by RMS, to divisions.
We still believe that these provide name but a few.
The best rewards to DMGT the most appropriate pension provision for this shareholders have historically come from group of employees.
Elsewhere in the Group, internal developments, with Euromoney being we operate defined contribution plans, again the ultimate example an investment of some because we believe them most appropriate.
6,000 becoming an international business Inevitably the financial position of our defined with a market value in excess of 230 million.
benefit schemes has deteriorated over recent We shall continue to seek opportunities years, but they remain in actuarial surplus and, from within all our businesses.
importantly, continue to have an excess of cash We have continued to make selective inflows over cash outflows to finance benefit acquisitions where we could see good commitments.
The level of our contributions returns and where this was the best way to these schemes has risen with effect from into a market sector we wished to enter.
1st October, 2003, but remains a little below DMG Information acquired Property & Portfolio the long term funding rate of the schemes.
Research, a Boston based company that We have included this year an expanded fits neatly alongside our existing property Corporate Social Responsibility review.
DMGT information businesses, and Sitescope, a companies have always taken seriously their competitor to DMGIs UK property information social and environmental responsibilities, but business, Landmark.
Euromoney bought our divisional structure has meant that these HedgeFund Intelligence, the leading magazine have not been centrally co-ordinated.
We are in this important sector of the financial markets.
increasingly attempting to do this.
It hopes to use its experience to take HFI into related media forms.
In the coming year, we will continue to look for organic growth and for fill-in acquisitions, However our total spend on acquisitions has using the strong cash flow from our businesses.
again fallen this year and, as a result, we have We will complete the expansion of our press been able to reduce our level of debt by almost facilities, which should lead to increased profits 50 million.
We also took advantage of benign and a lower level of capital expenditure, thereby market conditions in June 2003 to launch a allowing more rapid expansion by acquisition new long term Eurobond, raising 175 million or more rapid reduction of debt.
and substantially lengthening the maturity of our debt.
With our strong cash flow and reducing I hope that you find the reviews interesting debt, we are in a position to invest a quite and informative.
substantial amount in acquisitions, particularly of profitable businesses, without stretching unduly our own debt ratios.
However this will only happen if we find attractive opportunities.
