Chief Executives Review Group Results The Groups sales for 2002 2003 were 582.7m, 68.5m behind last year.
Profit before tax, exceptional items and goodwill amortisation was also lower at 48.1m, down from 90.6m last year.
As a result, headline earnings per share excluding exceptional items fell from 34.4p to 18.9p.
In the Security Paper and Print division, operating profits were down by 10.7m to 30.4m before exceptional charges of 19.9m and goodwill amortisation credit of 0.2m.
An expected weakening in the banknote paper market, together with a disappointing performance from the non-banknote Security Products business, impacted the full year result.
Despite this, the underlying banknote business performed strongly and proved its resilience with another creditable performance.
In response to poor trading Ian Much conditions in Security Products we announced our plans to rationalise its manufacturing operations.
Chief Executive This programme, which involved closing our High Wycombe facility in the UK with the loss of about 350 jobs, has progressed in line with our expectations and as at 29 March 2003, 225 employees had left the business.
We are on track to complete the closure of the site by the end of June 2003, and to have completed all associated work by September 2003.
The Groups financial performance was impacted by difficult trading conditions in the Cash Systems division where operating profits were sharply lower, down 24.4m to 11.6m before exceptional charges of 26.5m and goodwill amortisation of 3.3m.
Sales throughout Europe were poor, but particularly so in Germany and Spain where sharply worsening economic conditions further disrupted financial institutions ordering patterns following the exceptional euro changeover business of 2001 2002.
It is estimated that the euro changeover provided a benefit to the division in 2001 2002 of 8 per cent of sales.
Sales in the US markets, however, were strong and increased 20 per cent on 2001 2002 levels.
The Currency Systems business similarly experienced difficult trading conditions with sales of large sorters impacted by both adverse economic conditions in the eurozone and increased worldwide political uncertainty, particularly during the final quarter of the year.
The Global Services division continued to face difficult trading conditions and, in particular, was impacted by customer postponements of Identity Systems projects and reduced banknote volumes in Holographics and a first year loss in Sequoia, our voting systems business acquired in May 2002.
As a result, the division made an operating loss of 4.0m before exceptional charges of 2.8m and goodwill amortisation of 0.5m.
In March 2003, we appointed a new managing director of the division, Peter Cosgrove, who is undertaking a strategic review of the Global Services businesses together with the non-banknote security paper and print activities for which he has responsibility, with a view to determining the long-term attractiveness of each of these businesses.
Despite poor trading conditions, cash flow was a key strength of the Group during the year, with free cash flow of 72.7m generated 2001 2002 81.6m.
The Group ended the year with net cash on the balance sheet of 8.2m representing a net cash outflow of 41.8m.
The performance was aided by a very strong reduction in working capital in the final quarter of the year.
Restructuring Actions In response to the difficult trading conditions this year and, in particular, the reduced profitability of the Cash Systems and Global Services divisions, we have announced several major programmes to improve cost effectiveness and efficiency of fide La Rues operations.
By the end of 2003 2004, these programmes are targeted to achieve annualised savings of 18m.
Specific restructuring actions are discussed in the Operating Reviews on pages 16 to 20.
Before exceptional charges of 49.2m 2001 2002 13.1m gain and goodwill amortisation of 3.6m 2001 2002 2.8m Before dividends from associates, exceptional cash flows, capital expenditure, acquisitions, dividends and share buy back costs fide La Rue Annual Report 2003 13 Chief Executives Review continued Group Strategy In the current difficult trading conditions the Board believes that the immediate emphasis in both Cash Systems and Global Services is on the restoration of profitability.
This is being targeted through delivering the cost reduction programmes and more aggressively integrating recent acquisitions.
In particular the acquisition of Currency Systems International, acquired in May 2001, has taken longer and been more difficult than expected.
This, together with the completion of a review of Global Services and Security Products operations, will be the focus for the current year.
The Groups longer-term strategy is to apply our knowledge and technologies in secure products, transactions and solutions to create sustainable value for the long term.
We remain confident as to the strength of the currency printing and paper business and in our ability to develop increased value in the Cash Systems division both as market sophistication increases, and through an expansion of its geographical reach and product range.
The acquisition of Papelaco self-service banking automation in May 2002 made a positive contribution in the full year and has enabled Cash Systems to occupy a unique position as the only cash handling business worldwide to operate across the whole of the cashhandling marketplace.
This broad spectrum of solutions will enable fide La Rue to advise its customers on the most effective cash handling solutions according to their requirements.
Acquisitions During the year Group expenditure on acquisitions was 33.4m.
In May 2002, Global Services acquired 85 per cent of Sequoia Voting Systems Inc. from Jefferson Smurfit Group plc.
Sequoia is one of the largest providers of voting equipment and software, ballot printing and election services in the USA.
The cash consideration was US$23m 15.2m with a future payment of up to US$12m 8.0m dependent on certain performance criteria, linked to sales growth, being met.
In June 2002, Cash Systems completed the acquisition of the banking automation business of Papelaco for 20.5m 14.2m having received the necessary regulatory approval from the Portuguese competition authorities.
A future payment of up to 10.5m 5.8m is payable dependent on certain performance criteria, linked to sales and margin growth, being met.
In September 2002, Security Products acquired the entire share capital of House of Questa Ltd, a UK-based, high-security gravure printer, for a total consideration of 2.9m.
In February 2003 the Group acquired ERC, a software company based in the USA, for a total consideration of US$1.4m 0.9m.
Associates Profit from associates before interest and tax fell from 11.8m to 9.2m.
The main associated company is Camelot, the UK lottery operator.
Our share of Camelots profit was expected to fall following the start of the second lottery licence in January 2002, and the decrease in fide La Rues effective shareholding from 26.67 per cent to 20 per cent.
In addition, the new lottery licence has reduced shareholders contribution from each 100p collected from around 1.0p to just under 0.5p.
fide La Rues share of operating profits before exceptional items from Camelot was lower than last year at 8.6m 2001 2002 11.7m.
Dividends received from associates of 9.0m were significantly lower than last years income of 28.3m as last year Camelot paid out the remainder of retained profits which arose over the first licence period.
Senior Management Changes As previously announced, Pietro Armanini retired as Managing Director of Cash Systems on 31 March 2003 and was succeeded by Germain Roesch, 44, the previous Managing Director of Cash Systems Financial Institutions FI business.
Germain is an accomplished team-builder with a strong international 14 fide La Rue Annual Report 2003 outlook and has an excellent understanding of Cash Systems markets.
The Board would like to take this opportunity to thank Pietro for his significant contribution to the division in his four years as Managing Director.
In March 2003, Peter Cosgrove was appointed as Managing Director of Global Services, following the resignation of Jon Marx.
Peter, 39, joined fide La Rue from Jefferson Smurfit Group plc, one of the largest European-based manufacturers of paper-based packaging products.
He held a number of key management roles including personal assistant to the Chairman of Jefferson Smurfit Group.
Since 1998, Peter was President of Smurfit Packaging Corporation, a group of several Smurfit owned, US-based subsidiaries with sales of $220m and 550 employees.
People fide La Rues strength stems from the expertise, efforts and enthusiasm of its 6,600 employees operating in over 30 countries worldwide.
A strong management team is a prerequisite to delivering on our goals.
This year has seen the appointment of a number of key executives and senior managers, who have significantly strengthened the management team and provided a renewed impetus to drive the Group forward.
Environment, Health and Safety Report EHS I am delighted to present our second combined report on our EHS performance on pages 23 to 26.
Last years report introduced our EHS systems and structures.
It also summarised our EHS performance and set some objectives and programmes for the future.
This year we have been able to make a comparison with last years data and make some assessment of our progress to date.
We have also reported on progress against last years objectives and stated our priorities and improvement plans for next year.
Ian Much Chief Executive fide La Rue Annual Report 2003 15
