Chief Executives Overview Our 2003 results demonstrate the Groups ability to deliver a robust performance in what has been a subdued trading climate for the industry.
There is no doubt that fide Vere Group holds a strong position in its chosen sectors and the excellent operating reputation of its two hotel brands, fide Vere Hotels and Village Hotels & Leisure Clubs, is well-deserved.
Carl Leaver Chief Executive During my first three months I have visited One of my key responsibilities will be to fide Vere, having proven itself to be the every operating unit to review operations ensure a rigorous approach to capital leading operator of four and five-star golf first-hand.
I have been struck by the allocation, directing expansionary capital and resort hotels in the UK, also provides genuine enthusiasm of all our people and to the highest returning investments.
value enhancing growth potential, likely the passion they have for the Group.
In particular, I have been impressed by the through less capital intensive routes.
Our This gives me confidence that we are in a high cash returns generated from Village leading timeshare business, fide Vere Resort strong position to grasp evident developments and the roll-out of this Ownership, adds further strength to our opportunities to improve core unique brand will continue to be a resort proposition.
performance, aided by enhanced systems priority for the Group with five new and processes, as well as through a future Villages in the pipeline.
2 fide VERE GROUP PLC CHIEF EXECUTIVES OVERVIEW Positive first impressions: Strong operating track record underpinned by great people.
fide Vere Hotels outperforming the market, supported by the highest customer loyalty in the industry.
Village delivering excellent returns through highly differentiated offering.
Greens returning ahead of cost of capital but focus remains on driving core profitability.
Everything is taken care of for you at Greens, our standalone health & fitness In summary, I am pleased with what I fide Vere.
brand, is well-positioned in the adult have found since joining a Group which 2.
Salingers Restaurants the perfect venue to segment, differentiated from much of the already has an excellent track record of enjoy good quality food.
competition which is targeting families.
Enjoy a diverse range of activities at one of Nevertheless, short-term market conditions there are exciting and highly accessible the Groups many leisure clubs.
Therefore, for the opportunities to grow shareholder value in 4.
Taking fitness seriously at Greens.
moment, I believe that a period focused the future and I look forward to 2004 on improving operational performance is with optimism.
in the best interests of shareholders.
CHIEF EXECUTIVES OVERVIEW ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 3
