Chief Executives Review Tony Thorne Overview The cash inflow after dividends, but before over the course of the year.
We dealt with At the start of the financial year 2002 03, net acquisitions, was 31.7 million.
After net these changing circumstances through we recognised that we could not expect any expenditure on acquisitions of 16.1 million, timely price adjustments and continuing significant improvement in demand in most principally in the liquid packaging and cost control, although the underlying lack of our markets and that we were also facing dispensing segment of Plastic Packaging, of customer demand limited our scope to a squeeze on our margins in paper following there was a net cash inflow of 15.6 million recover fully raw material cost increases.
a sharp rise in recovered paper prices.
which resulted in net borrowings of Despite increased efficiencies, this market Against this background, our principal 202.3 million 2001 02: 195.9 million environment resulted in lower profits from financial objectives were to maintain after the effect of exchange rate movements.
An underlying our progress in Packaging and to improve The resultant gearing was 43% 45%.
improvement in the performance of our profitability in Office Products.
I am pleased corrugated operations, enhanced by the to report that the teams concentration on These results reflect the strength of many of benefits of recent investment and, in the mix management, cutting costs and attention the Groups market positions and the skill UK, by the acquisition of Daniscos plants, to cash, combined with the benefits from and determination with which the divisional allowed us to more than compensate for actions we had taken previously, enabled management teams have run their operations.
us to meet these objectives while also continuing the development of the Group.
Packaging In Plastic Packaging, we continued to Our larger activity, Packaging, which make good progress, with a 13% increase Group sales increased by 3% to accounted for 64% of Group sales and 77% in sales and a 16% advance in operating profit 1,479.0 million, of which 2% was of normalised operating profit, raised sales before exceptional items and amortisation of attributable to acquisitions.
Operating and operating profit before exceptional items intangibles.
Strong growth was maintained profit before exceptional items and and amortisation of intangibles by 6% despite in liquid packaging and dispensing, boosted amortisation of intangibles advanced in flat or declining demand in the majority by the acquisition of a leading European all four of our business segments, giving of its markets.
The recent acquisitions made manufacturer of bag-in-box packaging.
an overall increase of 22% to 88.0 million: a strong contribution to this result.
Since the year end we have also acquired at constant exchange rates the increase was the remaining 50% shareholding in our 20%.
Operating margin rose from 5.0% to In Corrugated and Paper, sales and Australasian operation, strengthening our 5.9% while return on average capital employed operating profit before exceptional items base in the Asia-Pacific market.
In industrial moved from 9.2% to 11.3%.
Interest cover and amortisation of intangibles both returnable transit packaging RTP, our remained strong at 8.3 times.
The management of price bottle crate business performed well.
volatility was particularly challenging this Trends in sales of other RTP products varied, Profit before tax, exceptional items and year.
Price movements in recovered paper, depending upon the sector, but were helped amortisation of intangibles rose 27% to our principal raw material, resulted in periods by new product development and our pan- 79.7 million while adjusted earnings per of margin squeeze and triggered substantial European approach to the market.
movements in paper and corrugated prices We improved our operations and continued the strategic development of our businesses 5 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2003 Chief Executives Review Tony Thorne Office Products Our Office Products Manufacturing business, productivity targets for our operations The decisive actions taken by the management John Dickinson, achieved a turnaround in in these markets while concentrating our teams towards the end of 2001 02 in both profit from a loss before exceptional items development efforts on higher margin Wholesaling and Manufacturing resulted of 1.6 million to a profit of 4.0 million, segments.
Building on our strong bases in a turnaround in profits despite the very benefiting from both significant cost in the UK and France, we are growing poor demand for office products across reduction and lower depreciation following our corrugated packaging positions in Europe.
Total Office Products sales were the impairment of assets taken in 2001 02.
Italy, Poland and the Ukraine.
Despite 2% lower, partly due to decisions to exit ongoing operational improvements in our some unprofitable areas of business, but Strategy Turkish business, the countrys economic operating profit before exceptional items The Group has strong market positions environment is such that the business is loss and amortisation of intangibles increased with good potential in both its Packaging making and the resolution of this situation from 8.1 million to 20.2 million.
We continue to be alert to continue to use our sound financial base good value bolt-on acquisitions in corrugated In Office Products Wholesaling, the and strong management teams to develop packaging.
In our Paper operations, we are extensive improvement programme that these two activities in parallel.
In order to meeting the market trend to lighter weight was implemented throughout Spicers improve overall returns we will restructure papers through adapting successfully our operations enabled it to meet its targets businesses where necessary or exit them existing mills to run these products efficiently.
Operating profit if we do not believe we can raise returns before exceptional items and amortisation to satisfactory levels.
In 2002 03 we sold Plastic Packaging has the prospect of of intangibles increased from 9.7 million three small peripheral businesses for a total strong and profitable growth in our selected to 16.2 million.
In the UK, high service consideration of 4.5 million.
We now have a leading global levels were achieved and margins improved for investment or acquisitions continues business in liquid packaging and dispensing, through reduced operating costs and margin to be committed prudently with the priorities a market that is expected to continue management.
Spicers France, operating being cost reduction and the seizing of expanding and should provide further in increasingly tough market conditions, opportunities in new products or markets.
In industrial performed well although its result was RTP we have developed strong European slightly lower than the previous year.
Spicers In Corrugated and Paper, two important positions in a number of sectors of the Germany has rebuilt customer confidence trends that our strategy is addressing are market in which we can build organically and is now making progress in very tough the greater growth for corrugated packaging and through acquisitions.
market conditions, while in Spain, where in central and eastern Europe, and the we are still at an early stage of development, increase in demand for lighter weight papers.
Spicers Office Products Wholesaling has sales are growing steadily.
In recognition of the low market growth in pre-eminent positions in the UK and France, the UK and France, we have set demanding emerging positions in Germany and Spain 1 2 Contributing to progress People throughout the Group played their part in improving our operations 1 Our manufacturing teams use their expertise to produce top quality packaging.
2 Paper reels receive a final inspection to ensure they meet customers requirements.
3 Spicers customer service teams operate to demanding response standards.
6 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2003 and a base for entering the Italian market costs of providing benefits under the scheme, in late 2004.
We are confident, given our resulting in a nil SSAP 24 pension charge.
success in France and the development of Under the FRS 17 accounting standard an expanding customer base in Germany, the scheme had a post-tax net deficit, as at that we can enhance the value of Spicers 30 April 2003, of 93.8 million compared with through building its position in continental a post-tax net deficit of 7.3 million a year ago.
The priority for management is to achieve profit breakthrough in Germany Outlook and strong sales growth in Spain.
In 2002 03 we improved our operations and continued the strategic development of our Pension scheme businesses.
These actions underpinned the During the year we reviewed the position years results and further strengthened our of our UK defined benefits pension scheme.
We decided to retain the scheme for current and new members, while keeping the position We have yet to see an improvement in the under review pending the next triennial trading environment.
Therefore, our focus valuation which is due to take place as at will continue to be on raising operational April 2004.
In the year, we reduced some of performance and building on these strong the benefits to lower the ongoing cost of the market positions.
While, at this early stage scheme to the Company.
The Company has of the year, movements in recovered paper resumed payments into the scheme at the rate prices are putting increased pressure on of 10 million per annum, broadly the annual margins in our substantial Paper business, cost of the scheme, with 5 million being paid I am confident that the rest of the Group in the second half of 2002 03.
In accordance will make further progress.
with SSAP 24, these payments are being treated as prepayments on the balance sheet and are not being shown as a charge to the profit and loss account until the next triennial valuation.
The historic SSAP 24 surplus will continue to generate a net credit to the profit and loss account of approximately 10 million until the next Tony Thorne valuation, thereby offsetting the ongoing Group Chief Executive 3 Our focus will continue to be on raising operational performance and building on our strong market positions 7 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2003
