Electrocomponents plc 17 Chief Process Officers report The Group Processes support our global network of operating Supply Chain companies.
They have the infrastructure expertise that enables them Our Supply Chain management continued to manage stock efficiently, to provide the consistent customer service which is the key strength whilst maintaining excellent service levels.
We measure service levels of the Group.
by orderfill, the percentage of orders despatched complete on the The total cost of Processes in the year was 74.6m, up 7.6% day the order was received, and this was maintained at high levels from last year, but after adjusting for one-off withdrawal costs and throughout the year.
The ability to satisfy a customer order in full and increased systems project costs the increase was 1.6% as described immediately is the foundation upon which we differentiate our service in the Financial Review.
Continued tight stock control was reflected in our stock turn of Product Management 2.6 times.
This was down from 2.7 times primarily because of the The total number of products on sale through RS and Allied worldwide is German warehouse move and some stock-build ahead of systems approximately 300,000.
From this total, Product Management has to implementation.
ensure that the right product selection is offered by each business to There have been important initiatives in each region: in Europe meet local customer requirements.
There is continual focus to improve thenew German warehouse provides more efficient logistics and the effectiveness of the product range.
adds to our overall capacity to support growth: in Asia we have Over the past year we have deepened our relationships with reshaped the way we serve the smaller markets to provide better suppliers based on the advantages we offer them: the Groups unique service: and in Allied we have introduced the stock management global presence: our large number of end-user customers: and our techniques used by RS, with improvements in efficiency and service.
Suppliers recognise our ability to create The UK remains our main product intake and replenishment centre demand for their products, for example in the important research and for the RS businesses, though this role will increasingly be shared by development arena, and value highly the opportunity to enhance their Germany, France and Singapore, given their enhanced warehouse market understanding by selling through us.
A close relationship and system capabilities.
By understanding our suppliers own supply with our suppliers is critical to ensuring that our product offer is chains, we have been able greatly to enhance the effectiveness of comprehensive and up-to-date.
our inbound logistics, both in terms of shorter lead times and shared Product compliance is an area of increasing importance around cost benefits.
the world, and adds to the complexity of managing the offer.
For example, last summer changes in legislation in China meant that Group Facilities to ensure strict compliance almost half of the products in the local Group Facilities managed a number of important projects in the catalogue had to be taken off sale.
Whilst this depressed sales during year, particularly relating to warehouses, which incurred capital the year close co-operation with our suppliers limited the impact.
In Germany the move to the new freehold continue to invest heavily in compliance, for the reassurance of our 21,000 square metre warehouse in Bad Hersfeld was completed customers throughout the world.
Richard Butler Chief Process Officer 18 Electrocomponents plc Chief Process Officers report continued This larger and more efficient facility will support enhanced customer Group Human Resources service, though there will be higher operating costs in the short term.
The approval by shareholders at the last AGM of the new Long Significant growth in Japan and Spain necessitated further Term Incentive Share Option Plan and the introduction of a new leasehold warehouse investments during the year.
In Japan, the performance-related annual reward scheme have had a positive relocation to a more efficient warehouse took place in August 2002, response during the year: in particular, a more integrated approach giving more capacity to support this rapidly growing business, and a to rewards across all management levels has been welcomed.
These much better location next to the couriers hub.
In Spain, the move to developments will help the Group recruit and retain key employees larger premises was successfully achieved in March 2003, allowing and further encourage the high performance culture.
improvements in service levels to our customers and a reduction in Increasing attention has also been given to planning for our inbound freight costs.
future leadership requirements, based on a more structured comparison of the management needs to support our strategy Media Publishing and our existing capabilities.
The Media Publishing Process manages and delivers all the media for the Group.
Thirty-five catalogue versions in eight languages are Information Systems produced, with about 5 billion pages.
The product content is also Though responsibility for our Information Systems process falls to Jeff presented on CD-Rom and on internet sites.
Hewitt, for the completeness of this process review, I will comment on A specialist Content Management team was formed during the it here.
year to provide a focus on product data management and media The large number of transactions and our absolute requirements presentation.
Already this team has improved the quality and for accuracy and timeliness to support customer service make completeness of our product data.
Another major initiative has focused Information Systems a vital area of the Group.
Information Systems, upon the improvement of the catalogue index, with good customer including the costs of the enterprise business systems project, reaction.
This significantly improves our customers ability to accounted for some 44% of total Process costs, or 32.5m.
The 14% find the product they need from the tens of thousands available.
The increase on last year largely reflects the higher project costs.
Content Management team has also developed the means of offering During the year capital expenditure on information systems was products on the internet as soon as the product is available.
This 22.9m, a 14% decrease from last year.
This reflects the phasing of our capability has been operational since last autumn, bringing products enterprise systems projects in Europe and Asia which have now largely to market quicker than before.
completed their blueprinting template design, application build and Further investments in automatic pagination software and deskhardware acquisition phases, and are now commencing roll-out.
top publishing systems have resulted in significant reductions in During the year, the first implementation took place in South Asia, and catalogue lead time.
We now manage the production of over 75% of the implementation in France will take place in June 2003.
There is a our direct mail promotional material in-house.
In Asia, new publishing programme of further roll-outs across Europe including the UK and systems have updated our flexibility in handling complex character Asia over the next three years.
sets, allowing future enhancements to our media in Japan and China.
The cost impact of the enterprise system projects was 4.5m in Electrocomponents plc 19 the year, up from 1.8m last year as a result of increased depreciation and other costs.
Depreciation will increase further during the roll-out phase and in the coming year by about 5m.
The enterprise systems investments will provide a range of benefits.
A direct benefit is the elimination of the high costs of supporting the legacy systems.
There will also be substantial benefits in stock management and operating efficiencies, whilst the new systems will allow additional services to customers.
The improved infrastructure will also support the growth of e-Commerce.
As a consequence of the project, systems services will be provided on a regional rather than on a country basis, and this will provide further benefits.
The European regional service centre has been set up during the year and is now starting to operate, whilst the Asian service centre will be established during the coming year.
We anticipate that the overall benefits will provide an attractive payback on this 50m plus investment.
The success of the project is a key requirement for the execution of the Groups strategy.
Richard Butler, Chief Process Officer There is continual focus to improve the effectiveness of the product range
