12 Electrocomponents plc Chief Executives report Overview RS UK had a sales decline of 7.0% adjusted for trading days to Despite the continuation of tough economic conditions throughout 366.9m, reflecting the continuing weakness of the manufacturing the year, the second half of the year saw an improvement in trading.
UK sales in the second half declined by 4.7% adjusted, Over the past year regional sales performance has reflected and exited the year at a lower rate of decline.
The UK business is some of these initiatives: strong sales growth was achieved in Japan, firmly focused on returning to growth by broadening its customer despite a very weak economy: Europe and Asia had modest growth base.
Record numbers of new customers have been acquired in rates, though with the second half better than the first: North America the more buoyant service sectors, offsetting losses in had a small decline in sales for the year as a whole but grew in the manufacturing through customers losing their jobs.
Over the second half: and the sales decline of our UK business lessened as year the UK thereby maintained overall customer numbers.
e-Commerce sales accelerated in all our Sales to customers in the manufacturing sectors major markets.
consequently declined most, but still accounted for over We believe firmly in the growth potential of all our businesses, half of our total sales.
and have continued to invest in them, particularly in sales and During the year we closed a specialised activity serving the marketing, e-Commerce, Japan, warehouse facilities and information troubled telecommunications and related sectors.
We have continued to improve our gross margins, and have costs of this withdrawal amounted to about 2.4m, of which managed the cost base effectively, although there is a limit to the 0.9m has been charged against RS UK contribution and 1.5m, pressure we can place on costs without adversely impacting future related to stock, property and systems, against Process costs.
Stock has been reduced while maintaining our excellent There are many initiatives in place to regain sales growth.
service levels, and our cash generation has remained very positive.
We have increased the size of the sales force and the number of Net debt has consequently been reduced.
Capital expenditure peaked catalogues distributed to customers in the second half.
Part of this last year and has reduced to 31.3m this year.
additional investment is being directed to sectors where RS has traditionally been under-represented.
These include the publicly I will now summarise the performance of our businesses by region.
Currently, due to our historic sales and marketing focus, RS sells to only a fifth of all hospitals, UK but where we do have customers we have observed similar purchasing dynamics to customers in manufacturing.
Also, a RS UK 2003 2002 Sales by destination 353.7m 379.7m six month pilot demonstrated that hospitals buy across our Adjusted sales decline 7.2 % 7.6 % entire product range, which reflects our experience in other Sales by origin 366.9m 393.0m service sectors.
Adjusted sales decline 7.0 % 7.4 % Customer contact is ever more important and so the size of Contribution 119.1m 126.2m each sales territory has been reduced, and more sales people Contribution % 32.5% 32.1% Ian Mason Group Chief Executive El Ele ec ct tr roc oco om mp po on ne en nt ts p s pl lc c 13 13 recruited, which allows more time for customer acquisition and Rest of Europe development activities.
Although we have contracts in place with RS Rest of Europe 2003 2002 large organisations which have many end-users, our experience Sales 224.3m 210.7m Adjusted sales growth 1.5% 4.1% indicates that the key to obtaining value from such contracts is in Contribution 44.1m 40.4m accessing and serving the end-users themselves.
In addition we Contribution % 19.7% 19.2% opened two new trade counters in South Wales and Aberdeen, and rolled out our successful Managed Stock Replenishment Sales in Europe grew by 1.5% adjusted for trading days and at programme, run from the trade counters, which manages constant exchange rates to 224.3m, which is 30.2% of Group customers inventory requirements.
Trading conditions in both halves were similar, though growth Increased targeting and distribution of the catalogue among was slightly better in the second half.
During the year we invested potential customers has enhanced the visibility of our offer and heavily in the region with capital expenditure on warehouses and of the value we bring.
This should increase the pace of growth in systems.
The contribution is stated after disruption costs of about the business as maintenance and development engineers across 1.5m resulting from the relocation of our German warehouse.
all sectors of the economy see and understand the relevance of Excluding these one-off costs, the contribution margin would have our services.
Our nursery programme is designed to ensure been higher at 20.3%.
that once new customers have bought from us they increase These results demonstrate our strategy in action sales growth their order frequency more quickly, and purchase more broadly with improving contribution margins, even in difficult economic across our product range.
Our product range increased 2% over conditions.
This improvement in contribution margin has again the year to 135,000. come through a combination of higher gross margin and tight e-Commerce continued its very strong performance, growing management of costs.
The higher gross margin reflects close year on year at 45%, and now accounts for around 15% of sales, attention to all elements of gross margin, not just our cost prices up from 10%.
This success is driven by innovative improvements and selling prices: for example, we have reduced sales credits by in functionality that focus on reducing our customers costs.
reducing errors in customer product selection and order fulfilment.
Success has been achieved across all sectors of the economy.
Through such actions we are also improving customer service.
Despite lower sales and the investments made in the year, Europe, excluding the United Kingdom, is managed on a regional the UK contribution margin improved to 32.5% from 32.1% basis to ensure greater cohesion between the businesses and to through continued active management of gross margin and transfer best practice, in particular in selling and marketing activities.
Our RS UK business remains highly This year was the first full year of trading in Rest of Europe from our cash generative.
higher functionality websites, and this has delivered excellent results.
Exports from the UK to third party distributors and direct to e-Commerce sales have more than doubled in the year to about 10% of overseas customers were flat against last year.
total sales, and exited the year at over 12% of sales.
We believe firmly in the growth potentialof all our businesses, and have continued to invest in them 14 Electrocomponents plc Chief Executives report continued The smaller businesses had differing results.
Spain continued RS Rest of Europe sales, Adjusted sales Increase in Number of customers and products growth decline customers products to grow at a high rate throughout the year and moved to a larger France 0.0% 1% 93,000 warehouse facility.
Elsewhere, Austria grew well, Scandinavia and Germany 1.6% 0% 84,000 Benelux grew, but more slowly than last year, whilst our business Italy 0.2 % 2% 75,000 in Ireland returned to growth.
Smaller businesses 5.6% 2% 55,000 Despite the economic difficulties we have continued to invest in the The performance of the larger businesses reflected the depressed future growth potential of our European businesses.
Each of the businesses is pursuing initiatives are in an excellent position to return to strong sales growth when the to grow sales, without assuming any improvement in the upturn comes, with higher levels of contribution.
In France, Germany and Italy there was also a lot of internal activity North America during the year.
Allied North America 2003 2002 The European systems project will be implemented first in June Sales 103.4m 110.5m 2003 in France.
During the year considerable time and effort has Adjusted sales decline 0.4 % 27.6 % Contribution 14.4m 15.9m been spent by the French management team on ensuring that the Contribution % 13.9% 14.4% implementation goes according to plan.
Equally, attention is being focused on making sure that the substantial efficiency benefits and rewards from better customer service will be realised.
Sales of our Allied business in North America declined slightly The relocation to the new warehouse in Germany was completed adjusted to 103.4m.
Allied returned to growth in the second half of over the Christmas 2002 break.
In the coming year our customers the year at 4.3% growth year on year, and exited the year at a slightly will experience enhanced service from this purpose-built facility.
We believe that we have taken sales from the many small, situated close to all major carrier hubs and will give us the ability to local businesses that face increasing service and supply difficulties provide higher service levels including later order cut-off to support during the electronics cycle.
Allieds customer base was flat over our growth in Germany and also in nearby countries.
RS Italy moved to a larger warehouse and offices last year and Gross margins of about 40% were similar to last year.
The national can now accommodate significant growth.
Following extensive sales-office branch network was maintained, while further front-end customer research, Italy changed the frequency of its catalogue investments resulted in a planned increase in costs.
For example, from semi-annual to annual in September 2002, and at the the catalogue underwent a number of improvements in May 2002 with same time increased the number of catalogues circulated by 40%.
the launch of the first colour edition, featuring a new buyers guide and Though overall catalogue costs have been reduced, further enhancements in layout and indexing.
Customer service in the local investment was made in more responsive, shorter term sales branches is being improved by better staff training and will be marketing initiatives.
further enhanced by the implementation of a new quote system, which In 2003, Allied Electronics in North America celebrates years of excellent 75 service Electrocomponents plc 15 in the pilot led to a substantial increase in bookings.
An initiative to Customer-facing activities have been further strengthened with extend the product portfolio with maintenance-related products new additional resource in sales and customer service.
The success of RS in to the Allied offer is under way.
As a result, Allieds contribution on Japan and the value that Japanese engineers place on the RS service sales declined by 0.5 percentage points to 13.9%.
demonstrate the transferability and fundamental high value of the RS Sales over the internet improved again, to 7% of total sales.
Our view that the market potential is huge is Allied celebrates its 75th anniversary in 2003 and is in a strong reinforced by this years results.
position to continue its historical sales and profit successes in Losses of 3.3m were down from 4.7m last year despite the the future.
costs of moving the warehouse in August 2002 and launching the new internet capability in April 2002.
We anticipate that the Japan business will reach break-even on a month-by-month basis during RS Japan 2003 2002 the coming year.
Sales 11.3m 9.0m Adjusted sales growth 31.6% 15.3% Rest of World Contribution 3.3m 4.7m RS Rest of World 2003 2002 Sales growth in Japan accelerated to 31.6% adjusted, giving sales Sales 37.8m 36.4m of 11.3m.
The second half growth rate was 35.6%.
This strong Adjusted sales growth 5.7% 1.0% Contribution 2.4m 0.2m performance came in spite of the weak Japanese economy.
The Contribution % 6.3% 0.5% growth in the year was driven by the new e-Commerce functionality introduced in April 2002.
The website is entirely in Japanese and Sales in Rest of World grew by 5.7% adjusted to 37.8m.
The second is supported by dedicated local staff.
Several major customers, half grew slightly faster at 6.5%, and the businesses exited the year at particularly in the public sector, have been using the advanced buya similar rate.
Asia accounts for most of the sales in this segment.
side functionality of the site and have found it a valuable tool in retaining control over purchasing while saving administrative costs.
Asia Since the launch of the new functionality, sales through e-Commerce Asia sales grew by 2.7% adjusted, returning to growth in the second have run at about one third of total sales, almost double the level of half of the year.
Sales in North Asia were down 0.7%, reflecting growth in China, but The product offer has been broadened, with the number of products declines in Hong Kong and Taiwan.
Health and safety, mechanical and Sales in China grew by 5.2% adjusted, despite sales in the electrical products are now offered in addition to electronics, as we first half being adversely affected by the Chinese government build to the usual broad-range RS offer.
This has also helped broaden putting in place new product safety compliance requirements on the customer base, which grew by 12%, and the breadth of purchase many categories of imports.
Close co-operation with the authorities of existing customers, so increasing average order frequency.
and our suppliers enabled us to mitigate the impact in the second half, Our European network has got stronger.
In 2003 we addednew warehouses in Germany and Spain to our facilities in Corby, Nuneaton, Beauvais France, Milan, Gmnd Austria, Copenhagen, and Dublin 16 Electrocomponents plc Chief Executives report continued though many products remained unavailable for sale.
Second half third party e-Procurement packages, which we continue to support growth was 11.5%.
The April 2003 Chinese catalogue of 26,500 through our punch-out capability.
products is 100% compliant with the new requirements.
Importantly, we are also now in a position to launch new products Hong Kong and Taiwan faced continuing difficult markets because on our websites before they appear in our catalogues, so that our of their dependence on world trade and electronics.
customers always have access to the latest products.
Sales in South Asia increased by 4.1% adjusted, a sharp reversal Further developments continue to be worked on, including of last years 7.1% decline, as customers were acquired in the more e-Invoicing and additional roll-outs.
buoyant sectors of the economies.
The new enterprise business system being developed for Asia was implemented first in South Asia Summary in March 2003 and is operating well.
Our strategy to realise the huge growth potential in the markets we Sales in Australasia increased by 4.7% adjusted, so recovering serve has remained firm.
Investments have continued to be made in from last years small decline.
The trade counter network in Australia support of this strategy.
Operationally, we have again demonstrated was particularly effective, with improved promotions and layouts.
good gross margin, cost and cash management.
Despite the difficult trading of recent years we remain committed and confident about Other Markets our future.
Sales in our other markets grew by 30.4% adjusted, driven once more by impressively strong growth in South Africa.
e-Commerce Sales over the internet were about 11% of total Group sales for the year Ian Mason, Group Chief Executive and exited the year at about 13%.
After extensive analysis, we now believe that a significant proportion of these sales is incremental, ranging from around 20% to 50% depending on the market.
The development costs of e-Commerce expensed in the year were just over 5m, similar to last year, and included the further development of the European Internet Trading Channel, its extension to Japan and the finalisation of PurchasingManager.
The PurchasingManager programme was launched last year.
This effective and adaptable e-Procurement package has been well received by customers and is in active use in 150 organisations across six countries.
Our sales through this programme now match those through RS UK achieved a remarkable treble in the year: ISO 14001 Environmental Management, OHSAS 18001 Health & Safety Management Standards and ISO 9001 Quality Management Standard accreditations
