04 FKI plc Annual report 2003 As the new Chief Executive I have joined As a result of this and other actions Chief Executives review the Group at an extremely challenging time taken, the Groups net debt reduced to as a consequence of a combination 498.4 million at 31 March 2003. of factors: Over a number of years the Group has demand in most of the Groups major earned a reputation for tight financial markets is depressed, significantly controls, clear and detailed operating impacting operating performance: focus and speed of decision making and action.
These strengths underpinned acquisitions to build a world leading performance last year and will continue materials handling business have put to be core to the Groups operations.
pressure on the balance sheet: and They will be reinforced by increasing declining operating and share price attention to working capital management performance have led to questions over and sharing of best practice across Group Group strategy.
This concentration will maximise profitability and cash flow.
Results The results for the year reflect difficult Gearing market conditions resulting in weak demand Despite the difficult markets, the Group for the Groups products and services, continues to generate free cash flow which, offset by significant managerial actions to together with the reduced level of reduce costs, improve efficiencies and exit dividend, should enable further significant poorly performing operations.
Turnover decreased by 9.8% to Strategy 1,452.6 million generating an operating In the short term the focus is on cash profit of 110.4 million.
After net interest generation, debt reduction and an payable of 31.2 million, the profit before improvement in interest cover.
I am tax was 79.2 million and after tax, the presently leading a detailed review of the adjusted earnings per share amounted to Groups businesses, their strategies and 10.3p.
These figures are reported before future plans, which is expected to be reorganisation costs in acquired businesses, completed by the end of the calendar year.
goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
The principal criteria that are being used to Although the Groups profitability reduced judge the potential of each business are significantly compared with last year, their sustainable return on invested capital there was excellent operating cash flow ROIC relative to the weighted average amounting to 166.6 million, representing cost of capital and their expected growth 151% of the operating profit.
05 FKI plc Annual report 2003 Chief Executives review The Group has a robust core of excellent businesses with strong market positions and opportunities for development.
They have maintained their competitive positions during the current economic downturn and have been sized for current levels of demand but remain capable of responding rapidly when markets improve.
Outlook In the current year cash generation, debt It is too early to tell how markets will develop reduction and an improvement in interest during the next year.
The Group has a cover will be the main priorities.
Although robust core of excellent businesses with market conditions are difficult, the Group strong market positions and opportunities continues to generate free cash flow and for development.
These businesses have the reduced level of dividend payments maintained their competitive positions should enable a greater rate of debt during the current economic downturn reduction in the future.
The recently agreed and have been sized for current levels of changes in banking covenants will provide demand but remain capable of responding the Group with operating flexibility in rapidly when markets improve.
managing this position going forward.
The net debt position will be further Most of the Groups businesses are improved by any business sales.
faced with significant increases in overhead costs such as insurance, medical costs, National Insurance in the UK and pensions, the last of which is estimated to increase by about 20 million.
Management is focused on offsetting these increases with cost reductions and improved efficiencies.
However, these factors make 2003 04 full year performance difficult to predict.
Current trading is in line with performance levels in the second half of 2002 03.
As regards exceptional costs, the only plan in existence is the exit from Retford but if other steps become necessary they will be taken.
Paul Heiden Paul Heiden Chief Executive Chief Executive Officer
