4 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CHARLES HAMMOND Review of Business Activities Within the ports business, the highlights Towards the end of the year, we centralised 2003 was a good year for the Group.
Both of 2003 were:- the marine function at Grangemouth which our ports and property businesses produced now controls the marine operations within strong trading results and we also initiated Tilbury the Forth and the Tay.
We believe that these a number of measures which we believe will Largest ever investment announced for a changes will make our marine operation contribute to the long-term prosperity and new paper handling facility and distribution more efficient.
management contract for Stora Enso Both Scottish Ports and Tilbury are now Growth in container volumes The ports operating profit before exceptional actively involved in implementing our new New import customer for the grain terminal items amounted to 33.9m compared with Integrated Port Operating System IPOS 31.1m in 2002 which gave an overall which will yield a range of long-term benefits.
Scottish Ports improvement in profitability of 9% for the full Growth in freight volumes during the first The Stora Enso distribution management year.
The property operating profit before full year of Rosyth Zeebrugge ferry service contract is the largest ever investment to exceptionals was 22.7m which was up by Completion of new distribution warehouse be made by the Company in the ports just under 11% on the 2002 figure.
Overall, Additional container business for BP business.
The new contract will make a Group operating profits pre exceptional New container service to Zeebrugge significant contribution to the 8m saving increased by 10%, a good indication of announced by Stora Enso as part of their the underlying strength of the Group.
At Tilbury we continue to implement the new supply chain arrangements.
Work has business improvement process of increasing already commenced on the foundations for Ports revenue and bringing in cost efficiencies the new distribution warehouses, one During the year we continued to pursue which is contributing to better margins, of which will be the first fully automated our core strategies for growth in the particularly in the Conventional asset area paper warehouse within a port in Europe.
ports business: which handles paper, forest products, cars Construction of the facilities should be targeted investments generating and general cargo.
The contract with an acceptable rate of return: Stora Enso is for an initial period of fifteen In Scotland, 2003 saw the first full year of cost and operating efficiencies: and years with a guaranteed minimum the new management structure and the broadening the range of services offered throughput of 680,000 tonnes in the first year centralisation of the accounting system to existing and potential customers.
rising to 800,000 tonnes by year three.
It has for the Scottish Ports.
The new management recently been announced that DFDS has structure has improved the information flow The application of these strategies resulted been chosen as the shipping line for this between our managers in Scotland and in growth in our ports business and service between Finland and Sweden and has increased our awareness of market the delivery of our largest ever organic Tilbury.
It is expected that DFDS will be able opportunities.
There is greater focus on growth opportunity.
to win good levels of export business on the forging relations with potential new customers.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 5 INNOVATION BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT PROCESSES ARE HELPING TO DELIVER GREATER EFFICIENCY, PRODUCTIVITY AND CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Tilbury The foundations are currently being laid at the paper handling facility for Stora Enso.
6 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CONTINUED Grangemouth The latest technologies are employed within the control room.
This 34m investment improved by 22% to just over 1 million Our relationship with the Finnish Forest will meet our normal levels of return.
This was partly offset by a 200,000 Products industry continues to strengthen as enhanced export volumes and paper tonnes reduction in cement tonnages.
and we have recently signed a new ten year business, there is also the potential to link Container throughputs at the short sea contract with UPM Kymmene Wood to value added facilities to the new terminal.
terminal increased by nearly 10% to reach handle and distribute their wood products 124,000 boxes.
Geest have commenced a into the South East marketplace.
This will The positioning of the Stora Enso facility new service from Tilbury to Spain which will involve the construction of a racked on over 12 hectares within the port has underpin further growth in this market.
warehouse at a cost of about 1m.
necessitated the relocation of various other customers.
The moves have been carefully Just prior to the year end, we negotiated an Tilburys position as the UKs largest paper planned to minimise the risk of disruption extension to the existing Hyundai contract handling port was reinforced further with and will take place within the first half of which will see Hyundai stay in the port for the the announcement that Kruger, through 2004.
In many instances, we are taking the next three years.
In addition, we will continue Stanton Grove Limited, will be switching opportunity to improve the facilities we offer to import Ford vans from Turkey under a their Canadian paper tonnages to Tilbury to these customers.
We also believe that we short-term contract for at least the next two in the early part of this year.
will be able to offer a more cost effective years.
We are also in discussions about the service to them as a result.
use of the whole of the Fortress Distribution Our associate company, Tilbury Container Park as an automotive facility.
Services TCS had a good year.
Total Tilbury throughput amounted to over 231,000 boxes, Further developments with existing Tilbury produced a high level of performance up 14% on 2002.
We are hopeful that further customers included the commissioning in 2003 as a result of the benefits of the additional business will be achieved during of a new warehouse facility for Finnforest business improvement process and the course of 2004. under a ten year agreement which will add increased tonnages.
Operating efficiency further to their distribution and value added Increasingly Tilbury is recognised as having is increasing within the port, higher value capabilities.
We were also successful in a major logistical advantage for customers cargoes are being maximised and new taking over the distribution management whose primary marketplace is the South business opportunities are being exploited.
functions for one of our major paper of England.
Due to its location, significant The total tonnage in 2003 amounted to 7.5 customers, Norske Skog.
reductions in haulage and other logistics million tonnes, up 6% on 2002.
In particular, costs can be achieved by using Tilbury.
bulks tonnages increased by 26% to over Overall, Tilbury will be a major source of 400,000 tonnes and grain tonnages GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 7 Tilbury UPM Kymmene Paper, soon to be followed by UPM Wood.
growth in our ports business as it develops This has continued to have an effect on end of 2003, a new 10,000 sq.
m. warehouse its status as one of the UKs premier tonnages in the early part of 2004, but it is at Grangemouth was completed and new distribution hubs.
expected that volumes will return to normal customers are already using the facility.
levels in the second half of 2004.
In addition Expanding our warehouse capacity will allow Scottish Ports and Marine there is the prospect of additional volumes us to develop Grangemouths potential as Our efforts to grow our unitised business of condensate as a result of a new contract.
an intermodal logistics hub and offer supply at both Rosyth and Grangemouth were The longer term outlook for Braefoot should chain savings to a wider range of customers.
successful and made a major contribution be improved following the conclusion of the to dry cargo growth in our ports activity in UK - Norwegian wet gas agreement.
Rosyth and Fife Ports Scotland.
Activity at the Marine Terminals at 2003 saw the first full year of the Superfast Hound Point and Braefoot Bay was lower Grangemouth Rosyth to Zeebrugge ferry service.
The than in previous years.
2003 was another record year for container demand from passengers for this service has The total tonnage in 2003 amounted to 39.4 throughput at Grangemouth which achieved been exceptionally high such that Superfast million tonnes compared with 43.1 million nearly 111,000 boxes, up over 7% on the is increasing the number of cabins available tonnes in 2002.
Dry cargo tonnages 2002 figure, extending Grangemouths for the 2004 season.
On the freight side, increased by 5% to reach 4.6 million position as Scotlands leading port.
5m there was a steady build up in the freight tonnes 2002 - 4.4 million tonnes with the is being spent over the course of 2004 to traffic which is encouraging with significant largest increases being at Rosyth and increase the capacity at the container market share still available.
Piped cargo at the Ports in terminal from 120,000 boxes to 200,000 The Rosyth tonnages increased significantly Scotland fell marginally to 8 million tonnes.
BP has been successful in winning as a result of the full year effect of the coal The most significant decrease in tonnage new plastics business in China which should contract with ScottishPower which saw occurred at Hound Point where there was increase box numbers in 2004 and more imports of coal increase to just under a 13% fall in tonnage to 23.6 million tonnes deep sea lines continue to embrace the 600,000 tonnes in the full year.
Volumes at reliability and cost effectiveness of feedering major commodity at Rosyth was timber, Hound Point are expected to remain at a to Europe.
Tonnage increases were recorded where there was a 5% increase in tonnage lower level in 2004, but recover in 2005 as in timber, paper and pulp.
However, this was to 120,000 tonnes.
The coal business is likely more fields come on stream.
At Braefoot partly offset by a reduction in iron and steel to switch to a third party facility in the second Bay, the tonnage reduced by over 200,000 tonnages caused by a downturn in the quarter but will contribute to our marine tonnes to 3.2 million tonnes due to the requirement for threaded North Sea oil pipes revenue in the Forth.
temporary closure of the Brent Field.
and difficult market conditions experienced by Corus.
Total piped cargo reduced by just under 3% to 7.2 million tonnes.
Towards the 8 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 8 TITLE DIVERSITY ONGOING DIVERSITY INTO PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT AND WATERFRONT REGENERATION IS AN INVESTMENT IN YOUR FUTURE Leith An estimated 1 billion people in 28 countries tuned in to watch the MTV Europe Awards in November 2003.
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 9 The Port of Methil saw an increase in its Cement tonnages improved by over 22% to fertiliser tonnages in particular benefiting timber traffic during the year and also reach 327,000 tonnes last year, although from the investment by the port in a new attracted new aggregates traffic.
We are grain and aggregates were both down.
mobile crane to increase productivity for looking at ways to encourage more traffic that commodity.
At the end of the year we through this low cost port within the Group.
Dundee reviewed the cost base within Dundee and Dundee had a difficult year in 2003.
The total reduced employee numbers by thirteen.
With the closure of the Alcan alumina works tonnage reduced marginally to just over 1 The port now has an efficient cost base to at Burntisland, the tonnage throughput at million tonnes, although this measure does win new business and we are pursuing a Burntisland was negligible in 2003.
We are not reflect the fall off in the North Sea oil number of enquiries.
currently examining the options for the activity at the port.
Revenue from this source utilisation of the 7 hectare site at the east fell significantly reflecting the downturn The Grainfax business which was purchased of the port.
experienced in the North Sea on exploration in August 2002 continued to meet and maintenance contracts.
We have, original expectations in 2003 in a more Leith however, been proactive in seeking new difficult marketplace.
Although the tonnage at Leith was down 13% customers for the new extension to the at 1.5 million tonnes in 2003 compared with Prince Charles Wharf and are currently in Management Information Systems 2002, good cost control enabled the discussions with several potential users.
Towards the end of 2003, we entered into profitability to be maintained year on year.
We remain confident that this excellent facility a contract with Tata Consultancy Services Tonnages from Bredero Shaw amounted will generate improved returns over the Tata in which Tata have agreed to provide to just over 350,000 tonnes compared with course of the next few years as activity in this software for the new IPOS system.
As with Leith, Dundee saw software will apply to marine, general cargo half of the year saw very little traffic from this a reduction in the tonnages from agripods and container operations for the whole of the customer and this is likely to continue into which fell by 40,000 tonnes to just over Group and will allow us to improve many of the first half of 2004.
However, Bredero Shaw 150,000 tonnes in 2003.
Within this tonnage our business processes.
The implementation are well placed to win further pipe laying we were successful in winning new potato of the system will allow us to realise further contracts to facilitate the importation of business which resulted in a total tonnage efficiencies and also to offer a wider range gas into the UK.
The exact timing of these for that commodity of over 32,000 tonnes.
of services to our customers.
This project will contracts is uncertain, but is likely to be Fertiliser and timber were both up be implemented over a period of eighteen towards the end of 2004 or into 2005. significantly in percentage terms with the months at a cost of approximately 3m.
10 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CONTINUED Leith The Prince of Wales Dock is now the new head office location.
We believe that these steps, months.
At the same time, the Council Property profits continued to grow with together with an accelerated infrastructure has been updating its own development demand for quality waterfront residential spend, will allow value to be maximised framework documents into a new City of plots within Edinburgh.
As stated in the for the future.
Edinburgh Local Plan effective for the years Interim Statement, we received outline 2005 to 2010 and carrying out a scenario planning approval in June of last year for There were two other main themes running planning exercise to consider a vision for the Granton Harbour mixed use development throughout 2003, namely the requirement the City region by 2020. comprising 3,400 residential units and to increase the pace of the infrastructure 23,000 sq.
m. of commercial business use.
development at Western Harbour and As discussions progressed, and following Granton and to consider the longer term the Councils approval of a Leith Urban We sold six plots at Granton and one plot use of the assets which the Group has Design Framework, it became apparent at Western Harbour at the end of last year.
that, as the largest single landowner on Sales were made to a variety of developers Edinburghs waterfront, we and the Council including Taylor Woodrow Gladedale, The work on infrastructure has, with the grant needed to agree a framework document Applecross, David Wilson Homes, Gregor of outline planning consent for Granton, which could be incorporated within the larger Shore and F. M. Developments Limited, with resulted in a significant increase in spend new city plan.
We have therefore appointed an increase in the number of units sold rising in relation to major areas such as road various consultants to assist us in the from 563 units in 2002 to 965 units in 2003. construction, provision of services and sheet preparation of our proposals for the Leith The broadening of interest in our piling.
This spend will accelerate in 2004 Docks Development Framework LDDF developments from the house building and current estimates are that the cash to be presented to and agreed by the market will ensure that there is a variety of spend will be approximately 20m this year.
Council as part of this new city plan.
product available for the urban homeowner.
This is a necessary part of facilitating plot The LDDF incorporates the whole of the sales for the developments.
remaining operational Port of Leith which Our strategy for the future is to move further encompasses 60 hectares.
In due course, into the value chain with the house building For some time we have been in discussions this plan will go out to public consultation market.
To achieve this, we will be offering with the elected politicians and the senior prior to its adoption by the Council.
smaller and more varied serviced plots officers of the Council to discuss various within our masterplan areas backed up with planning matters including the Parliamentary The aim is to have the whole of our quantitative and qualitative research about Order for the proposed new tram for remaining landholdings at Leith designated the demand and tastes of those consumers Edinburgh which is expected to progress for mixed use development.
This will help who are opting for a waterfront lifestyle in through Parliament over the next eighteen facilitate individual planning applications GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 11 Dundee The City Quay apartments, an outstanding example of waterfront development.
which can then be set within the context of involve the construction of an additional this year.
Currently 84% of the floor space our overall plan.
This development will be 400 apartments.
Of the remaining floorspace, both long-term and extremely significant in 48% is currently zoned for leisure.
We are its scale and will of necessity be flexible in In 2003, a further two of our joint venture hopeful that planning approval will be content and timescale for implementation.
developments with AWG came to an end granted to convert this into higher value retail As part of this exercise, we are already with the completion of the Queens Quay space some time during this year.
Both addressing the future requirements of and Newhaven I developments.
The City footfall and letting activity at the Centre give existing port customers within Leith and Quay Dundee joint venture completed the us confidence in its long-term value and our how they can be accommodated in construction of the first three phases of that aim is to secure a number of additional key alternative locations in the future.
development by the end of 2003 but there fashion lettings this year and to generate will be a carry over in terms of financial result further footfall improvements.
We have In parallel with this process, we are into 2004.
We took the opportunity to buy continued to take a prudent view of the progressing specific plans for individual back AWGs share in the Newhaven II Centres carrying value until we see the sites which will then be brought forward for development as this site was identified in sustained impact of the improved number planning in the near future: those sites are the new masterplan for Western Harbour as of lettings and footfall levels.
We will continue Waterfront Plaza, Edinburgh Harbour and being required to reshape the gateway to the to hold the Shopping Centre for the longBritannia Quay.
At Kirkcaldy, term to maximise its growth and value.
our joint venture with AWG has agreed to sell During the course of 2004, there is the the balance of the development land held by Training possibility that the planning consents which it to another developer.
This transaction was The Group places considerable emphasis we are seeking to achieve may become completed in 2004. on training and development at all levels caught up in the discussions over the LDDF in all locations.
It continues to support the in which case the timing of some of the The Ocean Terminal Shopping Centre attainment of vocational qualifications and proposed plot sales might be delayed.
This benefited during the year from the opening remains the largest employer of vocationally should not impact the realisation of longof Marks & Spencer Simply Food, Boots, qualified port operators in the UK.
The term value from our property portfolio.
French Connection and Waterstones and graduate programme and management achieved a good level of footfall, up on development training continue in order to At Dundee we received approval from the average 50% year on year.
Whilst the retail meet with management succession and Council, at the end of the year, to our revised market continues to be difficult, we are group development requirements.
masterplan of the development sites around encouraged with the progress which was the old Victoria Dock at Dundee.
This could made last year and which is set to continue 12 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CONTINUED Leith Since 1998 Britannia has attracted over 1.6 million visitors.
Port Security The total number of reported accidents for Pension Schemes In common with other port operators the Group reduced during 2003 by 9.3% The Trustees of both Pension Schemes throughout the UK, we are currently engaged compared with 2002. reviewed their investment strategy and in a review with the Department of Transport Investment Managers during 2003.
The The Group regards safety as an integral in order to meet the new International Ship Investment Managers for the Tilbury Fund part of providing an efficient and professional and Port Facility Security Code requirements were changed and there was a rebalancing service to customers and is committed to which will become effective on 1st July 2004. of funds between Investment Managers in an on-going process of improvements in At present, we still require further clarification respect of the Forth Ports Scheme.
from the Government before we can action, together with the stock market determine the exact cost of upgrading to the Corporate Social Responsibility CSR improvement in the performance of equities, higher standard of security required under Forth Ports PLC is a long-term sustainable improved the funding position of both the new code.
These additional costs and business which makes a substantial Schemes.
The Board remains committed services provided will be charged for.
contribution to the environment and to to the provision of pensions for employees the regeneration of the communities within through the defined benefit Pension During 2003 the Group reviewed its Health which it operates.
There are a great many Schemes which are currently in place.
and Safety Policy and set a number of examples of this in action throughout the objectives to enhance the robustness of its Group and some of these are explained in Safety Management System.
These measures more detail in the CSR section of the Report, comply with the HSEs publication Successful on page 21.
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 13 Leith Ocean Terminal footfall has increased by 50% year on year.
Summary In the current year, trading within the ports Overall, the Group had a productive and division has got off to a good start at Tilbury successful year, both financially and in the but a slower one in Scotland.
We expect implementation and evolution of our strategy.
growth in our ports business overall for There were good levels of growth both in 2004, although this will occur in the second ports and property and longer term projects half, particularly in Scotland.
Our proposed were initiated such as the Stora Enso sales programme in property this year, contract and the LDDF which should deliver when executed, will also deliver growth substantial benefits for the medium and although this might be affected by timing longer term.
Overall, we have confidence that 2004 should We will continue to grow the ports business be another successful year.
organically but at the same time will seek to take advantage of any opportunities which may arise in the ports sector either in the UK or in Europe.
Capital expenditure and gearing levels within the Group will increase to accommodate the exciting new opportunities which we have created.
These levels will still be prudent having regard to the secure nature of the C. G. Hammond Groups business base.
Group Chief Executive 14 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 COMMITMENT OUR COMMITMENT TO GENERATING PROFITABLE GROWTH HAS SIGNIFICANTLY INCREASED OUR REVENUE OVER THE PAST FIVE YEARS Western Harbour Demand for quality waterfront residential plots within Edinburgh continued to grow.
