Chief Executives review When we entered the financial year in October 2002, we were moving into the next phase of our development to transform the organisation into a focused security group.
We achieved a number of key milestones and faced various challenges in the year which would shape the future of the business.
Focus on Security Sector The sale to Deutsche Post of our remaining 50% stake in the Distribution joint venture was completed in July 2003 at a price of 167m and we were pleased to return nearly half of the proceeds to shareholders as a special dividend.
In May, whilst the Distribution transaction was being nalised, we completed the sale of Securicor Information Systems to its management team.
The completion of these two transactions means that the group is now purely focused on the security businesses and that in future cashow will be stronger and more predictable.
Trading Performance Trading in the first half of the year was satisfactory overall, although some of our markets were proving to be difficult from an economic point of view.
European security markets were generally facing price pressure but Germany in particular was declining at a faster rate.
Asia was under deationary pressure and also had to contend with the outbreak of the SARS virus, impacting on tourism and trade generally.
In UK Cash Services, we were faced with a higher than budgeted wage award, but did secure a two year deal along with an agreement to implement some essential cost-saving measures across the business.
2002-2003 at a glance October 2002 November 2002 December 2002 February 2003 March 2003 April 2003 Lloyds TSB cash centre Plans to outsource UK Merger of Securicors Complete withdrawal from Agreement reached to sell Securicor Macau merged outsourcing contract Post Ofce cash handling Malaysian business and US aviation security sector the remaining 50% of with Great Wall Securicor commences to Securicor withdrawn Safeguards Corporation Distribution joint venture becomes majority completed to Deutsche Post shareholder with 51% of the merged entity The UK business of Securicor Wireless sold Acquisition of 70% of Inco Holdings, the leading provider of security services in Botswana 8 Securicor Annual Report and Accounts 2003 So with those challenges in mind, we advised investors in May that our results against market expectations would inevitably be impacted in the second half.
However, we responded robustly to the challenges that presented themselves and achieved a full year result which was in line with our underlying performance in the previous year.
Cash Services A Strong Business Model Having highlighted some of the market conditions and business issues which were affecting Securicor and its competitors, the security sector became temporarily unpopular with some investors who questioned the viability of the various business models in the market.
Cash Services in particular was criticised and it was suggested that there was no further room for growth in the sector.
Our experience tells us that this is not the case.
Whilst credit cards are popular, cash in circulation grows in most markets and is the consumers favourite method of payment.
The traditional cash transportation market has seen a decline in overall volume, but the long-term opportunities in financial institution and retail outsourcing far outweigh any transportation volume issues.
With many of our markets at different stages of development we can see how this model evolves over time and how we can play a part in facilitating that change.
We have successfully rolled out three major cash management contracts in the UK and our other cash services markets are seeing moves towards outsourcing increase in pace as customers focus on their core business.
May 2003 June 2003 July 2003 August 2003 September 2003 Lord Sharman succeeds Securicor acquires Geldnet, Sale of Securicor Cash Sale of remaining 50% stake Acquisition of a majority Trading statement indicates Sir Neil Macfarlane a leading company in the Machine in Distribution joint venture shareholding in Donar, that operating results would as Chairman Dutch cash services sector to Deutsche Post completed a Chinese ATM service be in line with consensus company expectations Interim results indicate Sale of Securicor Share consolidation reduces difficult market conditions Information Systems to the number of shares to 531m which would affect the existing management team Special dividend of 12p per companys performance share paid to shareholders in the second half of the financial year Securicor Annual Report and Accounts 2003 9 Chief Executives review continued Security Legislation Driving Change Whilst we believe that integrated security provides opportunities for growth, this is likely to be a longerterm requirement from our customers.
In the short to medium-term, we will provide a range of products from which we can select the most appropriate solution for each contract.
New legislation will help drive change in some markets.
Across Europe, the implementation of the Working Time Directive will provide planning challenges for all businesses.
In the UK, the establishment of the Security Industry Authority will improve standards across the industry and differentiate high quality companies from the rest of the market.
And across the world, new maritime legislation is providing opportunities for growth in the port and shipping sectors.
Justice Services A Growth Opportunity As support for private sector involvement in justice services grows, this product area continues to develop at an exceptional rate.
Our Justice Services business had a good year with very strong growth in tagging, the highest service levels ever in our custody and escorting business, and with our prison in South Wales being named as one of the best performing prisons in England and Wales by the National Audit Ofce.
In 2004, we will learn the results of two major contract re-bids that we have been focusing on for some time.
We hope that we will be successful and that our share of the UK justice market will continue to expand.
Other opportunities to move existing products into new markets and to continue our extension into the police outsourcing sector will deliver further growth in the coming year.
Group Chairman We were pleased to welcome Colin Sharman as our new Chairman in May following Sir Neil Macfarlanes decision to stand down earlier than he had planned following a bout of ill-health.
We are all very grateful for the tremendous support which Neil provided over the years.
Nick Buckles 10 Securicor Annual Report and Accounts 2003
