THE GAME GROUP PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2002 - 2003 9 Chief Executives Review... in a market which has become part of mainstream entertainment, we are the clear market leader.
John Steinbrecher Martin Long Group Chief Executive Chief Executive Designate and Chief Financial Officer Same GAMEdifferent player.
At the end John is so right in many ways when principle that we sell a commodity of this year Ill be moving back to the States he talks about all we have achieved product and that we must give the with my family.
Its been a wonderful eight over the last eight years.
From consumer a reason for shopping in years here, and weve seen the companys whichever direction you look you will our stores rather than elsewhere.
sales grow ten fold while the number of see a business which has grown up: if Of those thousands of stores selling stores has quadrupled.
Throughout the years you compare our results today to those video games, we ourselves only have weve branched into e-commerce and three which we reported in 1995 96 it gives 335, and yet, by value, one in four other countries as computer software and you a feel for that achievement.
people who buy video games and video games became one of the most Turnover has increased from 59.5m computer software buy their products popular forms of home entertainment.
A loss of 8.5m has been in a GAME store.
From the first day I arrived, Martin Long has turned into a profit of 33.1m.
He has been involved in employ 4,044 people compared to 673. every important decision, every strategic turn We now have over 449 stores trading Differentiation and Customer for the company.
We have been close friends in 5 European territories, whereas in Service and partners throughout.
Perhaps the title of 1996 we operated 112 stores in the The research carried out in the Joint CEO should have been given years ago, UK and Eire.
Today, we have over preparation for our re-branding as its actually how we worked together.
3.9m customers registered on our programme told us that our customers Reward card database, and in a market Lisa Morgan came on board in 1997.
Lisa shop in our stores because of the which has become part of mainstream brought a wealth of experience from Dixons experience they enjoyed, because of and a can-do personality that quickly made entertainment, we are the clear market the people who work in our stores, leader.
her part of the inner decision circle and because of the product offer we give ultimately a Main Board member.
Lisa-Martinand our customer friendly policies.
John, Martin-Lisa-John, it didnt matter.
Our Core UK Business Differentiation in our stores is delivered Everyone knew that if you asked one of us Last year we embarked upon a though our people.
We set out to give for advice, a decision, or an opinion, you in re-branding project which was them every possible tool to ensure effect, asked us all.
fundamental to the positioning of our that we deliver the very best experience Over the years weve strengthened the business going forward.
At the beginning to our customers.
Over the years Trading Board, enhancing the original team of the year almost 200 of our stores the key elements of these tools have of dedicated professionals by adding directors were trading under the name of been extended and added to, and in specialised areas such as logistics, property Electronics Boutique, and yet by comprise of: and human resources.
Above all, they are Christmas our entire chain was all good people, who work with integrity, unrivalled product range and product operating under the one GAME brand.
They knowledge This was a major achievement.
Now our all share a common passion for the business, customers can identify us as a strong our local price promise a desire to make the shopping experience at brand, which is reinforced by our our 10 day returns policy GAME exceed the expectations of our millions national advertising campaigns, and of loyal customers and thus to keep, and preorders for new releases reassures them that they will receive extend, our leading position in the our preowned video games offer a level of quality and enjoyment in their marketplace.
GAME shopping experience, irrespective our customer Reward programme.
of which of our stores they visit.
Ultimately however these are simply There are literally thousands of stores tools, and it is the enthusiasm and dedication of our store employees in the UK where you can purchase which is the core ingredient to ensure video games, whether it be an electrical retailer, a music store or a supermarket.
that we continue to deliver to the high John Steinbrecher Our business has been built upon the standards expected by our customers.
Group Chief Executive THE GAME GROUP PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2002 - 2003 11 GROUP AT A GLANCE 26 Sweden GAME 335 UK & Eire GAME unrivalled product range and product knowledge our local price promise 56 France our 10 day returns policy ScoreGames preorders for new releases 32 Spain our preowned video CentroMAIL games offer our customer Reward programme We strive to ensure that through our and operated these businesses Sweden a comparison to the size of the market recruitment and selection process and since early 1999, Spain since the summer in the mid 90s you would see that the through our ongoing investment in staff of 2001, and France in the run up to market by value is now some four times training, that our people continue to Christmas 2001. larger than it was back then.
Our objective in these countries is to This astounding level of growth in video Our challenge is to increase our brand develop a specialist retail video games games and computer software sales has profile and to develop our leading market business, encompassing many of the been replicated in many markets in the position.
Whenever a customer enters any principles of our UK chain but being world.
The statistic which cannot be one of our stores, buys our products, very careful that these should be operated replicated in any of these other markets is enjoys our offers or meets us, we want and managed by people who understand the one which we ourselves enjoy.
In no them to enjoy a consistent high quality the local markets, and can share our other video games market around the experience which they will then talk to enthusiasm for delivering an offer which world will you observe any business, their friends about.
Ultimately, we want differentiates us from our competitors whether it be specialist or otherwise, which them to look forward to their next visit.
and embraces the very highest levels enjoys such a commanding market share of customer expectation.
as that which GAME enjoys today.
As we seek to achieve this, the foundations Our European Businesses We have a unique business in so many which have helped our UK business to The business we pride ourselves upon in ways, one which we are all very proud grow are being introduced, with key the UK has been created over a number of.
It is their emphasis on the implementation of state of years.
As I highlighted in my opening passion which will drive us forward as of the art IT and logistics infrastructures, paragraphs it is possible to take a small we embrace the next stage in the key management appointments, store business and to develop this into a development of our business.
remodelling programmes and overriding business to be proud of.
We have high Same GAME... same players.
all this, staff training and development.
aspirations for Europe but we must also be careful to put the building blocks in place at the early stages to ensure that the Moving our Business Forward business can flourish.
The UK is the third largest market in the In presenting our results for the year we world for video games and computer talk about these businesses being at software, worth over 2 billion in 2002.
Martin Long It is truly part of mainstream entertainment, different stages of development, more Chief Executive Designate and already outstripping video rental and box than anything these stages reflect the period of time over which we have owned office.
If you were to look back and make Chief Financial Officer Source: ELSPA ChartTrack.
