Strong and consistent management action has transformed results two acquisitions, McAlpine Homes and Laing Homes, on excellent terms and have efficiently integrated both.
In Morrison Homes we have refocused our strategy to grow our volumes in our established markets.
Over the past three years we have grown by almost 40% which together with improved land CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT purchase, procurement, and PETER JOHNSON growth in customer specified upgrades has underpinned With pre-exceptional profit upgrades.
Whilst we have made our margin growth.
before tax up 30%, 2003 was much progress in improving Delivering Success our customer service, we know another year of excellent The transformation in our progress.
Over three years, we still have a long way to go performance has been achieved pre-tax profits have grown to meet the standards set by by delivering on the plan set more than two and a half the very best in retail industries.
out in my first Annual Report We have established an times, whilst the operating in 2000.
That plan has also industry leading approach to margin at George Wimpey established the potential for has grown from 11.4% to health and safety and our ongoing success despite the environmental procedures have 17.1% and at Morrison been adopted as the standard more challenging markets Homes from 8.6% to 11.9%.
Whilst we have been helped by strong markets, the magnitude of this improvement is the result of strong and consistent 2000 Steps to success management action.
In the UK, we have improved the way we buy land and the Complete restructuring of the UK business terms on which we buy it.
We have taken a lot of Turn scale to advantage overhead and construction cost out of the business.
Gain value from strengths of US business We have improved our product and our customer service, and Identify and develop new sources of profit thereby achieved increased sales of customer specified 4George Wimpey Plc Annual Report 2003 Chief Executives Review George Wimpey UK Morrison Homes has shown The UK business has been continuous profit growth Our goals for 2004 and beyond comprehensively restructured.
since the appointment of Wimpey Homes and McLean Stu Cline as President in 1994.
Homes were merged, Over the past two years, Sustained margins and volume growth in McAlpine Homes and Laing we have refocused and George Wimpey Homes acquired and integrated accelerated growth in our and a total of some 72 million existing markets, leading to Lower costs, better margins and longer term of overhead and build costs higher volumes and better volume growth in Laing Homes saved.
Our landbank and our margins achieved through product and geographic mix improved land purchase, Continued volume and profit growth in have been strengthened.
We procurement and overhead are well placed to sustain recovery.
At the same time, Morrison Homes operating margins against a underperforming businesses background of more subdued have been reviewed and Continued growth of customer options house price ination.
plans put in place to improve and related income streams in both performance, as in Atlanta Through systematic the UK and US and Dallas, or exit the market, benchmarking, co-ordination as in San Antonio.
Over the of procurement and sharing past three years, volumes of experiences, we have have grown almost 40% turned our scale into an and operating profits over We have restructured the The outlook for the US housing important competitive 2.2 times.
Through better business from 6 to 5 business market over the next decade is excellent.
Good affordability planning and decision making, units and refocused the Morrison Homes provides arising from low interest rates land is being acquired on business on a narrower considerable potential for and employment growth are terms consistent with current further growth and the product and price range.
widely expected to combine margins.
It is our objective that These changes will strengthen landbank and organisation with strong underlying with modest, but steady, are in place to secure this.
the business, creating an demographic trends arising growth in volumes, the core engine for ongoing growth.
Customer Focus from immigration and higher UK business will continue to Our performance in the At the same time we will birth rates than in Europe contribute to profit growth.
United States has been to create a sustained strong reduce our overall risk by We have been applying greatly aided by the sale limiting the businesss market.
The regions in which the same principles within of customer options.
we operate also benefit from exposure to the higher Laing Homes.
We will exceed These have increased inward migration and hence price points over 750,000. our original target of 10 margins and improved above average population Morrison Homes million of cost savings.
This, our asset turn, and hence and employment growth.
Morrison Homes offers us together with the acquisition our financial efficiency.
With a high asset turn, growth the potential for rapid profit of land on improved terms, requires lower investment than We have applied those will support growth in the growth with the need for lessons within the UK.
would be the case in the more next two years.
Customer option revenue George Wimpey Plc Annual Report 2003 5 Chief Executives Review continued has grown from 34 million to day management of in 2000 to over 60 million Morrisons operations.
Steve Our people delivering success in 2003.
These options enable has built an outstanding our customers to personalise business in Florida and will their home and have the in due course be a most able The extraordinary dedication, as well as products and fittings they successor to Stu.
local knowledge and experience of our desire installed before they employees has transformed the Finally, a huge thank you goes move in.
Two major new to all those who work in our performance of our business over the centralised options centres forty local housebuilding on the lines of those that have past three years companies in the UK and succeeded in Morrison Homes the US.
It is through their have now been opened in extraordinary dedication as Edinburgh and Cannock.
well as their local knowledge Further centres are planned and experience that the Our People I am delighted he has agreed for 2004.
Group has transformed its We have strong management to become a consultant Sustaining profit Growth performance over the past teams in place in both the to the Company during in the Future three years.
It is also them UK and the US to deliver our 2004 to ensure a smooth As we look towards a period who make my job so fullling.
of more subdued house price am delighted we have been Keith has been succeeded inflation, we believe we are PETER JOHNSON able to fill the most senior by Peter Redfern, who well placed to sustain future positions in the organisation has been at Keiths side profit growth through targeting: from within and expect to be throughout these three able to continue to do so.
sustained margins and years and who will ensure volume growth in our core The greatest credit for that the progress continues.
George Wimpey business the transformation that has Peter has already established taken place in the UK over himself as Managing Director lower costs, better margins the past three years must and is supported by a and longer term volume go to Keith Cushen.
Keith strong and experienced growth in Laing Homes retired, as planned, at the UK management team.
continued volume and profit end of 2003 when the growth in Morrison Homes.
We have also embarked restructuring was complete on the process of planning and his successor had continued growth of for the next generation in been established.
customer options and Morrison Homes.
Whilst Stu related income streams On behalf of us all, I thank Cline continues as President, in both the UK and US Keith for not only his Steve Parker has been At the same time, lower land achievements but also his appointed Executive Vice price ination would enable us friendship and comradeship President of Operations with to improve cash generation.
over the past three years.
full responsibility for the day 6George Wimpey Plc Annual Report 2003 Building a strong business for the future... Over the past three years we have transformed the structure of our business, delivering on the promises we made and building strong foundations for future earnings growth.
George Wimpey is well placed for the future through targeting: sustained margins and volume growth in our core business, George Wimpey lower costs, better margins and longer term volume growth in Laing Homes continued volume and profit growth in our US business, Morrison Homes growth in the sale of customer options and related income streams George Wimpey Sustaining margins and growing volume 1 4.
Maximising scale and benchmarking keep material costs to a minimum 2.
PPG3 compliant homes at Braiswick View, Colchester utilising innovative 1 2 2 storey design 3.
Prefabricated dormer windows reduce build time and cost 1.
CONTROLLING COSTS During 2003 George Wimpey experienced minimal ination in the cost of materials.
These costs are maintained at the lowest possible levels by: detailed benchmarking of all products across all businesses maximising benets of scale through national deals with major producers Despite the well publicised shortages in skilled labour throughout the industry, George Wimpey has kept labour costs under control by: thorough scheduling of activity, providing a continuous flow of work for sub-contractors increasing the use of prefabricated components reducing the requirements for skilled labour understanding the effects of PPG3 sharing efficient designs across all the businesses standardising product as far as possible to reduce increased cost of one-off designs BUYING LAND ON BETTER TERMS Over the past three years George Wimpey has totally changed the way land is bought.
Since the beginning of 2000 land purchase margins have increased from under 8% to over 17%.
Land is now being bought earlier in the cycle to allow for increases in the time taken to acquire planning approval.
The transfer of land from the strategic landbank has continued to increase, 1,238 plots were transferred during 2003.
Laing Homes Lower costs, better margins and long term volume growth 1 2.
Maintaining tight control of material and site costs will help improve operating margins 3.
Stylish interiors at SWISH, Central London 2.
Using experience gained during the benchmarking and sharing ideas restructuring of George Wimpey, both within Laing Homes and with Laing Homes provides the Group with George Wimpey a significant opportunity for future greater standardisation of product profit growth.
Costs on site are being improved by reducing work in progress, improving COSTS AND MARGINS scheduling, making greater use of Total cost savings following acquisition are prefabricated components and now anticipated to be at least 12 million.
Overhead savings have come from the head ofce closure and absorption of LAND centralised functions into George Wimpey.
Land is now being purchased at better In addition, restructuring to reduce the margins and hurdle rates have been number of business units from 6 to 5 will increased to come in line with those ensure the business can go forward from at George Wimpey.
Since acquisition, a position of strength.
the programme of land investment has strengthened the short term By introducing George Wimpey working landbank, creating a platform for practices and procedures, Laing Homes future volume growth.
margins will be brought in line with those of George Wimpey.
OPTIONS Material costs will be reduced and Learning from lessons at Morrison Homes controlled by: and George Wimpey, Laing has the potential to develop an additional revenue being included in national purchasing 3. deals for the total UK business stream through the sale of options.
The Avignon and Brittany at Waterchase, Tampa, examples of the diverse product range at Morrison Homes 4.
A wide range of bath brass on display at a Signature Selection Centre.
This is now purchased on reduced terms as part of a new national partnership with the supplier 4.
Finished lots ready for construction at Keenes Point, Orlando Morrison Homes Continuing volume and profit growth STRATEGY FOR GROWTH Morrison Homes is well positioned in the Southeast, Southwest and Western regions of the US, in markets with strong demographics and good employment prospects.
The business has a clear strategy for growth, aiming to be a leading housebuilder in each of its markets.
Satellite businesses in Jacksonville, Florida and Central Valley, Northern California have achieved sufficient scale to become separate divisions in 2004.
The satellite in Sarasota is on track to become a division in 2005.
Consistent with our growth strategy, we aim to increase market share by broadening our range of middle-market products where the Morrison brand can add value.
New slightly smaller and more efficient products, as well as higher density town houses, are being introduced to our existing range of successful house types.
LANDBANK During 2003 Morrisons landbank grew by over 25% and the business is in a strong position for growth into 2004 and beyond.
Because Morrison achieves a high asset turn, growth can be nanced with limited 3. investment.
Where possible, we purchase land as nished lots, when required.
It is taken ready for us to start construction on the home immediately, as all the groundwork and infrastructure work has been completed by the developer.
CUSTOMER SERVICE EXCELLENCE The Morrison Homes brand is recognised for excellence in customer service.
We measure customer satisfaction as Willingness to Refer and as a company achieved 84.7%.
We aim to achieve a very demanding 90% goal and already a third of our divisions have achieved this outstanding score.
According to JDPower & Associates Morrison Homes customer satisfaction rating is in the top quartile of all builders, exceeding the national average by 5%.
COST SAVING INITIATIVES The operating margin rose to 11.9% in 2003 as all divisions continued to focus on opportunities to reduce costs.
Taking advantage of scale, new procurement deals have reduced the number of suppliers used by Morrison and improved purchasing terms for products such as re places, HVAC equipment and bath brass.
Customer Focus Offering more, growing and improving services SERVICE EXCELLENCE In all our businesses we focus on integrity, quality and excellence to provide consistent standards of customer service.
All our homes come with a two year guarantee which is twice the industry average in both the UK and the US.
By July 2004, every employee in the UK, from accountants to site managers, will have taken part in a new training course and workshops which have been developed to highlight the importance of customer service in every area of the business.
The new Respond customer care 1. management system provides customer care staff with detailed records of every 2. home, including any extras that were purchased with it, so queries can be dealt with speedily and efficiently.
WEBSITES All businesses have introduced new customer focused websites.
Customers in the UK, as well as searching for a new home, can now search for a mortgage and shop on line.
In future they will also be able to choose their options.
In the US, 75% of Morrison Homes prospective customers used the internet and www.
com attracts 70% more visitors than a year ago.
A number of new sales tools are used to communicate with prospective customers, helping to identify and attract those most likely to purchase a Morrison home.
New customer magazines, Nest and Wall to Wall, will help the UK business communicate with customers, keeping them up to date with new developments, initiatives and offers.
FINANCE AND OTHER SERVICES Morrison Homes has led the way in introducing additional services to make buying a Morrison Home easier, 66% of all customers arranged their mortgages through Morrison Financial, and in 3.
Florida and Texas 90% of customers used Morrison Title.
A new joint venture business, UK Home Finance Limited, will provide even greater exibility when purchasing a home from George Wimpey or Laing Homes.
Financial products available to new and existing customers, now include unique mortgage, remortgage and insurance products at preferential rates.
Two year warranties on all our homes 2.
By July 2004, all employees will have been trained in customer service 3.
Our financial services companies make buying one of our homes easier 4.
New George Wimpey and Laing Homes customer magazines, helping us communicate with our customers 5.
New websites to choose a home, nd a mortgage and go shopping 4.
Customer Focus Increasing choice, growing the sale of options 1.
CREATING INDIVIDUAL HOMES AN OPPORTUNITY FOR THE FUTURE sale of options per customer has risen Providing our customers with greater The sale of optional extras to to $27,400, which represents 10% of the customers at Laing Homes is still being opportunities to customise their new businesss turnover.
Using experience from homes has become an important part TAKING THINGS FURTHER elsewhere in the Group, Laing Homes of our business.
It enables customers to Building on lessons learnt at Morrison has the potential to signicantly create their own individual style in their Homes, in June 2003 George Wimpey increase options revenue to the levels new homes and provides the business East Scotland opened the first centralised achieved in George Wimpey regions.
with an additional source of profit.
selection centre in the UK.
Unique not LEADING THE WAY only for George Wimpey but also for the In 2000 Morrison opened its first prototype industry.
More than 3,000 different items centralised Signature Selection Centre in are available for customers to choose from.
Since then new options centres At the centre, average sales per customer opened have been improved, increasing have almost doubled.
the showroom space and the range of George Wimpey has opened a further products available.
The UKs first centralised centralised centre in Cannock, in the options centre opened June Centralised centres are now available Midlands, in early 2004 with more centres 2003 in Edinburgh in all Morrisons markets.
Site based selection centres will 3 4.
More than 3,000 items to choose customers with an extended range of continue to develop.
Over the past 3 years from in the Edinburgh centre products, displayed in a retail environment sales per customer have risen from almost 5.
Centre, Orlando, Florida and with individual appointments the 3,000 per customer to just over 5,000.
