02 GlaxoSmithKline GlaxoSmithKline 03 Financial summary Joint statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive officer 2003 2002 Growth Statutory results m m CER% % Fundamentally, the pharmaceutical industry has a bright future.
This is not the place to debate the rights and wrongs of these Ageing populations in the developed world and continuing un-met challenges to the pharmaceutical industrys traditional business Turnover 21,441 21,212 5 1 medical need in many diseases mean that demand for new and model.
It is the place for us to reassure shareholders that we have Trading profit 6,525 5,662 21 15 better pharmaceutical products will continue to grow strongly in every aspect of that model under review in order to continue the profit before taxation 6,329 5,506 21 15 the years ahead.
development of medicines on a basis which reconciles our responsibility to society with a fair return to shareholders.
We are Earnings Net income 4,484 3,915 20 15 Our industry, however, also faces formidable challenges, some of determined to change with the times imaginatively, exibly and Basic earnings per share 77.2p 66.2p 23 17 which threaten the pharmaceutical industrys traditional business effectively, and to ght for what we believe will best serve the model.
Shareholders should be reassured that GlaxoSmithKlines long term interests of GlaxoSmithKline as one of the worlds Dividends per share 41.0p 40.0p management understands these challenges and the company is leading producers of medicines.
making substantial progress in responding to them.
Merger, restructuring and disposal of subsidiaries The industry is currently experiencing a decline in Research & Robust financial performance in 2003 Trading profit 395 1,032 Development productivity.
GlaxoSmithKline has tackled this by During 2003, our business performance earnings per share grew profit before taxation 390 1,011 radically redesigning its R&D organisation.
The new structure, 10 per cent, which was in line with the guidance we had issued.
based on seven Centres of Excellence for Drug Discovery, is Trading profit rose nine per cent to 6.9 billion and we had an Earnings Net income 281 712 working well and we are developing more high quality compounds operating cash ow of 7.0 billion.
We also raised the dividend Earnings per share 4.9 p 12.1 p than ever before.
In December, at our R&D Day, we were able to to 41 pence.
demonstrate the progress we have made in building an Total pharmaceutical turnover grew five per cent to just over Business performance exceptionally strong product pipeline that will provide the fuel for 18 billion, with US sales also up five per cent to 9.4 billion.
Turnover 21,441 21,212 5 1 achievement confirms the underlying strength and resilience of our Trading profit 6,920 6,694 9 3 We are also seeing an increasingly aggressive generics industry business, particularly given continued generic erosion during the which is eroding the period for which a medicine is patent year to sales of Augmentin and the introduction of generic profit before taxation 6,719 6,517 8 3 protected protection which is crucial to enabling the competition to Paxil in September.
Adjusted earnings Net income 4,765 4,627 8 3 pharmaceutical industry to sustain its huge investment in R&D.
The Consumer Healthcare business also did well, making a trading Adjusted earnings per share 82.1p 78.3p 10 5 GlaxoSmithKline will, of course, continue to defend its intellectual profit of 603 million for the year, up 16 per cent.
Meanwhile we are mitigating the impact of Business performance, which is the primary performance measure used by management, is presented after excluding merger items, generic competition by introducing improved versions of integration and restructuring costs and the disposal of businesses.
Management believes that exclusion of these items provides a better 2004 a year of transition before returning to growth in 2005 established medicines and driving growth of our other key reection of the way in which the business is managed and gives an indication of the performance of the Group in terms of those elements 2004 will be a particularly challenging year as we see the full products.
This has enabled GlaxoSmithKline to deliver very robust of revenue and expenditure which local management is able to inuence.
This information, which is provided in addition to the statutory impact of generic competition to Paxil and the introduction of financial performance despite generic competition to some of our results prepared under UK GAAP, is given to assist shareholders to gain a clearer understanding of the underlying performance of the business generic Wellbutrin.
Together, these products had US sales of most important products over the last two years.
and to increase comparability for the periods presented.
For most companies, a threat to sales on this Pricing pressures also continue.
In the USA, this has come from scale would be catastrophic.
But we expect to be able to weather Merger and integration items represent those items that have arisen as a result of the merger of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham pressure to cut pharmaceutical prices for senior citizens and efforts the impact well partly because of our size, partly through the and the acquisition of Block Drug.
Restructuring costs arise from the merger and acquisition and from manufacturing restructuring to allow the unregulated import of lower priced drugs from introduction of improved versions of these medicines and partly programmes that had already been agreed by Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham before the date of the merger.
These items by their abroad.
GlaxoSmithKline has played a leading role in discussions by driving growth of the other key products in our broad portfolio.
nature are considered to be outside the normal business expenditure of GlaxoSmithKline and are not expected to occur on a regular basis.
with the US Government and others to address these issues, while In fact, we expect to be able to deliver 2004 earnings per share Statutory results which appear on pages 88 and 89 include these items.
Other costs associated with restructuring activities that arise outside ensuring patient safety is protected.
We are pleased that the US EPS at least in line with business performance EPS in 2003 at these specic restructuring programmes are not treated as exceptional items.
Government has passed a Medicare prescription drug benefit constant exchange rates, before returning to growth in 2005.
The Group, as a multinational business, operates in many countries and earns revenues and incurs costs in many currencies.
The results of which will bring much needed help to patients in purchasing their This will represent a solid achievement for GlaxoSmithKline.
Many the Group, as reported in sterling, are therefore affected by movements in exchange rates between sterling and overseas currencies.
In Europe the situation is more complex, with other pharmaceutical companies, which have faced a similar loss Group uses the average exchange rates prevailing during the year to translate the results of overseas companies into sterling.
The currencies government healthcare budgets coming under increasing cost of sales as a result of generic competition, have seen their earnings that most inuence these translations are the US dollar, the Euro and the Japanese Yen.
During 2003 average sterling exchange rates restraints.
This means there is a continual squeeze on our returns, fall signicantly.
were stronger against the US dollar and the Japanese Yen by nine per cent and two per cent respectively, and weaker against the Euro and an even greater need for us to continue demonstrating the 2004 will be a year of transition for GlaxoSmithKline.
By the end by nine per cent compared with 2002. value of our medicines.
of 2004 the companys prole will be transformed.
As well In order to illustrate underlying performance, it is the Groups practice to discuss its results in terms of constant exchange rate CER growth.
Finally, in the developing world, there is the ongoing challenge to as having one of the most broadly-based product portfolios in This represents growth calculated as if the exchange rates used to determine the results of overseas companies in sterling had remained intellectual property rights and the belief that the pharmaceutical the industry, from 2005 onwards we will also have one of the unchanged from those used in the previous year.
CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates.
% represents growth at actual industrys contribution to persistent health crises should include lowest exposures to patent expiries measured as a percentage of exchange rates.
pricing medicines at or near cost.
GlaxoSmithKline has led the way, turnover.
At the same time, we expect to see a big increase in pioneering the availability of preferentially priced medicines and the number of major new compounds entering Phase III trials vaccines.
We believe we remain the only pharmaceutical company from our promising pipeline.
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements conducting research into the prevention and treatment of the The Group's reports led with or furnished to the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC, including this document and written information released, or oral statements made, to the public in the future by or on behalf of the Group, may contain forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements give World Health Organizations three priority diseases of the Broad product portfolio drives growth the Group's current expectations or forecasts of future events.
An investor can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical developing world: HIV AIDS, TB and malaria.
We are pleased with GlaxoSmithKlines ability to continue delivering robust or current facts.
They use words such as anticipate, estimate, expect, intend, will, project, plan, believe and other words and terms of similar meaning the agreement reached by the World Trade Organization in August pharmaceuticals sales growth, despite these generic challenges, in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance.
In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, prospective which allows countries unable to manufacture medicines to import is primarily due to its exceptionally broad product portfolio of products or product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such generics under compulsory licences, but gives assurances that this fast-growing, high-value products.
GlaxoSmithKline is a global as legal proceedings, and financial results.
The Group undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new will not be abused.
Nevertheless, the external pressure to amend leader in several therapeutic areas including respiratory, anti-viral, information, future events or otherwise.
the TRIPS agreement, which protects intellectual property, remains central nervous system, diabetes and vaccines.
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties.
The Group cautions investors that a number of important factors including those in this strong.
document could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement.
Such factors include, but are not limited to, those discussed under Risk factors on pages 74 to 76 of this Annual Report.
The bases for business performance results and CER growth rates are explained on page 2.
04 GlaxoSmithKline Joint statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive officer GlaxoSmithKline 05 The company now has 10 major products accounting for At the same time, healthcare and the way it is delivered and Description of business 7.6 billion of sales growing in strong double digits.
These include funded provoke much debate.
Our third Corporate Responsibility Seretide Advair for asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary Report sets out the issues that we face in this area and explains The Description of business discusses the activities, the disease COPD, which grew 39 per cent during the year to how we are addressing them.
Where possible, performance resources and the operating environment of the business and 2.2 billion, and is now one of the top 10 pharmaceutical brands measures are included to show our progress.
identies developments and achievements in 2003, under the in the world.
Our diabetes treatments Avandia Avandamet also significant achievements this year include the progress we are following headings: continue to perform well, with sales of 0.9 billion, up 24 per cent.
making in our programmes for the developing world, such as our Products like Valtrex for herpes and Lamictal for epilepsy are efforts to eliminate lymphatic lariasis LF or elephantiasis, a The business growing very strongly and are now approaching blockbuster status.
debilitating disease affecting 120 million people.
The World Health 06 History and development of the company Also both our vaccines and HIV AIDS businesses have sales of over Organization target is to eliminate LF by 2020, by which time we 06 GlaxoSmithKline strategy 1 billion.
expect to have donated six billion treatments of our medicine 07 Products albendazole, worth around $1 billion.
This is one of the New product launches in 2003 and 2004 pharmaceutical industrys largest ever donation programmes.
Operating environment Several new and important products were introduced in 2003.
10 Competition Highlights included US launches of Wellbutrin XL, a new and We reduced the not-for-profit prices of our HIV treatments twice 11 Regulation improved version of the anti-depressant, and Levitra for erectile in 2003, taking the price of Combivir down from $1.70 to just dysfunction.
Approval was received for Lexiva for HIV AIDS, Advair 65 cents a day.
However, much more needs to be done to tackle Operating activities for COPD and Lamictal for bi-polar disorder in the USA, and the enormous HIV AIDS crisis.
Real progress will only be made 13 Marketing and distribution Avandamet for diabetes in Europe.
if responsibility is shared by all sectors of global society 14 Manufacture and supply governments, international agencies and companies such as We plan to make several significant product launches and lings 15 Research and development GlaxoSmithKline.
These include: solifenacin for over-active bladder developed with our partner Yamanouchi Pharmaceuticals Ltd of We are very proud of our global community investment of Operating resources Japan : Avandaryl, a xed-dose combination treatment which will 338 million, 5.3 per cent of the Groups pre-tax profit.
This 24 Intellectual property further extend the Avandia family of treatments for type 2 included 125 million for the Groups Patient Assistance 25 Information technology diabetes: and Epivir plus Ziagen, the first once-daily combination Programs and other initiatives for low-income groups in the 26 GlaxoSmithKline people HIV AIDS treatment to be available in a single tablet.
USA and 105 million of humanitarian product donations.
26 Property, plant and equipment The business and society Building a strong and diverse R&D pipeline Governance 27 Corporate responsibility 2003 provided the clearest evidence yet of our success in creating The Financial Reporting Councils new Combined Code on 27 Responsibility for environment, health and safety the most productive R&D organisation in the industry.
At our R&D Corporate Governance was published in 2003.
The Board supports 28 Access to healthcare in the developed world Day in December we demonstrated how our re-designed R&D the New Code and has moved quickly to bring GlaxoSmithKlines 28 Access to healthcare in the developing world operation is delivering a product pipeline of exceptional diversity, governance procedures substantially in line with the best practices 29 Global community investment quality and quantity that will drive the future growth of the that ow from the Code.
Discussion of the Groups management structures and corporate Acknowledgements We now have 148 projects in clinical development.
These span a governance procedures is set out in Corporate governance During the year there were a number of changes to the Board.
The variety of therapeutic areas and encompass a number of pages 33 to 42.
Board now benets from the direct presence of Dr Tachi Yamada, pioneering approaches to treating patients, including exciting new who has great knowledge and experience in medical practice as The Remuneration Report gives details of the Groups policies on compounds in the areas of oncology and cardio-vascular disease.
Directors remuneration and the amounts earned by Directors well as the pharmaceutical industry.
Three new Non-Executive and senior management in 2003 pages 43 to 58.
The 148 projects include 83 new chemical entities NCEs, 45 Directors joined the Board during the year: Larry Culp, President product line extensions PLEs and 20 vaccines.
46 of the NCEs are of Danaher Corporation: Crispin Davis, Chief Executive of Reed Discussion of the Groups operating and financial performance now in clinical Phases II and III registration and we expect to make Elsevier PLC: and Sir Robert Wilson, Chairman of BG Group plc.
and financial resources is given in the Operating and financial a record number of lings over the next five years.
As many as 20 They each bring many years of experience and successful track review and prospects pages 59 to 83. of these compounds have the potential to reach blockbuster status.
Their undoubted skills further strengthen the Board.
In this report: GlaxoSmithKline or the Group means GlaxoSmithKline Included in the many promising compounds highlighted in plc and its subsidiary undertakings and the company means December were: 016, a first of its kind dual kinase inhibitor for Sir Roger Hurn and Paul Allaire left the Board in June.
GlaxoSmithKline share means an Ordinary Share the treatment of breast and lung cancer: Cervarix, a vaccine with Barzach, John McArthur and Donald McHenry will step down from of GlaxoSmithKline plc of 25p.
An American Depositary Share ADS the potential to prevent more than 70 per cent of cervical cancers: the Board after the AGM in May.
We express our appreciation to represents two GlaxoSmithKline shares.
162, a next-generation anti-depressant: Lp-PLA2 inhibitors which each of them for their contribution to the company and for their Throughout this report, gures quoted for market size, market share target a newly identied risk factor for heart disease: odiparcil, a dedicated and effective service to the Board.
and market growth rates relate to the 12 months ended 30th novel anti-blood clotting treatment, and 381, the first dual action In conclusion, on behalf of the Board and the Corporate Executive September 2003 or later where available.
These are GlaxoSmithKline COX-2 inhibitor targeting both inammatory and neuropathic pain.
estimates based on the most recent data from independent external Team, we thank you, our shareholders, for your continued support Building on our strong heritage in respiratory medicine, we are sources, valued in sterling at relevant exchange rates.
Figures quoted through this challenging time.
also developing a next-generation Seretide Advair a once-daily for product market share reect sales by GlaxoSmithKline and licensees.
combination of a new long-acting corticosteroid, 698, and a Brand names appearing in italics throughout this report are trade marks long-acting selective beta2 agonist, 797, developed with of GlaxoSmithKline or associated companies, with the exception of Theravance Inc. Amaryl and Nicoderm, trade marks of Aventis, Baycol and Levitra, trade marks of Bayer, Bexxar, a trade mark of Corixa Corporation, Corporate responsibility Hepsera, a trade mark of Gilead Services, Micropump, a trade mark of Corporate responsibility has particular resonance for the Flamel Technologies, Natrecor, a trade mark of Scios, Navelbine, a trade pharmaceutical sector.
Our business is creating medicines to treat mark of Pierre Fabre Mdicament, and Pritor, a trade mark of Sir Christopher Hogg J P Garnier and prevent disease something that society needs and values.
Boehringer Ingelheim, all of which are used under licence by the Group.
