CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW The industry The past year has seen profound developments in the structure of our industry, with the forces set in motion by the 1989 Beer Orders now in an advanced stage of evolution.
The nations pub stock has been consolidated among a smaller number of companies and, similarly, the beer supply industry has contracted into a smaller number of dominant brands.
There has been a trend towards the once fashionable managed pub sector being replaced by the tenanted pub sector as the preferred model of pub operation.
Our view is that the tribulations of the managed pub sector have been brought about by the existence of many highly rented short leasehold properties and by over-investment in indifferent retail brands, and that this is a specific problem and not a generic one.
Just as the lack of sustainability of a minority of managed pubs has now materialised, the current vogue for tenanted estates should not blind us to the fact that there can be potential pitfalls in the tenanted model.
Setting a higher The increasing cost of retail overheads, such as insurance level of maintainable rent than a pub is able to justify in premiums and minimum wage levels, has undoubtedly had the medium and long term, or discovering that there is a more rapidly apparent impact on managed house operators a potential shortage of talented licensees, may become than on their tenanted competitors.
However, such cost a problem in the future.
increases affect both sectors at outlet level and there is no fundamental reason why a tenancy should out-perform a managed house if the quality of management and site are equal.
The art of success is to have the right site run by the best possible licensee under the most suitable trading Average trading profit per managed arrangement.
pub increased 9 per cent 9 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Consequently, we prefer to operate both managed and tenanted pubs, making sure that we are trading them in the optimum manner, rather than adopting a single policy for all approach.
The principal criteria we adopt when deciding whether to operate a pub under management or tenancy is not an abstract one of quality or a weekly turnover level, but that of final bottom line profit once the capital invested has been costed.
In other words, will the additional resources of an operation under management gain more sustained profit from a site or will that result from the greater freedom available to a tenant or lessee?
By having both managed and tenanted pubs we are able to capture the maximum advantage from our estate and to transfer assets from one format to another as market 13.8 million was invested in the sites acquired with Old English Inns, producing attractive returns conditions change.
Pubs have moved both ways within our estate, although the main movement in recent years has been from management to tenancy as overheads have increased at the local level.
We prefer to focus on the fundamental challenge facing our competitors, whether pub groups or brewers, and ourselves, which is the growth in alternative leisure pursuits and greater home entertainment.
Ever larger pub groups are not the longterm answer to this challenge, nor is greater investment in expensive and undifferentiated concepts.
Once critical mass is reached scale benefits tail off and too much investment can be as harmful to shareholder wealth as too little.
Our answer to the consumer challenge in the pub trade is to offer more value to our customers, without price discounting, by: developing the calibre of our people improving the attractiveness of our properties concentrating on formats with proven and distinctive customer appeal innovating to stay in touch with changing consumer tastes spending investment capital effectively.
10 GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2002 2003 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW This approach hinges upon doing all the little things right at the point of contact with the customer, such as providing quick, friendly service and supplying food and drink in the best possible condition.
We are therefore organised into operating businesses which are small enough to stay close to their customers and sufficiently flexible to respond to changing market conditions.
Pub Company Our managed houses are those pubs which are most profitably operated under our direct management and can justify the greater level of support invested.
Pub Company operates a portfolio of traditional pubs and inns sharing a high level of quality, and is organised into four segments focused on particular styles of operation.
The inns and hotels divisions were merged during the year to obtain the benefits of their similarity of customer profile.
The improvement in the quality of our managed estate No.
of more than compensated for the lower number of outlets, with outlets outlets turnover up 7 per cent to 328.3 million and trading profit up at 4 May at 4 May 2003 2002 10 per cent to 54.7 million.
The underlying uninvested likefor-like performance was also encouraging with turnover up Hungry Horse Larger branded pubs with a great value food business, appealing 0.9 per cent in those 255 outlets that benefited from less than to the local community and customers travelling from a wider area 131 131 20k of capital investment in the last two years.
Real Pubs Community pubs primarily serving local customers, with an emphasis on local trade building activities 141 151 Pub Company Time Turnover Trading profit Trading profit including weighted m m margin High Street City, town and suburban centre pubs Old English Inns average % with a complex mix of customers, including shoppers and business number of people at lunch or early evening, and outlets a younger profile at night 138 145 2002 569 306.9 49.7 16.2 Inn & Hotels Traditional inns and hotels offering 2003 588 328.3 54.7 16.7 high quality food, drink and often accommodation in attractive sites appealing to a variety of affluent customers 161 174 Total 571601 Invested like-for-like turnover Our managed estate was trimmed back in numbers to 571 was up 2.2 per cent in those pubs despite the addition of 18 outlets as part of the Morrells acquisition and a number of other individual site purchases.
managed pubs owned for the The reduction was the result of the sale or transfer to Pub Partners of those sites not meeting our operating criteria.
last two years 11 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Total capital investment was maintained at a similar level to the previous year at 41.8 million, of which 30.2 million was spent on 121 major development schemes.
However, there was a change in nature of expenditure with less spent on the purchase of individual sites, but more on developments of existing outlets.
As a result, the average spend per major development rose from 146k to 250k.
The Old English refurbishment programme continued at a high level, with 9.5 million invested in the year.
The impact of this programme has been striking, with occupancy levels and achieved room rates rising significantly, and food and drink income growing in tandem.
Now able to appeal to their affluent target customer base, the refurbished inns are achieving investment returns well ahead of our cost of capital and Old English Inns will be an important contributor to profit growth in the years ahead.
The raising of the quality of the business and further improvements in buying terms lifted trading margins to Pub Company is a successful business at the forefront of 16.7 per cent.
This improvement was achieved despite our industry, as was recognised again at the 2003 Publican an increase in the proportion of food sales, which run at Awards for the second successive year.
This, though, is no lower margins, from 31 to 33 per cent and the impact of time to be complacent and we are seeking to strengthen our a significant rise in minimum wage costs.
competitive position further by focusing on a number of critical strategies.
These include: raising the calibre of our house managers and staff by better recruitment and training utilisation of our flex-management approach to allow individual sites to operate their businesses in the manner that best suits local market conditions, but maintains adherence to common best practice principles prudent investment in improving property standards throughout the estate further expansion of our successful Hungry Horse and Old English brands through selective property purchases introduction of new retail ideas to add more differentiation to our customer offer.
By building our customer appeal on the understanding that pub goers visit to have a great time and by delivering all the tangible and intangible elements that contribute to this experience, we will continue to provide good value and keep our customers coming back for more.
12 GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2002 2003 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW The benefits of operating high quality sites, recruiting excellent tenants and lessees, and providing valuable support are appreciated by licensees.
A recent independent survey Beer to dine for conducted by the Morning Advertiser explored the views of the licensees of a number of larger operators about their is an initiative landlords.
We were consistently voted the best landlord across promoting the a broad range of measures.
drinking of ale with eating good food Weekly trading profit per tenanted pub up Pub Partners 10 per cent The success of our tenanted and leased pub business is based on the distinctive quality of our outlets, the expertise and enthusiasm of our licensees, and our partnership with these licensees to maximise our pubs appeal to the final consumer.
Furthermore, the Publican newspaper voted us the 2003 The active management of our property portfolio continued Tenanted Leased Pub Company of the Year for an during the year.
It is important that all our pubs are capable unprecedented third consecutive time in recognition of of offering both our licensees and ourselves a good living: so our innovative approach.
One example of this is the launch we continued to add properties of upper quartile quality, some of a buying guide which enables tenants to take advantage of purchased and some transferred from Pub Company, while the buying power of our managed estate for items such as selling outlets incompatible with our long-term criteria.
The food, utilities, services and catering equipment.
We already acquisition of Morrells added 77 tenanted pubs, strengthening have licensees who are able to achieve cost savings of between Pub Partners good representation in the Thames Valley.
This extra income will allow them to invest in better standards, thereby improving their ability to trade successfully.
While happy licensees are clearly good for our business, the favourable reputation generated by this approach enables us to attract the best operators to our outlets at a time of strong competition for the best talent.
The outlets transferred from management were quickly let, with reaction to the ex-Morrells managed pubs exceeding our most optimistic expectations, and the remaining former Old English outlets were also leased successfully.
80 per cent of licensee applications now come in via our web site 13 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW The rationalisation of the lower end of the estate continued increased by 17 per cent, to 111.7 and 43.8 million with 59 sites sold.
It is important that we do not compromise respectively, and our underlying margins improved from our reputation or the quality of our earnings by operating 39.2 to 41.1 per cent with Morrells and Old English intrinsically difficult outlets in which tenants struggle, thereby managed house turnover excluded.
creating problems with high licensee turnover, rent voids and the risk of bad debts.
We will continue to review the The timings of the respective movements in and out of the composition of the estate and to take action where required.
business saw the average number of pubs rise by 88 to 1,141 during the year, although the year end position finished lower The growth in size and quality of the business delivered a at 1,122.
Adjusting for these changes and for a 53 week prior strong financial result.
Turnover and trading profit each year, trading profit per pub increased by a healthy 10 per cent.
14 GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2002 2003 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW This strong individual outlet performance shone through in the 877 uninvested like-for-like pubs which recorded a turnover increase of 2.3 per cent.
Pub Partners Average Turnover Trading profit Trading profit number of m m change outlets % 2002 1,053 95.7 37.5 6 2003 1,141 111.7 43.8 17 Capital expenditure rose to 12.8 million as a result of a 4.3 million investment in refurbishing a number of transferred ex-Old English properties.
In total, we undertook 63 improvement schemes, an increase of ten over the previous year, and the returns achieved have been significantly ahead of our cost of capital.
We are confident of our ability to continue to grow profits from our investment programme through all parts of our estate.
With excellent sites, a proven management team and good relations with our licensees, Pub Partners is well positioned has been well received by the major supermarket multiples for the future.
The task now is to maintain the progress of and is an innovative step in broadening consumption patterns the business, connecting more strongly with the final consumer and stimulating interest in the ale category and our brands and continuing to improve returns from investing in the in particular.
Our keenness to invest in the important facets of our business Brewing Company is an essential contributor to its success.
This investment is Brewing Company changed its name during the year to focused on four key areas: articulate more clearly the common purpose which underpins developing the calibre and capability of our people the brewing, brand marketing, distribution and selling continuous improvement of our brewing process and operations.
With the best portfolio of high quality traditional product quality British beer brands in the market Greene King IPA, Abbot marketing support for our key brands Ale, Old Speckled Hen and Ruddles County we possess a raising further our levels of customer service.
highly differentiated and focused offer which competes successfully against the national brewers and regional Greene King IPA had a very good year, recording 4 per cent operators, and delivers market-beating sales growth and MAT volume growth and further increases in market share.
IPA is our flagship brand and received significant attention to its presentation to ensure that it continues to attract new Our strategy is founded consumers as well as retain the loyalty of current drinkers.
upon a rigorous emphasis We freshened the imagery of the pump clip and presented it on beer quality, innovation to customers in March.
Initial reaction has been very positive, and marketing investment.
with sales continuing to advance.
Innovation includes the evolution of our brands packaging, presentation and advertising alongside pioneering initiatives Brewing Companys return on such as the Beer to Dine For campaign launched this year.
capital employed reached a Aiming to promote the drinking of ale with food, the initiative record 24.7 per cent 15 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Abbot Ale recorded a 21 per cent volume increase on the back Market share Greene King Greene King 2002 2003 of the updating of its branding and marketing support at the % % end of the previous year, and the response of consumers and Cask ale - Great Britain 13.4 15.4 distributors to its new presentation exceeded our expectations.
Cask ale - London Anglia Meridian 30.1 31.9 television regions Consistent marketing support also saw Old Speckled Hen achieve 14 per cent growth as the brand has continued its rise to fame following our acquisition of Morland in 1999.
The continuing advance of our beer brands was achieved It is at the top end of super-premium traditional British beer through all our sales channels, with the independent free brands and can command a price premium over its major trade, national accounts on-trade, take home and export trade competitors.
Old Speckled Hen is the multiple grocers each achieving good growth.
Total beer sales across the group leading brand by retail value in the rapidly growing premium were 7 per cent ahead on a MAT basis and consequently, our bottled ale market.
total on-trade beer market share rose to 4.3 per cent and our take home ale share to 4.5 per cent.
Other drinks categories also recorded healthy sales increases.
This encouraging volume sales performance converted into an excellent financial result.
Turnover increased by 4 per cent to 95.6 million and trading profit by 12 per cent to 13.3 million on the back of a significant improvement in trading profit margin to 13.9 per cent, while return on capital employed within Brewing Company increased to 24.7 per cent.
The strengthening of margins resulted from a tightly managed cost base, process efficiency gains, enhanced purchasing terms and scale benefits derived from higher sales volumes.
16 GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2002 2003 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Excluding the impact of the Jubilee week, uninvested Pub Brewing Company Turnover Trading Trading profit Trading profit profit change margin m Company like-for-like turnover was up 1.0 per cent for the m % % 8 weeks to 29 June 2003.
Beer sales in Pub Partners were 2002 91.9 11.9 3 12.9 6 per cent ahead of the comparable period last year and total 2003 95.6 13.3 12 13.9 beer volumes were 5 per cent ahead.
Trading is good and we are confident that the distinctive positioning of our businesses, By improving margins and capital returns, while growing their proven customer franchises and the quality of our people sales and continuing to invest in our brands, people and will enable us to increase earnings for shareholders at an assets for the future success of the business, Brewing attractive rate.
Company has an enviable position within the market-place.
However, many opportunities remain to be seized and the process of improving all aspects of the business, from customer services to brand marketing support, must be maintained if the financial progress of recent years is to be continued.
Above all, we believe passionately in ale and in the profitable future of its market.
Tim Bridge Prospects Chief Executive We have had a positive start to the new financial year, with all three divisions reporting increases on last year, even 2 July 2003 though comparisons are distorted by the Golden Jubilee and football World Cup in June 2002.
Our principal retail brands continue to perform strongly and our beer brands are continuing their volume and market share advances.
