com Chief Executives statement Alan Giles Fast forward 2002 03 was another year of excellent The seven key points of our strategy progress for HMV Group.
The Group as outlined in last years annual report: delivered excellent profit growth and 01 Apply the HMV blueprint across achieved a 95 million reduction in net the Group borrowings.
This was achieved in a year To transfer best practice from the highly when the UK, our largest market by sales successful business model developed by and profit, experienced a softening in HMV in the UK.
music sales and a general downturn 02 Secure leadership in chosen markets in consumer confidence, which was To operate in attractive markets where the exacerbated in the final quarter by the Group can maintain or obtain market leadership.
build-up to and eventual war in Iraq.
03 Deliver unrivalled authority To deliver leading market share through At the time of our IPO in May 2002 the superior range, customer service and product Group identified several objectives that knowledge in each catchment area.
would enable us to pursue our ambition 04 Achieve superior financial to be the most successful international performance retailer of music, books and video.
I am To generate superior financial performance by pleased to report that, by successfully achieving best in class operational standards.
following a very focused strategy for 05 Exploit new product opportunities ongoing growth, we continue to deliver To build on the Groups strong track record against these objectives and advance of the early adoption of new formats, such as nearer to our ambition.
DVD, thereby securing competitive advantage and market share growth.
06 Embrace alternative distribution channels and technologies To ensure that the Group is well positioned to take advantage of viable alternative distribution channels and technologies that present viable strategic opportunities for its business.
07 Optimise store portfolio To ensure that the Group has a suitably positioned, sized and configured store portfolio tailored to local markets designed to maximise long-term returns.
com Growth strategy DVD market leadership Why have music sales been declining?
In HMV Europe, total DVD sales grew by HMV UK store openings 83% year on year, although with some A combination of illegal Internet downloading and CD burning have taken some of the edge HMV Europe, operating through 166 cannibalisation of VHS, total video sales off of growth in global music sales, but does stores primarily in the UK, has yet again increased 32.4% for the full year.
In the not sufficiently explain why some music markets proved itself to be the high-performing UK we have established a leading, 25.8% continued to see positive growth.
France has engine of the Group, delivering record share of the DVD market, an outstanding all the ingredients for music downloading mature PC penetration and a rapidly growing sales, profit and cash flow.
Total sales feat given that HMV was not the market broadband Internet market but saw growth grew to 867.4 million a 10.6% increase leader in VHS.
In our view, on the previous year, inclusive of a 3.7% The explosive growth in DVD in this divergence is largely a function of how like for like improvement.
the UK, HMVs largest market, has been successful the local record labels and retailers have been in developing and promoting the Whilst highly successful, HMVs achieved from a still emerging but rapidly market.
We also believe that the high growth DVD national coverage is under-represented growing base of approximately 30% product format is competing with music for a compared to its retailing peers and household penetration for DVD players.
share of consumer expenditure, and is evidence there exist outstanding opportunities to Overall in 2002 03, the UK installed base that consumers desire to own and collect product in physical format is undiminished.
HMV stores for DVD hardware grew by 87%, according are sited in each of the top 50 UK markets to the British Video Association, and the ranked by Experian, but are not in over market is still matching the development 50% of the next 150 markets.
In these of the US, but some 16 months later.
towns HMV has high brand awareness VHS was predominantly a new and a valuable consumer franchise but release driven format and back catalogue Is DVD growth sustainable?
no distribution to, effectively, some 20% sales and collecting had not developed to DVD has enjoyed phenomenal growth in the of UK shoppers.
This group of catchments the same extent as music.
The superior previous two years.
We believe there is much has become the focus of our expansion, quality of DVD and the additional content more to come, stimulated by increasing and during the year we opened a which suppliers now feature has, however, household penetration of hardware, including record 21 new stores, including Carlisle, led to the development of a strong recordable DVD, and an expansion in the number of software titles.
Although we do not Colchester, Grimsby, Putney, Winchester catalogue business.
expect a repeat of the UKs 100% growth, and Truro, where our landmark 150th The proven consumer appetite DVD will lead our video category to high store opened in December.
for DVD software plays directly to double-digit growth this year.
Looking forward, We also added to our edge-ofHMVs strengths as a range authority we expect HMVs ability to maximise catalogue sales through promotions to help us maintain town portfolio, with new store openings retailer and its expertise in continuously market leadership even when the growth in at Edinburghs Fort Kinnaird and stimulating consumer interest in hardware begins to plateau.
Ocean Terminal, Manchester West One catalogue titles through pre-planned and Liverpool Speke Park.
For the first sales campaigns.
With only 11,000 time, HMV now has a presence on titles available on DVD so far, compared railway concourses following the opening to 23,000 for VHS, there exists ample of new stores at Londons Victoria and scope through continuing range Manchesters Piccadilly stations.
expansion to support consumers As a focus for capital investment, desire to collect DVD.
shareholders can be assured of both the The challenge for HMV in DVD scale and consistency of returns from these is to make consumers aware of the new openings, with the 50 new stores huge breadth of new product releasing opened in the past five years generating to DVD, and to this end HMV continues an average cash payback of just 16 months.
During the year We are highly selective in where we invest HMV launched the ScreenXtra preview and, because of the strength of the HMV DVD, which is a very effective tool for brand we are able to secure advantageous raising awareness of release dates and property terms which lead to these superior HMV offers to our core DVD customers.
This gives us great confidence HMV also introduced into stores the that the 15 new stores planned for the New to DVD sections, which highlight new financial year will also be significantly non-chart catalogue re-issues and value enhancing to the Group.
this too is driving strong market shares for HMV.
com Chief Executives statement continued The growth in DVD meant that video Waterstones turnaround contributed over 40% of sales in HMV Good progress was made during the first UK at Christmas, compared to 45% for 12 months of our three-year recovery music.
Our businesses in North America programme for Waterstones.
During the and Asia Pacific, where HMV had not period Waterstones tackled head-on been as successful with VHS, are also some of the biggest challenges that making significant progress in introducing had been set for the turnaround of the DVD to their product mix.
business, including the replacement of 10 million of slow-moving stock with Expansion in Japan fresher and more saleable titles, and the Progress is also being made on our refurbishment of nine of our larger stores medium-term strategic growth plans for representing approximately 10% of Japan, where we ended the year with Waterstones turnover.
37 stores located in many of the key Most of this activity was carried catchments.
Japan did not escape the out in the first half, prior to the peak downturn seen in other world music academic and Christmas trading periods.
markets during the period, declining The benefit was seen in Waterstones like by 9%.
However, it remains the worlds for like sales performance at Christmas, second largest market for music, with which was up 5.6% against a strong a strong indigenous J-Pop business, performance in the prior year.
This in which represents three quarters of the part reflected the successful application market, and widespread interest in of promotional tactics similar to those international artists.
These included Our estimated 7% market share in the launch, in close co-ordination with Japans highly fragmented market means suppliers, of a highly marketable Book there is an opportunity for us to become of the Week campaign for each of the the leading player through expanding our six weeks prior to Christmas.
Our share of the market The refurbished Waterstones belies the strength of the HMV brand, stores provide a contemporary and which is one of the best known in Japan.
A new Can HMV compete with supermarkets Approximately 10% of our Japanese sales childrens concept was introduced and for CDs, games, DVDs and books?
are now made online, reflecting our high further coffee concessions were opened.
brand awareness and the success of All of these improvements have been The supermarkets have been aggressively our e-commerce operation, but also made without compromising on the pursuing their expansion of non-food ranges in recent years, and are an established feature the relative under-representation of unrivalled range authority for which of the competitive environment.
supermarket competition has brought some The HMV business in Japan is Looking forward, Waterstones deflationary pressures and they have gained currently sub-scale, and the infrastructure continues to rigorously apply the HMV market share, their potential to replicate the range, service and environment found in HMV we have in place is capable of supporting Blueprint.
This process has provided or Waterstones is constrained by space and a considerably larger chain.
Our 2002 03 appreciable results that have been their focus on family-oriented, best-selling new stores, at Oita, Machida, Hakata translated to sales and profit growth and titles.
Our stores typically have a lower share and Sapporo, have all performed well.
balance sheet improvement, although of these types of products than titles deeper into the range.
Our expansion plan has targeted eight not all ideas have translated successfully.
new store openings during the new As Waterstones gradually improves financial year, a programme prudently profitability and restores operating aligned to the development of store margins to more acceptable levels managers required to meet HMVs the Group remains determined that high operational standards.
its shareholders will benefit from the Lease lengths in Japan are typically incremental value created.
shorter than in other major HMV territories, Are improvements at Waterstones which means a low-risk investment New channels and formats being made at the expense of its profile for new store openings.
The Group With a longer term horizon in mind, the literary traditions?
remains confident of achieving rapid Group continues to experiment with new returns as scale economies unfold and technologies and distribution formats The Group is proud of Waterstones reputation for literary authority, which owes everything to as we more deeply engrain into the in the event that these should become the passion and dedication of its booksellers.
HMV business in Japan the world class viable and widespread channels to deliver It is true that the books market became more operating standards evident in HMV UK.
the products we sell to consumers.
competitive since price controls were abandoned in 1995.
The aim of our Waterstones recovery programme is to improve the chains retailing capabilities so that it is better equipped to meet the requirements of todays vastly more commercial books market.
Our focus is on strengthening Waterstones core brand value as the most authoritative range bookseller and on applying HMVs world-class retailing standards to Waterstones.
com The recent decline in the world music In HMVs store at 360 Oxford Street, market has been widely attributed to CD London, new flat-screen listening posts burning and the illegal free sharing of are being introduced, enabling customers music between users of peer-to-peer to access and play clips from 250,000 Internet sites.
Currently, consumer music, DVD and games titles either via research exists to support the seemingly an online search or by scanning the opposite views that music downloading barcode of specific titles.
The kiosks are is to some degree both stimulating and scheduled to be rolled out to all HMV UK substituting sales of physical product.
stores over the next three years.
Precise trends at this stage are difficult to We are determined that we can decipher, but it is clear that downloading maintain our proven track record in providing is emerging as a part of the distribution appropriate levels of support to the right landscape.
Whether this will move distribution technologies and formats beyond piracy to a viable commercial as and when they arrive, and continue model remains to be seen, however.
to invest in innovative experiments as So that the Group can better a way of assessing the strategic viability understand the dynamics of legitimately of new channels and technologies for selling music for download via the our businesses.
Internet, HMV Europe entered into a strategic partnership with the UK online Outlook music service provider OD2.
This allows As we continue the execution of our subscribers to the secure service to growth strategy, the Group is able to stream, download or permanently burn look forward with confidence to the tracks to CD for a monthly fee of 4.99. year ahead.
As might be expected, given the free HMV UK is producing consistently availability of pirated music from peer-toworld-class retailing standards and strong peer Internet websites, sales from this financial ratios, and as we anticipate channel so far have been modest.
our store expansion programme for the However, it has given us considerable UK and the continuing growth in DVD insight to consumer preferences and we remain confident that this business behaviour and positions the Group to can build on its outstanding levels take advantage of downloading as and of performance.
when it evolves into a legitimate and HMV UKs proven retailing skills viable channel to market.
are the benchmark for our international As a channel to market, the businesses in Asia Pacific and North Internet has settled down so that sales America.
As we continue to apply these of physical product online as a share of techniques, build out our DVD business the overall market are 5%6% for books and, in Japan, pursue the opportunity and music.
We continue to make to expand our store portfolio, we are improvements to our online offer to drive confident of realising the potential sales and profitability.
During the period, that our market positions in these we eliminated the losses from running the territories provide.
com website in Canada by entering In Waterstones, further operational into a strategic alliance with amazon.
ca improvements will be made as we continue whilst preserving our branding, and each with the three-year turnaround plan.
of the Groups five transactional websites We take great encouragement from now trades profitably.
the learning and progress that has so far In July HMV UK will link with leading been achieved and, through the application mobile phone operator Vodafone Live of the HMV model and a disciplined focus to offer a range of CDs, DVDs and games on managing the capital tied up in the to mobile Internet customers.
The offer business, we remain determined to has potential for purchases of physical restore Waterstones to a more profitable product and downloads being charged level of return for our shareholders.
directly to a customers telephone bill and closely resembles the HMV mobile Internet offer, which represented 18% of total online sales in Japan.
Alan Giles Chief Executive Officer 30 June 2003
