4 Holidaybreak plc CONSUMER TRENDS The new millennium travel consumer still demands quality and value but also wants more flexibility and more varied holiday experiences.
Holidays are taken Chief Executives Review by more frequently and for briefer durations and Review booking lead times are getting shorter.
Our Hotel Richard Atkinson Breaks products in the UK and overseas are ideally geared to this trend and our Adventure Division offers a multitude of holiday experiences, both with TRAVEL INDUSTRY CHANGE its recently introduced Adventure Breaks programme Both 2002 and 2003 have been tough years for the and its traditional length itineraries.
The more majority of UK overseas travel operators, particularly adventurous family is also being catered for, with a those operating charter based package holidays.
specially tailored selection of tours whilst Camping, Whilst undoubtedly September 11th and the Iraq with its choice of any holiday dates and range of war have been important factors this should not be travel options, offers the consumer significantly allowed to obscure the major structural changes in more flexibility than the packaged alternatives.
the industry and the changing consumer dynamics which have also been very influential.
The family holiday market is affected by these general trends, although this is less pronounced The fragmentation of travel product distribution and than in other sectors because of the restrictions of the trend away from high street travel agents is not school holidays.
The Camping Division, which new but the rapid development of the internet has specialises in holidays for families, still expects to accelerated the pace of change.
Internet is fast receive over 40% of its bookings before Christmas becoming the predominant booking method for as the many repeat customers seek to reserve simple transactions such as flights, hotel rooms and favourite camp-sites on the most popular dates.
car hire whilst, for all types of holidays and travel, the worldwide web has increasingly become the first IMPACT OF RECENT EVENTS port of call for consumers searching out information We live in an era of geopolitical instability which and options.
has had a major effect on travel patterns over the 2003 has been one of the more challenging The internet is a global phenomenon but the impact past two years.
Security concerns and the general of my 27 years with the company.
of the low-cost or no-frills scheduled airlines has, at uncertainty have affected most holiday businesses Nevertheless we have once again achieved least as far as Europe is concerned, been much more both profits and dividend growth for our but some are, of course, far more exposed than shareholders and are optimistic about specific to the UK.
The introduction of lower fares, others.
Both Camping and Hotel Breaks are prospects for 2004.
The Chairmans and the competitive pressure this has put on the perceived as having low exposure to such risks.
Statement pages 2-3 gives an overview of established carriers to reduce theirs has clearly had Adventure, with its long-haul destinations has been our 2003 performance and trading and prospects for 2004 whilst the Operating a major impact.
But of equal importance has been more exposed but the vast range of destinations on Review section pages 7-15 gives more the much greater accessibility of the low-cost offer 107 in the 2004 brochure means that there detail on the performance of the divisions airlines to consumers making their own bookings are always plenty of interesting destinations for its that make up the Holidaybreak Group.
I am and the introduction of departures from many going to concentrate on the strategic travellers to choose from.
The fact that we have challenges and opportunities for the regional UK airports and services to a much wider managed to achieve turnover figures in 2002 and business.
range of short-haul European destinations.
2003 on a par with 2001 bears this out and also underlines the growing popularity of this type of The dual impact of the low-cost airlines and the holiday.
internet which gives consumers so much more flexibility and choice have presented a major challenge to the rigid, vertically integrated package tour operating model employed by the global, mass market operators.
Specialist holiday businesses such as those operated by Holidaybreak are well placed to take advantage of these developing market trends.
