CHAIRMANS STATEMENT ENGINEERING AD ENGINEERING ADV VANT ANTA AG GE E OUR BUSINES OUR BUSINESSES PRO SES PROVIDE VIDE A SPREAD OF RISK IN BO A SPREAD OF RISK IN BOTH GEOGRAPHIC TH GEOGRAPHICAL AND END AL AND END MARKETS.
IN 2003 THIS PROVED T VED TO O BE BENEFICIAL IN BE BENEFICIAL IN RESPEC RESPECT OF BO T OF BOTH OPERA TH OPERATING A TING AC CTIVITIES AND TIVITIES AND CURRENC CURRENCY MO Y MOVEMENTS.
Gary All Gary Allen, en, Chairman Chairman In my report to shareholders this time last year, I said that although The resulting profit before tax, exceptional items and goodwill Outlook we expected 2003 to present a challenge, we were looking to build amortisation was 136.9m 2002: 99.3m and profit before tax at In our Trading Update in December we reported that there were signs on the solid foundation we had been laying across the Group.
of a modest improvement in some of our markets.
This trend has interim results confirmed that we were making good progress and The effective tax charge for the year is 33% 2002: 32%.
The improving external economic conditions and the our final results for the year to 31 December 2003 further earnings per share increased by 7% to 26.8p 2002: 25.0p and basic internal advances we have achieved in our businesses provide a sound Gary Allen demonstrate the underlying strength of our businesses.
It is earnings per share increased by 28% to 20.1p 2002: 15.7p.
platform for us to make further progress.
Chairman pleasing to be able to report improved profit and earnings and Net operating cash flow was 196m 2002: 220m and free cash flow IMI commitment 8 March 2004 another year of substantial cash generation underpinning our before dividends and corporate activity was 142m 2002: 189m.
Our people, individually and collectively, work with an energy, strong balance sheet.
Dividends cost 55m, a cash cover of 2.6 times.
Acquisitions during the enthusiasm and determination that indicates their commitment.
This Our businesses provide a spread of risk in both geographical and year, comprising Artform Merchandising Systems, Commtech Indoor hard work, focus and sense of purpose give our business its end markets.
In 2003 this proved to be beneficial in respect of both Climate and Fluid Kinetics Severe Service, absorbed 62m.
In October competitive edge and we are grateful for the outstanding level of operating activities and currency movements.
we sold our small air-conditioning business for around its net asset value support shown by our employees throughout the year.
After a first half where volumes were similar to last year, the second of 2m.
half was some 5% higher leaving year on year volumes on a like for Interest cost for the year was reduced to 10.9m 2002: 16.7m largely like basis around 3% ahead.
Good organic growth was shown in as a result of reduced borrowings.
Interest was covered 14 times Severe Service, Fluid Power and Merchandising Systems with more 2002: 9 times based on operating profit before goodwill amortisation modest growth in Indoor Climate and Building Products.
volumes in Beverage Dispense were flat.
Net cash flow of 33.5m and a small currency translation benefit meant Our recent acquisitions performed well with a full year of DCI net borrowings were reduced to 136m 2002: 173m giving balance Marketing and a fourth quarter contribution from Artform helping to sheet gearing of 25% 2002: 33%.
produce a very encouraging result in Merchandising Systems.
STI European Commission enquiry and Fluid Kinetics are now established within Severe Service and I have reported to shareholders previously that the European Commtechs results in Indoor Climate were on track.
Commission is investigating allegations of anti-competitive behaviour Once again, all our businesses generated excellent cash with further among certain manufacturers of copper tube and copper fittings.
reductions in working capital producing operating cash ahead of Notwithstanding IMIs disposal of its Copper Tube and Copper Fittings operating profit for the third year running.
businesses in 2002, it retains responsibility in relation to the European With the weakening in the US dollar largely offset by the Commissions investigations in respect of those businesses.
In strengthening of the euro, the impact from translation on reported September 2003 IMI received a Statement of Objections in respect of sales, profit and cash flow in 2003 was not material.
copper plumbing tube and this investigation is expected to result in a The Board is recommending the payment of an unchanged final fine during the next six months.
The copper fittings investigation is at dividend of 9.5p making a total of 15.5p 2002: 15.5p for the year.
an earlier stage, with a Statement of Objections expected within the It was the Boards intention at the outset to maintain the dividend next twelve months and a decision on any fine unlikely to be made by during the three year programme of restructuring and repositioning: the Commission before the second half of 2005.
It is not possible to our strong cash performance has meant that our cash cover has give any reliable estimate of the likely level of fines in either case.
been more than adequate throughout.
Management changes Results summary In December we announced that Barry Pointon, having served on the Group sales at 1573m compare with 1612m reported last year.
Board for nine years, has decided to retire at the end of March.
In the Sales of continuing businesses at 1565m 2002: 1453m included past three years Barry has played a key role in IMIs corporate activity and 68m from acquisitions.
the move to lower cost manufacturing, and I thank him for his 22 years Profit before tax, exceptional items, goodwill amortisation and service to the Group.
rationalisation costs increased by 8.4% to 142.6m 2002: 131.5m At the same time, we announced two new executive director and by 12.7% after adjusting for the 5m SSAP24 pension credit in appointments with effect from 1 March: David Nicholas responsible for 2002 no longer applicable.
Fluid Controls and Wayne Whitney responsible for Retail Dispense.
Rationalisation costs for the year at 5.7m were at a more normal These changes strengthen the executive team and will, in due course, level compared to the significant restructuring costs of 32.2m last enable Martin Lamb to focus more of his time on the strategic year and 44.6m in 2001. development of the Group.
2 Chairmans statement IMI plc Annual Report 2003 3 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW ENGINEERING AD ENGINEERING ADV VANT ANTA AG GE E L LOOKING AHEAD, OUR OOKING AHEAD, OUR F FOCUS HAS MO OCUS HAS MOVED A VED AW WA AY Y FROM OPERA FROM OPERATIONAL TIONAL RESTRUC RESTRUCTURING T TURING TO O DELIVERING GRO DELIVERING GROWTH.
Martin Lamb, Martin Lamb, Chief Ex Chief Executiv ecutive e Most of the operational restructuring associated with the Looking ahead, our focus has moved away from operational repositioning we embarked on three years ago has now been restructuring to delivering growth.
Central to that delivery is an concluded.
Rationalisation costs this year of less than 6m compare acceleration of our key account activity, expansion of our new to 32m last year and have now returned to the levels I would product programme, and a greater commitment to the fastnormally associate with ongoing cost reduction activity.
growing economies of China and Eastern Europe.
Our five platform businesses, within the two fields of Fluid Controls The changes to the Board referred to by the Chairman will assist this and Retail Dispense, are now firmly established with leading process, allowing me more time to focus on organic growth positions in clearly defined global niche markets.
Their focus is on initiatives as well as the strategic development of the Group.
providing innovative technical solutions for a highly targeted As we enter 2004, prospects for global economies seem brighter number of large, global customers, wherever possible distancing than they were twelve months ago.
Whilst this is certainly themselves from commodity offerings for which price is the only encouraging, it is too early to say whether this optimism will flow basis of competition.
through into a sustainable increase in activity.
Competitive Delivering the right degree of focus on innovative technical pressures remain intense, particularly in respect of some of our solutions has required a fairly substantial upgrade in both the older product lines, with price competition and rising raw materials quality and number of people in our customer facing and costs continuing to squeeze margins.
The sharp weakening of the engineering functions.
Investment in these areas has been US dollar, if maintained, will inevitably impact 2004 reported sterling accelerating for each of the last three years.
Our IMI Academy, for profits.
Notwithstanding these pressures, I believe IMI is well placed the training and development of top quality key account managers, to make further progress in the year ahead, building on the very now has well over 150 fully qualified members, and our investment solid improvement generated in each of the last two years.
in product development has increased 50% over the last three years.
Encouragingly, the number of new products in the pipeline and the quality and depth of key customer relationships is beginning to build momentum.
These additional investments have been financed through a significant restructuring of our cost base.
During the year we developed further our six low cost operations in Mexico, The Czech Republic and China, which now employ over 1400 people and Martin Lamb generate nearly 25% of our Group manufacturing requirements.
Chief Executive The recent establishment of a global procurement resource in 8 March 2004 Shanghai is already delivering savings and we plan to build on this significantly in 2004.
The ongoing process of business simplification has released another 300 overhead positions from the Group during the year.
Collectively these initiatives have reduced our operating cost base by around 18m per annum compared to the position three years ago.
Our continued focus on working capital has delivered another strong cashflow performance, with gearing now reduced to 25%.
We are pleased with the businesses acquired during the year, Artform, Commtech and Fluid Kinetics for a combined sum of 62m and continue our active pursuit of suitable acquisitions.
4 Chief Executives review IMI plc Annual Report 2003 5
