04 Chief Executives review Forward looking Our strategy remains to grow with selected partners, wherever Our investments in Sydney Retail have not performed as well.
possible, in contiguous scale territories, providing above average We are currently considering both the franchise mix and level of market returns through much improved facility utilisation.
Much any future investment, and this will lead to a reconfiguration of our progress has been made in developing this strategy in almost Retail operations.
We are actively planning to take on one of the all of our core markets.
scale contiguous Subaru territories as part of our revised Subaru In Hong Kong, against a very difficult market backdrop, Sydney franchise strategy.
we completed the consolidation of our back office facilities and Our fledgling Australian Business Services company, personnel, and exited non-core businesses.
We were also awarded AutoNexus, has made progress by improving returns on existing the Daihatsu franchise and, as a result, are the only company in contracts and developing new opportunities.
Further facility Asia to represent Toyota across their full range of marques.
investment is likely as this company continues along its In Singapore we completely refurbished our Ubi facility and growth path.
continued the expansion of our aftersales facilities.
The recent In Greece we have completed our Retail investments in growth in the Toyota Lexus car parc has been driven by an increase Salonica, which accounts for c. 11.0% of the Greek car market, in the market, and through our improved sales penetration.
This resulting in a single contiguous territory for Toyota with a sales growth should ensure that the step change in our margins is potential approaching 3,000 units.
We have re-modelled the facility maintained in this key market.
plan around two new dealerships.
In Australia we have stepped up our drive to improve earnings We are currently finalising the Retail franchise strategy for from our Retail investments and, in Melbourne, our Subaru Athens, which accounts for c. 50.0% of the Greek market, and this Docklands business is progressing particularly well.
The facilities will see our Retail operations gradually taking a more significant were completed on time, sales are on plan and the business is role in the city.
These early results are extremely Our operations in the Balkans, especially Romania and encouraging and support our strategy of driving improved returns Bulgaria, have shown pleasing growth in both sales and profits.
and margins, by re-engineering our facilities and processes through We have facility upgrades in place for both markets as our sales single franchise contiguous territories of scale.
volumes and earnings continue to increase through market growth and our improved sales penetration.
We are considering taking additional franchises in these markets, which we will manage through our existing infrastructure.
Strategic initiatives Left: Our dealerships are located in an affluent area of southern England, extending from BMW contiguous territory Tunbridge Wells in the east through to As a result of the implementation of the Thames Ditton in the west.
In total this revised European Block Exemption territory represents some 4.0% of the legislation in October 2003, many of our national sales volumes for both BMW manufacturer partners revisited the existing and MINI, and helps position Inchcape Retail agreements they had in place for as the UKs second largest BMW retailer.
This contiguous territory will benefit Our strategy has consistently been significantly from the recent development to build scale contiguous territories with of our Brooklands centre, which carries our selected manufacturer partners.
out pre-delivery inspection for our Retail We were therefore delighted when, in business, in the south east.
August 2003, we were able to increase our BMW representation to seven dealerships, which now form part of the largest contiguous territory in the UK.
Inchcape plc Annual report 2003 05 The ability of the dealer groups to invest with their chosen manufacturer partners in locations they find attractive will change the retail landscape in the UK.
Peter Johnson Group Chief Executive In Belgium we have consolidated our Retail investments, opening The opportunity for UK Retail to improve the returns on its current new facilities in Luxembourg and rationalising our dealership portfolio is clear, and investments have been made in new facilities in Brussels.
This should result in much improved Retail earnings and management to deliver this in 2004.
However, considering the in this market.
strength of our balance sheet, we are also extremely well placed Finland had a much improved 2003.
A combination of new to continue playing an active role in the consolidation within the product from Mazda and a growing market, allied to improved industry over the coming years.
Retail management, resulted in sales and profits substantially increasing.
Opportunities to expand through Retail in Finland and the Baltics are under consideration.
With the implementation of the new Block Exemption legislation in Europe in October 2003, we now have the opportunity to apply this strategy to our UK Retail investments.
The ability of the dealer groups to invest with their chosen Peter Johnson Group Chief Executive manufacturer partners in locations they find attractive will change 1 March 2004 the retail landscape in the UK.
Inchcape has consistently stated its desire to build large, contiguous, geographically specific territories with its core partners.
Positive conclusions to our discussions have already been reached with Toyota Lexus, BMW, the Premier Automotive Group of Ford, Mercedes-Benz and Volkswagen.
Territory consolidation has occurred with Ford and is currently taking place with Vauxhall.
With regards to our Ferrari Maserati business in the UK, talks are currently ongoing.
Left: The business will also carry out used car preparation and minor repairs whilst Brooklands development doubling up as a training and development Brooklands, in Surrey, is our latest centre for our local dealerships.
The facility, The business processes being which covers 2.75 acres, has been built employed have been developed in line to undertake Retail pre-delivery inspection with the high standards set by similar for all our dealerships in the surrounding facilities in our markets in Hong Kong area.
Vehicles, upon completion, will be and Australia.
Brooklands will help delivered straight to those dealerships for decongest our dealerships thus allowing immediate handover to our customers.
them to devote more of their resources Once fully operational the site will to our Retail customers, which should process 12,500 units per annum, which improve customer satisfaction and our equates to over fifty vehicles per day.
Ultimately Brooklands could employ c. 200 staff working shift patterns to keep the operation running twenty four hours a day, seven days a week.
