3 Informa Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003 base again as conditions become favourable Chairman and Chief Executives statement and we feel it appropriate to step up our output more dramatically.
Having reduced our cost base, we are now lean The Group has a significant proportion of its and ready to meet and take full advantage of activities based overseas and as such its results can be affected by movements in any market upturns or opportunities to grow.
currency exchange rates, particularly those of the Euro and US Dollar.
The effect on overall 2003 Group operating profits was limited as translation losses on Dollar earnings were offset by gains on Euro earnings.
Within individual divisions the exchange rate movements had some effect since the Finance and Insurance results are predominately US Dollar denominated whilst Law and Tax is mainly Euro denominated.
Finance and Insurance This is our largest sector accounting for 34% of total group adjusted operating profit.
This division showed good growth with adjusted operating profits of 12.9m, up 6% on 2002.
At constant currency rates the profits were 15% higher than 2002 and excluding the contribution of acquisitions the division still showed a 3% growth in underlying profits.
The acquisitions of MMS and NetDecide in the second half of 2003 helped profit growth and contributed to a solid recovery from the difficult market conditions in the financial services sector which existed in the first half of the year.
Peter Rigby David Gilberston MMS provides real time information on Chairman Chief Executive corporate and government bonds and currencies.
It fits extremely well with our other capital markets information service companies, particularly MCM which we acquired in February We are pleased to announce the results for the The Directors believe that the Group remains 2001.
We are well advanced in our stated plan year ended 31 December 2003.
The year was financially strong and will recommend the of merging the two businesses and ending up notable for a return to growth in operating payment of a final dividend of 4.94p per share.
with one content platform and combined sales profit before exceptional items and goodwill This together with an interim dividend of 2.66p and editorial teams.
The key to the success of amortisation adjusted operating profit and per share will give a total dividend of 7.6p per this strategy will be measured by how high a the completion of several important acquisitions, share for the year, which is the same as 2002. percentage of shared customers can be most notably MMS Group Holdings Ltd MMS The dividend will be paid on 20 May 2004 to all retained and we need to go through the full and PJB Publications Ltd PJB.
shareholders on the register on 23 April 2004.
12 month renewal circle to be sure of the answer.
Initial indications though are positive Our adjusted operating profit at 37.5m was 1% Trading with our estimates of the retention rate having above 2002 despite turnover of 268.0m being We successfully raised adjusted operating risen from 45% at the date of the acquisition to 5% below the previous year.
The decline in profit in the year despite mixed trading above 60% at present.
We have however sales was countered by continuing strong cost conditions.
The war in Iraq and the SARS elected to retain more cost in the business than control which helped lift the adjusted operating outbreak exacerbated an already challenging we had originally envisaged, specifically margin to 14.0% from 13.1%.
The effect of this business environment in the first part of the maintaining a strong internet development plus a slight decline in our corporation tax rate year.
Once these uncertainties were removed capability to diversify the future content delivery resulted in our adjusted earnings per share rising confidence returned to many of our markets options for the business.
and we saw an encouraging improvement in conditions in the second half of the year, Our other acquisition, NetDecide, provides The acquisitions of MMS and PJB in the latter reflected in a stronger performance from both wealth management software solutions in the part of the year, helped push our subscription our event and publishing businesses.
It fits well with our revenues up to 36% of total revenues in 2003.
Effron business with which it is now integrated.
This should rise to above 40% in 2004 with The effect of the slower first half saw sales the acquisitions included for a full year with a decline overall by 5%, requiring a continued Elsewhere in the financial area our conferences significant proportion deriving from electronically focus on cost cutting.
Staff numbers excluding and the advertising based Banking Technology delivered information.
acquisitions were lowered by 8% and in magazine continued to find conditions difficult.
addition a number of small and under-performing However our Insurance business did better as The integration of the acquisitions, associated publications were merged, closed or sold and we saw increased buoyancy in the reinsurance restructuring and loss on disposal of some some events cancelled.
In total we ran 2,627 markets manifesting itself in higher advertising titles during the year led to an exceptional events in 2003 compared with 3,052 in 2002. revenue yields.
Trading in the last quarter of charge of 12.4m compared with 7.0m in Although total delegate revenue fell over the 2003, which has carried over into 2004, 2002, which left profits after tax at 0.9m year as we reduced the number of events, we indicates a marked improvement in the 2002: 4.8m after an 11.5m charge for saw a recovery in the last four months of 2003 performance of the financial conferences.
with average delegate attendance at our events increasing by 4% compared to the Telecoms and Media The rate at which we turn adjusted operating same period in 2002.
This upward trend has Telecoms and Media profits of 8.4m profits into cash was 109% 2002: 126% again continued into the early part of 2004. accounted for 22% of total adjusted operating reflecting the benefits of pre-paid subscription profit in 2003.
As the mobile market in and event income.
The net interest charge for We believe that our structure now is lean and particular fought to stabilise, our adjusted the year was 5.8m, compared with 7.2m in efficient and we are well placed to drive operating profits fell 10% on sales 16% lower.
2002 and was covered 6.4 times by our additional profits through incremental The mainstay here was our flagship 3GSM adjusted operating profit, compared to 5.2 advertising and delegate revenues as World Congress, which we operate in times in 2002.
Net debt rose to 178m by economic conditions continue to improve.
We association with the GSM Association GSMA.
would only expect to start increasing our cost This did well again in 2003 maintaining its profitability and achieving an increase in visitor numbers over 2002.
4 Informa Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003 Elsewhere a number of our smaller events Chairman and Chief Executives statement declined or were not run at all and our Chinese events were hard hit by SARS in the first half of continued the year.
More positively our leading mobile magazine MCI saw an upturn in its profitability Our goals this year will be to again manage as advertisers slowly returned to spending and we gained market share as competitors closed our profitability and maximise cash flow, take down their publications.
advantage of opportunities to drive organic Of all our areas of coverage, it is Telecoms growth and build further on the market leading which has been most affected by the economic and sector downturn and where we have had positions we enjoy.
to take out most cost and product over the last two years.
Moving into 2004 the mobile industry at last seems to be recovering with both operators and manufacturers showing enhanced earnings.
The launch of 3G services is important to the industry and now seems set Market overview to occur in the second half of 2004.
Trading conditions were mixed, with the war in Iraq impacting Middle We have renewed and further broadened our agreement with the GSMA, which not only Eastern events largely in the energy sector and SARS severely restricting secured the 3GSM World Congress with our Asian conference operations in the first half of the year.
However increased support from the industry, but also improvements in trading in the last quarter of 2003 and early 2004, results helps our smaller regional GSM-related events.
In addition, in partnership with the GSMA we in the outlook appearing more positive than in recent years.
are launching an Asian version of the World Congress in the autumn.
This is extremely Achieved objectives 2003 exciting as it is the Asian market especially China which is experiencing highest growth rates in mobile uptake and where there are Cost base reduced improving adjusted profitability major opportunities to exploit.
Acquisitions strengthen key market positions Law and Taxation This is our third biggest area growing 31% Cash conversion from adjusted operating profits 10% at constant currency year on year with adjusted operating profits of 6.2m in 2003 strong at 109% compared with 4.7m in 2002.
This business has done well with a sound performance in our legal and taxation journal, books and newsletter Objectives 2004 business resulting in improved adjusted operating profitability.
Our legal conference Fully integrate acquisitions businesses, especially in Germany and the UK, showed strong recovery during 2003.
Drive organic growth throughout the business Maritime, Trade and Transport This division generated adjusted operating Augment defensive qualities with the ability to take profits of 2.7m showing growth of 13% over strong advantage of economic improvement 2002.
2003 included the biennial Cruise Ferry show held at Olympia in May which whilst highly profitable showed a decline over its last appearance in 2001, reflecting more uncertain conditions in the passengership sector.
As the year progressed shipping market conditions improved markedly as freight rates rose to their highest levels in some years.
This has been largely driven by the strength of the Chinese market both as an importer of raw materials and an exporter of finished goods.
We now expect our advertising based publications to take advantage of this return to prosperity for many of our maritime customers.
This division has the highest exposure to advertising income in the Group, and current signs of recovery look promising.
Life Sciences After a very strong performance in 2002, adjusted operating profits in this division at 5% 5% 4.1m 11% of Group adjusted operating Adjusted profit before tax growth Adjusted earning per share growth.
achieved off the reduced cost base.
profits were 24% lower, largely due to launch costs associated with two new controlled circulation magazines BioProcess International and PreClinica.
These are on target to contribute to profits in 2005.
Adjusted is stated before goodwill Adjusted profit before tax amortisation and exceptional items.
The spend on R&D by pharmaceutical companies continues to drive the market and 2003 31.6m our business.
Overall the Life Sciences market 2002 30.1m is expected to grow by around 6% a year over the next five years, offering considerable 2001 30.1m encouragement for the future.
5 Informa Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003 Our Drug Discovery businesses have felt some In December we strengthened further our Having been acquisitive over the last nine impact of a slowdown in spending as the impact commodities portfolio with the acquisition of months with MMS, PJB, Sparks, NetDecide of new technologies is reassessed.
This is a US-based international soft and a couple of smaller fill-in acquisitions we Drug Discovery Technology Congress last commodity and agriculture focused have quite a lot of integration work to do.
We August saw a reduction in delegate numbers consultancy concern, which we believe will also have a number of new opportunities to although sales of sponsorship and exhibition dovetail well with our existing Agra operations.
This will take opportunities remained at previous levels as some time and effort but it is already well did total visitors to the event.
On the other hand Other highlights underway and already the results look promising.
we launched an Asian version of this event, During 2003 we began our cooperation in which was held in Singapore in September.
Eastern Europe with Expomedia running a Current trading and prospects This attracted 200 delegates and significant particularly successful event called Wireless Overall we saw an improvement in trading sponsorship and exhibition revenues and will Russia in Moscow and developing a number conditions in the last quarter of 2003 which be repeated this year.
of products for 2004 and beyond.
These seems to have continued into 2004.
An cover subjects in the financial, legal, maritime, improvement in the fortunes of mobile To date this division has been heavily commodities, energy and fishing markets.
telecommunications companies allied with our concentrated on early stage drug discovery, In addition the Telecoms event, which is being new agreement with the GSM Association will which whilst highly profitable, was also limited.
supported by the Russian telecommunications hopefully allow our Telecoms business to grow It has been our intention for some time to ministry, will be repeated.
Similarly improved freight rates will benefit broaden our publishing and event profile in the our maritime business and a more settled Middle biomedical and pharmaceutical markets.
Also in Russia we joint ventured on a coalEast political situation combined with high oil mining event with the McCloskey group with prices will boost our energy revenues.
The acquisition of PJB, which was successfully whom we already work in Australia and France.
completed just before Christmas, will significantly This new venture was extremely successful The acquisitions we have made in the Finance, assist this.
PJB cost 120m, after deducting achieving a delegate attendance of over 400 Life Sciences and Commodities areas will boost the cash acquired with the business.
The main along with additional revenues from sponsors these divisions within which we also anticipate products of Scrip, Pharmaprojects and Clinica and exhibitors.
Geographically Australia, the are highly respected market leading sources of United States, Germany and Brazil traded well information for the pharmaceutical and medical We have also continued to develop a maritime in 2003 with Asia and Holland performing poorly.
They are intelligence security product aimed largely but Moving into 2004 it seems that most of our backed up by a variety of newsletters, books, not only at the U. S. market.
We have only overseas businesses should improve their reports and databases, which provide a broad received one three year subscription for this profitability as business confidence improves.
based and high margin imformation service.
service to date but remain in discussions with a number of US security agencies and various Already in 2004 the Annual German Handelsblatt We are extremely encouraged by this other ports and services around the world who Energy event has exceeded the record profit acquisition as it provides us not only with are evaluating its effectiveness.
levels of 2003 and forward bookings for both critical mass in Life Sciences but also the conferences and advertising based periodicals chance to extend the PJB product range.
In Strategy are ahead of this time last year.
particular the opportunity to run branded It is our intention to continue to build a business conferences and to use our electronic which allies defensive qualities with the ability The 3GSM World Congress, which took publishing, marketing and advertising skills to to take strong advantage of economic place in Cannes in February, looks to have at benefit the PJB business, promises well.
Following the recent acquisitions least matched its 2003 profit levels with was a highly sought after acquisition and one subscription revenues should account for over similar numbers of delegates around 4,000 that adds much to the quality of our 40% of total revenues with an even higher and a 9% increase in sponsorship and information in the Life Sciences sector.
percentage at the operating profit level.
high renewal rates and good margins such Commodities and Energy revenues are of a very high quality to a With an encouraging performance at the start This division made an adjusted operating profit publishing information business.
On the other of 2004 the outlook appears more positive than of 2.9m in 2003, which was down 18% on hand our events business contributed 44% of in recent years.
Despite this, most elements Group profits in 2003 and provides huge upside of the business performed well.
The Agra profit potential to the Group.
Each additional We would like to close by thanking all of our Europe publishing and conference business delegate at every event over our whole portfolio colleagues at Informa for working so hard exceeded expectations and the Annual German is worth about an extra 1m to our bottom line during the last twelve months often in quite Energy Conference, which is run in association profit.
In the past years we have suffered as difficult trading conditions.
Their commitment with Handelsblatt, posted record profits.
average delegates have declined by some 10% and support has been fantastic and it is hoped but we have the appropriate infrastructure in that conditions will improve over the next few Our portfolio of energy conferences based place to take advantage as numbers increase.
years and that everyone will see the fruit of largely in the Middle East was reduced due to It is also our intention to add new branded their labours.
the Iraq war and uncertainty surrounding that events to our acquisitions as appropriate and region.
Profits were down in this area despite already plan to run 32 events in 2004.
PJB for the success of our Russia-based events example historically ran no events of their own including the flagship annual Sakhalin and this provides a real opportunity.
Opportunities even in this market are now improving however and in Although advertising revenues have been hit hard January we produced a successful Investing in over the last few years but there are certainly Peter Rigby Iran event which we expect to repeat later this signs of recovery both for us and in the business Chairman year along with two new events on Libyan Oil.
Although advertising only accounted for 11% 2002: 12% Heighway, our commercial fishing business of Group revenues in 2003 there is also traded less strongly and has been seriously considerable upside potential here as well.
affected by North Sea fishing quota Forward bookings for 2004 are significantly contraction.
Revenues from both our magazine ahead of this time last year.
and exhibition business in this area are well below the levels of previous years.
We continue to believe that the portfolio David Gilberston approach covering media format, market Chief Executive Although there are no signs of recovery in the sectors and geographical jurisdictions is the 1 March 2004 commercial fishing business, energy events appropriate approach for a group such as seem to be bouncing back aided by high oil ours and that our current balance is an barrel prices and some return to political stability.
