Chief Executive Officers statement Dear Shareholder, but we remain focused on minimising the financial demands on the Group, whilst recognising the upside I am pleased to report earnings per share before value from future market recovery.
We have also taken exceptional items in line with our earnings guidance for a prudent view on the balance sheet value of our US 2003, but I recognise that 2003 was the difficult year we merchant assets, and have written down their value by anticipated, with profits down on last year principally 404 million at the year end, based on our view of their due to low prices for wholesale power in two of our key long-term cash flows.
Weak market conditions in the markets, namely the US and the UK.
The fact that we did US is the sole reason our earnings guidance for 2004 deliver on our earnings guidance is a testament to the is lower, with an EPS range of 7p to 9p.
strength of our global portfolio.
We continue to be very active in reviewing growth The Operating and financial review that follows in this opportunities, both in our existing merchant markets report will give you a full explanation of our regional and in those that provide secure long-term contracts.
There were many success stories.
Our Let me give you two examples.
The low wholesale price European assets outside the UK had another excellent environment means that selected merchant assets in year, with EOP in the Czech Republic delivering a record both the UK and the US are potentially available at a performance and our contracted assets in Portugal and discount to original cost, providing an opportunity to Turkey achieving high levels of availability that resulted add value, scale and complementary assets in our core in good financial results.
This was balanced against our markets.
Secondly, as an investment that will significantly performance in the UK, where trading conditions remain increase our long-term contracted position, we announced difficult, with low margins for wholesale power generators.
in December 2003 that we will build four power stations Our Middle East business, which is underpinned by longin Saudi Arabia with a total capacity of 1,074 MW, all of term off-take contracts, continues to grow profitably, with which are fully contracted to Saudi Aramco, one of the the acquisition of the Umm Al Nar power and desalination largest oil and gas companies in the world.
These plants plant in Abu Dhabi.
In Australia, the strength of our will start operating during 2006.
We continue to review contracted position has maintained financial performance further opportunities in the Middle East.
Our investment in a year when underlying market prices were somewhat criteria remain stringent and we will use your capital weaker.
Our assets in the Rest of the World, namely in carefully.
Malaysia and Thailand, had excellent years.
In Pakistan the agreements reached in 2000 have stood firm, and We take our environmental and community we continue to be paid in full and on time.
responsibilities very seriously, and the corporate social responsibility section of this report will give you We have also taken steps to strengthen our capital some practical examples of our commitment.
We also structure by issuing a new convertible bond, and by announced in early 2004 our first wind farm development renegotiating and renewing our Corporate bank facility.
in Australia, and we continue to develop the capability to These steps provide additional security and flexibility to use more  fuels in our UK our capital structure.
Looking forward, we have many opportunities and some The senior management team and I have a clear vision challenges, all of which I believe we are well equipped of the future for your Company.
Our strategy remains to to deal with.
Our principal challenge is the US business, create value through wholesale power generation in our where the clear objective is to preserve value for our core regions, and we have the people, the resources and shareholders.
A wide range of options are currently the determination to ensure we deliver for the benefit under review.
The fundamental issue is oversupply, and of all our shareholders and stakeholders.
it will probably take some time for the supply demand imbalance in our US markets to be corrected.
We are taking active steps to manage this position, including a reduction in our cost base, selective mothballing of plant that is uneconomic to run, and the renegotiation of our non-recourse project debt.
At this stage, we cannot Philip Cox predict with certainty the outcome of these negotiations, Chief Executive Officer annual report 2003 3
