Management discussion & analysis Operating results Production Management Energy Management Development Division Financial review aggressive management actions to control Management discussion & analysis contracts, project management and supply This statement combines reviews of the chain costs.
operational and financial performance of While costs were tightly controlled, the Invensys for the year to 31 March 2003.
Division continued to invest in new technologies.
ArchestrA, the future platform for all Invensys technology, was launched Operating results These results include a 203 million negative commercially and customer feedback has 2 Invensys operating results include currency translation impact on continuing been positive.
Foxboro A, an ArchestrAthe performance of continuing and operations sales and 11 million on based, smaller scale complement to the discontinued operations.
Continuing operating profit due to substantial movement I A series, and Digital Coriolis, our awardoperations encompass the three main in US dollar to sterling exchange rates over winning flow meter and transmitter, were divisions in existence during the year ended the year.
also successfully introduced to the market.
31 March 2003: Production Management, Energy Management and Development.
Production Management Process Systems manufactures process Discontinued operations are those Production Management sales were automation systems, advanced process businesses that were sold during the year 1,449 million 2002 1,584 million.
control solutions, safety and critical control including Rexnord, Flow Control, Sensor Sales were 9% lower than the prior year technologies and software focusing on the Systems, Fasco Motors and Drive Systems.
Sales in Europe were significantly management and control of information affected by the decline in the software flow, in addition to providing project Sales from continuing operations were market served by Baan.
Sales in North management and services to the process 4,258 million 2002 4,623 million down America were 5% lower CER, reflecting the automation industry.
8% in absolute terms and reflecting a continued lower spending by organisations decline of 4% at constant exchange rates served by the industrial automation Process Systems achieved a significant CER.
Total Group sales for the year were businesses, while South America, Asia increase in operating profit from 8 million 5,018 million 2002 6,972 million reflecting Pacific and the Middle East and Africa all to 21 million, despite a slight decline in the disposal of businesses during the year.
Operating profit was 28 million sales to 713 million 2002 768 million.
2002 33 million and operating margin was Increases in plant intelligence software sales, Operating profit for continuing operations 1.9% 2002 2.1%.
Sales for the year excluding including growth associated with Triconex, was 250 million 2002 312 million in line Baan were 6% lower at 1,261 million were offset by lower process systems sales with our trading update in April.
in Europe, Middle East and Asia.
Operating Group operating profit was 330 million margin increased from 1.0% to 2.9%, after overall 2002 549 million.
Total Group Excluding Baan, Production Management including significant investments in operating margin was 6.6% 2002 7.9%, achieved strong underlying improvements technologies including ArchestrA, through while operating margin for continuing with a rise in operating profits from improved portfolio management and operations was 5.9% 2002 6.7%, primarily 28 million to 53 million and in operating project execution and the positive impact due to the under-performance in a minority margin from 2.1% to 4.2%.
This underlying of performance initiatives.
performance improvement was the result of APV provides process equipment, project management and services to food, beverage Sales from continuing operations and pharmaceutical producers in North down 8% to 4,258 million America and Europe, Middle East and Asia.
Operating profit for continuing APV saw sales reduced from 303 million operations of 250 million last year to 291 million.
Lower sales in certain markets were more than offset by Continuing operations operating operational improvements and a closer margin 5.9% integration between the Products, Solutions & Services businesses, contributing to an Production Management operating operating profit of 11 million compared to margins, excluding Baan, increased a 1 million loss last year.
08 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2003 Management discussion & analysis Operating results Production Management Energy Management Development Division Financial review Eurotherm manufactures control and Energy Management operating profit measurement instrumentation for a wide down 28% to 170 million range of industrial and process markets.
Energy Management operating margin Eurotherm successfully maintained operating down to 8.3% profits at 17 million 2002 20 million as sales dipped from 127 million to 119 million in difficult trading conditions impacted by overcapacity in the Energy Management Development Division semiconductor, steel and plastic processing Sales were 12% lower than the prior The Division continued to perform industries.
Operating margin fell to year 7% CER at 2,054 million 2002 strongly with sales for the year up 8% on 14.3% 2002 15.7%.
2,341 million as the continued weaknesses prior year 11% CER at 755 million 2002 in IT Telecoms affected Powerware and a 698 million, driven by growth in the rail Baan is a provider of enterprise application sharp decline in the commercial buildings and wind turbine markets, which more than software and related services.
markets impacted sales in Climate Controls.
offset continued weakness in IT hardware Actions have been taken to reduce costs and semiconductor devices.
Operating profit Sales for Baan reduced to 188 million and stabilise profits, including closing down for the Division was 52 million, with an 2002 242 million.
Significant cost and loss-making operations.
Appliance Controls operating margin of 6.9%.
headcount reductions were not able to and Metering Systems, the other key offset a decline in high margin licence sales, businesses in the Division, performed well Sales in Rail Systems were up 15% to resulting in an operating loss of 25 million, in flat markets.
404 million 2002 350 million for the compared with an operating profit of year with growth in the UK, Spain and the 5 million last year.
Operating profit for the year was down US.
Operating profit increased 16% to from 237 million in the prior year to 51 million 2002 44 million, with an Baans performance had a significant 170 million, with an operating margin operating margin of 12.6%.
Its combination impact on the performance of Production of 8.3%.
A decline in operating profit at of proven technology and engineering Management as a whole, reducing operating Climate Controls was the key factor in the expertise resulted in the Westinghouse margin from 4.2% to 1.9%.
While businesses business winning a contract worth over targeting the US and European consumer 850 million to improve signalling, safety APV Baker is a leading manufacturer of markets, such as MapleChase, performed and train operation on the London process equipment specifically for the dry steadily, Building Systems, Ranco Japan and Underground.
Other notable current food industry.
Energy Services reported significant declines projects are the UK West Coast Route in operating profit driven by depressed end modernisation, the Channel Tunnel Rail Link APV Baker maintained sales at 78 million markets.
Appliance Controls and Metering and a US$50 million 32 million per 2002 77 million with contract wins in Systems continued to deliver double digit annum maintenance logistics contract with the US bakery industry.
Operating profit operating margins and Powerware showed Burlington Northern Santa Fe Railroad in remained at 2 million and operating overall improvement in both margin and North America.
M&I manufactures measurement tools Development Division operating and instrumentation primarily for the margin up to 6.9% process industries.
Rail Systems operating profit M&I experienced a steady decline in up to 51 million markets resulting in a decline in sales to 60 million 2002 67 million.
Despite Rail Systems operating margin this, the positive impact of prior year remains at 12.6% restructuring and cost containment programmes resulted in an operating profit of 2 million compared to an operating loss of 1 million the previous year.
09 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2003 Management discussion & analysis Operating results Production Management Energy Management Development Division Financial review Although demand for its products remained Goodwill impairment Taxation strong, Hansen Transmissions continued to In accordance with Financial Reporting The tax charge for the year was 57 million be impacted by undercapacity.
The Standard No 11: Impairment of Fixed Assets 2002 9 million, including a 9 million construction and commissioning of its new and Goodwill, goodwill capitalised on charge on corporate exceptional items, factory in Lommel, Belgium is progressing the balance sheet has been reviewed reflecting an underlying rate of 49%.
on schedule and will alleviate this situation.
This review has led to a The rate is impacted by a number of factors 585 million impairment charge, principally including losses incurred in the year in the Strong cost management in difficult markets related to Baan, being recorded in the US and the UK for which no tax relief has allowed Teccor and Lambda to control cash accounts.
The tax rate for the prior flows and minimise losses.
year benefited from non-exceptional prior Disposal programme year releases of 40 million, compared to Financial review Closures and the sale of non-core a 1 million adjustment to the charge in the Accounting standards businesses and fixed assets generated current year.
The 2003 accounts of the Group have been a profit on net assets of 539 million and prepared in accordance with all applicable a write off of associated goodwill of Earnings accounting standards.
The write off of goodwill The Group has recorded a loss of reduces shareholders funds by 108 million 1,442 million compared with a loss of During the year, the Group has followed as 1,213 million has already been 869 million last year, primarily reflecting the transitional disclosure requirements eliminated against reserves on acquisition.
the loss on disposals after goodwill of Financial Reporting Standard No 17: and goodwill impairment in the current Retirement Benefits FRS 17.
The basic loss per share was 41.2p disclosures are set out in note 6.
The Group In accordance with Financial Reporting 2002 24.8p.
Earnings per share in intends to fully adopt FRS 17 effective from Standard No 10: Goodwill and Intangible respect of continuing operations before 1 April 2003, in advance of mandatory Assets, goodwill arising on acquisitions since exceptional items, goodwill amortisation implementation.
April 1998 has been capitalised in the and goodwill impairment were 2.2p balance sheet and an amortisation charge 2002 2.8p.
Over the next two years Invensys will of 122 million 2002 124 million has dispose of businesses in order to deal with been reflected in these accounts.
Dividend liabilities, a substantial proportion of which In the context of the Groups performance relate to pensions.
In these circumstances Finance costs for the year and the need to strengthen FRS 17 will better represent the position The interest charge for the year the balance sheet the Board does not of the Group.
The reduction in the interest charge is An interim dividend of 1.0p 2002 1.0p was Restructuring programme predominantly due to a reduction in net paid on 4 March 2003 representing a total The restructuring programme charges debt, following successful completion of dividend of 1.0p 2002 2.0p.
were 119 million, representing 2.4% of the disposal programme.
Cash flow and indebtedness Interest cover for the year based on EBITDA Free cash flow before dividends fell pre-exceptional items was 4.3 times.
to 87 million from 266 million in The covenant requirement in our net debt the previous year, primarily driven by facilities is 3.5 times on a twelve month the reduction in operating profit of rolling basis.
The increase in working capital of 81 million experienced in the first half of the year was reduced to 56 million by the year end.
This compares to an 8 million positive movement in the prior year.
Reductions in expenditure of interest paid, gross capital expenditure and restructuring costs saved the Group 275 million.
10 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2003 Management discussion & analysis Operating results Production Management Energy Management Development Division Financial review Reduction of the Groups indebtedness is During 2003 04, 73 million of debt is Treasury policy and will remain a major focus.
Debt has repayable on privately placed senior notes The Groups treasury policy seeks to reduced to 1,556 million from and notes issued under the Groups ensure that adequate financial resources 2,667 million as at 30 September 2002 and medium-term note programme.
There are are available for the development of the 3,016 million as at 31 March 2002.
This is no other significant debt maturities in Groups businesses, whilst managing its largely due to disposals of businesses since 2003 04. currency, interest rate and counterparty 31 March 2002 that have led to sale risks.
Group treasury acts as a service centre proceeds of 1,609 million.
A US$1,500 million 949 million syndicated operating within clearly defined guidelines revolving credit facility matures in June 2004. that are approved by the Board.
In note 6 to the accounts, full disclosure is It is our intention to finance the repayments made regarding the valuation of the assets of this facility through disposal proceeds.
The Groups policy is not to engage in and liabilities of the principal UK and US speculative transactions.
The Groups policy defined benefit pension schemes under Asset management in respect of the major areas of treasury FRS 17, the accounting standard to be Trade working capital to sales of 14% activity is set out below.
adopted fully by the Group effective from improved from 16% last year in continuing 1 April 2003. operations, while inventory turns remained Interest rate risk steady at 8.7 times.
Return on capital The Groups policy is to set the proportion With regard to the funding of the UK and employed operating profit as a percentage of fixed and floating rate debt taking into US defined benefit pension schemes, it is of total capital employed, including account factors such as the interest rate, the intention that employer contributions goodwill was 5% for continuing operations business cycles and the Groups level of will be resumed.
2002 6% predominantly reflecting the financial leverage.
This may result in reduction in trading profits during the year.
significant levels of fixed or floating rate The rights of third parties to terminate the debt from time to time.
Where appropriate, principal schemes and thereby crystallise For the total Group, gross capital the Group will fix interest rates using fixed termination deficits greater than those expenditure in 2003 was 139 million rate borrowings, forward rate agreements calculated under FRS 17 have been 2002 243 million.
Further performance or interest rate swaps.
On the basis of legal and indicators are included within the Financial 2003, 989 million, representing 64% of actuarial advice and a detailed analysis of summary.
net debt, was in fixed rate form the alternative options available to the third 2002 745 million, 25%.
parties and the Group, the exercise of such Acquisitions powers is considered very unlikely.
There were no significant acquisitions Currency risk made in the year.
However, in accordance In common with other international The Group had total borrowing facilities with the announced process, 49 million companies, the results of the Groups of 2,599 million as at 31 March 2003, none of outstanding Baan Company NV in foreign subsidiaries are translated into of which is dependent on credit ratings liquidatie shares were acquired, bringing sterling at the average exchange rates for for availability.
The balance sheets of foreign subsidiaries are translated into Disposals sterling at the closing exchange rates.
The disposal programme generated Any gains and losses resulting from the 1,609 million of sale proceeds and a profit translation are recorded in reserves where on net assets divested of 580 million.
After they are matched with the gains and losses the write off of associated goodwill, the net on borrowings, foreign exchange contracts loss on disposal charged to the profit and or currency swaps taken out in the same loss account was 741 million.
Significant currencies to hedge the net assets of disposals and proceeds in the year included subsidiaries.
The Group aims to hedge a Rexnord 560 million, Flow Control reasonable proportion of its non-sterling 362 million, Sensor Systems 267 million, assets in this way.
Fasco Motors 236 million and Drive Systems 92 million.
11 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2003 Management discussion & analysis Operating results Production Management Energy Management Development Division Financial review As a consequence, non-sterling borrowings Funding and deposits are held primarily in US dollars, euros and The Group borrows using primarily shortto yen.
At the year end, 48% 2002 64% of net medium-term variable rate committed and debt was held in US dollars, 25% 2002 20% uncommitted bank facilities.
In this way it is was held in euros and 22% 2002 13% was able to optimise cost of borrowing, whilst held in yen.
Major interest rate and maintaining the greatest flexibility to adjust currency hedging programmes require the currency mix and maturity in line with cash approval of the Board.
flows from operations as well as divestments and acquisitions.
Uncommitted funding Currency transaction exposure arises where methods are supported by committed actual sales and purchases are made by the undrawn mediumand short-term facilities.
Groups businesses in a currency other than The Group also borrows medium-term its own functional currency.
However, the funds in the public and private debt markets.
majority of the Groups businesses source raw materials and sell their products within Surplus funds are placed for short their local markets in their functional periods in investments in major currencies currencies and therefore have limited that carry low credit risk and which are transaction exposure.
Where this is not the readily realisable.
case, the Groups businesses are required to cover forward a percentage of their forecast Counterparty risk currency flows.
The Group monitors the distribution of its cash assets, borrowings and other financial Transaction exposure also arises from the instruments against pre-determined limits remittance from overseas of dividends or so as to control exposure to any territory surplus disposal proceeds.
policy is to cover such transactions as soon as they are committed and it uses forward Committed facilities and use currency contracts and, occasionally, of derivatives currency options to do so.
Disclosures on the Groups committed facilities and use of derivatives are included in notes 20 and 29 to the accounts.
12 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2003
