Chief Executives review 15 April announcement Performance Assessment of progress Rationale to 15 April announcement Future Invensys Summary Chief Executives review 15 April announcement This was the background to our Tougher trading conditions than announcement on 15 April, that we we anticipated were compounded had made the decision to move from two core divisions to focus our efforts by continuing weak financial markets.
on the Production Management and Rail Further actions had to be taken for Systems businesses.
the good of Invensys and its investors.
All other businesses were moved into an enlarged Development Division and the process begun at once to divest all or part It has been a demanding and of our interest in these businesses.
In addition to Baan, the businesses In February 2002, we outlined plans to impacted are the largely product-based simplify our Groups structure by creating Appliance Controls, Climate Controls, two core divisions, Production Management Metering Systems and Powerware from the and Energy Management, secure its financial Energy Management Division, APV Baker position and rebuild underlying performance.
from Production Management and Lambda, It was a difficult task, but one to which our Teccor and Hansen Transmissions.
For the Rick Haythornthwaite, Chief Executive management was committed and in which year ended 31 March 2003, the expanded we achieved real progress.
Development Division would have had combined revenues of 2.6 billion.
IMServ In the end, this has not been enough.
and certain data management technologies Tougher trading conditions than we that were formerly within Energy anticipated were compounded by continuing Management have been incorporated into weak financial markets.
our disposal programme ahead of target, and achieving significant performance Successful completion of the disposal improvements, it became clear that we programme over the next 18 to 24 months could not afford to develop both core should result in a smaller, more agile and divisions and reduce our liabilities to an focused Group, with higher growth potential acceptable level.
Further actions had to and above all greater financial stability.
be taken for the good of Invensys and its investors.
Performance In the year to 31 March 2003, sales of the continuing operations, Production Focusing our efforts on Production Management, Energy Management and Management and Rail Systems Development divisions, were down 8% to 4,258 million or 4% at constant exchange All other businesses to be divested in rates.
Operating profit was down 20% a structured and phased process to 250 million, which meant that the operating margin for the continuing operations fell almost one percentage point to 5.9%.
04 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2003 Chief Executives review 15 April announcement Performance Assessment of progress Rationale to 15 April announcement Future Invensys Summary The Development Division improved profits These plans have been only partially Rationale to 15 April by 10 million, driven by Rail Systems, successful.
Most of our businesses have announcement where margins remained at 12.6%.
Energy shown measurable productivity gains, but The decision announced on 15 April may Management Divisions margins, however, our failure to turn around a minority of appear radical, but it was driven by a simple fell almost two percentage points.
under-performing businesses as quickly as truth: we did not have the financial we anticipated has given away those gains, resources to resolve the Groups liabilities At Production Management, excluding Baan, and impacted on our final figures.
and to continue to invest in both the margins rose more than two percentage Production Management and Energy points.
An apparent weaker second half For our plans to be successful, we also Management divisions at the same time.
performance reflected adjustments on needed to generate sufficient cash flow So we have narrowed the focus of Invensys a small number of problem contracts within to deal with mainly pre-existing financial down to Production Management and a particular business.
Excluding the impact obligations such as tax, legal settlements Rail Systems.
of these adjustments, second half margins and above all, debt.
We chose Production Management for The one liability that we could not have several key reasons.
The management team, Restructuring charges were lower than last foreseen in late 2001 was the dramatic led by Chief Operating Officer Leo Quinn, year at 2.4% of sales, but slightly above our decline in the financial markets and the has been in place longer and has made target of 2%.
Free cash flow before resulting impact on our pension funding significant progress in gross margin dividends was 87 million: not what we had obligations, where we calculate that the improvement, controlling costs, maximising hoped for but a partial recovery from the total deficit on an FRS 17 basis was cash flow and translating operational working capital outflow in the first half.
931 million at 31 March 2003. improvements into bottom line success.
We believe that, as a more service and Overall, we reduced our net debt from All of this left us no room for slippage in solutions-based business, the underlying 3.0 billion to 1.6 billion through our either performance improvement or market growth prospects and return on capital successful divestment programme.
recovery and certainly no headroom to for Production Management are higher.
It has always been clear that we had We announced in our update on 15 April to strengthen our balance sheet and at no It is also the business that addresses more that, in the circumstances, the Board would time have I felt it reasonable or feasible to critical issues for our customers, and a not be recommending payment of a final do so other than by selling businesses.
This business in which we have stronger overall dividend.
meant that further choices had to be made.
Invensys technology is currently installed at over 50,000 customer Assessment of progress These are certainly not the headline Future Invensys numbers that we had hoped for when we Production Management Rail Systems New Development announced our plans in February 2002.
These plans looked to remove the complexities and historic issues inherent within the merger of two conglomerates: Process Systems Westinghouse Climate Controls meet our customers needs for solutions to productivity and energy problems: reduce APV Safetran Powerware debt by selling non-core businesses: and reposition the business for the eventual Eurotherm Dimetronic Appliance Controls upturn in our markets.
M & I Burco Metering Systems Wonderware Lambda Baan ArchestrA IMServ APV Baker Hansen Transmissions Teccor 05 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2003 Chief Executives review 15 April announcement Performance Assessment of progress Rationale to 15 April announcement Future Invensys Summary sites worldwide.
These factors, combined with the launch of innovative technologies 2 such as ArchestrA, Foxboro A and Digital Coriolis, provide exciting long-term Signalling faster and safer growth prospects.
journeys on London Underground The drive towards integration and growth When Bombardier Transportation, amongst the Production Management part of the Metronet consortium working businesses will continue and, we anticipate, for the London Underground, was looking for will accelerate as we manage down the a supplier to design, supply, install, test and commission financial constraints to our growth.
new signalling and train control equipment on two key projects, it selected Westinghouse Rail Systems, part of Rail Systems, which has enjoyed strong Invensys Rail Systems business.
The contract is worth over growth over the last year, has extremely 850 million and will run from 2003 to 2014.
This is the good prospects.
We believe Rail Systems largest mass transit, signalling and train control contract represents an exciting opportunity for ever awarded in Invensys history: a Invensys investors.
contract that will enable the operators to manage the system more efficiently We have already begun the work to reduce and more safely, improving journey times or divest our holdings in all other businesses.
for passengers and ensuring a much Proceeds from this programme will be used smoother ride overall.
to deal with our financial obligations, most notably debt and pension funding, enabling us to remove the constraints of financial instability and invest in the growth opportunities of Production Management Currently in the market there is a range of our retained businesses and meet our and Rail Systems.
estimates for net proceeds from the sale of financial obligations over the next two years.
these businesses of up to 1.8 billion.
Given Future Invensys our track record, we are comfortable that So will a smaller, more focused Invensys Our plans for the next two years prompt we can substantially exceed this.
We are not, offer investors higher quality growth a number of questions: how will we however, placing a precise target value on prospects?
maximise value from the expanded this programme.
This is because, if we find Development Division?
Will this value be that we are able to manage total liabilities Rail Systems is an attractive business in sufficient to restore the balance sheet?
down from their current level, we may opt a high growth sector with strong market Will Invensys eventually offer investors to keep some equity in businesses where we positions in the UK, Spain, Portugal, the higher quality growth prospects?
feel there is still value to be achieved through US and Asia.
Operating margins were the continued growth of the business or an maintained over the last year and it has Our last disposal programme yielded eventual market rebound.
Furthermore, recently been awarded a 850 million proceeds totalling 1.8 billion, above target, setting a publicly declared target for such contract under the London Underground and was completed early.
We will follow the a complicated process may potentially PPP initiative.
same formula for our new disposal constrain us and limit our options.
programme, securing strong, independent, entrepreneurial leaders: incentivising There is also the issue of timing.
Our management to maintain performance and financial obligations do not crystallise maximise sale proceeds: and sufficient immediately, so the pace of the disposal financing to ensure flexibility and programme can be timed to achieve manoeuvrability on timing and process.
We have the flexibility to balance our desire to get the right value for investors with the need for funds to grow 06 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2003 Chief Executives review 15 April announcement Performance Assessment of progress Rationale to 15 April announcement Future Invensys Summary Production Management has a strong The third challenge rests in the successful maintain a steady focus on the need to competitive position with a large customer creation of an integrated, efficient business.
build on the progress already achieved base and, excluding Baan, showed clear First we need to get the structure right.
and to continue to increase the operating margin improvement in 2003.
There have We need high-calibre people with the skills performance and financial stability also been concrete achievements in the and experience to profitably marry customer of Invensys.
development of our customer relationships needs with Invensys capabilities.
At an over the last twelve months.
We are learning underlying level it is also about adequate to deploy the combination of a deep investment to ensure flawless execution with understanding of customers industries with one face to the customer.
our unique spread of technologies in order to regain market share.
Summary The issues facing Invensys are clear and We have strengthened our technology substantial.
There is no escaping the difficult Rick Haythornthwaite, Chief Executive offering over the last 18 months, filling gaps task that lies ahead.
However, the problems with interfaces like Hart and Foundation have been recognised, and decisive action Fieldbus.
We have taken technology already taken.
Behind the headlines is a group 2 in our portfolio and created Foxboro A where solid performance improvements to increase our reach at the smaller end have been achieved, and where the of the distributed control systems spectrum.
execution of a major disposal programme We have also launched ArchestrA and Digital has already begun.
The key thing is to Coriolis, which is opening a new market to us.
Internally, we have appointed a Chief Technology Officer and are now following a single Invensys technology roadmap.
The biggest challenge is of course to predict Record production for the return of market growth: but in the Aracruz Celulose meantime, there is no shortage of With a relationship with Aracruz Celulose opportunity from technical innovation, the that can be traced back nearly 30 years, Invensys development of new productivity solutions continues to deliver sophisticated control systems that for customers, and the ongoing enable its client to get the most out of its pulp production improvement in customer satisfaction.
Its latest success involves a third pulp production unit, Fiberline C, at its mill in Brazil that has The second challenge lies in continuing set a new world record for the speed taken to achieve full the performance improvements to increase production capacity.
Within six months of commissioning, margins, cash flow and return on capital.
the plant achieved daily average production of 1,984 tons, We remain committed to building on the higher than the 1,978 average that had been targeted.
progress already made in areas of supply Aracruz cited the achievement as being down to chain, project and contract management, the intelligence, competence, engineering and manufacturing excellence, commitment, motivation and the technology innovation and knowledge engagement of all those involved management.
We will balance this objective in the process, and by choosing with the need to invest in order to drive the the best technology providers to future growth of this business.
Our objective be the suppliers.
of improving the conversion of profit into free cash flow also remains a key target.
07 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2003
