10 SECTION FOUR PAGE TEN CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT we have executed on our strategy well over the last year and our positioning against government stimulated market developments is very promising 11 Market conditions In our target markets and most notably in the United Kingdom, The year ended 30 April 2003 has been Ireland and Australasia, national a very good one for our business.
governments have shown a Although market conditions have been preparedness to invest heavily in competitive, our focus on producing modern application systems and modern, highly differentiated software broadband networks to provide applications has ensured that we have information to improve the quality maintained a high hit rate in public of healthcare services.
procurement programmes and we have continued to sell strongly back into our Our strategy of focusing on being a existing customer base.
leading application content provider, fitted and continues to fit well with the procurement plans of these governments.
The published programme of investment in the United Kingdom for example, involves separating the roles of Application Service Provider ASP and application content provider with the former being the province of the large service organisations and the latter being the domain of the innovative health systems software specialists, such as iSOFT.
This approach is being emulated in other countries where healthcare modernisation and reform is a high priority for government.
We have executed on our strategy well over the last year and our positioning against government stimulated market developments is very promising.
CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT SECTION FOUR PAGE ELEVEN 12 Our financial performance Product development In addition, I am delighted to report that for the year since the balance sheet date, we have Over the past year we have continued announced a joint marketing and The market conditions described suit to invest heavily in our application development agreement with Eclipsys our business model and that is reflected software portfolio for healthcare Corporation of the United States.
in iSOFTs results for the financial year provider organisations.
7.9m was invested in product iSOFT purchased the United Kingdom development representing 8.6% and Australian operations of Eclipsys in of turnover for the year ended Our turnover for the year grew to May 2001 and this new agreement 30 April 2003.
91.5m representing an overall represents the continuation of a growth rate of 52.2% over the relationship which is strategically Our relationship with Microsoft previous period, of which 31.2% important for iSOFT as it allows us to Corporation continues to strengthen represented organic growth from bring the best of North American and they remain our most important existing business operations.
thinking into the clinical components of technology partner.
Profitability also showed strong We are acknowledged by Microsoft progression with operating profit for as a leading developer in.
NET the year ended 30 April 2003 of architectures and continue to be a 21.0m, an increase of 59.3% over the launch partner for their step change previous year.
Operating profit margins technology releases.
were increased to 22.9% from 21.9% despite strong competition and During the year we worked closely with notwithstanding the amounts expended Microsoft to ensure that our during the year in the development applications can be packaged up for of our leading application product sale to the third party service portfolio and the enhancement of our organisations who in turn offer operating structures.
application services for consumption by end user customers.
This has involved re-engineering a number of our applications and the completion of this programme was announced in March 2003 at the HC2003 Conference in Harrogate.
The resultant i-series of applications has been well received and recognised in our customer base and our markets generally as the most modern, technology relevant suite of health information system solutions available today.
SECTION FOUR PAGE TWELVE CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT we welcome the extent and the pace of change as it represents opportunity for growth at the expense of those less able to respond 13 Partnering with service organisations Outlook iSOFT is well positioned to continue winning the application component The scale of information technology As described at the outset, market of major contracts where the modernisation planned for healthcare conditions are very dynamic.
At iSOFT, decision criteria involve the issues providers in the United Kingdom is we welcome the extent and the pace of of innovation, relevance of unprecedented and is being emulated in this change as it represents opportunity application, development capacity, other reforming healthcare economies.
for further growth of our business as we market presence, track record and As the United Kingdom and other make progress at the expense of those financial standing.
governments look to introduce new competitors less able to respond.
national information services to support In future, the financial value of Working with large service organisations improvements in healthcare, including procurements is likely to rise in all our will also be characterised by effective an electronic health record for each markets as governments seek to risk sharing so that our exposure is citizen, electronic booking of progress modernisation of information confined to those areas where we have appointments and electronic transfer of technology more rapidly.
With shown we can manage well.
prescriptions, it is clear that the large scaled-up procurements comes the service organisations have a key The outlook for iSOFT in these changing need for large service provider management role to play.
times is, therefore, very positive.
organisations to adopt the role of prime contractor and provide the At iSOFT we were early to recognise particular expertise and resource that offering packaged applications required to manage and deliver in support of the provision of new projects of this size.
healthcare information services Patrick Cryne was a natural development of our Chief Executive Officer business strategy.
Over the last year, we have spent a considerable amount of time working with large service organisations that wish to invest in becoming ASPs to the healthcare sector.
The product of this work is that our software has been adopted as the first choice applications suite for many of the leading service organisations that have announced their intention to be such ASPs.
This is further recognition of our leadership as an application content provider in the healthcare market.
CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT SECTION FOUR PAGE THIRTEEN
