JARVIS AR Final A W 1 7 03 3:34 pm Page 5 Chief Executives statement As the newly appointed Chief Executive I concessions to actually sign the contract elements of our roads business from Facilities Management or TFM.
The Groups A clear strategy for health This is underlined by the fact that Agilisys am pleased to be presenting a strong set and start work is a testament to the France to the USA are also seeing the appointment as outsourcing partner for a The Governments target is that 40% by has been appointed as the preferred bidder of results.
Jarvis has risen to the focused approach taken by Jarvis and our tangible benefits of improved management comprehensive property management value of the National Health Service estate on a ground-breaking contract to transform challenges of this year, and remains partners throughout the negotiations.
as well as a greater focus on environmental service, as part of a TFM contract for should be less than 15 years old by 2010. local government services in North committed to helping government improve issues.
The development of Typhoon, an Redcar & Cleveland Borough Council, is an As the attention shifts towards smaller, Yorkshire.
This National Pathfinder project public services and infrastructure in health, We are delighted that we have been able to award-winning, water-based white lining important step.
local facilities, Jarvis has developed a will deliver e-government and other services transport, local government, schools and start work on delivering the improvements product by Prosign, our French subsidiary, strategy to provide high-quality solutions.
over ten years, transforming the delivery of universities.
By improving our productivity, to infrastructure standards and passenger which lasts five times as long on the road Schools benefiting the whole community This is aimed at the areas focused on by council services for more than half a million we continue to help make public sector services on the Underground system.
After surface as traditional, solvent-based We continue to see excellent potential for the Government.
Agilisys is also shortlisted money go further and deliver best value.
the first five months, I am delighted to products, is an excellent example of this.
growth in the schools sector.
Over 85% of for several other high-profile bids.
report that Tube Lines is on track to deliver the UKs 25,000 schools were built before A key area for the NHS is the development We are also committed to the ongoing all its performance and financial targets.
Adding value across the whole street 1976, and of these, only around 2% have of Specialist Diagnostic and Treatment Looking ahead process of strengthening and streamlining scene been modernised or replaced under PFI Centres DTCs, designed to provide a Despite the progress of recent years, public our own business, by monitoring and Extending our reach in rail Within the roads business, we will schemes in recent years.
Our approach substantial increase in capacity and the infrastructure in the UK still requires a great controlling bid costs, managing risk and Whilst we continue to see good prospects increasingly focus our efforts on opens up opportunities to extend the range lowering of patient waiting times.
Jarvis is deal of investment.
Jarvis is well placed to laying the groundwork for new business for future maintenance and track renewal developing the added value elements of of community services available from school leading the way and during the year we take advantage of markets where the ventures just as carefully as ever.
work with Network Rail, we are also the highways maintenance operation campuses.
For example, one school reached financial close on the UKs first PFI Government has committed to ongoing high actively extending our penetration of the alongside the core business of maintaining complex we are developing in Bridlington Ambulatory Care Centre in Birmingham, levels of investment.
Focused and forward looking rail sector and developing business beyond and improving roads up and down the incorporates a new community library.
providing a wide range of out-patient The Jarvis strategy was first set out more our traditional strengths in the UK country.
The two new street lighting services.
We are actively pursuing similar Our objectives are clear: to continue our than five years ago and we are confident overground market.
contracts won towards the end of the year At the other end of the spectrum, our recent opportunities in this new area.
track record of profitable growth and strong that our approach of focusing on certain are a good example of how we can contracts for schools in Brighton & Hove and margins whilst identifying the markets that key market sectors with high barriers to Tube Lines is a key part of this strategy.
naturally extend the expertise and Richmond both include new nursery facilities, Jarvis Primary Health, our joint venture will drive our progress into the future.
To entry and concentrating on quality service The continued success of our joint venture resources of our highways business.
being developed by our joint venture with with Sinclair Montrose, is bidding for achieve this we must maintain our focus.
delivery rather than price pays dividends in Estonia has also increased our confidence leading nursery operator Asquith Court.
opportunities involving local facilities, This means only offering new services into over the longer term.
It is a strategy that in the potential that lies in future European Our strategy is to ensure that we are in an We now have 10 nurseries planned or under particularly multipurpose general our chosen sectors if we are completely requires significant investment: in skills rail privatisations, and we will monitor this excellent position to deliver integrated construction for existing customers, and practitioner clinics under the LIFT confident that we have the right balance of and resources, in innovation, in long-term opportunity carefully.
services to local authorities, using the expect this number to increase to around programme, which continues to be refined knowledge, resources and expertise to infrastructure and business processes, and powerful combination of skills and 15 by the end of the year.
make significant inroads relatively quickly.
in developing our reputation and sustained The continued development of our wider resources from across all of Jarvis We will also continue our successful model customer relationships.
rail business, as well as our capabilities in operating divisions.
The 135 million We are extending our range of services to At the same time, we continue to deliver of using joint ventures or tactical major infrastructure projects, will help to environmental services contract for support education even further, with the and provide support services to specialist acquisitions to develop the tools and or We set out to balance foresight, in terms sustain our presence in the UK rail sector.
Herefordshire Council demonstrates our creation of Jarvis Education Services, which medium-sized contracts such as the new experience needed to capitalise on of predicting which markets and issues will Ongoing investment in innovative success in providing the local community provides essential support services to community hospital in Newbury and the opportunities in our key strategic markets.
require expertise and services from technology from state-of-the-art renewals with a broad range of services from groups of schools and education authorities acute facilities at Londons Whittington companies of our nature, with careful risk machines, such as Slinger and Clipper, highways and traffic management to in key areas like curriculum planning and Hospital.
The bid pipeline in the health Jarvis continues to benefit from a strong and financial management.
We also which are detailed in the operating review, building maintenance and school catering.
order book of 10 billion at 31 March 2003, recognise that we need the structures in to highly sensitive surveillance and remote including some 1.05 billion including share place to manage effectively the large sensing equipment underpins our ability Improving public sector infrastructure New university partnerships Streamlining local government of joint ventures secured for the next number of people who transfer to Jarvis to deliver high levels of productivity, It is not only Britains transport networks The availability of high quality, affordable The UK Government has set an ambitious financial year alone.
This is further from the public sector.
excellent service and solid results.
Each accommodation can be an important factor target date of 2005 for all public services supported by a bid pipeline of 14.5 billion.
year, a growing number of public sector for students choosing their university.
Our joint venture with I am confident that, with the strong I am delighted that this year we have Safety and innovation on the roads buildings and facilities reach the end of Through Jarvis well established University netdecisions Limited, Agilisys, has a management team we have in place, the continued to demonstrate the fundamental I am delighted by the continued their useful life.
Many others would benefit Partnerships Programme UPP, we help to powerful combination of business process, highly skilled people who work for us, and validity of that strategy, by reaching several improvements across our roads business.
from a more planned, structured and costprovide that accommodation.
UPP has gone technology and public sector expertise the strong relations we are continuing to important milestones in the development of Over the past year I have been particularly effective regime for maintenance and dayfrom strength to strength in the past year.
to help local authorities, in particular, develop with our key stakeholder groups Jarvis.
impressed by the constant innovation and to-day management.
Being appointed for schemes at Lancaster to prepare for this change.
Jarvis is in an excellent position to stay in the new products that we are developing University and Nottingham University the forefront of our chosen markets.
Tube Lines delivering service to help cut accident rates and improve Jarvis remains committed to meeting these means that we are now responsible for Since it was created in April 2002, Agilisys improvements to London traffic flows.
These range from the challenges.
We apply innovative techniques three of the four largest student has successfully established itself as a With the additional driver of our share in On 31 December 2002, the Tube Lines Rippleprint and Clusterbead technologies, in construction, planned preventative accommodation schemes in the UK, as serious player in this market.
Its unique Tube Lines making its first full year Consortium, in which Jarvis is a one third which make a direct contribution to road maintenance and facilities management to well as the largest in London, and many approach to shared sourcing appeals to contribution in the coming year, we expect participant achieved financial close of the safety, to the latest generation variable maintain the standard of each asset others throughout the country.
individual local authorities and groups of another year of good growth across all our contract with London Underground and messaging signs we are installing in throughout its lifecycle: providing true value councils who are looking to achieve costdivisions.
started work on the major programme to Scotland and on the M4 and surrounding for money.
Facilities management and in Jarvis has also been appointed to develop effective and innovative delivery of public improve the Jubilee, Northern and Piccadilly trunk routes in Wales.
particular innovative outsourcing solutions a second scheme at Reading University services, while retaining a strong element Kevin Hyde lines, this marked an important milestone are seen as engines for future growth of St Georges Hall.
This is particularly of ownership and control.
Chief Executive for our rail business.
The fact that Tube We now have an excellent bid pipeline in the business.
Local authorities are gratifying, as one of our very first university 11 June 2003 Lines was the first of the three highways maintenance.
The international beginning to explore the market for Total partnerships was with Reading.
04 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2003 05 JARVIS AR Final A W 1 7 03 3:34 pm Page 7 Helen Thorne Operating review Helen joined Jarvis in September 2002 Theres a real focus on safety in everything after successfully completing her A we do.
They have to be absolutely sure Jarvis Infrastructure Services levels.
She is currently training as a youre well prepared before you go out on signalling and telecommunications the track.
engineer in the Rail business.
She has just completed a 13-week placement I recently joined one of the maintenance with one of the signalling teams teams, where Im working with three very specialising in fault diagnosis and experienced railwaymen.
Between them repair, and has just moved to one of the they have worked on the line for decades maintenance teams.
and they know their jobs inside out.
Theyre completely dedicated and Id always assumed Id work in a bank or committed to what they do.
a large office, but when I saw the advert for this training scheme it appealed to me When you talk about signalling, people 25% increase in divisional turnover to We achieved a steady flow of new business, already successfully found defects such as because it offered good qualifications and assume its just about changing light bulbs 774.3 million 2002: 621.3 million organic growth and renewal of our existing gauge-corner cracking at high operating a long-term career.
Im already working but theres much more to it than that.
contracts being reflected in the turnover speeds.
towards my National Certificate in Everything is linked together with the Operating profits increased by 25% to growth in the year.
Significant new work Electrical and Electronic Engineering, and I points and switching gear.
Its all about 63.0 million 2002: 50.4 million which generated growth for the year The focus on operational safety may well go on to do an HND.
Ive had a working with the signalmen to make sure included switch and crossings renewals lot of formal training since I joined as trains move safely.
Everything we do is has achieved a 54% reduction in Rail business growth of 28% to 599.6 work in the Western Region, and the well as learning on the job including fire carefully planned, checked, double-checked track geometry faults and a 57% million 2002: 469.0 million planning phase for the track renewal at and safety, first aid, manual handling, using and signed off by the team leader.
reduction in rail breaks in the Cheadle on the West Coast Main Line.
small tools and electrical equipment period since April 2001.
Roads business growth of 15% to 174.7 million 2002: 152.3 million During the year, Jarvis route modernisation work enabled Virgin Trains to successfully Delivering on our commitments All of the above exclude joint venture introduce its new Voyager rolling stock on Much of our work is on major programmes contributions which are reviewed further the Cross-Country route.
such as the West Coast and Cross Country below.
With our Delivering track renewals more maintainance contracts, these programmes This year, Jarvis has achieved consistent efficiently form the backbone of Jarvis rail business, growth across our rail and roads Our innovative Slinger sleeper delivery providing long-term revenue streams over businesses.
Our focus has been on train, introduced in September 2002, has many years.
improving service delivery, with a helped to make track renewals safer and continued strong emphasis on safety, more efficient, because all the necessary During the year, the Jarvis Network Rail compliance, training and management steel or concrete sleepers are delivered and Track Alliance reached a landmark on the development.
installed within the same possession the West Coast Route Modernisation, with the time-slot allotted for engineering works.
installation of the millionth yard of new Divisional turnover increased by 25%, with In one renewal near Southport in Lancashire plainline track on the project.
The project the rail business growing by 28% to 599.6 in early 2003, the Slinger delivered 1,400 is being delivered through an almost equal million and the roads business increasing by yards of sleepers in just over three hours, split between conventional track renewals 15% to 174.7 million.
Operating profit for compared to nine hours using the previous and new innovative high output techniques the rail business excluding pension credit equipment.
Jarvis now has three types of introduced by Jarvis.
The millionth yard increased by 37% to 44.5 million, while Slinger train in operation across the UK rail was achieved by conventional working on roads profits improved to 11.3 million, network, each capable of different functions a restricted 480 yard renewal site inside an increase of 5%.
and all offering the potential for significant, the Watford tunnel.
Rail For example, the latest version is now Statistics produced by Network Rail for During the year, the transition from Railtrack capable of removing 250 yards of rail and key operational safety measures of track to Network Rail went smoothly.
Network Rail sleepers in a single lift.
geometry faults and broken rails, has expressed its intention to become more reproduced in the tables on page 8 reflect involved in decision making.
Nationally, A further innovation is our new Clipper Jarvis performance.
Network Rail has also taken three machine which will clip and unclip the rail maintenance areas in-house but has from the sleepers.
This is now undergoing Progress in Estonia confirmed its continued use of outside trials and we expect further substantial Our joint venture to operate Estonias contractors for maintenance work.
We benefits from this new development.
freight railways established in 2001 welcome this move which will inevitably lead is also operating profitably.
Returns on our to improved operational relationships with an Detecting rail defects investment in this innovative venture come informed customer.
We are now working Defects that develop near the surface of not only from our equity stake, but also closely with the management at Network rails as part of the natural deterioration of from management fees that form part of Rail to prepare for the new arrangements the metal are one of the major causes of the arrangement.
Reduced internal costs that will come into effect in the foreseeable rail failure.
Traditional approaches to and improved purchasing, coupled with future for maintenance contracts.
detecting such defects have been slow favourable exchange rates, have seen and laborious.
Jarvis subsidiary Avonwood Jarvis share of pre-tax profits increase Our subsidiary, Avonwood has developed Vividec an innovative rail to 1.6 million.
defect detection system, designed to Developments, won the Security significantly improve the reliability of track Freight volume on the Estonian network category at the 2002 Auto ID inspections and the number of defects has increased by 9.5% compared to 2001.
Awards for a radio-frequency detected before they become visible to the In 2003, despite the most severe winter tagging application that enables naked eye.
This is now being operated with the worst ice conditions in the Baltic the UKs prison service to prevent with hand-held equipment and Avonwood since 1948, first quarter results show that is also working on a high-speed version of turnover has continued to grow.
This has the removal of keys from prisons.
In trials, the prototype has been supported by major investment in 06 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Jarvis plc Annual report and accounts 2003 07
