Part of Life 08 Johnston Press Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Chief Executives REVIEW By Tim Bowdler Chief Executive 2003 was another excellent year for Johnston Press.
The integration of Regional Independent Media Holdings Limited RIM was substantially completed, well ahead of our original expectations in terms of progress, performance and payback.
Our continued focus on organic revenue growth and tight cost control, coupled with reduced newsprint prices, enabled the Group to achieve record profits and industry-leading operating margins.
Strategic Review The theme of this report once again They also provide advertisers with market-leading publisher of local illustrates the local nature of our high levels of local market penetration newspapers.
This is achieved business and the markets in which we and response.
Local newspapers through a combination of paid-for operate.
Recent market research remain a vital and integral part of local daily and weekly titles, weekly free carried out by the Future Foundation communities throughout the UK.
newspapers, specialist print on behalf of the Newspaper Society, publications, such as lifestyle the industrys trade association, As a publisher of 241 local and regional magazines, local business directories demonstrates the growing importance newspaper titles, together with and classified advertising products of local communities within the social numerous related print publications complemented by local websites.
fabric of the United Kingdom.
Their and more than 160 community based myuk report illustrates the websites, Johnston Press is totally considerable extent to which peoples focused on this vitally important The myuk report lives and daily affairs are market.
Through a combination of illustrates the considerable concentrated in an area close to their organic and acquisitive growth, the extent to which peoples homes, whether for work, shopping, Group is now one of the four leading leisure or social activities.
publishers of regional newspapers in lives and daily affairs are the UK with a total market share of concentrated in an area It is this feature of the way that 14.4% in terms of numbers of copies close to their homes, people live their lives which provides sold and distributed.
whether for work, local newspapers with their basic purpose.
Local newspapers continue The Groups publishing activities shopping, leisure or social to be the principal media in meeting span a large area of the UK and, in activities.
the needs of local communities for the overwhelming majority of our locally focused news and information.
marketplaces, Johnston Press is the Part of Life 10 Johnston Press Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Chief Executives REVIEW The Groups strategic focus remains We continue to increase the number Although no acquisitions were firmly fixed on print and electronic of websites focused on our local completed during 2003, the Group publishing in local markets around the communities, expanding their content, remains keenly focused on the UK.
We continue to place a high improving their functionality and achievement of continued acquisitive emphasis on the achievement of promoting their brands, all part of a growth in the UK regional press.
We constantly concerted strategy to serve this new a market share of less than 15%, we review our existing publications to and growing market opportunity.
We believe that Johnston Press can ensure that they respond to changing have launched several new initiatives expect to grow further, even if over market needs.
We continually seek aimed at developing the potential 70% of the sector is now in the opportunities to launch new locally from building local consumer ownership of the four largest regional based print publications and, as a databases.
We have enabled newspaper publishers.
We closely result, the number of specialist advertisers to book and pay for monitor industry developments but products published by the Group has advertisements on-line as well as will remain selective in those grown considerably in recent years.
providing all of our sales staff with opportunities which we choose to We have ongoing initiatives to expand access to the best advertisement pursue.
Thus, during the year, we did our business with existing advertisers ideas and designs through our but also to seek new advertising Group Intranet.
revenue opportunities as the shape and business profile of our local marketplaces change.
Part of Life Johnston Press Annual Report and Accounts 2003 11 not participate in the bidding process local newspapers are subject to Trading Performance for Trinity Mirrors Irish titles or for the competition from alternative media.
Whilst market conditions during 2003 London-based regional newspapers We believe that they have also were by no means buoyant, the being sold by Independent News & misjudged the ease of new market Group succeeded in growing like-forMedia.
In neither case did we regard entry and underestimated its impact like advertising revenues by 3.8%, the strategic fit as sufficiently on publisher behaviour.
comprising 3.0% in the first half compelling to make an offer.
increasing to 4.6% in the second.
However, we do not believe that the When compared with the media Media Ownership introduction of the Communications industry in general, this represents a The extent to which further industry Act 2003 will deter further sensible strong performance and reflects the consolidation will occur is also industry consolidation and we are dependent upon the regulation of confident that over time the regulators newspaper transfers.
At the end of will reach a clearer understanding of the 2003, the new Communications Act ways in which our markets operate.
reached the statute book, significantly We continue to harbour hopes that the Pre-School changing the regulatory process.
The Governments promises of genuine Birth announcements need for prior ministerial consent to deregulation and a lighter touch newspaper transfers and related approach will be delivered.
Nativity features criminal sanctions has been removed.
Mother and baby magazine Whilst, at first glance, this may seem Nursery and child care features to represent an easing of the regulations, we do not believe that Baby of the year this will be the case in practice.
This is in part due to uncertainty as to how the OFT, DTI and OFCOM will treat newspaper transfers and also reflects the unhelpful conclusions of recent Competition Commission inquiries.
It is the opinion of Johnston Press that the Commission has tended to take an overly narrow view of market definition which considerably underestimates the extent to which Part of Life 12 Johnston Press Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Chief Executives REVIEW fact that consumer confidence in local Property advertising demonstrated Operating margins for the Group, markets remained positive throughout strong growth throughout the year, up pre-operating exceptional items, were the year.
The second half performance again ahead of the previous year, with related factors of rising house prices was marginally down on the first half an increase from 30.6% to 33.1%.
and low levels of unemployment, is as the comparatives were more Every division increased its operating the principal determinant of the health difficult but, nonetheless, remained profit and margin, a creditable of advertising revenues in the regional strong.
All areas of the country saw performance which reflected continued press.
In the vast majority of our local good growth which was the result of excellent control over costs, aided by markets, this ensured a relatively a cooling property market in which a reduction in newsprint prices.
vendors had to work harder to sell enabled modest revenue growth to be their properties.
This was especially converted into a significantly greater Growth was achieved in every true of the new homes market which increase in operating profit.
advertising category in the second in 2002 was so buoyant that half of the year.
Although all classified advertising often proved unnecessary.
Performance has also benefited from categories grew over the year as a a continued programme of investment whole, display advertising was The motors market remained relatively in updated IT systems with common marginally down due to the poor stable with modest growth of 1.4% in platforms being introduced across performance of national display the year and broadly similar levels entire divisions.
Having strengthened advertising in the first half.
The growth being achieved in each half.
Whilst the co-ordination of such initiatives in advertising revenue reflected a there were regional variations, these across the Group by the appointment modest increase in volumes, fuelled did not follow any pattern and of a Head of IT following the by strong growth in property fluctuations from the norm were acquisition of RIM, considerable advertising, and improved yields in all moderate.
Other classifieds grew categories as a result of the continued steadily through the year, achieving increase in colour advertising, which is 4.6% overall and also exhibiting sold at a premium, along with normal similar levels of growth in each half.
Again, there were modest regional School Age variations which did not follow a Partnerships with local schools Recruitment advertising grew strongly particular pattern.
in the second half, up 7.7% against Class photographs weaker 2002 comparatives although After a decline of 1.7% in the first performance was patchy.
The north of half, display advertising recovered to Literacy campaigns the country, except for the northeast record second half growth of 0.2%.
Sports days of England, exhibited good growth This was primarily due to a significant whilst trading continued to be more improvement in national display Road safety campaigns difficult in the south.
This was advertising, driven by recovery post particularly the case in the South the Iraq war and increased activity Midlands where we experienced from the supermarkets, but also further declines as a result of the reflected a marginally better local more difficult economic conditions performance.
Given the relatively around the greater London area.
volatile nature of national display However, the trends improved as the advertising, there were significant year progressed.
local variations but, once more, no clear regional pattern.
Part of Life 14 Johnston Press Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Chief Executives REVIEW progress has been made in utilising market conditions were less helpful The North of England division is our the benefits that these technological overall than for many other parts of largest and publishes extensively developments offer.
The continued increase in throughout many parts of Yorkshire.
anticipated that two more publishing profitability reflects local managements The division comprises three divisions will move to an enhanced excellent control over costs and companies from RIM, including division-wide operating platform.
realisation of the anticipated benefits Yorkshire Post Newspapers, and three from the integration of the south of which were previously part of the Those businesses which were part of Edinburgh-based Bonnyrigg operation, Group.
Across the division, market the Group prior to the acquisition of which was acquired in 2002 as part of conditions have generally been RIM increased their pre-exceptional RIM.
In a particularly challenging favourable, although the substantial operating margins from 31.7% to marketplace, Isle of Man Newspapers improvement in performance owes 33.3%.
The ex-RIM businesses again performed well.
During the year, much to the excellent progress made managed a substantial improvement they improved the design and content with the integration of the businesses with pre-exceptional operating of their three newspaper titles as well post-acquisition.
Whilst each remains margins rising from 27.9% to 32.9% as launching a lifestyle magazine.
firmly focused on its local markets, and are now performing very close opportunities have been taken to to the overall Group average.
This Northeast Press, which publishes from rationalise and improve the efficiency achievement reflects the very Alnwick in the north to Hartlepool in of functions such as pre-press, considerable progress which has the south of the region, continues to distribution, accounts, credit control been made since the business was make good progress with profitability and printing.
The initial integration now close to the Group average.
On revenue initiatives have also programme was completed some its acquisition in 1999, this business contributed to the improved time ago, ahead of our plans, and we had operating margins which were performance.
are now well into the more detailed barely into double figures.
This task of achieving the local operating improvement has been achieved The Northwest division performed synergies which the acquisition offered.
through a combination of cost and extremely well, achieving above There is an expectation of further revenue initiatives, with good progress average revenue growth which was benefits during the course of 2004. being made during 2003 through the converted to a significantly improved introduction of new advertising bottom line.
Excellent progress has In Scotland, where we publish across platforms such as business and been made in all companies and the middle belt of the country and in health supplements.
across all aspects of the business large parts of the Scottish borders, including initiatives to drive revenue Part of Life Johnston Press Annual Report and Accounts 2003 15 growth and to improve operating previously owned businesses whose Lincolnshire, Cambridgeshire and efficiencies.
The division comprises publications circulate in large parts of parts of East Anglia, operates in five separate companies with South Yorkshire, North Lincolnshire, markets where revenue growth was publications covering large parts of an Derbyshire and Nottinghamshire.
As more difficult and below the Group area from Morecambe in the north to with the North of England division, average.
Progress was made at St Helens in the south, and from considerable progress was made Lincolnshire Newspapers following Fleetwood in the west to Colne in the during the year, assisted by good the earlier re-organisation of its east.
The entire division formed part revenue growth, but reflecting similar newspaper portfolio and the launch of the RIM acquisition and includes business efficiencies.
South Yorkshire of a new free newspaper.
The overall two specialist off-road motorbike Newspapers performed particularly improvement in profitability reflected magazines which have repaid well and achieved substantial growth good control over costs and the increased investment with a in the circulation of its flagship title, results of initiatives such as the considerable improvement in the Doncaster Free Press.
North Notts launch of an up-market property performance.
Newspapers also had an excellent magazine in Peterborough and the year with a highlight being the The South Yorkshire & North Midlands conversion of the Ashfield Chad from division is based around the ex-RIM a free distribution newspaper to a centre of Sheffield, together with three paid-for title achieving a weekly Teenage Graduate circulation of over 12,000 copies.
Education supplements The East Midlands division, which Relationship with local publishes throughout much of universities Entertainment guides Used cars for sale Whats On website Part of Life Johnston Press Annual Report and Accounts 2003 17 Chief Executives REVIEW conversion of the monthly free title, through the consolidation of pre-press Despite the evident demand for local Peterborough on Sunday, to a weekly and finance departments across the news, this has not translated into publication.
division and several lifestyle increased circulations for our daily magazines were launched.
newspapers which remain in modest Revenues in the South Midlands were but stubborn decline.
After adjusting virtually flat year-on-year and, in those Revenue growth in the south of for planned reductions in bulk sales, circumstances, the achievement of a England fell marginally short of the underlying circulations were down by modest improvement in profitability Group average, a reflection of the 2.5%.
Within that overall figure, there was particularly creditable.
Whilst more difficult economic conditions were several encouraging recruitment revenues improved as the generally experienced in the south performances, notably the continued year progressed, the run rate still east of the country.
Good control of growth in the sale of the Blackpool showed a small deficit at the year-end costs enabled the division to make Gazette and real progress towards and a 6% reduction over the year as further progress.
Headquartered in stability in Wigan and from our two a whole.
The division publishes Portsmouth, the division publishes in evening newspapers in throughout Northamptonshire and the eastern part of Hampshire and Northamptonshire.
However, the Bedfordshire and is present in extensively throughout East and West overall performance remains Hertfordshire, Warwickshire, Sussex.
We are now benefiting from disappointing despite considerable Buckinghamshire and Oxfordshire.
the successful installation of a new efforts around the Group to bring Improved efficiencies were achieved advertising and sales ledger system, about an improvement.
Through the which provides a common platform newly constituted Daily Newspaper for the entire region.
This has resulted Sales Forum and individually at local in improved operational efficiencies level, these efforts have been Job Hunter and new revenue opportunities.
redoubled to encourage a reversal in Over 14,000 jobs advertised the trend towards casual purchase weekly Circulations and away from 6-day home delivery.
The message from our weekly Part of this initiative involves a more New Jobs Today website circulation figures is resoundingly that sophisticated approach to canvassing, local news sells.
The Employer reviews means that we have now achieved Group continues its policy of gradually Jobs and careers fairs seven consecutive years of circulation reducing the inclusion of bulk sales in growth for our weekly titles.
Over the published circulation figures.
CV matching years, we have continued to invest in content, design and colour availability Content to ensure that we continue to appeal Community involvement and the to readers and meet advertisers quality and relevance of editorial needs.
Approximately half of the content are fundamental to successful Groups 241 titles are paid-for weekly local newspaper publishing.
Johnston newspapers, more than are owned by Press sets the highest editorial any other UK publisher.
standards backed by investment to enable editors and their newsrooms to meet the needs and aspirations of the local communities in which they publish.
Editors are given absolute freedom to determine both content and their editorial approach within the guidelines set out in the Press Complaints Commissions Code of Practice.
Part of Life 18 Johnston Press Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Chief Executives REVIEW With 241 titles it is impossible to do deprivation.
The Halifax Evening long-running campaign for recognition justice to the huge range of content Couriers campaign to tackle a culture of the gallantry of Second World War which is published by Johnston of drink-fuelled late night violence has seamen who kept the Soviets Press.
Some examples follow and achieved strong local support supplied in the most treacherous of further details of the ways in which resulting in real progress.
our newspapers bring benefits to their Pocklington Post won thousands of local communities are set out in the people a compensatory goodwill Investigative journalism also plays an Corporate Social Responsibility payment following inconvenience and important part in the local publishing Statement on pages 36 to 38. damage suffered as a result of an agenda.
Amongst numerous Yorkshire electrical power surge.
The Sheffield Post investigations, those into Our titles have initiated a number of Star, whose local MP is the Home hospital waiting lists and serious important editorial campaigns during Secretary, campaigned successfully failings at care homes in the region the year, many of which have received for a change in the law to hold family merit particular mention, the latter national recognition.
The Fife Herald members jointly responsible for the being submitted for consideration was one of the first to highlight health welfare of their elderly relatives.
A by a Commons Health Select fears over the introduction of TETRA Peterborough Evening Telegraph Committee inquiry into abuse of the masts to improve communications for campaign to tackle anti-social elderly.
The Yorkshire Evening Post the emergency services.
Several behaviour also attracted praise from investigation into the activities of the campaigns initiated by the Yorkshire the Prime Minister.
The News in Evening Post have been praised by Portsmouth has pursued a the Prime Minister, including Life in Leeds which was launched to attract extra funding for inner-city areas in an attempt to address severe Part of Life Johnston Press Annual Report and Accounts 2003 19 BNP was widely praised.
New The revealing Yorkshire Evening Post than the monthly community regulations banning security staff from investigation into the finances of newsletters launched by South membership of extreme political Leeds United exposed remarkable Yorkshire Newspapers to serve very organisations owed much to a details down to the 20 spent small local communities such as Bedford Times & Citizen investigation monthly on goldfish for the Rossington, Armthorpe and Askern.
It into the Yarls Wood detention centre Chairmans office.
is strong local news coverage of this riots.
The Halifax Courier has sort which has resulted in numerous highlighted what some claim to be However, the vast majority of our awards for our titles during the course one of Britains greatest industrial editorial coverage is concerned with of the year, such as the Southern catastrophes at the former Acre Mill in grassroots local issues which are of Reporter being nominated Best Hebden Bridge where hundreds of vital importance to the particular local Weekly Paid-For Newspaper in deaths were caused by asbestosis.
There is no Scotland for the second successive better example of this commitment House-buyer Over 50,000 properties advertised weekly Exclusive Homes publications Property Today website with school catchment functionality Homes features Find a plumber, electrician, decorator.... Part of Life 20 Johnston Press Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Chief Executives REVIEW year.
Many other of our titles were that revenues and page impressions Family also recognised for their excellence.
will continue to grow strongly.
Community campaigns and awards But as well as informing, local Printing newspapers need to entertain.
One 2003 was a year of real progress for Days out guides such story which reached national the Printing Division which began to prominence in 2003 concerned reap the benefits of earlier Local sports and activities George the budgie.
Reported first by investments in new and upgraded the Wakefield Express, the story capacity.
The primary focus of the Retail opportunities concerned a budgerigar whose head Printing Division is to meet the Wedding fairs was turned red as a result of drinking requirements of the Groups too much cherryade!
With virtually every Recreational features Johnston Press title now printed Electronic Publishing in-house or under an inherited RIM Holidays The Group now has more than 160 long term printing contract in the local websites to complement our Northwest, there was also an local newspapers.
Page impressions opportunity to take on additional continue to grow and by the yearcontract printing from several national end were up by 40% to over 14 newspaper publishers.
Better control million per month.
Revenue growth over costs and an end to the remains strong and increased by 6% disruption which followed the recent on a like-for-like basis, despite a extensive programme of press reduction in the RIM companies upgrades resulted in significantly non-profitable revenue streams.
2003 was the third successive year in which our electronic publishing Further investments were initiated activities made an increased during 2003 to increase the colour contribution to profit.
capability of the Leeds and Sunderland presses.
An additional Every company now regards its colour tower at Leeds will be websites as an integral part of its commissioned by the end of the first publishing portfolio.
All are based on quarter of 2004 and this will be a common template but which allows followed by the installation of digital extensive tailoring to local needs in inking which will result in improved terms of design and content whilst quality and reduced waste.
ensuring cost efficiency and Computer-to-plate technology was centralised technical support.
During also successfully introduced at Leeds the year, our property and motors during the year.
At Sunderland, we sites were substantially upgraded with are installing an additional colour numerous improvements in design tower which requires a building and functionality.
The result is already extension and we are also upgrading beginning to show in terms of both the existing towers to enable them to content and revenues, for example, print full colour on both sides of the we now carry at any one time around web.
Work continues on the major 200,000 cars for sale.
A similar Sheffield project which was upgrade of our jobs site has recently announced with the first half results been completed and we have reand good progress has been made in launched our on-line business identifying a suitable site and in terms directory which provides listings for of the press specification.
We expect many thousands of local businesses.
this project to be completed by the Further development plans are in end of 2006. progress and there is an expectation Part of Life 22 Johnston Press Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Chief Executives REVIEW During the year, we benefited from a We remain abreast of the continuing reduction in the price of newsprint stream of new legislation which Senior Citizens and prices have remained broadly relates to employment and in many Outings and activities unchanged for 2004.
We have also areas we are ahead of the legislative reduced further the number of requirements.
For example, we have Community involvement and suppliers to the Group.
This reflects already initiated plans to improve campaigns the reliability now being achieved in communications and consultation deliveries and quality and will enable with all of our employees and we are Leisure features us to reap further efficiencies in our also actively seeking ways of Grey supplements pressrooms due to fewer set-up increasing diversity, especially changes.
amongst our journalists so that our Nostalgia editorial departments more closely Organisation and People reflect the mix of the communities in Health information services Our senior team remained unchanged which they are based.
throughout the year both at Head Office and amongst divisional As a Group, we recognise the management and key functional overwhelming importance of our heads.
The performance of Johnston staff to the success of the business.
Press has undoubtedly benefited from During the year, with shareholder their considerable experience and approval, we introduced a Share high motivation.
Incentive Plan and, given the performance achieved in 2003, this A number of important appointments will result in all qualifying employees, were made during the year, including representing the vast majority of those several at company managing we employ, receiving free shares in director level.
Four new managing Johnston Press.
To safeguard the directors were appointed in the funding position of our defined benefit Printing Division, three from outside pension schemes, we injected 12.6 our immediate industry sector, an million of cash and we made initiative which is already paying significant improvements to our considerable dividends.
During the defined contribution pension schemes year, a large number of employees and related benefits.
We remain attended in-house training courses committed to being a progressive covering a wide range of topics and employer and will continue to take disciplines.
We continually seek to steps which recognise the importance make improvements to our training and value of all of our staff.
programmes to ensure that our employees develop the skills they require to fulfil their existing roles and develop their careers with the Group.
To increase the depth of potential managerial talent available to the TIM BOWDLER Group, we have introduced a Chief Executive Commercial Trainee Leadership 17 March 2004 Programme under which we have recruited a number of young university graduates who will receive ongoing training, guidance and workplace experience to develop their talents.
