Chief Executives review Kelda continues to be a well managed, highly focused business committed to delivering sector leading financial, operational and environmental performance.
06 A year of continuing achievement Yorkshires rivers and bathing waters are the cleanest The past year has been one of continuing achievement for since records began as a direct result of Yorkshire Waters Kelda Group plc.
Our strategy to put our primary focus on what ongoing investment and reduction of pollution incidents.
we do best, providing high quality water services, has helped Loop Keldas customer relationship management business us to deliver what we believe is sector leading performance.
continued to win new business and was featured in both Our focus will continue.
the Financial Times Top 50 Best Workplaces in the UK Our main UK subsidiary, Yorkshire Water, made significant survey and the Sunday Times 100 Best Companies to improvements in its financial, operational and environmental Work For awards.
performance and continued to outperform all of the regulatory Aquarion secured a ten year contract to operate waste targets set at the last price review.
water treatment services in Bridgeport, Connecticut, Aquarion, our US operation, successfully integrated the home of the companys headquarters.
four New England water companies acquired from American Water Works in April 2002.
Periodic review Other businesses have performed in line with expectations.
We believe that the progress Yorkshire Water has made since We were particularly pleased that we made the successful the last price determination in 2000, in service, operational and bid for Package A of the Ministry of Defences Private Finance financial performance, places the company in a good position Initiative, in conjunction with Earth Tech Engineering Ltd and for the forthcoming price review.
Our objective is to protect the Halliburton KBR.
long term financial and operational sustainability of the business, The groups activities are documented in more detail which involves balancing the financeability of agreed investment later in this report.
The following summary highlights the needs with acceptable prices to customers.
This demands key achievements of 2002 03. a joined up process from government, the regulator, environmental and compliance agencies and finance providers.
Yorkshire Water is now ranked second in Ofwats Overall Performance Assessment which compares the levels Investing in our people of service provided by the UKs ten major water and Additional to our focus strategy, a key part of the groups sewerage companies.
continuing success is due to the talent, hard work and enthusiasm Yorkshire Waters water supply service was ranked as of employees across the business.
In the last 12 months we have the most efficient in Ofwats relative efficiency report.
successfully introduced new information technology systems Reported water quality in the Yorkshire region was the and more flexible working patterns and practices, to better best it had ever been, with 99.91% of all samples match our services to customers needs.
The introduction of complying with relevant regulations, according to the these changes has required a significant investment in our Drinking Water Inspectorates DWI annual report on people to provide them with the necessary training and skills drinking water quality in England and Wales for 2001. to implement the changes and deliver the benefits.
It has also Our US operations continue to grow and develop with involved extensive consultation with employees and the various the acquisition of four New England water companies trade unions that represent them, whose support and goodwill from American Water Works which have now been has been important in helping deliver change which is already integrated into existing operations, and further bringing important benefits to our customers.
I would like to express my sincere thanks to everyone who Yorkshire Water is a key partner in Brey Utilities has played their part in delivering improved services, a key a consortium comprising Yorkshire Water, Earth Tech feature of the groups success over the past 12 months.
Engineering Ltd and Halliburton KBR which has won a 25 year 1bn contract to provide water and waste water services to more than 1,000 Ministry of Defence sites in the Midlands, Wales and South West England.
In December 2002, Yorkshire Water was awarded an interim price determination facilitating additional investment in the services we provide.
Kelda was confirmed as the water industrys leading Kevin Whiteman performer based on an external assessment carried Chief Executive out by the Business in The Environment Index of Corporate Environmental Engagement.
Kelda Group plc Annual report & accounts 2003 07
