chief executives statement Ladbrokes capitalised on every opportunity and achieved their highest profit ever whilst the hotels management team put in a robust performance despite the difficulties affecting the hospitality industry worldwide.
Despite the tough and challenging nature Ladbrokes is also the leader in corporate Throughout 2003 we have continued to of 2003, Hilton Group still managed social responsibility in the industry, being expand our portfolio while keeping capital to maintain earnings over last year.
accredited by GoodCorporation for a expenditure under control.
We have third consecutive year and being the first opened 14 hotels including four under Ladbrokes capitalised on every opportunity organisation to be accredited by Gamcare franchises with a further 37 hotels due and achieved their highest profit ever whilst for the Code of Social Responsibility for to open in the next two years.
We have the hotels management team put in a robust Licensed Betting Offices.
also announced an initiative to franchise performance despite the difficulties affecting the Scandic brand primarily in Europe, the hospitality industry worldwide.
The performance of our hotels business and the Hilton brand in chosen markets was less satisfactory primarily because of particularly those not currently served Ladbrokes had a good year demonstrating factors affecting the industry worldwide.
strong marketing, technology and product The Iraq war, SARS, the continued threat development skills.
With the increased of terrorism and economic decline in some Franchising has already been successfully focus on the industry reflected in the markets impacted on the profitability introduced in India with the franchising forthcoming Gambling Bill and the recent of our estate particularly in European of nine Oberoi hotels and in the Caribbean qualified endorsement of Fixed Odds capitals where we own and lease many with the franchising of four Coral by Betting Terminals FOBTs, future prospects of our hotels.
for the industry are good.
We are not alone in facing tough times, LivingWell had a good year and saw The growth of betting exchanges marked but with strong brands and strong operating profit increase 51%, in a another milestone for the betting industry.
management we are better equipped competitive environment, particularly We welcome any innovation that matches than most to cope.
LivingWell continue to build the interests of customers, so long as they on their strong market presence in the are treated on a par with the rest of the Following travel trends, we focused UK as well as expanding overseas with sector.
We will continue to lobby marketing locally rather than 12 LivingWell Express clubs, the new Government to this end.
internationally and as a result, occupancy cost-effective hotel health club concept.
Rate, however, Our over-the-counter OTC business was challenging particularly in the owned continues to grow demonstrating, yet and leased estate, and we have faced again, the resilience and appeal of our cost pressures from insurance, energy modernised betting shops.
In shops, costs and in some cases, union-led on-line and on the phone, the betting wage increases.
David Michels business relies increasingly on technology Group Chief Executive to deliver a better product to the customer Technology plays an increasingly important 26 February 2004 and reduce overheads.
Ladbrokes is a role in this industry.
We have successfully leader in this field.
Going forward we launched a series of local language will exploit technology fully to create websites focussing on our four largest new betting opportunities and reach source markets.
By driving bookings new markets.
through our websites, we give customers easy access to the full range of Hilton brands and guaranteed best room rates.
Hilton Group plc Annual Report 2003 03
