04 THE LAIRD GROUP PLC Chief Executives review Exceptional costs charged during the year were at a greatly reduced level compared with 2002, amounting to 5.9 million.
The costs were incurred largely as a result of the rationalisation of the European operations of Laird Technologies, now being repositioned to our new facility in the Czech Republic.
We are also closing and transferring some of the UK production capacity of Laird Security Systems to its expanded operations in China.
Earnings per share in 2003 before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation were 21.6 pence, 37% up on 2002 earnings of 15.8 pence and 25% up on the 17.3 pence from continuing operations.
Strong Cash Generation Laird has maintained a sound financial structure and a strong cash generative ability.
Net borrowings at the year end were 60.1 million, representing 30% of shareholders funds, down from 66.6 million at the end of 2002.
Interest cover for the year was 10.4 times before exceptional costs and goodwill amortisation, up from 7.0 times in 2002.
Both interest costs and our reported level of borrowings benefited from the translation of US$ into Sterling.
Cash generation was again strong, with a trading cash inflow for the year of 38.2 million before the net effect of acquisitions, disposals and dividend payments, compared with an inflow of 30.2 million in 2002.
Conversion of operating profits into cash was again over 100%.
The maintenance of a strong financial structure is a key factor in our strategy.
140 million of new bilateral banking facilities have been put in place during the year, for a five year term to 2008.
These new facilities, together with the Groups 37.2 million of US Dollar Private Placement facilities running at various dates through Delivering Profitable Growth through Market Leadership 2014, give Laird the financial resources to make further value We have delivered another year of profitable growth through enhancing investments and acquisitions.
leadership in specialist market sectors, underpinned by our global Strength and Leadership through Acquisition reach.
We have continued to strengthen the strategic positioning The year was another active one in terms of bolt-on acquisitions of our businesses during the year and have improved further our with a spend during the year of 21.4 million, as we pursued a two operating and financial performance.
In spite of weak economic pronged strategy of expanding our core businesses and extending and market conditions in the early part of the year and the adverse our capabilities into new, related markets.
In Laird Technologies we translation effects of exchange rate movements, the actions we expanded geographically our electromagnetic interference EMI have taken have enabled us to deliver another set of strong results.
shielding business and embarked on the first stages of our planned Turnover in 2003 was 429 million, up from the 424 million extension of Laird Technologies capabilities into the related market reported from continuing operations in 2002.
At constant exchange sector of thermal management products and solutions.
This increase reflects both our organic In September, we acquired the business of Magnes Corporation growth, largely as a result of market share gains, and the benefits in Korea, whilst at the same time establishing a branch of Laird arising from bolt-on acquisitions in our technology and security Technologies there, thus allowing us to offer the full range of our systems businesses.
products directly into this important market and positioning us By continuing to lower our cost base and by improving margins to serve the major Korean electronics companies globally.
during the year, and despite the adverse translation effects of exchange rate movements, operating profits before exceptional items were higher in each of our divisions.
We saw profit growth of 17% at Laird Technologies, 10% at Laird Security Systems and 43% at Laird Plastics.
The elimination of loss-making businesses, disposed of in 2002, also benefited Group profits in 2003.
Group profits for 2003, before exceptional items, goodwill amortisation and tax, were 37.4 million, 27% up on the 29.4 million reported in 2002, and 18% up on the 31.8 million from continuing operations.
At constant exchange rates the increases would have been 37% and 27% respectively.
THE LAIRD GROUP PLC 05 This was followed in October by our first move into the thermal A sound financial structure is also central to our strategy.
Laird management market with the acquisition of Orcus Inc. in the USA, continues to exhibit an attractive cash generation profile, with the a supplier of differential phase change thermal interface materials combination of our businesses yielding financial benefits to the used by the electronics industry as a heat transfer medium Group as a whole.
This gives us the financial strength to make between heat sources and heat dissipation devices.
further, value enhancing investments and acquisitions to ensure that we maintain strong positions in our markets.
In December, we acquired Warth Limited, with facilities in the UK and Japan.
Warth supplies thermally conductive silicone polymer Building our Businesses for the Future products for the electronics industry as well as distributing a wider We are well positioned for 2004, given the strength of our range of thermal management products, and manufactures businesses, the actions we continue to take and the strategy specialist EMI products for the European and Japanese markets.
We are expanding into related market segments and will continue with our programme of making bolt-on There were also acquisitions to strengthen the core business of acquisitions.
We have begun to see an improvement in certain of Laird Security Systems, at the same time as expanding into new our markets, particularly those serving the electronics industries.
and higher growth market sectors.
In February we acquired With the developments we have made and the actions we are Omega, a leading supplier of constant force balances to the US taking, we look forward to making further progress in 2004. window industry, thereby further extending our product offering in North America.
Peter Hill Chief Executive In November, by acquiring Intron Limited, a supplier of high specification composite doors to the social and private housing markets, we established a strong position in this fast growing UK market, where replacement is responsible for 90% of demand which is itself driven by committed Government spending.
Laird Security Systems brings a differentiated and fully integrated solution to this market.
A Strategy for Continuing Growth Each of The Laird Groups divisions holds leading market positions in their industries, and we have made significant advances in recent years in positioning our business portfolio towards specialist, higher growth markets and this process continues.
Our acquisitions and divestments, and our entry into new growth market segments, reflect this and, as with other areas of our business, we aim over time to become leaders in these new market segments.
In keeping with this strategy, we will continue to seek out and exploit opportunities in other new areas related to our existing businesses.
Lairds global reach is a critical success factor and we continued to expand our Asian presence in 2003, with the number of our employees there growing more than 60% in the year to over 700.
The region represents an exciting and growing market and our presence there keeps us close to our customers in the region, while also providing us with a lower cost supply base.
We again expanded our capacity and capabilities in China in 2003, extended our operations in Japan and established a new presence in Korea.
Operationally, we continue to focus on performance improvement while remaining close to our customers, delivering high levels of customer service.
We will continue to develop the breadth and capabilities of our products.
These strengths are underpinned by our low-cost manufacturing base, which will be enhanced further in 2004 as our new plant in the Czech Republic comes on stream.
06 THE LAIRD GROUP PLC Laird Technologies THE LAIRD GROUP PLC 07 Laird Technologies is the global market leader in the design and supply of electromagnetic interference shielding solutions, covering all sectors of the electronics industry Laird Technologies engineering, manufacturing and technical staff are recognised as pioneers in the development of EMI solutions Laird Technologies extensive global presence means that customers receive local service on a global scale 08 THE LAIRD GROUP PLC THE LAIRD GROUP PLC 09 Turnover Operating profit m m 100 16 75 12 50 8 2002 25 4 2003 0 0 Laird Technologies is the global market leader in the design and Growth through Acquisition supply of electromagnetic interference EMI shielding solutions, Laird entered the EMI market with the acquisition of APM in the covering all sectors of the electronics industry: information mid 1990s together with a spin-off from the Groups successful technology, telecommunications and data transfer, as well as the sealing business and rapidly established itself as a leading supplier defence, automotive and medical sectors.
Laird Technologies has of high quality metallised fabric-over-foam EMI seals.
Further also established a growing presence in the design and supply of acquisitions gave Laird Technologies market leadership positions in thermal management products and solutions for electronic devices.
the supply of precision stamped metal shields, radiation absorber materials and, in 2002, printed circuit board EMI shields, Global Market Leadership predominantly for the mobile telephone handset market.
Laird Laird Technologies markets had strengthened by the end of Technologies also extended its geographic reach during this 2003, having been subdued during the first half of the year and process, firmly establishing itself as the global market leader in with Asian electronics and mobile telephone demand adversely EMI shielding.
affected by the outbreak of SARS.
By the end of the third quarter there was increasing evidence that demand was picking up, and In late 2003, as part of its strategy to expand beyond EMI while order intake for Laird Technologies strengthened during the latter leveraging its global presence, as well as its design and part of the year.
Turnover for 2003 was 95.8 million, up from manufacturing capabilities, Laird entered the electronic thermal 92.4 million in 2002 with the benefits from acquisitions offsetting management market, with the acquisition of Orcus in the US, a adverse currency translation effects.
At constant exchange rates specialist supplier of thermal interface materials.
This was followed turnover would have been up 11%, as a result of acquisitions.
rapidly by the acquisition of Warth, a supplier of thermal interface and EMI products in the UK and Japan.
Operating profits before exceptional items were 12.6 million for the year, 17% up on the 10.8 million in 2002 and up 23% at Opportunities are being sought to expand further into other constant exchange rates.
Operating margins continued to improve specialist areas of thermal management products and solutions, as a result of a further expansion of low-cost manufacturing and as well as into other new, but related, product areas which either additional operational efficiencies, despite modest price declines in protect or enhance the performance of electronic devices.
10 THE LAIRD GROUP PLC Establishing a Presence in Central Europe Elsewhere in Asia Laird Technologies has established a direct Following investment grant approval in May 2003 from the presence in Korea for the first time, with the acquisition of Magnes.
Government of the Czech Republic, construction began in July on This enables us to serve better the important electronics a new manufacturing plant at Liberec, north of Prague.
The new manufacturers which are based there, as well as positioning us to plant was handed over by the building contractors on schedule serve the major Korean electronics companies globally.
Our and to budget in late December and the transfer of equipment operation in Japan was expanded towards the end of the year and began, with the first sales from the plant in January 2004.
Once this, combined with the acquisition of Warth and its Japanese fully operational, in the second half of this year, the new facility will facility and capabilities, means that Laird will be able to serve its provide customers with a complete range of shielding products existing and potential Japanese customers, both in Japan and in and solutions as well as a full engineering, design and prototyping Asia generally, to a higher level.
Laird Technologies manufacturing capacity in Scotland Extending our Global Leadership Position and in Germany was reduced as planned in the latter part of 2003.
Laird Technologies has seen a recovery in demand in the mobile Expansion across Asia telephone market, increased volume demand in the IT sector, and Laird Technologies continued the development of its operations in the initial signs of recovery in the telecommunications infrastructure China during the year.
A second building was leased in Shenzhen, and data transfer segments.
The military and automotive markets in southern China, allowing the expansion of fabric-over-foam are also growth areas for EMI shielding and thermal management capacity and the establishment of a full prototyping and design products.
This recovery in our markets, the actions we continue centre.
The new beryllium copper facility came on stream during to take to expand and improve our core EMI shielding business, 2003, as did the new Flectron metallised fabric line.
A third together with our expansion into new but related electronics building in Shenzhen will be leased during 2004.
The Shanghai products and solutions, should ensure that Laird Technologies will plant has been doubled in size with the lease of new space, deliver further profitable growth.
and full board level shield production is building up there.
Fabric-over-foam capacity was also installed during the year and, together with our sales office in Suzhou, will allow us to service the growing IT equipment providers in eastern China.
Production capacity at Laird Technologies plant at Tianjin, in north-eastern China, which is located close to the major facilities of leading mobile telephone providers, is also being expanded, with the addition of board level shield manufacture and design to the existing form and mould in place capabilities.
THE LAIRD GROUP PLC 11 12 THE LAIRD GROUP PLC Laird Security Systems Laird Security Systems business model remains that of an integrated global engineering, design and low cost manufacturing structure, supported by strong local execution and dedication to the customer 3D computer aided design improves and speeds the new product development process and aids the objective of right first time products A measure of Laird Security Systems creativity is the continuous flow of patents and registered designs that are awarded to the design teams every year THE LAIRD GROUP PLC 13 14 THE LAIRD GROUP PLC THE LAIRD GROUP PLC 15 Operating profit Turnover m m 250 30 200 24 150 18 100 12 2002 50 6 2003 0 0 Laird Security Systems is a leader in the design, development, Operating profits for the year, before exceptional items, grew 10% manufacture and distribution of innovative solutions to improve to 24.8 million in 2003 compared with 22.6 million reported in performance and enhance security for the residential building and 2002.
At constant exchange rates the profits growth was 19%, home improvement markets.
We supply a comprehensive range of demonstrating the robustness of Laird Security Systems business security, hardware and sealing products for windows and doors in model after the 14% profits growth at constant exchange rates the UK and North America.
delivered in 2002, which followed a 30% growth in operating profits achieved in 2001.
Growth through Customer Partnership Laird Security Systems had another very successful year in 2003, Success and Innovation with a Robust Business Model once again reporting growth in turnover, profit and operating Our business model continues to be based on integrated global margins together with strong cash generation.
This was achieved engineering and design with low-cost manufacturing, supported despite the adverse translation effect of exchange rate movements by strong local execution and dedication to the customer, with on its US operations and input pricing pressure on its uPVC products being adapted where necessary for the local market.
products as a result of higher oil prices.
In the UK, window volume In addition, we work alongside our customers in product and demand again showed a small decline, with growth in the door market development, and we are also increasingly focusing on and conservatory segments.
In the US, our markets again showed the identification and exploitation of higher growth segments modest growth.
Turnover in 2003 increased 5% to 205.3 million, within our overall market.
compared with 195.9 million in 2002, with turnover growth of 9% An example of this approach has been our expansion of door at constant exchange rates.
related products, which contributed to the enhanced sales and Turnover growth was achieved both in the UK and in North America profit generation during the year.
In the UK, growth continued in as we continued to benefit from our close relationship with our our multi-point lock, door hinge and door handle programmes, major customers, and also through industry leading performance while in the US further growth was seen in the sales of Sash in product development underscored by the highest levels of Controls door products, with profitability being enhanced by the customer service and support.
Increasingly, we work directly with transfer of product manufacturing to China.
An initiative with a our major customers in new product design and development, major American customer is expected to result in a new, specially thereby becoming an integrated service provider in the supply designed door hardware product range for North America being chain of our customers.
Through bolt-on acquisitions in recent launched in the second half of 2004, and this will be an important years we have also generated steady turnover growth, with the breakthrough for us in this growing North American market enhancement of existing products and the benefits derived from segment.
access to the engineering, sales and distribution network of Laird Security Systems.
16 THE LAIRD GROUP PLC Laird Security Systems has also continued to demonstrate overall Growth Markets and New Routes to Market sales and profits growth in its traditional window hardware, seals As part of a strategy of identifying and exploiting higher growth and uPVC profiles businesses.
In particular, window balances in sectors within our overall market, Laird Security Systems acquired the US, where we are the market leader, and also high quality, Intron Limited, a leading UK composite door manufacturer, in engineered weatherproofing seals, showed good growth.
The market for composite doors is growing due also benefited from the introduction of our new combination largely to a number of Government funded social housing balance and uPVC profile Jambliner product in the US, and initiatives, where the combination of security and maintenance growth in demand for the Legend 70 window system in the UK, characteristics result in composite doors being the preferred though growth in profitability was held back as a result of higher product.
Our long-standing relationship with the local authority resin prices.
market, together with specifically developed hardware solutions, has positioned us to be a leading player in this market.
Following the acquisition of Omega in February 2003, constant force balance production was transferred to an existing Laird New routes to market were also developed in 2003 and sales to Security Systems facility in North Carolina in the US, with the the DIY market in the UK continued to grow.
Cellular uPVC roofline original facility in West Virginia being closed.
Window hardware products were launched in the UK through major DIY outlets, with product transfer to China from the UK continued during 2003, an installation programme to be rolled out in 2004.
Following the which will allow the friction stay manufacturing facility in success of Laird Security Systems Ventrolla window renovation Cheltenham to be closed, while production in China of window franchise business in recent years, a pilot lock installation and hardware products using the new Physical Vapour Deposition maintenance operation was launched in 2003.
The intention is to corrosion resistance coating application was expanded.
develop a national UK franchise of security hardware installers, providing high standards of reliable service to the consumer, Laird Security Systems extended its geographic coverage in the supported by national quality and marketing expertise.
US at the end of 2003 with the opening of a new branch in the western US, which will provide support to our larger customers Demonstrating Leadership through Organic Growth on a national scale as well as access to the local market in that and Acquisition region.
Market research was completed during the year into Laird Security Systems has continued to strengthen and develop serving the local Chinese and Asian markets with a select range of its business, both organically and through bolt-on acquisitions, door and window hardware products, and a pilot sales and through an integrated global product to market strategy.
Strong marketing campaign will begin in 2004.
Trials of our prototype customer relationships combined with high levels of customer electronic access controls for windows and doors continued in the service, a broad product offering supported by a well established UK during 2003, confirming the technical viability of the product low-cost manufacturing base, together with an increasing focus on offering.
Market acceptance trials are currently underway which, higher growth market segments, are all expected to combine to if successful, will result in the start of commercial scale support the profitable growth of Laird Security Systems.
development during 2004, aimed at both the new build and replacement residential markets.
THE LAIRD GROUP PLC 17 18 THE LAIRD GROUP PLC Laird Plastics THE LAIRD GROUP PLC 19 Laird Plastics is now firmly established as a market and performance leader in North American plastics distribution High impact acrylic, distributed by Laird Plastics, is the perfect material for runway signage, where the emphasis is on visibility and durability Laird Plastics sales representative network was expanded and strengthened during the year, with new market and product driven sales plans being introduced 20 THE LAIRD GROUP PLC THE LAIRD GROUP PLC 21 Operating profits before exceptional items for the year were 4.0 million, an increase of 43% on the 2.8 million reported in 2002 and up 56% at constant exchange rates.
This strong profit improvement was achieved even though we faced input pricing pressure during the year, and resulted in operating margins increasing towards industry leading levels.
The focus on improving transactional efficiencies, the achievement of cost savings from consolidating freight vendors and an improvement in materials margins through working closely with major vendors, all contributed to the greater profitability.
A continued focus on working capital management and on streamlining the supply chain also contributed to another year of strong cash generation from the business.
Positioning for the Future Management at Laird Plastics was further strengthened in 2003 Turnover Operating profit and we continued with the reinforcing and repositioning, started in m m 2002, of the Service Centre network.
Some smaller Service Centres that were in sub-optimal locations or unable to achieve 150 5 the necessary critical mass were closed.
New operations were started in Halifax, Nova Scotia and Fort Lauderdale, Florida, where 120 4 there is considerable market potential but which hitherto had been under-represented.
Service Centres in Toronto and Vancouver in 90 3 Canada, and Tampa in the US, were relocated into larger and more efficient premises, thus better positioning us to serve customers in 60 2 those regions and take advantage of local demand growth.
2002 30 1 Our sales representative network was expanded and strengthened during the year, with new market and product driven sales plans 2003 0 0 being introduced.
These plans highlight the use of new specialists in various product and market segments to take full advantage of increasing customer demands and an improving North American economy, with further initiatives in hand in 2004.
Following some With 47 Service Centres in operation across the USA and Canada, early success in 2003, the focus on developing new national Laird Plastics is the leading independent plastics distributor in accounts, by taking advantage of our geographic coverage across North America.
As their channel to market, the business the United States and Canada, is also expected to deliver represents major North American and international suppliers of additional benefits this year and significant interest and an extensive range of plastic products and sells to a wide array opportunities are now seen across the marketplace.
of end use markets and customers.
Important investments continued during 2003 to enhance the A Year of Solid Growth capability of the business.
A programme of replacing older cutting The solid recovery in Laird Plastics performance, starting in 2002, equipment continued with a number of new computerised panel continued throughout 2003.
This owed much to the actions taken saws being installed, which allowed us to benefit from higher valueto strengthen and improve the business and was achieved in the added sales and additional new cutting equipment will be added in face of continuing weak economic and market conditions, the 2004.
A programme to upgrade and replace the information effect of higher oil prices and increased industry competition.
technology equipment used in Laird Plastics was also completed during the year.
The introduction of new sales order and e-business Turnover for 2003 was 127.7 million compared with 136.0 million software is providing additional internet based customer service and in 2002, with turnover growth at constant exchange rates of 4%.
company wide knowledge management, via central call reporting This growth in turnover resulted from a greater focus during the year capabilities.
At the end of 2003 Laird Plastics launched the Laird on specialist product sectors such as graphics, with new product University, an internal organisation that will provide recruitment, specialists added, and from increased sales of mechanical plastics training, management development and quality control for the to several new key accounts.
Market share gains were achieved business, in order to meet the increasingly demanding customer in certain key sectors, customer service levels were improved expectations for service and support.
and the customer base expanded.
However, in the acrylic and polycarbonate product lines pricing pressure from an oversupplied A Solid Platform for Long Term Growth market limited the opportunities for growth.
Laird Plastics has created a solid platform for long term growth in its business, while the beginnings of a strengthening in demand are emerging across a number of its market sectors.
This, together with the actions taken to strengthen and improve the business, is expected to result in further progress being made in 2004 as well as providing a platform for future growth, firmly establishing Laird Plastics as a market and performance leader in North American plastics distribution.
