Chief executives review 4 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2003 LogicaCMG today combines the attributes for which both pre-merger companies were well known, namely outstanding programme and delivery capability, strong technical expertise, in-depth industry knowledge and highly proficient people.
Chief executives review A year of delivery were well known, namely outstanding Today we have a company During 2003 we successfully completed programme and delivery capability, strong with clear differentiation and our merger in challenging market technical expertise, in-depth industry a competitive cost-base.
It conditions and delivered a set of results knowledge and highly proficient people.
provides customers with a which exceeded our original expectations.
We look forward to deploying these wide range of offerings from We also over-achieved on our targeted strengths to maximum advantage in the a single global supplier.
savings, reducing costs by 85 million on years ahead.
A strategy for success From the outset, we established a Our performance in 2003 demonstrated that demanding pace for integrating Logica and the rationale for the merger was sound.
We quickly filled all senior management posts and put in place clear Our strategy was to create an international lines of reporting.
We implemented a unified force in IT services and wireless telecoms structure, product range and set of with a market focus and differentiation common processes.
We constructed based on: consistent national employment conditions, global performance management systems value-added, mission-critical, repeatable, and a programme for succession planning global offerings and leadership development.
These initiatives helped us progress towards our strong relationships with our customers, goal of building an open, meritocratic and partners, suppliers and staff, and performance-oriented company in which the very best people can build their careers.
full service provision covering consultancy, design, systems integration, LogicaCMG today combines the attributes products and outsourcing.
for which both pre-merger companies Chief executives review 5 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2003 We recognised that our customers both pre-merger organisations and the such as financial services and energy increasingly want to do business with a geographical spread was different.
For example, financial smaller number of larger suppliers who During 2003, we leveraged our existing institutions face new accounting and can provide them with a broader range of solutions and services and our governance standards as a result of offerings, work with them internationally relationships with key global customers.
changes in International Accounting and provide them with the certainty of For example, long-established CMG Standards, Sarbanes-Oxley and Basel II long-term support.
customers like Shell, Gasunie and and we are already engaged with clients Deutsche Bank ordered services and such as ING and WestLB in this area.
In The creation of LogicaCMG has solutions based on offerings from Logica the energy industry, regulation comes responded to this demand.
Today we have and existing Logica clients such as Ford, hand in hand with liberalisation and there a company with clear differentiation and a Volvo and Credit Agricole all purchased are now also the challenges of the Kyoto competitive cost-base.
During 2004 we will Protocol and emissions trading.
Here, customers with a wide range of offerings further extend this process, focusing on our success with the New South Wales from a single global supplier focused on areas where we anticipate particular greenhouse gases project has enabled helping them achieve their business growth such as HR services and us to launch Emissions Logic, a solution objectives through the innovative delivery wireless solutions.
Developments of information technology and business such as these play to our strengths as process solutions.
Repeatable solutions In the early providers of repeatable solutions stages of the integration, we rolled out a founded on in-depth industry knowledge Delivering the merger potential portfolio of some 60 mission-critical, and technical expertise.
Our goal is to During 2003 we made significant progress repeatable solutions to deploy fully exploit our portfolio of solutions and in realising the opportunities presented by internationally.
This strategy has enabled continue building strong positions in our the merger and we look forward to us to support customers more effectively chosen markets.
exploiting these more fully in 2004. and consistently on a global basis.
One area of particular interest is the Better leverage of accounts Cross-selling There was minimal management of regulatory and Historically, account management overlap between the customer bases of compliance issues impacting sectors was a particular strength within our Chief executives review 6 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2003 Our focus for 2004 is on maximising the benefits of our increased scale, broader range of offerings and stronger customer relationships.
Netherlands business and we have complete solution that will bring real orders.
We expect the percentage of reinforced this methodology across the competitive advantage.
revenue coming from outsourcing to go merged organisation to maximise on growing in 2004. customer relationships.
During 2003, we LogicaCMG is strongly positioned in this developed our position with key global environment because our focus is on Adding the offshore dimension clients like Vodafone, T-Mobile, Philips value-based outsourcing, where industry Providing offshore services is a central and ABN AMRO.
At Ford, our increased and business process knowledge and component to outsourcing today as scale was an important factor in the strong delivery and technical skills are reduced IT budgets are forcing clients extension of our preferred supplier critical.
This approach is underpinned by to look at new delivery alternatives.
Our status from the UK into the US and our blended-delivery model that allows blended offshore model, using in-country Europe.
We expect to go on growing the companies to optimise their sourcing presence backed by resources in the percentage of revenues coming from our risks between on-site, onshore, Czech Republic, India and Malaysia, top global customers during 2004. nearshore and offshore facilities.
In positions us well in the market.
By the addition, the increased scale and year-end we had grown to 623 staff in Meeting the need for outsourcing financial strength resulting from the Bangalore and had taken on new Companies are increasingly focused merger has significantly enhanced facilities with capacity for 2,000 people.
on outsourcing as a way of lowering LogicaCMGs ability to take on larger We are already using our operation in costs and improving the reliability and outsourcing contracts as highlighted Bangalore to support a wide range of flexibility of the services they can offer by our National Health Service work customers including Britannia Airways, in the face of changing market in the UK.
The British Council and T-Mobile and conditions.
In addressing these for our own product development challenges, the distinction between Outsourcing, particularly business in areas such as financial services consulting, systems integration and process outsourcing, represents the best and telecommunications.
Buyers of goods area of growth today and takes us to the and services are becoming more heart of our customers business.
In Building a stronger wireless networks discerning and sophisticated.
They are 2003, outsourcing represented 20% of business A central objective of the looking for suppliers who can deliver a revenues 2002: 16% and 28% of merger was to consolidate a leadership Chief executives review 7 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2003 LogicaCMG, Unilever and HP are participating in Amsterdams Living Tomorrow exhibition a platform for ground-breaking companies to provide a glimpse of the future based on the technology of today.
The The use of wireless solutions as a Looking ahead merger has positioned us as the only transformational tool for business is also With the integration successfully behind Tier 1, global player independent of the an important area of focus for us.
us, our focus for 2004 is on maximising handset and infrastructure vendors.
LogicaCMGs offerings include mobile the benefits of our increased scale, Multimedia messaging MMS is a core workforce and logistics applications: broader range of offerings and stronger part of our next generation messaging mobile payments, ticketing and access customer relationships.
architecture that provides operators control: mobile infotainment and with a seamless range of messaging marketing and mobile telematics.
For We will reap the benefit of the cost services including text SMS, email, example, in the Netherlands the province savings achieved in 2003 and expect to voice and video.
We remain the world of Noord-Brabant is using a new strengthen our weaker units during the leaders in SMS by some considerable approach to traffic monitoring.
margin and are looking to build on the LogicaCMG gathers information by momentum that we have created in tracking the volume and movement We are confident that our strategy is 2003 to strengthen our position further of GSM mobile telephone units used sound and that the progress we are in MMS where we increased our market by drivers on national and secondary making in implementing it positions the share from 20% to 25% putting us neck roads.
In Dubai, LogicaCMG installed a company strongly for the years ahead.
and neck with the other two market system using GSM to communicate with leaders.
In mobile payments we parking meters, field engineers and back achieved successes during the year in office systems.
We believe that the both the voice and data pre-pay application of wireless solutions to markets.
With the wireless environment business problems will be a growth area.
becoming ever more complex, there is Given LogicaCMGs combination of an increasing requirement for end-to-end industry and technical knowledge, it is Martin Read integrated solutions combining product one that represents a significant knowledge with systems integration.
Group chief executive LogicaCMG is uniquely positioned to meet this demand.
