Annual report and accounts 2003 Chief executives review Introduction The development programme for new units and Strategy re-branding venues has been reduced to 51m Over the last financial year the Company has The core of Luminars strategy remains our focus from the original 60m planned.
This reduction experienced a dramatic change in market on the development of the best quality branded together with the disposals referred to below conditions which became more challenging late night entertainment business in the UK.
has enabled the Group to achieve a balanced in the second half.
Whilst our core weekend The Group will continue to invest in its market cash flow.
business remained strong compared to the leading brands that include Chicago Rock Caf, previous year, mid-week volumes suffered Jumpin Jacks, Liquid and Oceana.
In order to The Group has scaled back its new particularly in the middle of each month.
further maximise returns from our estate, we development programme further to 15m have commenced a review of our un-branded for 2003 2004, which will equate to around Management responded quickly in recognising units with the intention of extending our well 9 units from our existing branded formats.
problem areas and took immediate action.
proven branding strategy more widely, where This action is designed to achieve cash flow We continue to manage the business with the appropriate.
Our experience of the benefits surpluses for 2003 2004 and will enable us assumption that our markets are unlikely to of applying our branding strategy include a to reduce our debt further.
improve in the short term.
Therefore, we have wider implementation of best practice marketing, During the financial year, we vigorously reviewed adapted our strategy to take account of the improved customer relationship management, those properties which realised below average current situation and the Board has instigated a heightened emphasis on health and safety returns, while some have been ear marked a review, particularly of the unbranded estate management techniques and ultimately for refurbishment.
We have disposed of to identify units capable of being managed within improved returns.
15 properties, including four non trading units, our portfolio of market segmented brands.
Whilst this review is at an early stage, we believe which generated 8.6m.
Luminar is in a strong financial position by virtue its conclusions will enable Luminars management Of the 26 properties on the closed list at the of its excellent cash flow generation, low levels to extract better returns from the units under half year we have disposed of 9 and refurbished of gearing and the high proportion of freeholds review over time.
We have closed a further five units in the held within the estate.
further strengthen the Groups existing second half.
Since the end of the year we have leadership of the late night entertainment opened a further two units closed for market and maximise the Companys returns refurbishment and we have contracted to sell from its portfolio.
This leaves 11 units currently being dealt with through disposal or development.
During the current year, the Group will spend approximately 30m, an increase of 25% on last years spend on refurbishing its properties.
59 venues will be refurbished and will have the potential to capture market share and generate high incremental returns.
This expenditure will be less than the depreciation charge for the Group which will be in excess of 35m.
Immediate action We have also strengthened our field operations In our statement published on the 20 January management structure and have implemented 2003, the Group stated that it had already training and development programmes for all orchestrated a rigorous review process to operational middle management to ensure focus identify poorly performing units.
Additionally, on the core business and that these key people the Board has implemented a number of actions possess the correct skills to trade successfully to increase management control, stabilise the in the current climate.
business, control costs and focus on cash.
Our incentive schemes have also been revised to support our market segmentation policy.
04 Luminar plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Chief executives review continued Dancing division 52 weeks to 53 weeks to 2 March 2003 3 March 2002 Turnover 240.2m 234.4m Net operating profit 70.0m 74.7m Operating margin 29.1% 31.9% Number of units at year end 174 181 The Dancing Division comprised of 155 microDuring the year, one going concern discotheque branded units trading across the UK.
The new Oceana concept opened Additionally within this division is the Groups its first unit in Milton Keynes last April.
Five new new concept Oceana, and 18 Liquid clubs.
Liquids were developed in Windsor, Wrexham, Basingstoke, Hanley and Jersey and a further two Like for like sales decreased 3.6% during the year.
unbranded units were converted to Liquids in However, gross margins remained stable but Shrewsbury and Ashford.
Since the year end operating margins reduced by 2.8 percentage a further Oceana unit has opened in Kingston points due to the increase in promotional upon Thames and a Liquid nightclub opened spend.
Luminar plc 05 Annual report and accounts 2003 Chief executives review continued Entertainment division 52 weeks to 53 weeks to 2 March 2003 3 March 2002 Turnover 121.1m 105.9m Net operating profit 29.3m 26.8m Operating margin 24.2% 25.3% Number of units at year end 92 86 The Entertainment Division operates a number A total of 12 new units opened in the year, return that our entertainment concepts deliver of different concepts including 69 Chicago of which six were Chicago Rock Cafes in and will open 6 new units in the current year.
Rock Cafes and 23 Jumpin Jaks.
Tamworth, Trowbridge, Braintree, Warrington, Three of these units have already opened: two Jersey and Stevenage.
One unbranded unit was Chicago Rock Cafes in Aberdeen and Livingston Like for like sales decreased by 3.8% during the converted to a Chicago Rock Cafe in Southsea.
and a Jumpin Jaks in Aberdeen.
Gross margins improved across the year Six new Jumpin Jaks opened in Blackburn, East but operating margin declined by 0.9 percentage Grinstead, Hanley, Halifax, Stevenage and During the second half we outsourced our points to 24.2% again due to maintaining Glasgow.
Two unbranded units and a former entertainment booking facilities with an entertainment and promotional spending and Hotshots unit were converted to Jumpin Jaks annualised saving of 300,000. the affect of operational gearing against a decline in Huddersfield, Ilford and Dumfries.
We are pleased with the continued high level of 06 Luminar plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Chief executives review continued Emerging business division This grouping houses the test-bed for Luminars Future During the last period we also established the new concepts.
They are developed, trialled and Luminar has reacted well to a sudden change in ECHO Trust which is a registered charity: the monitored during their development phase.
market conditions and is adapting its strategy Trust has already made several large contributions accordingly.
The current year has begun in the including a payment of 155,000 to Nordorff During the year, Emerging Business contributed same vein as the second half of last year.
The Roberts and five payments of over 30,000 to 23.1m of turnover representing 5.9% of sales.
actions that we have taken, the strength of our other charities and appeals.
A huge thank you to The operating profit contribution was 1.9m business, our people and our finances means all those involved.
that we are well positioned to benefit from any improvement in market conditions.
Stephen C Thomas Two Thes opened in Windsor and Manchester Chief Executive and one Orange House opened in Kings Lynn.
There is one other thing I would like to mention.
New management with extensive pub During the last four years Luminars staff and 19 May 2003 experience have been appointed resulting in customers have collected and contributed over significant increases in sales and margins.
This is a fantastic effort from additional units will be developed from the our colleagues who have organised various existing estate.
events in their units to raise this outstanding sum.
