CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT he year 2003 was notable for a high degree of political and in Slovakia was also commissioned successfully, increasing the economic uncertainty.
The first half of the year was impacted Groups paper production by some 100,000 tonnes.
Both of these Tby the war in Iraq and political tension in the Middle East, projects should contribute to earnings in 2004. as well as the significant decline of the US dollar against other world currencies.
This weakness in the dollar had a significant impact Our strong track record in terms of acquisitions speaks for itself.
on the Groups results and, in particular, on the translation of the The EBITDA cash flow returns on our key acquisitions of Minera Sur Groups costs in South Africa and Australia.
The second half of the Andes, Cerrejn, Shell Coal, Syktyvkar and Tarmac range between year saw some recovery in demand for commodities and significant 16% and 23%.
The acquisition of Minera Sur Andes late in 2002 rises in the dollar prices for many of the Groups products, including has proved extremely attractive for the Group.
Not only were the platinum, gold, coal and base metals.
projected synergies exceeded but the operations were earningsaccretive in their first year after acquisition at an average copper The Group benefited again from its wide spread of product and price of 81 US cents lb.
Additional reserves totalling 368 million geographic diversity which together offer a natural hedge against tonnes have also been identified during the year, thereby extending economic conditions in any particular sector.
For the first time since the life of this large, low cost producer at a time when few large, our listing in 1999, the biggest contributor to headline earnings new copper mines are coming into production.
was the Groups interest in fide Beers, which reported record results from buoyant demand and rising prices in the diamond sector.
Since our London listing in 1999, we have achieved significant volume growth: 17% for platinum, 40% for diamonds, 67% Although turnover increased by 22% to $25 billion, the currency for copper, 57% for nickel, 197% for zinc, 40% for coal, 152% impacts referred to above affected operating profits including the for aggregates, 166% for uncoated woodfree paper, 158% translation of non-cash items such as goodwill amortisation and for packaging papers and 346% for industrial sacks.
However, it is pleasing that the Group was able of geographic exposure, we have made significant progress to report another year of strong cash flow EBITDA, virtually in transforming Anglo Americans asset base, with 30% of unchanged at $4,785 million.
Headline earnings declined 4% our assets today in Europe, 40% in South Africa, 16% in the to $1,694 million and earnings per share fell similarly by 5 cents Americas and the balance spread around the globe.
Improving the efficiency of our asset base The Group continued to grow on a steady basis and during the year We seek continuously to improve the operating efficiency of our benefited from the acquisition in late 2002 of the Minera Sur Andes existing assets.
Our focus on driving returns has produced significant formerly Disputada copper operations in Chile, which materially results from Group-wide cost cutting programmes.
We have exceeded the acquisition forecast parameters, and the acquisition consistently exceeded our targets and over the last two years have of 66.6% of South Africas largest iron ore producer, Kumba.
achieved total costs savings and efficiency improvements of just over $600 million.
Management is very aware of the value that can Against a background of rising commodity prices and an improving be created by optimising existing operations and is incentivised to outlook for the Groups products, the board has decided to increase achieve this.
the final dividend by 3 cents to 39 cents per share, resulting in a total dividend of 54 cents per share for 2003, up 6%.
Innovation Improving the culture for innovation and entrepreneurialism remains STRATEGY a key driver of growth.
This includes a thoroughgoing review Over the past five years we have achieved a significant restructuring of employee communication and knowledge sharing, enhanced by of Anglo American.
What was a highly complex group has been a strong central technical and research function for our specialist transformed into a world class entity with an exceptional portfolio of mining technologies.
Comprehensive programmes of innovation high quality assets and a balanced geographic exposure.
During this activity are now under way in various business units, including period we have grown our businesses significantly through $12 billion Base Metals, Paper and Packaging, and Industrial Minerals.
These of acquisitions and projects and have made disposals of $7 billion programmes seek to empower individuals to put forward ideas and of non-core assets, thereby creating a focused business to deliver facilitate their translation into practical business improvements.
improved returns to our shareholders.
A major milestone was the unwinding of the fide Beers cross-holding in 2001, which unlocked GROWING OUR BUSINESS significant value.
Since 1999, when we listed on the London Stock Finance Exchange, shareholder value has increased by $20 billion.
Significant progress was made during the year in diversifying the Groups debt capability away from pure bank credit by the placement Anglo Americans strategy is to achieve steady growth for its of euro and sterling denominated bonds.
Simultaneously, the debtshareholders across the cycle by investing in attractive acquisitions maturity profile was extended materially.
We will continue to explore as well as brownfield and greenfield projects that add value to opportunities to improve further the depth and flexibility of our natural resources.
Our policy of adding value and pursuing growth financing capability.
covers the following key areas: Diamonds Acquisitions and organic growth The earnings contribution from our 45% associate fide Beers We continue to pursue both acquisition and organic-led growth increased by 19% to $386 million, and cash dividends received across our business units.
Anglo American has one of the strongest increased by 124% to $238 million.
pipelines of growth projects in the mining and natural resource industry, spanning all of our key products, with around $6 billion fide Beers has successfully implemented its Supplier of Choice of approved project capital expenditure over the next five years.
Having obtained approval from the European We successfully commissioned a number of projects during 2003, Commission in January 2003 for its Supplier of Choice customer including the $454 million Skorpion zinc project in Namibia which strategy, the process of reconfiguring its relationship with sightholders is currently operating at 75% of design capacity.
The timing of this commenced.
The strategy of stimulating interest in diamonds as a project appears opportune with zinc prices and demand starting to luxury-goods category appears to be working well, with a number of recover from recent record lows.
The Ruzomberok paper mill project sightholders and their downstream trade partners financing advertising Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 Chief executives statement 03 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CONTINUED programmes, and diamond jewellery sales appearing to successfully Base Metals compete with, if not outperform, other luxury-goods categories.
A major turnaround has been achieved in Base Metals.
Maintenance of this long term strategy is expected to result in a The integration of Minera Sur Andes, which had its first full year sustainable increase in rough diamond demand.
of contribution in 2003, has provided critical mass to our copper operations in Chile, and annual cost savings and synergies achieved fide Beers continues to drive a continuous improvement programme so far amount to $17 million.
Anglo American is now among the aimed at optimising all aspects of the business from production worlds top five producers of the metal, with an attributable efficiencies through to marketing, and is focused on optimising production of more than 700,000 tonnes a year.
In September, the availability of rough diamond supply from its own mines in Skorpion mine and refinery opened in Namibia.
This is set to become anticipation of further increased demand in 2004. one of the worlds lowest cost zinc producers as it ramps up to full production of 150,000 tonnes per annum.
Exploration effort within Platinum Base Metals will continue to focus on copper, with lower emphasis Anglo Platinums long term objective is to grow the market for on nickel and zinc, in pursuit of organic growth.
platinum group metals and in tandem to expand output to meet this demand.
In December 2003, the company completed a detailed Industrial Minerals review of its expansion projects in light of the stronger than Anglo Industrial Minerals continued to deliver a strong performance, anticipated rand and weaker dollar.
As a result, Anglo Platinum has through a broad spread of businesses, mainly in the UK and decided to slow down the development of certain of its projects but continental Europe.
The years highlights included acquisitions in the will continue to utilise its outstanding ore reserves in growing UK, France, Spain, Germany and the Czech Republic.
Tarmac is now production to 2.9 million refined platinum ounces by 2006.
In light of the largest aggregates producer in the Czech Republic, and is well its funding requirements, on 16 February 2004 Anglo Platinum placed to benefit from the countrys forthcoming entry into the EU.
announced a R4 billion $570 million convertible preference share In the UK, the $173 million cement plant at Buxton is undergoing offer.
Anglo American will be subscribing for its pro rata share of the final commissioning trials and is expected to be in full production issue and continues to believe in the fundamental long term attraction in the second quarter of 2004.
In Brazil, the new phosphate fertilizer of the platinum business.
plant at Gois was completed during the year, $19 million under its budgeted cost of $147 million, and is operating at full capacity.
In Gold China, Tarmac is developing a quarry 140 kilometres from Shanghai.
In November, the Ghanaian government gave its backing for The quarry is the nearest known reserve of top quality asphalting AngloGolds bid to bring about a merger with Ashanti Goldfields.
aggregates to Chinas booming commercial capital.
The merger, which is expected to be completed in the first half of 2004, will create one of the worlds largest gold mining companies Paper and Packaging in terms of reserves and gold production.
Ashanti Goldfields has six Anglo Paper and Packaging continued to develop and expand its operations spread across the African continent, including the long European and South African asset base.
Mondi Packaging saw life Obuasi mine, where $1 billion is estimated to be spent over its significant transaction-led growth through the acquisition announced remaining life, including $570 million on the Obuasi Deeps project.
in December last year of the Austrian Bauernfeind Group, a corrugated paper and packaging business with extensive European In order to address the challenges of margin squeeze as a function operations.
Frantschach has entered the North American industrial of reducing ore grades at some of its mines, declining global reserves sack market with the acquisition of the Copamex sack business in and the weak dollar, AngloGold continues its focus on operational Mexico subject to competition approval.
In South Africa, the excellence, initiatives to increase reserves and downstream efforts Richards Bay pulp mill expansion is on track for commissioning its to invigorate demand.
first phase by the end of the first quarter in 2004, with completion scheduled for just over a year later.
The Russian mill, Neusiedler Coal Syktyvkar, is performing well and in line with the acquisition forecast.
In the thermal coal market, Anglo Coal intends to maximise and grow its exports from South Africa, South America and Australia.
Ferrous Metals & Industries The export metallurgical coal capability will be further enhanced by Anglo American has for some time sought entry into the iron ore pursuing opportunities in Australia as well as in China and Russia.
A major development was the approval in September by South Africas Competition Tribunal for the Company to acquire Major expansionary capital in 2004 will include the Kriel South, shares in Kumba.
In October, Anglo Americans shareholding Greenside and Kleinkopje expansions in South Africa.
In Australia, in Kumba increased to just over 35% and as a consequence the a feasibility study is under way regarding the development of company extended a mandatory cash offer to Kumbas shareholders, the remainder of the Dawson complex, which incorporates Moura resulting in Anglo Americans stake increasing to 66.6%.
Kumba has and Theodore, while work continues on several other projects.
In exciting expansion potential in iron ore through a number of projects Colombia, Cerrejn is expanding its operations to an annual output in South Africa and Australia.
Having secured control of Kumba, of 28 million tonnes of coal by 2007.
Although first-half production in attention is now focused on meeting the black economic Australia will be affected by a longwall disruption at Moranbah, empowerment BEE requirements in South Africa and growing Anglo Coal will benefit from the recent strong price rises for both the company.
In line with the strategy of disposing of non-core assets, the remaining shareholding in Li & Fung was sold for $269 million.
The majority of our remaining stake in FirstRand was sold for $176 million, with the small residual amount disposed of in January 2004.
04 Chief executives statement Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CONTINUED SAFETY AND HEALTH COMMODITIES TIME FOR A TURNAROUND?
Further progress has been made in improving the safety and health The past 20 years have been a difficult time in the commodities environment for employees, with Anglo Americans lost time injury business.
Steady price rises for 40 years since the end of frequency rate LTIFR reflecting a 58% improvement over three years, World War II notably on the back of the rise of Japan and including a 26% improvement in 2003.
I am, however, disappointed reconstruction in Germany, followed by the emergence of South by our failure to significantly reduce fatalities compared with 2002.
Korea and later Brazil came to an end, and were even reversed, We continue to stress the paramount importance of safety throughout from the early 1980s onwards.
In part this was due to the end our operations with single-minded determination.
of the post-war reconstruction phase, combined with an oversupply of a number of major metals.
This resulted in certain commodities, Good progress has been made in rolling out anti-retroviral therapy to such as copper and zinc, declining to real price levels last seen in employees with AIDS.
Over 1,000 employees were receiving the 1930s.
treatment as of the end of 2003 and the preliminary results are very encouraging.
Anglo American has established an ambitious partnership Encouragingly, there are signs that the historical real decline in metal with the NGO loveLife: the Global Fund to fight AIDS, TB and Malaria: prices has started to reverse.
Whether this represents the start of the Nelson Mandela Foundation: and the Henry J. Kaiser Foundation to a new long term cycle is a question that will not be answered for a help primary health care clinics build capacity to deliver improved few years.
At present, the cycle is not obviously different from any HIV AIDS prevention and care services.
This public-private partnership other strong upturn over the past 20 years, though much of the is the first step in the process of building an AIDS treatment new optimism is based on Chinas current industrial revolution, which infrastructure in the communities associated with our operations.
in 2003 alone saw industrial production growth of 17%.
China has become the worlds biggest consumer of iron ore, copper and various CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY other commodities.
For three years running, China has also been the Specific programmes to support the implementation of Good primary market for platinum jewellery, with compound annual growth Citizenship: Our Business Principles were introduced during rates over that period of 35%.
Diamond jewellery demand is also the year, with a particular focus on community issues, employee growing strongly.
Moreover, Chinas embrace of the free market is communication and enhancing our whistle-blowing facilities.
Three now being tracked, albeit at lower rates of growth, by India.
Between year rolling Community Engagement Plans are being produced by them, the two countries look set to provide sustained demand significant operations, to improve interaction between the Company for a number of commodities for years to come.
The effect of this, and the communities in which it operates.
These will increasingly be combined with fewer discoveries and a more disciplined industry, enriched by our new Socio-Economic Assessment Toolbox SEAT.
is set to provide a positive backdrop to metals markets going forward.
The SEAT process will support our local managers in engaging with local stakeholders: improving management of any adverse impacts: OUTLOOK and working to maximise the local benefits of their presence in areas The positive outlook for a number of our commodities provides like local business development and training.
A noteworthy event an encouraging platform for the year ahead.
Improved economic during the year was Anglo Americans inclusion in the Dow Jones growth in the USA and Japan, combined with the strong industrial Sustainability Index for the first time.
performance of China, is encouraging.
After two decades of generally flat or declining real prices for metals, despite a background BLACK ECONOMIC EMPOWERMENT of steadily increasing demand, the backdrop for commodities is now The legislative framework governing the transformation of the more positive than it has been for a number of years.
Although South African mining industry is continuing to emerge.
We expect the potential for a further weakening of the dollar remains a cause promulgation of the Minerals and Petroleum Resources Development for concern, this is likely to be offset by rising dollar prices for our Act later this year, together with the regulations governing its key commodities.
The process of conversion from old order to new order mineral rights will then begin.
The South African government has The Group offers a unique mix of geographic and product diversity confirmed that, regarding the Royalties Bill, royalties will only become which insulates it from the volatility associated with single-product payable in 2009 when the conversion process is complete.
Our gold, platinum, diamond, coal, base and ferrous metals businesses are benefiting from recent price rises and should continue In terms of black economic empowerment BEE, the Group continues to enjoy steady growth.
In addition, paper and packaging and to make steady progress, having now recorded over $2 billion in major industrial minerals are generating strong cash flows.
The Group will transactions and over $1.5 billion in procurement and small business also benefit from a number of new projects and recent acquisitions.
The Group is making good progress towards On the basis of prevailing commodity prices and exchange rates, complying with the Mining Charter BEE targets.
the Group should achieve good growth in 2004.
A J Trahar Chief executive Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 Chief executives statement 05
