Drivesett Tegula Circle Chief Executives Review All three Divisions made progress in 2003 and Landscape Products Division contributed to the Group achieving a profit before Sales in 2003 were 288.8 million 2002: 270.4 tax of more than 50 million for the first time.
This million an increase of 6.8 per cent over last year.
was made possible largely through the hard work Operating profit rose by 8.8 per cent to 44.9 and dedication of our managers and employees in million 2002: 41.2 million.
I would like to express my sincere thanks to them all.
The paragraphs that follow give some insight into how this result was achieved.
8 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2003 Domestic Market The domestic market for landscape products continued to grow in 2003.
Sales increased by 7 per cent.
The results were helped by increased marketing.
For the first time we sponsored the lunchtime television slot on UK Style, a satellite channel focussed on gardening programmes.
This and other promotional expenditure, designed to grow the market, improve brand awareness and create leads for installers who are members of the Marshalls Register worked very successfully.
A total of 200,000 telephone and web based enquiries were generated during the year for the Marshalls Register members.
Consumer brand awareness increased substantially.
To build on this success TV sponsorship has been renewed for 2004.
Driveline Elite, Heather The objective of our marketing is also to ensure that consumers are aware of the full range of products Marshalls has available to transform gardens and driveways.
Our market research confirms a hunger for new products that are aesthetically different in terms of colour, shape, size and finish.
We therefore continue to invest in product innovation to satisfy this demand.
An example would be our Woodstone range introduced in 2003 which we will add to in 2004.
The Marshalls Register of approved installers, created to guarantee quality of installation, and therefore provide peace of mind for the home owner, is now in its fourth year of existence.
During 2003 the number of installers on the Register increased by 11 per cent.
During the year we began working with a number of the major housebuilders to offer buyers the option of a Marshalls designed garden as part of the package.
The offer includes our normal ten year guarantee, because the installation is carried out by members of the Register.
The scheme is in its early stages but initial response is very encouraging.
Woodstone Diagonal Decking, Light Oak Marshalls plc Annual Report 2003 9 La Linia, Light Granite Commercial and Public Sector Market Sales to the commercial and public sector market In addition we provide high quality technical for landscape products grew by 7 per cent in advice and support from the conceptual stage of 2003.
In this important part of our business we a project through to final installation.
We have have been working with architects and others to recently developed a patented method for develop new products and product solutions.
producing our commercial block paving in a packaged format suitable for immediate machine During 2003 we launched a new range of paving laying in large commercial projects.
This offering exciting shapes and colours to allow significantly speeds up installation and reduces much more scope for freedom of expression by the amount of manpower needed.
architects in the design and layout of the landscape surrounding commercial and public sector building projects.
Also, after extensive market research, we have carried this idea through to the creation of co-ordinated product solutions focussed on different types of landscape projects like schools, hospitals, offices and retail.
10 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2003 Manufacturing and Distribution Stocks The operating strategy of the Division which we Finished goods stock levels have been reduced by have continued to refine, combines regional 5 million during 2003.
This was achieved without manufacturing and distribution sites with national reducing manufacturing efficiencies and allowing manufacturing works, that produce all newly the maintenance of a stable employment pattern.
introduced and special products that have not yet Numbers employed, were therefore constant reached the commercial volumes that would justify throughout the year.
Production levels have now regional manufacture.
been increased, helped by further productivity gains from the investment we have made.
Sophisticated The regional sites are known as Service Centresand production scheduling software being introduced are unique in the Industry.
Each of them can supply during 2004, once fully implemented, will allow us to customers in the area with our full range of products.
reduce stock levels still further.
The products we sell are bulky and relatively low value, and therefore expensive to distribute.
Outlook The Service Centres give Marshalls a major In the domestic sector, Register members ended the competitive advantage by being close to market.
year with forward order books averaging 10 weeks.
This will be even more significant when in 2005 the This is similar to the position at the start of 2003, and Working Time Directive is introduced in the haulage gives us confidence in terms of future demand as we industry, predicted to increase distribution costs by enter 2004. an estimated 15 per cent.
The forecast for new work from the Construction During 2003 the Division spent 36 million on Products Association based on an interpretation of capital expenditure.
There were two large projects current Government, Local Authority and private carried out besides normal replacement and spending plans shows continuing growth in new efficiency improvements.
work over the next three years.
Our on-going focus on the introduction of new product solutions The first major project involved the rebuilding and resulting in improved product mix gives us expansion of the Service Centre at Maltby, South confidence in our ability to deliver further growth Yorkshire.
Some existing product capacity was this year in commercial and public sector sales.
replaced with more up to date equipment, and additional capacity added to enable other products to be made in the Region to make it self sufficient.
The first phase of the project is operational.
The remaining capacity is due to be commissioned in April 2004.
The second major project was for an additional production facility at Sandy, Bedfordshire, one of the National Manufacturing sites.
The new facility includes plant to produce the two new product families referred to earlier, the new colours and shapes in concrete block paving, and the special packs of concrete block paving suitable for being laid by machine.
The remaining expenditure was for smaller productivity improvement schemes with a rapid payback, essential health and safety expenditure and replacement of worn out assets.
New Fleet Vehicles Marshalls plc Annual Report 2003 11 Cambridge Burwell White Brick, Thames Valley Clay Products Division Sales amounted to 32.1 million 2002: 30.3 Finished goods stocks were down by 38 per cent million an increase of 6.2 per cent.
Operating to the lowest level since the early 1990s.
The profit at 4.2 million was 0.2 million below business generated net cash of 7.7 million in last year.
This result has to be viewed against the 2003.
We have for some time been promising background that, at the end of the first half, shareholders an improved performance from the operating profit was 26.1 per cent lower than Division in line with the standards we have 2002. achieved in the other parts of the Group.
Under a new Managing Director the results are now At the half year profits were lower due mainly to a starting to be delivered.
raw material supply problem at one of the brick production sites.
The problem was overcome and together with the many profit improvement Outlook projects we have underway, almost all the lost The market for bricks was 4.4 per cent ahead in ground was made up.
Profits in the second half 2003.
Industry stocks ended the year at were significantly ahead of last year.
Market conditions are therefore more favourable than for some time.
Our business is well placed to take advantage of these improved trading conditions.
With firmer prices in the market, together with further improvements in operating efficiency, we expect to show further positive progress in 2004.
12 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2003 Natural Stone Division Sales at 28.5 million 2002: 25.0 million were 14.3 per cent ahead of last year, helped by the acquisition of a sand and gravel business made just before last year end.
Operating profit of 4.1 million 2002: 3.3 million was 23.5 per cent up on last year, and 7.3 per cent ahead on a like for like basis.
A number of prestigious projects were completed during the year.
These included the further pedestrianisation of Trafalgar Square.
We commenced supply for the perimeter roads at Terminal 5 at Heathrow and, during 2004, will supply product for Liverpool Package X and Spitalfields in London.
We continued to invest in machinery to increase productivity throughout the business.
Further Granite Bespoke Masonry, City Square, Leeds benefits will result from this investment in 2004.
Group Outlook We have identified further stone reserves that we The progress that has been made in all three own for paving and aggregates.
These will be Divisions during 2003, and the plans that have developed progressively to provide additional been outlined above for 2004 should reassure revenue streams during 2004. shareholders that the Group is in a strong position to meet the challenges we face.
It should also be clear that we are strongly committed to maintain Outlook the market leadership and profit growth we have The expansion of Natural Stone since its achieved in recent years.
establishment as a separate Division has been rapid.
With the investment we are making in equipment and the development of additional Graham Holden reserves we expect the growth to continue.
Chief Executive Marshalls plc Annual Report 2003 13
