8 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2006 Health monitoring Leading-edge technologies Condition-based monitoring and maintenance operators increasingly subscribe to the importance of gas turbines in the aerospace, marine and of planned preventive maintenance across a range power generation sectors is a high tech, high of high value assets.
growth market in which Meggitt has the leading Meggitts customer credibility arises from our technologieshigh performance sensors and signi cant installed base of products.
We are on advanced processing electronics.
virtually every large civil aircraft ying today and The market, which Meggitts solutions have played the Airbus A380 and Boeing 787, where we are alone a role in creating, is driven by the need to optimise in demonstrating the on-engine capability required maintenance regimes that lower the cost of owning by engine manufacturers supplying power by the hour.
high value assets: help maximise fuel economy: Exceptional customer service is a matter of public and meet environmental regulationour products recordwe are regularly voted amongst Airbus help reduce noise and noxious emissions.
It is an top suppliers by its customers, last year achieving important part of our sensing systems business a Gold award.
and we are investing in it heavily to sustain our In 2006, we acquired the breakthrough turbine tip technological leadership, increase sales and maintain clearance measurement technology of US start-up excellent customer service.
Radatec and we engaged in an innovative licensing Meggitts portfolio of high performance sensors arrangement with AeroMechanical Services.
Its enables us to measure the critical parameters airborne autonomous data collection and reporting needed to monitor gas turbines and our proprietary systems are enabling us to distribute the valuable electronic processing makes the data operationally information from our condition monitoring systems useful.
Combined, they have enabled us to create to financial, operations and maintenance decisionthe state-of-the-art monitoring systems that deliver makers on the ground.
With two-way communication the detailed images of engine condition needed to features, problems can be solved inight or by ground manage engine maintenance ef ciently.
This unique staff alerted to the need for unscheduled maintenance technology can also be applied to airframe applications within 20 seconds of the data being collected and such as landing gear and wheels and brakes as processed into operationally-useful information.
Jon Geisheimer Founder and Technology Lead, Radatec, USA, now Senior Engineer, Meggitt Sensing Systems, Switzerland At Georgia Tech, I explored has identi ed rotor blade radar biometrics.
Today, I use measurement and monitoring radar to measure mechanical as critical to reducing movement.
Radatec was greenhouse gas emissions founded when NASA provided and fuel consumption and development funding for preventing unnecessary a concept involving a radarhot-section overhauls and based technology that measures loose blades destroying components moving fast in engines.
Meggitt has an hostile environments, such outstanding reputation in as gas turbine engine blades.
the market and knows how We went on to pull more to introduce new products.
information out of a signal It is profoundly rewarding to than anyone else, anywhere.
have solved a very dif cult problem and stand now on At Meggitt Sensing Systems, the brink of making it useful we are bringing this important with the management team technology to commercial that knows how to do it.
fruitionjust when every aircraft engine manufacturer Green machines Next generation engines could include Radatecs new turbine blade clearance measurement tools.
Achieving a 0.25 millimetre clearance between the case and the tip of a turbine blade can improve fuel ef ciency by one per cent, reduce noxious emissions by ten per cent and decrease exhaust gas temperature by 6, extending engine life.
Across large eets of aircraft and industrial gas turbines, such gains are signi cant.
Training for real Combining Firearms Training Systems with Meggitt Defense Systems Caswell means law enforcement and military personnel can learn to handle weapons in virtual scenarios so realistic that the only missing element is the cordite and hot brass.
Beyond eld combat scenarios, we cover hostage rescue, securing and moving through buildings, aircraft takeoff, port and convoy protection and incidents such as train derailments, chemical spills, brown-outs and severe weather.
