11 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2006 Training systems Str ategic acquisitions boos t organic growth Over several years, organic growth at Meggitt has real-time diagnostics.
Its library of lmed and computerbeen boosted by an acquisitions programme that generated training scenarios is the industrys most has successfully fast-tracked product and market extensive and, with its integrated platforms, multiple developments in areas of strategic importance.
users can interact on a common virtual battle eld, even if geographically separated.
In 2006, Meggitts defence systems business made one of its most signi cant acquisitions since live re Now Meggitt is well-positioned to capture a larger training specialist Caswell in 2003.
Virtual weapons share of US military business with a training capability training specialist, Firearms Training Systems FATS that meets the requirements of modern military combined with Caswell not only expanded the scale doctrine exible solutions that maximise the costof our defence systems operations internationally, it effectiveness and ef ciency of live and virtual training repositioned Meggitts training systems offer: we are in network-centric combat scenarios.
The UK Ministry now the leading supplier of integrated livere and of Defence is also a signi cant FATS customer.
Deployability is fundamental to our approach to FATS simulation-based training programmes training.
Our global presence means that not only prepare men and women who work in military, law can our tools and techniques address almost any enforcement and security organisations to develop combat training requirementand a signi cant range effective judgement, practice rules of engagement, of scenarios requiring skilled incident response re ne tactical prowess and train with their complement involving multiple agencieswe take our training to of weapons systems.
From y-out packages that can be set up in the weapons arsenal includes over 250 weapons from desert for soldiers on active service, to con gurations handguns to artillery pieces, which include the worlds suitable for the of ces of security personnel guarding first wireless weapons using the companys patented buildings, this new and highly-effective integrated Blue re technology for greater mobility, realism and capability can be used almost anywhere, any time.
LtCol Rich Haddad USMCR, Vice President, Business Development Meggitt Defense Systems, United States After seven years active duty I am also improving synergies in the US Marine Corps, I took within the division and within a marketing MBA and started the group.
I am very lucky to be at Meggitt It was 2004 when Meggitt gave in one of its most signi cant me the opportunity to exploit evolutionary phases.
On the one my military and business hand, theres all the excitement experience developing its of hands-on activity with a group newly-acquired live weapons of entrepreneurial operating training arm.
It took a huge leap companies who are agile and forward when we acquired FATS responsive to opportunities.
And and its virtual ring capability.
on the other, there are roles to play in shaping the Meggitt Today, I am supporting this group, an increasingly connected integrated business in a wider big business with wide horizons divisional context, managing for ambitious people.
government relations and helping develop and manage complex military programmes.
