33 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2006 Report of the directors The directors submit their annual report and the audited financial statements On 12 September 2006, Meggitt completed the acquisition of Keith Products for the year ended 31 December 2006.
The Group financial statements have LLP for a cash consideration including costs of 16.6 million with a further been prepared in accordance with EU endorsed International Financial 1.0 million payable after two years subject to the achievement of certain Reporting Standards IFRSs, IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act performance targets.
1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Company financial On 19 October 2006, Meggitt completed the acquisition of Firearms Training statements have been prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Systems, Inc. for a cash consideration including costs of 68.3 million.
Post balance sheet events Principal activities and business review The Group announced on 6 March 2007 the proposed acquisition of Meggitt PLC is the parent company of a Group whose principal activities K&F Industries Holdings, Inc. for a total cash consideration of $1.8 billion.
during the year were the design and manufacture of equipment and systems K&F Industries Holdings, Inc. is a leading provider of wheels and brakes for for the aerospace and defence industries and the design and manufacture commercial aircraft, general aviation and military aircraft and a key supplier of electronic sensors, together with related businesses.
of engineered fabrics to the US Department of Defense.
The main operations More details of the Groups activities and future plans are contained in the of K&F Industries Holdings, Inc. are located in Akron, Ohio, Danville, Business Review on pages 16 to 26.
The acquisition is to be financed by a combination of a rights issue and debt.
New shares will be issued at 200 Group results pence per share by way of a 1 for 2 rights issue.
The terms of the new credit facility have been agreed.
Profit before taxation amounted to 130.0 million 2005: 87.1 million as restated.
The profit attributable to ordinary shareholders amounted Share capital to 96.5 million 2005: 65.5 million as restated which after dividends of 34.3 million 2005: 31.0 million resulted in a retained profit for the The authorised share capital of the Company together with details of shares financial year of 62.2 million 2005: 34.5 million as restated.
issued during the financial year is shown in note 36 on page 77.
A further 259,692 ordinary shares have been issued between 31 December 2006 and Dividends 26 February 2007 as a result of the exercise of share options.
The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 6.00p net per Share Incentive Plan ordinary 5p share 2005: 5.30p to be paid on 6 July 2007 to those members on the register at close of business on 16 March 2007.
The Trustee of the Share Incentive Plan has been allocated 0.7 million from the 2006 profits to acquire ordinary shares in Meggitt PLC for eligible An interim dividend of 2.60p 2005: 2.40p was paid on 1 December 2006. employees 2005: 0.6 million.
If the final dividend recommended is approved the total ordinary dividend for the year will amount to 8.60p net per share 2005: 7.70p.
Dividends are paid Directors and their interests to shareholders net of a non-refundable tax credit of 10%.
Shareholders liable to higher rate income tax will have additional tax to pay.
Shareholders will be The directors who served during the year were: Sir Colin Terry, Mr T Twigger, offered a scrip dividend alternative under the share dividend plan in respect Sir Alan Cox, Mr P E Green, Mr P J Hill, Mr D A Robins, Mr D M Williams and of the proposed final dividend.
In accordance with Article 75 of the Companys Articles of Association, Share dividend plan Mr P E Green, Mr P J Hill and Mr S G Young retire by rotation at the During 2006 the Company made available the Meggitt PLC share dividend forthcoming Annual General Meeting and being eligible offer themselves plan in respect of the dividends paid in July 2006 being the final dividend for re-election.
Sir Alan Cox, by reason of his having reached the age of 70, for 2005 and in December 2006 being the interim dividend for 2006. in accordance with Article 79 of the Companys Articles of Association retires The amount of dividend necessary to give an entitlement to one new at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and being eligible offers himself ordinary share was fixed at 345.45p and 324.80p respectively.
In addition, Mr D M Williams was appointed as a director of the Company on 13 December 2006 and in accordance with Article 71 of the The opening value in respect of each dividend is the market value of one Companys Articles of Association retires at the forthcoming Annual General new share on the dividend payment date.
The opening values for the dividends Meeting and being eligible offers himself for election.
paid in July and December 2006 were 311.00p and 293.25p respectively.
In each case, as the difference between the opening value and the amount Details of directors contracts and their interests in the ordinary shares of the cash dividend necessary to give an entitlement to one new share is of the Company are as shown in the Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 45. not more than 15%, HM Revenue & Customs will not seek to substitute None of the directors has or has had at any time during the financial year the opening value for that amount.
a beneficial interest in any material contract relating to the business of the Group other than service contracts.
Acquisitions and disposals The directors have the benefit of qualifying third party indemnity provisions On 22 August 2006, Meggitt completed the acquisition of Radatec, Inc for the purposes of sections 309A to 309C of the Companies Act 1985 for a cash consideration including costs of 1.4 million with an additional pursuant to the Companys Articles of Association.
A copy of the Articles 4.2 million potentially payable subject to meeting agreed milestones.
of Association is available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
The indemnity provisions in the Articles of Association were amended at the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 11 May 2006 to take advantage of changes in legislation allowing companies to grant wider indemnities than previously permitted.
34 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2006 Report of the directors continued Substantial shareholdings The directors believe that employees should be encouraged to become shareholders in order to provide their active participation in and commitment As at 19 January 2007 the Company had been notified as required by the to the Groups success.
This policy has been pursued through the Share Companies Act 1985 that the following had an interest amounting to 3% Incentive Plan, the Sharesave Scheme, the Executive Share Option Scheme or more of the issued ordinary share capital: and the Equity Participation Plan.
Ordinary Percentage shares of of issued It is estimated that, when the current years allocation has been made 5p each share capital by the Trustee under the Share Incentive Plan, approximately 1,930 UK FMR Corp. and Fidelity International Limited 33,816,184 7.75% employees will hold shares in the Company.
The number of employees Resolution Asset Management 24,116,239 5.53% contributing to the Sharesave Scheme at 31 December 2006 was 982.
Prudential plc 21,939,158 5.03% Payment policy Deutsche Bank AG 18,685,785 4.28% The Companys policy is to comply with the terms of payment agreed with a Legal & General Group plc 16,600,424 3.81% supplier.
Where terms are not negotiated, the Company endeavours to adhere to the suppliers standard terms.
Meggitt PLC is a holding company and does On 20 January 2007 the Companies Act 1985 provisions in respect not have significant trade creditors.
Its creditor days at 31 December 2006 of substantial shareholdings were repealed and the Disclosure and were 30 days 2005: 19 days.
Group creditor days at 31 December 2006 were Transparency Rules of the FSA came into force.
These calculations are made in accordance with the the Company had received notifications that the holdings exceeding the Companies Act 1985 and therefore include the full value of trade creditors in 3% notification threshold were as follows: the acquired businesses but only include their purchases from the respective Percentage of total voting rights dates of acquisition.
Therefore, although there has been no change in payment attaching to the issued ordinary policy, the respective timing of acquisitions can result in a different creditor Voting rights share capital of the Company days figure when calculated in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Prudential plc 41,832,185 9.59 When adjusted for the effect of acquisitions, creditor days for the Group Schroders plc 27,486,291 6.30 at 31 December 2006 were 70 days 2005: 75 days.
Legal & General Assurance Health and safety at work Pension Management Limited 13,130,369 3.01 The Company continues to carry out its responsibility for securing the health, safety and welfare at work of employees of the Company and its Under the applicable transitional provisions, shareholders have until subsidiaries and for protecting other persons against risks to health and 20 March 2007 to notify the Company of holdings exceeding the 3% safety arising out of, or in connection with, the activities at work of those notification threshold under the new regime.
The list above may therefore employees.
Every reasonable effort is made to provide safe working be incomplete as at 26 February 2007. conditions, protective equipment is provided when necessary and safety courses are made available.
During the year the Company continued its Corporate responsibility programme of health and safety audits at the operating facilities which are undertaken by an independent contractor.
The Board takes regular account of the significance of social, environmental and ethical matters and a report can be found on pages 27 to 29.
The following Equal opportunities specific matters fall under the broad definition of Corporate Responsibility: The Group has a policy supporting the principle of equal opportunities in employment and opposing all forms of unlawful or unfair discrimination.
Community relations and charitable donations Charitable donations made during the year ended 31 December 2006 Disabled employees amounted to 0.1 million 2005: 0.1 million.
In addition, Meggitt PLC It is Group policy to give full and fair consideration to applications made gave financial assistance to local organisations amounting to 10,000 by disabled people, to continue wherever possible the employment of staff 2005: 5,000.
There are also many examples throughout the Group of who become disabled and to provide opportunities for the training, career non-financial assistance being provided to local organisations.
development and promotion of disabled employees.
Employee participation Ethics and business conduct The Company is aware of the importance of two-way communication with The Group has an Ethics and Business Conduct Policy and a Code of Conduct.
Its operating subsidiaries rely on communication and consultation All employees have received a copy of the Code of Conduct and follow up at site level using the best methods as determined by local needs and training.
In September 2006, to keep awareness high, a series of five minute industry practice.
In addition employees receive copies of the Meggitt Review, videos was launched called ethical moments, which will run throughout a newsletter providing details of notable events and achievements in all 2007 highlighting various elements of the ethics programme.
In addition to companies of the Group.
Senior Group executives meet together regularly the training, resource materials have been developed for use by the ethics and additionally meet both formally and informally with members co-ordinators who are based within each business, and sub-policies are also of the management teams of other Group companies.
in the process of being developed.
Ethics and business conduct is reviewed regularly by a Committee of the Board.
35 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2006 Report of the directors continued Political contributions Statement of directors responsibilities In accordance with the Groups policy, no contributions were made to The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the political parties or political organisations 2005: Nil and no EU political Directors Remuneration Report and the Groups and the Companys expenditure exceeding 200 was incurred in the year by the Company or financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for Research and development each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the Groups financial statements in accordance with IFRSs and the Companys financial The Group recognises the importance of investing in research and statements and the Directors Remuneration Report in accordance with development programmes which bring innovative improvements to the applicable law and with UK GAAP.
The Groups and Companys financial Group both in the products supplied to the consumer and in production statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of techniques.
Expenditure in 2006 on research and development amounted affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group to 37.5 million 2005: 30.8 million, of which 14.5 million 2005: for that year.
8.0 million was capitalised in accordance with the Groups accounting policy see note 2 of the Groups financial statements.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Financial risk management make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state that the Groups financial statements comply with IFRSs, and The Groups policies on financial risk management are set out in note 3 with regard to the Companys financial statements that applicable of the Groups financial statements.
UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
Details of resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
Details of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 26 April 2007, and explanations of the resolutions to be proposed, appear in the separate The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that Notice of Annual General Meeting enclosed with this report.
In addition to disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the the ordinary business of the meeting, shareholders consent will be sought Group and the Company and to enable them to ensure that the Groups to: i approve the Remuneration Report: ii renew the authority of the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 directors to issue shares under Article 4 of the Companys Articles of of the IAS Regulation and the Companys financial statements and the Association: iii approve payments to organisations of no more than 50,000 Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 1985. in total, which might inadvertently be interpreted as donations to EU political They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and organisations under the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention 2000 as amended by the Electoral Administration Act 2006, although it is and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
not the policy of the Company to make donations to political parties and the By order of the Board directors have no intention of changing that policy, neither do they intend to make any such donations, and iv to amend Article 133 of the Companys Articles of Association to reflect the new legislation regarding electronic communications with shareholders.
Auditors M L Young Company Secretary  LLP have expressed their willingness to continue 7 March 2007 in office as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Disclosure of information to auditors As at the date of this report, as far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and each director has taken all the steps that ought to have been taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
