15 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2006 Leveraging group capabilities Inv esting in group infr astructure Meggitt is a highly successful business and growing funds in the context of the new European Defence fast.
That is why we have created important new Agencys procurement policies and civil and security functional roles in organisational development, technology programmes.
strategy and marketing, information services, Meggitt is also evaluating opportunities across the operations excellence and ethics and export group to share services.
Our new information services compliance.
We are driving common processes function is enabling the secure communication and throughout the group, minimising risk, raising information-sharing needed to respond to customer standards, enabling information to ow more easily opportunities from a group perspective including and creating opportunities to reveal and exploit hosted e-mail and a move to a dedicated wide area business synergies.
We want information to ow more ef ciently We are also strengthening relationships with the and effectively where and when it needs to so our customers who drive our business.
Key account operating companies can work with each other managers are streamlining our approach to them, where possible across geographic and commercial with group-based engineering solutions and routes boundaries, optimising group resources and serving to simplify procurement.
Our new Washington customers from a wider perspective.
of ce is fostering relations with the United States As the business grows, roles grow and so does the Department of Defense and other agencies.
It is demand for talented people.
Of the top 50 people in positioning us to access government development the company, nearly half have been appointed to new funds and ensuring the group has a full understanding roles within the last two years.
Of these, two thirds of what government customers and the defence are new to Meggitt, refreshing our ideas and driving community wants from its suppliers in line with the business forward.
Meggitts growth makes it an government policy, military doctrine and current attractive employerin the same period we achieved and future programmes.
a 100 per cent success rate in hiring our chosen New representation in Brussels has formalised candidate for senior positions.
We are also investing in working relationships with appropriate legislative growing our own talent through systematic assessment, members and we are identifying developments, succession planning and, for 2007, the introduction of trends and opportunities to access development a high pro le leadership programme.
Ed Boquist Vice President of Government Relations LtCol Joyce McCallister USMC ret, Marketing & Customer Support, Marine Corps and Navy Programs, Washington DC Ed: In 1999, I was a Meggitt at one point, as sole supply contract lawyer.
Now I lead the of cer supporting 40 aircraft groups Washington DC of ce, training in the desert.
When ensuring Meggitt speaks with I took a Masters in defence one voice on its technologies systems acquisition, helicopter and capabilities.
I still programme management practise advocacyputting followed.
Meggitts strengths to the Today, I am putting 24 years US government and alerting hard-won defence experience Meggitt to what government to good use at Meggitt.
We have a strong case: with engineers, programme we can help government cut managers and logisticians cost, promote readiness and throughout the businesses, buy conveniently, and with the realising synergies, guiding leading technologies in our them through the United States chosen elds, there is much complex defence contract and we can develop for them.
procurement environment and Joyce: In the Marines, I matching defence requirements specialised in aviation logistics, to Meggitt capabilities.
