7 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2006 Strong aftermarket Long-term growth, dependable returns Meggitts aerospace equipment businesses Some 19,000 Dunlop wheel and brake assemblies wheels and brakes, thermal management systems, are on over 30 different aircraft typesjust one of uid controls, safety systems and polymers and the many technologies offered by specialist Meggitt compositesare designed for critical functions in businesses, all looking after their products, round hostile environments.
Largely used on aero-engines the clock, all year, lifelong.
Maintenance, repair and airframes, these products suffer extreme and overhaul services, Aircraft on Ground support, wear and tear requiring large volumes of spares technical helplines, product repair training, spares and repairs.
provisioning and site visits are backed by in-house, return-to-service test facilities.
We also support our The aftermarket is driven by aircraft usage and offers customers with total care packages covering inventory stable, long-term growth.
Revenue comes not only control, spares distribution and third-party supply from selling original equipment to new aircraft models management.
Our services are underpinned by but the spares and repairs needed to keep eets ying practices that reduce cost and improve performance.
for around three to four decades.
And since we are Smarter sourcing, consolidating facilities, integrating usually sole suppliers to a programme, dependable activity and continuing to develop management tools returns ow over the long-term.
Take our braking and processes ensure our operations run more systems business, for example.
It supplied a set of smoothly and economically.
eight main wheels and brake sets to a jet entering service in 1984.
Since then, we have equipped 250 of We know that investment in product development these aircraft, one of which lands around every two remains critical if we are to win the original equipment minutes.
The wear generated in our brakes carbon contracts of today that generate the aftermarket sales composite heat packs by these landings means they of tomorrow.
Thats why after 60 years in aerospace, must be replaced approximately every two years.
Meggitt products can be found on virtually every We also provide maintenance services and incidental aircraft in service and why, as military and civil spares.
Thats why the aftermarket income for each airframe build rates ebb and ow, our business aircrafts life can amount to around 1 million.
with the worlds aerospace industry scarcely falters.
John Hindmarsh Operation, Development & Support Manager Dunlop Aerospace Braking Systems, England Ive been speeding up like the team who saved and reducing the cost of us around 600,000 over the manufacturing at Dunlop last two years through better for over 20 years, including energy management and redesigning our operations other improvement projects.
processes in 1994 when we You can see the difference reduced lead-times by up you make in my jobenergy to 75 per cent.
bills going down, productivity Lean manufacturingand the rising.
Now I am putting in continuous improvement that management systems to protect keeps Lean dynamicis a and improve the performance passion but nothing can beat of over 40 million worth helping evolve a collaborative of plant and equipment.
culture where all our people You just cant stand still in are excited by the challenge our business.
of running this factory better.
I get a real buzz helping people solve problems independently,
