4 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2006 Group strategy We invest in attractive markets Aerospace equipment Meggitts extensive range of aerospace equipment electromechanical components and systems provides investors with stable, long-term growth and dependable aftermarket returns.
We direct our investment towards winning new programmes, improving performance and driving out cost, boosting organic growth with strategic acquisitions and enhancing component sales with sales of larger packages of integrated products.
Sensing systems We have the ability to measure virtually every critical parameter and our sensors are designed to perform Meggitts goal is to be among the upper quartile without fail in severe conditions on engines at high performers in our sectorsaerospace and defence temperature, on heart muscles and in the blood primarily, complemented by niche positions that stream, in crash tests and at missile launches.
include land and marine-based gas turbine operations.
The market for condition-based monitoring We will reach this goal by continuing to evolve our Terry Twigger and maintenance of high value assets such as group and adhering to a set of tried-and-tested Chief Executive aero-engines in particular is growing rapidly, driven strategy fundamentals.
by safety, environmental regulation and the need for fuel economy.
Meggitt has the leading technologies We invest in technology high performance sensors and advanced processing Owning intellectual property makes it hard for electronicsand we are investing heavily to sustain potential competitors to gain ground.
We take care our leadership position in this market.
to maintain investment in our highly engineered and Defence systems specialist products, protecting our position on current Meggitts defence systems business has positioned programmes and equipping ourselves with the our training arm to become a comprehensive weapons technologies that will secure our place on new ones.
training supplier across live and virtual re in line with modern military training philosophy.
We continue We invest in strong aftermarket businesses to carve out niches in combat support covering We design and develop our products to enable us environmental control, ammunition-handling and to gain sole source positions on many programmes.
This means we are well-placed to look after them throughout their service lives up to 35 years where We work as a group aircraft are concerned, achieving consistent, We are investing in a group-wide infrastructure predictable and long-term aftermarket revenues.
to ensure we remain successful as we grow.
With group appointments in operations excellence, We balance our interests organisational development, strategy and marketing, Meggitt offsets variation in market demand by information services, export control and ethics, spreading risk.
We balance our exposure to civil we are standardising the processes, practices markets with military markets: and sales to original and structures that will lead to simpler and more equipment manufacturers with sales of aftermarket nimble operations.
Senior account managers are services.
We are on a wide range of aircraft types strengthening the strategic supplier relationships that to avoid dependence on single customers and will underpin our major bids and our new Brussels programmes: and we balance business in North and Washington of ces are promoting Meggitts America with business in Europe and Asia.
5 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2006 activities as a whole, equipping us to take advantage of group.
Our people have always set and met high government procurement and funding opportunities.
standards and we will continue to support, train, develop and reward them so they are equipped to We focus on operational excellence ful l the needs of our fast-growing business.
In 2006, we created a central operations excellence We grow organically and by acquisition function to ensure that best practice is spread throughout the group and we continued to invest in We have a strong track record of organic growth factory extensions, refurbishments and relocations, and successfully nding and integrating acquisitions.
These were We will continue to look for opportunities to develop complemented by international procurement and our markets, enhance our technologies and strengthen strategic sourcing initiatives, all of which will ensure our leadership positions.
that we remain cost-competitive and meet the While our business model evolves to match changing increasing demands of our customers.
market conditions, these strategy fundamentals will continue to underline the groups direction and We invest in our people deliver the pro ts, strong cash ow and returns our We pride ourselves on the culture of strong performance shareholders have come to expect.
and financial management that characterises our Meggitt is evolving to continue delivering Group objectives sustainable pro table growth To deliver upper quartile returns through leadership positions in aerospace, defence and specialist markets Group strategy Invest in markets Invest in operational Leverage group Maintain a culture of Seek targeted with high barriers excellence capabilities strong performance acquisitions to entry and strong aftermarket revenues Here to stay After Dunlop signed its first contract with the Gulfstream IV for wheels and brakes in 1992, its products were speci ed on over 700 of this highspeed, long range business jet family, including Gulfstreams agship G550 and the 40 or so additions to the fleet entering service each year.
Now we are providing superior turnarounds on a spares service that will be in demand for the lifetime of these aircraftaround 20 to 25 years.
