DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS The Directors of Melrose PLC present their Report and the The Directors of Melrose PLC as at the date of this report, together Audited Financial Statements of the Group for the year ended with their biographical details, are given on pages 22 to 23.
No 31 December 2006. other person served as a Director during the year.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND BUSINESS REVIEW Mr John Grant joined the Company on 1 August 2006 as a nonMelrose PLCs stated strategy is to acquire companies and executive Director.
His appointment is governed by a letter of businesses whose operational performance the Melrose PLC appointment and he has no service contract with the Company.
Directors believe can be improved to create shareholder value.
The As required by the Articles of Association of Melrose PLC, Mr Grant executive Directors have extensive experience of identifying and will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being evaluating acquisition opportunities, quoted and unquoted, both UK eligible, will offer himself for election.
On 26 May 2005, Melrose PLC completed the acquisitions of the Dynacast Group and the McKechnie Group for a Following the expiry of his initial appointment, Mr Miles Templeman consideration of 429 million plus costs.
Since acquisition, Melrose was re-appointed for a term of three years expiring in October 2009. has significantly improved the performance of these businesses.
DIRECTORS INTERESTS AND REMUNERATION The Chairmans statement on pages 4 and 5, together with the Information on Directors beneficial interests, including those of Chief Executives, Business review and Finance Directors review on connected persons within the meaning of section 346 of the pages 6 to 21 describe the principal activities, operations, Companies Act 1985, in the shares of the Company is shown in performance, financial position and likely future prospects of the the Remuneration report on pages 32 to 35.
The results of the Group are set out in detail on pages 38 to 41 and in the accompanying notes.
No Director had a material interest at any time during the year in any contract, other than a service contract, with the Company or any The subsidiary and associated undertakings principally affecting the of its subsidiary undertakings.
profits or net assets of the Group in the year are listed in note 3 to the Melrose PLC UK GAAP accounts Company balance sheet.
DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES The Directors have the benefit of qualifying third party indemnity The principal changes in addition to actions intended to enhance provisions for the purposes of sections 309A to 309C of the the value of the Group during the year included restructuring within Companies Act 1985.
Dynacast, MPC and PSM through the rationalisation of the number of manufacturing sites, the disposal of the Arger business within the SHARE CAPITAL Aerospace Aftermarket Division, investment across all divisions in There was no change to the number of shares in Melrose PLC in existing and new technologies and the generation of cash from the issue during the year: disposal of surplus assets.
The Company is required by the Companies Act to set out in this SHARE CAPITAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2006 report a fair review of the business of the Group during the year Number of Ordinary Shares in issue and of the position of the Group at the end of the year and a at 1 January 2006 and 31 December 2006 257,119,989 description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
The information that fulfils these requirements can be found within Number of Convertible B Shares in issue at the Chief Executives review, Business review and Finance Directors 1 January 2006 and 31 December 2006 59,170 review on pages 6 to 21.
The Finance Directors review also indicates the key performance indicators that management use.
On 10 May 2006 options over 8,877 Convertible B Shares held by Ogier Employee Benefit Trust Limited the Employee Benefit Trust FINANCIAL RESULTS AND DIVIDEND were granted to executive Directors and senior management.
The Groups profit for the financial year attributable to members Details of these Directors options are set out in the Remuneration was 37.8 million including 0.1 million minority interests 2005: report on pages 32 to 35. loss 3.9 million.
The Directors are pleased to recommend the payment on 18 May 2007 to Ordinary shareholders on the register at the close of business on 20 April 2007, of a final dividend of 3.75 pence per Ordinary Share.
It is the intention of the Board to maintain a progressive dividend policy going forward.
24 MELROSE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS PENSIONS As at 7 March 2007 the Company has been advised of the Companies within the Melrose Group operate various pension following interests in the Ordinary Share capital of the Company, schemes around the world.
The only material scheme to the Group which are required to be notified in accordance with sections 791 is the McKechnie Pension Plan The Plan, a UK defined benefit to 828 of the Companies Act 2006. pension scheme with McKechnie Limited as its principal employer.
The Plan closed to new members on 9 May 2003 and for future Shares % accrual as at 30 June 2005.
The primary liability for funding the Fidelity International Ltd 33,057,359 12.86 Plan rests with the participating employers, although Melrose PLC BlackRock Investment has guaranteed the payment of certain contributions.
Members of Management UK Ltd 22,583,639 8.78 the Plan were given the opportunity to join a defined contribution Legal and General Group PLC 16,673,277 6.48 scheme when the Plan closed for future accrual.
Further details on F&C Asset Management plc 16,158,462 6.28 the Plan and other significant schemes in the Group are explained SVG Capital PLC 11,132,609 4.33 in note 24 to the Accounts.
Artemis Investment Management Ltd 10,606,977 4.13 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN SHARES The Group continually invests in research and development into Directors interests in the shares of the Company and options new products and several new products were launched across the to acquire shares are set out in the Remuneration report on pages Group during the year.
Some of these are mentioned in the 32 to 35. Business review.
Additionally, the Group invested in new technology in order to reduce manufacturing costs and to improve productivity.
EMPLOYEES The Group will continue to invest in research and development that The Group recognises its responsibilities for the fair treatment of all its has a suitable payback.
employees in accordance with national legislation applicable to the territories within which it operates.
Having regard to their skills and SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY abilities, the Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for Melrose PLC recognises the importance of social, environmental employment received from disabled persons, and so far as particular and ethical matters and the Directors endeavour to take into disabilities permit, will give employees disabled during their period of account the interests of all stakeholders, including investors, employment continued employment in the same job or, if this is not employees, customers, suppliers and business partners when practicable, a suitable alternative job.
Equal opportunities for managing the businesses within the Group.
appropriate training, career development and promotion are available to all employees regardless of any physical disability, gender, religion, COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT race, nationality, sexual orientation or age.
During its ownership of the Dynacast and the McKechnie Group, Melrose has invested in order to enhance the reputation of EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT AND CONSULTATION its businesses within the markets and communities in which The Directors attach great importance to the maintenance and they operate.
development of good labour relations and employee involvement and training.
The results for the half year and for the financial year are Some of the Groups businesses provide training within the discussed with senior management and the opportunity is taken to community.
For instance, at PSM Wuxi in China, an Internship inform them of Group developments.
Employees everywhere are Scheme was recently launched.
This programme is designed to encouraged to be aware of the performance of their business.
The provide work experience and vocational training for local graduates, nature of the Groups activities places the responsibility for such improving their opportunity to obtain permanent employment in the matters with local management in a manner appropriate to the local market where skilled and experienced workers are in demand.
particular circumstances of each business.
RISK FACTORS Employee involvement in the Groups profitability is encouraged The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies in through appropriate bonus schemes.
relation to the use of financial instruments are described in the Financial review on pages 16 to 21.
Additionally, key risks, which if they were to occur could impact on the business, are covered in the Chief Executives and Business review on pages 6 to 15.
MELROSE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 25 DIRECTORS REPORT continued HEALTH, SAFETY AND THE ENVIRONMENT AUDITORS The Directors seek to minimise risk to the health and safety of Under the Companies Audit, Investigation and Community the Groups employees by ensuring effective management of the Enterprise Act 2004, auditors have the right to access all Groups activities.
information necessary for performance of their duties as auditor and the duties of Directors in this regard are clarified.
The Group uses external consultants to carry out health and safety and environmental audits at the majority of sites on a cyclical basis.
So far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit Any areas for improvement identified by the external auditor are information of which the Auditors are unaware, and the Directors monitored and audit reports quantify performance in key areas.
have taken all the steps which they ought to have taken as a These audit reports facilitate the targeting and measurement of Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit future improvements.
information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
The Group recognises the importance of its environmental responsibilities, monitors its impact on the environment, and This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance implements local policies to reduce any damage that might be with the provisions of Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985. caused by the Groups activities.
The Group is committed to ensuring that its operations have minimum adverse effect upon the Deloitte & Touche LLP have expressed their willingness to continue environment and that employees are aware of their role in in office as Auditors.
Accordingly, a resolution will be proposed at safeguarding the future of the environment.
the Annual General Meeting of the Company to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as Auditors of the Company and to authorise the Many sites have progressed with a number of initiatives targeted to Directors to determine their remuneration.
enhance the Groups environmental, and ultimately, competitive position.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the Initiatives designed to minimise the Groups impact on the offices of Investec at 2 Gresham Street, London, EC2V 7QP at environment include improvements to energy efficiency, reductions 11.00 am on 14 May 2007. in C0 emissions, recycling and waste reduction.
Specific measures 2 include management and recycling of solvents, energy efficient Resolutions dealing with the following special business will be lighting, reductions in water usage, recycling of packaging materials proposed at the Annual General Meeting: and waste management and control.
Resolution 8 will seek shareholder approval of the Remuneration Many of the businesses across the Group are accredited to the report.
Resolution 9 will seek shareholder approval to renew the Directors PAYMENTS TO SUPPLIERS authority to allot relevant securities pursuant to section 80 of the It is the Groups general policy to abide by the terms of payment Companies Act 1985 the Section 80 authority.
The authority agreed with its suppliers at the time of individual transactions and to contained in the resolution will be limited to an aggregate nominal ensure that suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment and amount of 85,710, representing the authorised but unissued share abide by them.
The nature of the Companys transactions is such capital of the Company and approximately 27% of the Companys that any calculation of creditor days does not have any meaning.
issued share capital as at 7 March 2007.
The Company does not hold any treasury shares.
CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL DONATIONS The Group paid 5,950 2005: 2,276 to UK charities during the year, principally to local charities serving the communities in which the Group operates.
There were no political donations made during the year 2005: nil.
26 MELROSE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Resolution 10 will seek to renew the authority conferred on the Board to allot equity securities of the Company for cash without application of the pre-emption rights provided by section 89 1 of the Companies Act 1985 the Section 89 authority.
It is limited to the allotment of equity securities which have been offered pro rata to Ordinary shareholders, subject to any arrangements the Directors consider appropriate to deal with fractions and overseas requirements, and otherwise in relation to the allotment of equity securities up to a maximum nominal value of 12,856, representing approximately 5% of the Companys issued Ordinary Share capital as at 7 March 2007, which is in accordance with the relevant guidelines for the Company.
If approved, the Section 80 authority and the Section 89 authority will expire at the conclusion of next years Annual General Meeting or 15 months after the passing of the resolution, whichever is earlier.
The Directors have no present intention of exercising the Section 80 authority or the Section 89 authority.
By order of the Board GARRY BARNES SECRETARY 7 March 2007 MELROSE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 27
