MICHAEL PAGE INTERNATIONAL Board of Directors Sir Adrian Montague CBE Stephen Box 6 Non-Executive Chairman Independent Non-Executive Director, Senior Independent Director Sir Adrian Montague is Non-Executive Chairman of British Energy plc, Friends Provident plc and Infrastructure Investors Stephen Box qualified as a Chartered Accountant at Coopers Limited.
From 1997 to 2001 he held senior posts concerned & Lybrand where he spent more than 25 years, 15 of these with the implementation of the Governments policies for as a partner.
From August 1997 to November 2002 he was the involvement of the private sector in the delivery of public Finance Director of National Grid.
He is a member of the services, first as Chief Executive of the Treasury Taskforce Financial Reporting Review Panel, a Non-Executive Director of and then as Deputy Chairman of Partnerships UK plc.
Thames Water Utilities Ltd TWUL and Wales and West Utilities He was Deputy Chairman of Network Rail from 2001 to Ltd WWU.
Stephen has experience of Audit Committees as 2004 and Non-Executive Chairman of Cross London Rail a partner at Coopers & Lybrand, as an Executive Director of Links Limited from 2004 to 2005.
He spent his early career National Grid attending Audit Committees, and as a Nonas a solicitor with Linklaters & Paines before joining Kleinwort Executive Director chairing the Audit Committees of TWUL Benson in 1994.
Sir Adrian is also a Non-Executive Director and WWU, and formerly of South East Water Limited.
He of CellMark AB, the pulp and paper marketing company was appointed a Non-Executive Director of Michael Page based in Gothenburg and of London First, and a Director International plc on 27 February 2001.
He is chairman of the and trustee of The Waterways Trust.
He was awarded a CBE Audit Committee and is a member of the Remuneration and in 2001 and a knighthood in 2006.
Steve Ingham Charles-Henri Dumon Chief Executive Managing Director Europe and The Americas Steve Ingham joined Michael Page in 1987 as a consultant Charles-Henri Dumon joined Michael Page in 1985 and with Michael Page Marketing and Sales.
He was responsible was appointed a Director in 1987.
Since then he has had for setting up the London marketing and sales businesses full responsibility for the Groups operations in France and was promoted to Operating Director in 1990.
He was and has managed the Groups entry into Southern appointed Managing Director of Michael Page Marketing and Europe and South America.
He was appointed Managing Sales in 1994.
Subsequently he took additional responsibility Director for all Michael Pages Continental European for Michael Pages Retail, Technology, Human Resources and South American businesses in January 2001.
He was promoted to the Board responsibilities were increased to include North America as Executive Director of UK Operations in January 2001, and in January 2006. subsequently to Managing Director of UK Operations in May 2005.
He was appointed Chief Executive on 6 April 2006.
2 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 Tim Miller EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Independent Non-Executive Director In addition to the Executive Directors, the Executive Committee comprises Gary James Regional Managing Director - Asia Tim Miller was appointed to the Board on 15 August 2005 Pacific and Andrew Wayland Chief Information Officer.
and became Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 16 September 2005.
He is also a member of the Audit Gary James and Nomination Committees.
Tim has wide experience in Regional Managing Director - Asia Pacific human resources and has held a number of senior HR and business roles in the information technology, retail Gary James joined Michael Page Finance in London in and pharmaceutical sectors.
He is currently a Director of 1984.
He was appointed Director of Michael Page Sales Standard Chartered Bank, responsible for HR, Corporate & Marketing in 1994, Managing Director of Michael Page Real Estate, Corporate Secretariat, Compliance and Marketing in 1997 and transferred to America in 2002 as Regulatory Risk, Internal Audit and Legal.
Managing Director of North America.
He was appointed Managing Director of the Asia Pacific region in August Stephen Puckett 2006.
Group Finance Director Andrew Wayland 0 Stephen Puckett qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Chief Information Officer BDO Binder Hamlyn.
He joined Wace Group plc in 1988 as Director of Corporate Finance, subsequently being Andrew Wayland was the UK IT Business Management promoted to Group Finance Director in 1991.
He was Director of  where he worked Group Finance Director of Stat Plus Group plc in 2000, for over 10 years in the internal IT functions.
He brings and appointed Group Finance Director of Michael Page extensive experience in establishing IT strategy and International plc in January 2001.
He was a Non-Executive innovation to support the wider business strategy, and Director of SHL Group Plc from 2004 to 2006. integrating technology teams.
He was appointed Chief Information Officer of Michael Page in December 2005.
Hubert Reid 66 Independent Non-Executive Director Hubert Reid is Chairman of Enterprise Inns plc and of the Midas Income and Growth Trust PLC and Deputy Chairman of Majedie Investments PLC.
He was previously Managing Director and then Chairman of the Boddington Group plc, a Non-Executive Director and then Chairman of Ibstock Plc, Bryant Group plc and the Royal London Group.
He was appointed a Non-Executive Director of Michael Page International plc on 25 February 2003.
He is a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
