MICHAEL PAGE INTERNATIONAL Directors Report Principal activity and review of the business and at 27 February 2007 are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 43. future developments The Group is one of the worlds leading specialist recruitment All of the Executive Directors are deemed to have an interest consultancies.
The Groups trading results are set out in the in the ordinary shares held in the Employee Benefit Trust and financial statements on pages 48 to 73.
Details of the Groups its subsidiaries.
strategy, outlook and review of operations are described in the Results and dividends Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Review and Finance Directors Review on pages 16 to 27.
The profit for the year after taxation amounted to 65.4m 2005: 49.6m.
Enhanced Business Review A final dividend for 2005 of 3.5 pence per ordinary share was The Company is required to set out in this report a fair review paid on 2 June 2006.
An interim dividend of 1.8 pence per of the business of the Group during the financial year ended ordinary share was paid on 12 October 2006.
The Directors 31 December 2006 and of the position of the Group at the recommend the payment of a final dividend for the year ended end of that financial year, together with a description of the 31 December 2006 of 4.2 pence per ordinary share on 5 June principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group known as 2007 to shareholders on the register on 4 May 2007 which, if an Enhanced Business Review.
approved at the Annual General Meeting, will result in a total The information that fulfils the requirements of this Review can dividend for the year of 6.0 pence per ordinary share 2005: be found in the following sections of the Annual Report: 5.0 pence.
Review of operations page 18 to 21 Share capital Strategy page 21 The authorised and issued share capital of the Company are Key performance indicators page 26 shown in Note 18 to the financial statements.
Future outlook pages 17 and 21 At the Annual General Meeting held on 27 May 2006 the Risks and uncertainties page 27 Company renewed its authority to make market purchases of Financial review page 22 to 27 its own ordinary shares up to a maximum of 10% of the issued Corporate responsibility page 31 to 33 share capital.
Directors and interests During the year, the Company purchased 23.3m shares which were immediately cancelled.
The nominal value of these shares The following were Directors during the year and held office was 0.2m and represented 7.0% of the issued share capital.
throughout the year other than as shown below.
The shares were purchased for a consideration of 83.4m Sir Adrian Montague CBE Chairman including expenses.
23.9m shares were also issued to satisfy Steve Ingham Chief Executive share options exercised during the year.
Terry Benson resigned 6 April 2006 Stephen Box Substantial shareholdings Charles-Henri Dumon Fig.
Substantial Shareholdings Tim Miller Stephen Puckett Number of ordinary % of issued Hubert Reid Holder shares share capital Non-Executive Directors Capital International Limited 29,920,612 8.98 Senior Independent Director JP Morgan 22,799,873 6.84 In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, AXA Investment Managers UK Limited 16,305,201 4.89 Sir Adrian Montague, Charles-Henri Dumon and Stephen Box Barclays plc 16,223,821 4.87 will retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting and, being Legal & General 12,780,166 3.83 eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Aegon UK Plc 10,350,000 3.10 Biographical details for all the current Directors are shown on pages 28 and 29.
As at 26 February 2007, the Company has been notified of the The beneficial interests of Directors in office at 31 December interests held in more than 3% of the issued share capital of 2006 in the shares of the Company at 31 December 2006 and the Company as shown in Fig.
30 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 Corporate social responsibility CSR The current environmental report, which covers our UK businesses only, will shortly be available on the Michael Page The Board recognises its responsibilities in respect of social, website.
A summary of its fi findings during 2006 is shown environmental and ethical SEE matters, with the Chief below.
Executive having Board responsibility for Group Environmental Management.
The Directors continually monitor all risks to Waste the Groups businesses, including SEE risks, which may 223 tonnes of waste was generated by UK offi ces.
Our impact the Groups short and long-term value.
During 2006 current national recycling rate is 24.1% from recycling no signifi cant SEE risks were identifi ed.
The Company is confi dential paper and toner cartridges.
also a member of the FTSE4Good Index Series designed Through recycling, Michael Page in the UK has saved 939 to measure the performance of, and facilitate investment in, 3 trees and saved a total of 279m landfi ll space.
those companies meeting globally recognised standards of A summary is shown in Fig.
Energy The Groups policies on CSR matters are described in the 5,192,345 kWh of electricity was consumed in the UK, following paragraphs.
which converts to 1,660 tonnes CO. 2 a Environmental policy 3,035,240 kWh of gas was consumed in the UK, which The Group does not operate in a business sector which converts to 607 tonnes CO. 2 causes signifi cant pollution, but the Board recognises that the Through recycling Michael Page in the UK has saved business does have an impact on the environment.
is committed to managing and improving the way in which our Water activities affect the environment by: 3 In the UK, Michael Page consumed 28,438 m of water.
optimising the use of energy: Transport ensuring the effi cient use of materials: In total, UK employees travelling to and from work converts encouraging re-use and recycling: and to 2,844 tonnes CO. 2 incorporating the principle of sustainable development.
b Charitable donations During the year, the Group has continued to allocate a The Group made charitable donations of 49,416 during the signifi cant amount of time and resource to further identify year 2005: 70,245.
Included in donations are amounts where its activities have an impact on the environment.
made to various local charities serving the communities in A review is carried out annually in accordance with the guidance which the Group operates.
Subject to certain restrictions, the as laid down by the Department for Environment, Food and Group matches charitable donations made by employees.
It is Rural Affairs DEFRA, and the Global Reporting Initiative GRI, the Groups policy not to make political donations either in the an independent international institution established to create a UK or overseas.
common framework for sustainability reporting worldwide.
UK Waste Generation Annual weight % of total generated tonnes waste Confi dential waste 56 25% Toners 2 1% Mixed offi ce paper 71 32% Food waste and packaging 11 5% Aluminium cans 22 10% Glass bottles 11 5% Plastic bottles & plastic cups 24 11% Cardboard 11 5% Miscellaneous 15 6% Total 223 100% 31 MICHAEL PAGE INTERNATIONAL In 2006, we nominated Breast Cancer Care as our charity of is given to the recruitment, promotion, training and working the year.
We have sponsored a number of different initiatives environment of all staff including those with disabilities.
and have so far raised in excess of 150,000 for the charity.
It is the Groups policy to encourage the training and further This has culminated in a team of 37 Michael Page employees development of all its employees where this is of benefit to the running the New York Marathon on 5th November and the individual and to the Group.
sponsorship of a total of 69 runners from other backgrounds.
Throughout 2006, the Group monitored the diversity of its To date, the marathon has generated in excess of 100,000.
UK employees, 83% of whom to date have completed the As part of our UK graduate induction this year, we utilised an voluntary request for information.
The analysis indicates a split organisation called Community Service Volunteers to source of 40% female, 60% male, and regarding origin, 86% white, and organise a worthwhile community project in which our 13% ethnic origin and 1% declining to answer.
The UK 2001 graduates can participate.
The 46 graduates spent a day Census showed a total ethnic population of 7.9%.
Similar painting a community centre in North London, which was in monitoring will be carried out during 2007. need of updating and decoration.
The end result delighted the The Group recognises the importance of diversity in the vast range of local disadvantaged users of the centre and its workplace for both our own and our clients businesses.
committed to increasing the recognition of our brand amongst Through our partnership with a charity called The Brokerage, a more diverse audience, and to encourage development we provided paid summer-time employment to a group of an increasingly diverse candidate database together with of undergraduates from inner city schools.
Our monitoring of our candidate databases many from ethic minority groups, were given valuable work confirms that the brand attracts candidates from a wide range experience and training in a commercial workplace.
they undertook valuable projects and provided us with an We participate in the Interbank Diversity Forum and work with excellent insight into the values of potential employees of the organisations like Global Graduates where we strive to ensure future.
Once again, the scheme received a great deal of praise that we offer our clients the most qualified candidates on the and positive feedback.
basis of their relevant aptitudes, skills and abilities and that During October 2006, we were once again the co-sponsor of such candidates are drawn from diverse backgrounds.
The challenge develops The Group continues to participate in the Race for Opportunity, skills in young professionals but includes the opportunity to part of Business in the Community, a UK movement of over 700 work on life-changing projects in rural areas of KwazuluNatal.
member companies whose purpose is to inspire, challenge The trip this year involved working in a primary school giving and support business in improving its impact on society.
As english lessons, IT lessons and painting a reading room a result, the Group has taken a number of proactive steps annexe to the library added by last years finalists.
Michael to enhance its position on diversity and works closely with a Page employees formed part of the team.
number of clients to share ideas best practice, and to offer expertise to minority groups.
c Employee involvement In 2006, Michael Page also joined the Employers Forum on Employees are involved in all aspects of the business.
Age EFA, an independent network of leading employers Michael Page International is featured in The Sunday Times which sets the agenda for age and employment issues in 100 Best Companies to Work For and received particular the UK.
The membership of EFA lists over 200 organisations, commendations for organic growth, people development and from central and local government to major multinational culture and leadership.
Upon introduction of the Employer Equality Age Communication with employees is effected through Group Regulations in October 2006, Michael Page was nominated newsletters, the Companys Intranet, information bulletins, for an award by the EFA for best implementation of the briefing meetings conducted by senior management and legislation in its sector.
Following the release of the legislation formal and informal discussions.
Interim and Annual Reports on age discrimination, an Age Discrimination Working Party are available to all staff.
Informal communication is further was formed to review the policies, procedures and systems of facilitated by the Groups divisional organisation structure.
the Company to ensure compliance with the legislation once d Equal opportunity and diversity introduced.
The recommendations made are fully implemented by the Company.
The Group endorses and supports the principles of equal employment opportunity.
It is the policy of the Group to e Health and safety provide equal employment opportunity to all, which ensures It is the policy of the Group to take all reasonable and practicable that all employment decisions are made, subject to its legal steps to safeguard the health, safety and welfare of its obligations, on a non-discriminatory basis.
Due consideration 32 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 employees, visitors and other persons who may be affected properly select and apply accounting policies: by its activities.
In order to meet these responsibilities, the present information, including accounting policies, in a Group will: manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and assess the risks to health and safety: understandable information: and implement safe systems at work: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to provide information, instruction and training: enable users to understand the impact of particular establish and maintain emergency procedures: and transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys regularly review health and safety policies and financial position and financial performance.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting The Group is being proactive in our approach to health and records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any safety by monitoring proposed changes in legislation and time the financial position of the Company, for safeguarding implementing policies accordingly, and as such we comply the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention with all statutory and regulatory requirements.
and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the Our medical insurers also provide a 24hr counselling preparation of a Directors report and Directors remuneration helpline covering stress, legal issues and consumer rights.
report and operating and financial review which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985. f Supplier payment policy Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation It is the policy of the Group to agree appropriate terms and and dissemination of financial statements may differ from conditions for transactions with suppliers by means ranging legislation in other jurisdictions.
from standard written terms to individually negotiated Each of the Directors at the date of approval of this report contracts and that payment should be made in accordance confirms that: with those terms and conditions, provided that the supplier has also complied with them.
1. s o far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditors are unaware: The Company acts as a holding Company for the Group.
and Creditor days for the Company were nil 2005: nil as the Company does not undertake any transactions with 2. t he Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have suppliers.
The Groups creditor days at the year end were taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant 23 2005: 30 days.
audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Statement of Directors responsibilities This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual accordance with the provisions of s234ZA of the Companies Report and the financial statements.
The Directors are Act 1985. required to prepare financial statements for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Auditors IFRS and have also elected to prepare financial statements Deloitte & Touche LLP are willing to continue in office and for the Company in accordance with IFRS.
Company law accordingly resolutions to re-appoint them as auditors and requires the Directors to prepare such financial statements in authorising the Directors to set their remuneration will be accordance with IFRS, the Companies Act 1985 and Article proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each year the companys financial The resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires to be held on 23 May 2007, together with explanatory notes, the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other appear in the Notice of Meeting set out on pages 76 and 77. events and conditions in accordance with the definitions By order of the Board and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a Kelvin Stagg fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
Company Secretary 28 February 2007 Directors are also required to: 33
