BOARD OF DIRECTORS KWEK LENG BENG, 66# the Las Vegas Sands Corporation in the bid for Singapores Chairman high pro le Integrated Resort project at the Marina Bay.
The Hong Leong agship of Mr Kwek is a household Kwek Leng Beng has been the name in Southeast Asia.
Asia Moneys latest issue September Chairman of Millennium & Copthorne 2006, included Mr Kwek in its augural list of 100 Most Hotels plc since its incorporation.
Powerful and In uential People in Business and Finance He is the Executive Chairman of the throughout Asia Paci c. Hong Leong Group of Companies Singapore, and also City Developments Limited and Hong Leong Finance Limited.
Mr Kweks achievements have also captured the attention WONG HONG REN, 55 of the academic institutions.
He was conferred: Interim Group Chief Executive Doctorate of Business Administration in Hospitality from Johnson & Wales University Rhode Island, US, where Wong Hong Ren joined Millennium & students have an opportunity to pursue career education in Copthorne Hotels plc as a non-executive business, hospitality, culinary arts or technology.
director at the otation of the Group.
Honorary Doctorate DUniv from Oxford Brookes He is a non-executive director of City eUniversity UK where its citation traced how Mr Kwek, who Solutions Limited and the Group Investment Manager for the joined the family business in the early 1960s, had gone on to Hong Leong Group in Singapore.
Mr Wong was appointed as establish an international reputation for his leadership of the an Executive Director of the Company in April 2001.
Hong Leong Group, as well as an active supporter of higher education in Singapore.
His other involvement in the institutions of higher learning KWEK LENG JOO, 53 includes serving on the Advisory Board of the Cornell-Nanyang Non-Executive Director Institute of Hospitality Management.
The Institute is a collaboration between Ivy League member Cornell University Kwek Leng Joo joined Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc in New York City and Singapores Nanyang Technological at the otation of the Group.
He is the managing director of University.
Cornell is renowned for its hotel school which is a City Developments Limited.
An executive director of Hong leader in teaching, research and industry partnerships.
Leong Group Singapore, he also holds directorships in most Mr Kwek also serves as a Member of the INSEAD East of the listed companies within the Hong Leong Group, Asia Council.
France-based INSEAD is one of the worlds including City e-Solutions Limited and Hong Leong Finance leading and largest graduate business schools which brings Limited.
The immediate past president of Singapore Chinese together people, cultures and ideas from around the world.
Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Mr Kwek is also vice He is a Member of the Action Community of chairman of the Singapore Business Federation and serves in Entrepreneurship ACE, which involves both the private and many public and civic institutions.
public sectors to create a more entrepreneurial environment in Singapore for small and medium enterprises.
Mr Kwek has distinguished himself in property investment KWEK LENG PECK, 50 and development, hotel ownership and management, financial Non-Executive Director services and industrial enterprises.
Today, he sits on the agship of a multi-billion empire worth over US$20 billion in Kwek Leng Peck joined Millennium & Copthorne Hotels diversi ed premium assets worldwide, with an annual turnover plc at the otation of the Group.
He serves as an executive of US$4.55 billion and stocks traded on seven of the worlds director of the Hong Leong Group.
He holds directorships on stock markets.
He currently heads world-wide staff strength of most of the listed companies within the Hong Leong Group, over 40,000 across a range of businesses in Asia-Paci c, the including City Developments Limited, City e-solutions Middle East, Europe and North America.
This fortune is set Limited, Hong Leong Finance Limited, Hong Leong Asia to expand further with his recent success in collaborating with Limited and Tasek Corporation Berhad.
40 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc THE VISCOUNT THURSO, 53 # JOHN SCLATER CVO, 66 # Non-Executive Deputy Chairman, Senior Independent Independent Non-Executive Director Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee John Sclater joined Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc at the The Viscount Thurso was appointed to the Board in May otation of the Group.
He is currently chairman of Graphite 2002.
He is a Fellow of the Hotel Catering International Enterprise Trust PLC, Finsbury Emerging Biotechnology Management Association.
He was previously founder general Trust plc and Argent Group Europe Limited, and a director of manager of Cliveden and has held executive positions as James Cropper PLC.
He was formerly chairman of Foreign & chief executive of Granfel Holdings Limited and chief Colonial Investment Trust PLC, The Equitable Life Assurance executive of Fitness & Leisure Holdings Limited.
He was also Society, Hill Samuel Bank Limited, The Union Discount non-executive chairman of Walker Greenbank plc until 2002.
Company of London PLC, Guinness Mahon & Co Ltd, Nordic Prior to this he was non-executive director of Savoy Group Bank Limited and Berisford now Enodis plc.
He was also plc and Royal Olympic Cruiselines.
He is currently Member formerly deputy chairman of Grosvenor Group Holdings, a of Parliament for Caithness, Sutherland and Easter Ross.
trustee of The Grosvenor Estate, a member of the Council of The Duchy of Lancaster, First Church Estates Commissioner and a member of The Archbishops Council.
In addition, he CHRISTOPHER SNEATH, 73 # was a director of Wates Group Limited and other companies.
Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee CHARLES KIRKWOOD, 71 # Christopher Sneath joined Millennium & Copthorne Hotels Independent Non-Executive Director plc in March 1999.
He is a Chartered Accountant and, until his retirement in 1994, he was a senior partner of KPMG.
Charles Kirkwood was appointed to the Board in May 2002.
He was a non-executive director of Spirax-Sarco He was formerly managing director of Rosewood Hotels Engineering plc until 2002. and Resorts, Asia and an Industrial Partner to Ripplewood Japan.
He is currently the president and director of Shawnee Holding Inc, a private hotel owning company and a director CHRISTOPHER KELJIK OBE, 58 # of Pennsylvania General Energy.
He is a member of the Bar of Independent Non-Executive Director New York, Pennsylvania and the US Supreme Court.
Christopher Keljik was appointed to the Board in May 2006.
After a long career with Standard Chartered plc that commenced in 1976, he retired from his position as Group Executive Director of Standard Chartered plc in May 2005.
During his career with Standard Chartered, he held a number of senior positions in corporate finance, treasury and general management in the UK, USA and Asia.
Immediately prior to his retirement, his responsibilities at Standard Chartered included its businesses in Africa, the Middle East, South Asia, the UK and the Americas.
A Chartered Accountant, his previous responsibilities have also included risk management, audit, corporate affairs, investor relations and corporate governance.
He currently holds non-executive directorships Member of the Remuneration Committee at Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust plc and Jardine Lloyd Member of the Audit Committee Thompson Group plc.
# Member of the Nominations Committee 41 Annual Report & Accounts 2006
