DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their report for the financial year ended STATEMENT OF THE DIRECTORS AS TO 31 December 2006.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITOR The directors who held of ce at the date of approval of this BUSINESS REVIEW directors report con rm that, so far as they are each aware, The Business Review incorporates sections covering financial, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys operating, risk factors and non-GAAP information for the year auditor is unaware: and each director has taken all the steps ended 31 December 2006 and is set out on pages 16 to 31. that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
As at 22 February 2007, the Company had received details of the following noti able interests in its issued share capital: ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Annual General Meeting will be held at 10.00am on % of Thursday, 3 May 2007 at the Millennium Hotel London Number of issue share Mayfair.
The notice to shareholders can be found at the back shares capital of this Annual Report.
At the Annual General Meeting resolutions will be proposed City Developments 154,395,563 52.91 to approve the Directors Remuneration Report, to renew the Limited directors authority to allot shares, to authorise the purchase of shares in the market, to renew the authority given in regard Prudential plc 22,927,846 7.86 to pre-emption rights under the terms of a Co-operation Agreement dated 18 April 1996 with City Developments Arnhold and S Bleichroeder 13,425,418 4.60 Limited, to renew the authority to fund donations and or incur Advisers LLC expenditure under the terms of the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 to a limit of 100,000 where it is in The interests of Prudential plc include the noti able interests of the shareholders interests to do so.
following companies: M&G Group Limited 22,927,846 7.86% M&G Limited 22,927,846 7.86% M&G Investment Management Limited 22,899,578 7.85% The Prudential Assurance Company Limited 22,854,691 7.83% GOING CONCERN After having made appropriate enquiries, the directors are satis ed that the Group has adequate resources to continue in By order of the Board business for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis for preparing the accounts.
AUDITORS In accordance with Section 384 of the Companies Act 1985, a resolution regarding the re-appointment of KPMG Adrian Bushnell Audit Plc as auditor of the Company will be proposed at the COMPANY SECRETARY forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
22 February 2007 42 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF THE DIRECTORS REPORT AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report The directors are responsible for keeping proper and the Group and Parent Company financial statements, in accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy accordance with applicable law and regulations.
at any time the financial position of the Parent Company Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and enable them to ensure that its financial statements and Parent Company financial statements for each financial comply with the Companies Act 1985.
Under that law the directors are required to prepare responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and adopted by the EU and have elected to prepare the Parent detect fraud and other irregularities.
Company financial statements in accordance with UK Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Accepted Accounting Practice.
Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance report that The Group financial statements are required by law and comply with that law and those regulations.
IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included position and performance of the Group: the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements statements giving a true and fair view are references to their may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Parent Company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Parent Company.
In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial statements, the directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: For the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: For the Parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent Company financial statements: and Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company will continue in business.
