Directors report The purpose of the Annual Report is to provide information to the the Board at the close of the AGM.
As it is the first AGM since their members of the Company.
The Annual Report contains certain appointments, John Ormerod and John King will retire and offer forward-looking statements with respect to the operations, themselves for election.
Sir Dominic Cadbury and Kevin Lomax, if performance and financial condition of the Group.
By their nature, re-elected, and John Ormerod and John King, if elected, will serve these statements involve uncertainty since future events and the customary three-year term.
For reasons set out in the Corporate circumstances can cause results and developments to differ governance report at page 44, George Farr will be subject to annual from those anticipated.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be re-election and, if re-elected, will be appointed for one year.
Biographical details of all Directors, including those being proposed The Directors of Misys plc submit their report and the audited for election and re-election, are given on page 41. financial statements for the year ended 31 May 2006.
Kevin Lomax has a service contract requiring one years notice Principal activities of termination.
As non-executive Directors, Sir Dominic Cadbury, The Groups principal activities are the development and licensing of George Farr, John King and John Ormerod each have a letter of a variety of software products and solutions to customers primarily appointment rather than a service contract.
in the international banking and healthcare industries.
A wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, Sesame, is one of the largest providers of Details of executive Directors service agreements, non-executive support services to financial advisers in the United Kingdom.
Directors letters of appointment, emoluments and share interests can be found in the Directors remuneration report on pages 48 to 56.
A review of the activities of the Group is provided in the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives report and the review of the The Company has granted indemnities to its Directors in their businesses on pages 10 to 27 and the Financial review on pages 32 capacity as Directors of the Company and in their capacity as to 39 of this Annual Report.
directors of the subsidiaries of the Company.
The Company has also granted indemnities to some of the directors of its subsidiaries Acquisitions and disposals during the period are disclosed in note 17 and such indemnities remain in force pursuant to the transitional on page 76. provision of the Companies Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise Act 2004 Commencement and Companies Act 1989 Business review Commencement No 18 Order 2004.
For some years the Company In accordance with s234ZZB of the Companies Act 1985, a review has purchased insurance to cover its Directors and officers against of the development and performance of the business of the Group, their costs in defending themselves in civil legal proceedings taken including the financial performance during the year, key performance against them in that capacity and in respect of damages resulting indicators and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties from the unsuccessful defence of any proceedings.
Neither the facing the Group, are set out in the Financial review section of this insurance nor the indemnity provide cover where the Director has Annual Report on pages 32 to 39, which is incorporated in this report acted fraudulently or deceitfully.
With the exception of service contracts and the indemnities referred Financial instruments to above, during the year under review and up to the date of this Information on financial instruments is disclosed in notes 24 and 25 report, no Director has had any interest in any material contract with on pages 81 to 83. the Company.
Dividends Research and development The Directors recommend a final dividend of 4.49p per ordinary In the markets in which the Group operates, effective R&D is vital share.
This, together with the interim dividend of 2.69p per share to maintaining competitive advantage and securing future income paid on 7 April 2006, makes a total dividend of 7.18p per share for streams.
The extent of the Groups commitment to R&D is detailed the year 2005: 6.84p.
in both the Chairmans statement on page 10 and the Chief Executives report on pages 12 to 15.
Effective use of products The proposed final dividend, if approved at the Annual General generated through R&D is also vital.
The Group has devoted Meeting on 4 October 2006 AGM, will be paid on 9 October 2006 to considerable additional effort to plan and manage its products shareholders appearing on the register at the close of business on through their life cycles.
People and corporate responsibility Directors Information on employee engagement, equal opportunities including Details of the Directors of the Company at the end of the financial policies relating to disabled persons, training and ethical and year are given on page 41.
The following new non-executive Directors environmental matters can be found in the section on People and were appointed during the year: John Ormerod on 1 October 2005 corporate responsibility on pages 28 to 31. and John King on 2 November 2005.
Both Robert Ingram and Ian Dyson retired from their roles as non-executive Directors at the close Charitable donations of the 2005 AGM on 13 September 2005 and Ivan Martin retired as an The Groups commitment to community involvement and charitable executive Director on 31 December 2005. donations is described in the People and corporate responsibility section on page 31.
In line with its policy, the Group made no political In accordance with the Articles of Association, Sir Dominic Cadbury, donations in the year under review 2005: nil.
George Farr and Kevin Lomax will retire from the Board and, upon the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, all offer themselves for re-election at the AGM.
Tony Alexander will be retiring from Page 42 Misys plc Annual Report 2006 Creditor payment policy Annual General Meeting It is the Companys policy to agree terms and conditions for its The 2006 AGM will take place at 11.30 am on Wednesday, business transactions with its suppliers.
The Company seeks 4 October 2006 at The Lincoln Centre, 18 Lincolns Inn Fields, to abide by the payment terms agreed with suppliers whenever London WC2A 3ED.
it is satisfied that the supplier has abided by its contractual obligations.
The trade creditors of the Group at 31 May 2006 A separate circular sent to shareholders with this Report contains represent 34 days 2005: 39 days as a proportion of the total the Notice of AGM and explains the business to be considered at the amount invoiced by suppliers during the year.
A copy of the Notice will be published on the Companys website www.
Share capital The authorised and issued share capital of the Company, together Going concern with details of the movements in the Companys issued share After making due enquiry, embracing the normal forecasting capital during the year, are shown in note 33 on page 88. process, the Directors consider that the Group has adequate resources and committed borrowing facilities to continue in During the year the Directors continued the share buyback operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Consequently, programme started in October 2002 as they believed that, at the they have continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing prevailing share price, it was in the best interests of shareholders the financial statements.
and an appropriate use of cash resources.
Auditors At the 2005 AGM shareholders authorised the Directors to make Each of the Companys Directors in office as at the date of this market purchases of the Companys ordinary shares up to a report confirms that so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit maximum nominal value of 0.5m, which represented 10% of issued information, that is, information needed by the Companys auditors share capital, and to either cancel the shares or hold the shares in connection with preparing their report, of which the Companys as Treasury shares which may then be cancelled, sold for cash or auditors are unaware, and that he has taken all steps which he ought transferred for the purposes of the Companys employees share to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any plans, depending on the best interests of the Companys relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are shareholders at the time.
Pursuant to this authority, and the authority obtained at the 2004  LLP have expressed their willingness to AGM which it superseded, the Company has in the financial year continue in office as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them and ended 31 May 2006 purchased, at an aggregate consideration of authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration will be proposed at 24,756,719 before expenses, an additional 11,740,000 ordinary the forthcoming AGM.
shares of 1p each, all of which were put into Treasury.
During the year 2,408,564 shares were transferred out of Treasury to meet By Order of the Board the Companys obligations under its employees share plans and 8,000,000 shares were cancelled out of Treasury.
Dan Fitz Under the 2005 AGM authority which expires at the conclusion of General Counsel and Company Secretary the 2006 AGM, the Company may purchase a further 39,094,580 of 27 July 2006 its own shares.
It is proposed that the authority be renewed at the forthcoming AGM.
At close of business on 24 July 2006, Misys plc had 551,727,036 ordinary shares in issue, of which 52,215,010 are held in Treasury.
Also included in the special business of the 2006 AGM are proposals to renew the Directors authority to allot shares for cash up to prescribed limits.
Further details are given in the Notice of AGM.
Substantial shareholdings As at 26 July 2006, the following substantial shareholdings were recorded in the register maintained by the Company in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: UBS AG acting through its business group and various legal entities 14.06% HBOS plc through various legal entities 4.38% Legal & General Group plc and or its subsidiaries 3.85% Deutsche Bank AG and its subsidiary companies 3.31% Barclays Bank through various legal entities 3.02% Page 43
