Misys Healthcare Systems The US healthcare system is increasingly turning to IT to address fundamental challenges.
Recognised in the market for our high standards of customer service, we are continuing to evolve our product portfolio to serve the most valuable segments within this market.
growth of electronic health records Market overview EHR in particular, as care givers extend their use of IT to address cost and Healthcare provision in North America is quality issues.
Medical care is already the largest consumer of US GDP, Many of our addressable market segments but costs are expected to increase further remain relatively immature and fragmented, due to an ageing population, the prevalence with a large number of software providers of chronic diseases and increasing demand serving a very broad range of customers.
We believe buyers will continue to choose from two types of software provider High levels of medical errors and resulting one able to deliver the best solution of its claims, as well as complicated payment type for a specific function, or a strategic arrangements, are overwhelming the supplier able to support the customer system in some places.
Many providers across a range of needs and functions.
report capacity issues, with too few clinical However, many buyers are now seeking staff and the need to spend too much time to reduce the number of vendors they use on paperwork.
while extending their strategic relationships with larger suppliers and this trend is The complexity of the healthcare system likely to benefit established players with is a contributory factor.
A wide range of broad offerings, such as Misys.
individuals and organisations provide clinical services to patients and relationships between these providers can be disjointed.
Meanwhile, the US government has made Our market position and strategy a public commitment to improving quality of care, while patients are demanding We are one of the largest providers of better information and more choice when healthcare IT solutions in North America making decisions about the treatment and one of few businesses able to offer that they are increasingly paying for.
software products across all four main venues of care physicians offices, There is wide acceptance that IT can hospitals, patients homes and long-term play a valuable role in helping providers care facilities.
Our strategy is to provide address these issues.
For this reason, we leading products in each venue of care, expect overall spending on IT in the US with the greatest emphasis on the fastest healthcare system to increase from $8.9bn growing segments within each area.
Overall, we believe third party IT providers have Our ability to work with clinical information penetrated just 15% of clinical systems in across all venues of care sets us apart from the ambulatory sector non hospital-based many competitors.
We have also developed services in the healthcare market so far.
exceptional relationships with customers We expect to see significant sustained over 25 years of doing business, enabling Page 22 Misys plc Annual Report 2006 Misys products are used by: 1,200 hospitals, 110,000 physicians, 18,000 physician practices, 600 homecare agencies us to deliver products and services 8.0, which went on general release in was recognised as Number 1 in the which add real value to our customers May 2006.
This has significantly upgraded TEPR Towards an Electronic Patient organisations.
Our deep knowledge of the functionality for large and medium-sized Record Hot New Products awards.
physicians office segment, for example, physician practices.
Fifty existing is particularly valuable as we believe a customers went live with version 8.0 We launched Misys PatientLink substantial amount of patient information within a few weeks of launch.
R&D this In August 2005 we launched a new Web is captured outside the hospital before it year has concentrated on introducing site service for health providers, Misys travels across the wider system.
new levels of interoperability with devices, PatientLink.
This addresses demand for laboratories and pharmacies, together better communications between patients with improved functionality to further and providers.
Our secure portal, which support the clinical decision-making is fully integrated with our EMR and Investing in our product development processes.
physician practice management systems, enables patients to complete forms, We again invested significantly in developing We launched Misys CPR version 5.0 request appointments, access results our products in the last year.
Clearly, the We launched Misys CPR version 5.0 and communicate with physicians efficiency of our development processes successfully in February 2006.
Our focus online, saving time for both the patient is important to us and we increased here is making CPR Computer-based and provider.
headcount in our offshore development Patient Record products, targeted at centre in Bangalore.
In Healthcare we now hospitals, smarter, easier to use and We acquired and integrated Payerpath employ around 350 experts in Bangalore, deploy and more collaborative, with In January 2006 we acquired Payerpath an increase from last year of 50%.
We will reduced cost of ownership.
This year Inc, the leading Internet-based health move into a new purpose-built office in we added secure Web access, improved claims transactions business in the Bangalore later this financial year, which database and documentation United States.
Payerpath, A Misys we will share with Banking, helping us to management and integration for Company, as it is now branded, is an find further efficiencies.
laboratories, enhanced configuration excellent complement to our welland display, and added a fully integrated established transaction services In line with our strategy, we concentrated prescription system.
business and will enable us to serve development investment and management high growth markets such as payment resource on the most valuable products We further developed our Homecare and eligibility data, and clinical data.
and those with the highest growth product We see excellent opportunities to convert potential.
Interoperability is a focal point Better IT can help to improve existing Misys customers to higher value and we have continued to advance the communications between patients based Payerpath products, to extend Payerpath development of Misys Connect, our Webat home and their healthcare providers.
into new areas within healthcare and to based data sharing solution.
This year we continued the migration extend our relationships with existing of our Misys Homecare solution to Payerpath customers.. NET architecture, which increases our addressable market by making products Partnerships compatible with many more healthcare We continue to build partnerships In particular, this year systems.
We also upgraded the clinical whenever appropriate and this year we functionality and usability of our products signed initial agreements with a number We launched Misys EMR version 8.0 and introduced PDA-support for home of companies including Microsoft, Dell, Our biggest undertaking yet was the health aides.
Our new PDA application Intel and IBM.
successful launch of Misys EMR version Page 23 Misys Healthcare Systems continued Projected IT spend in US healthcare by 2008 is US$16.3bn As a result of this focus on quality, the in KLAS awards are based on customer Quality improvements reported defects in our CPR product satisfaction surveys completed by have been reduced by over 70% since we physician practices throughout the US.
Better product and management processes acquired the original product in 2003.
This year: have a direct effect on product performance, Reported defects in our EMR product have Misys Radiology 2005 Best in KLAS customer satisfaction and profitability.
In also declined by nearly 40% over the same Misys Laboratory 2005 Best in KLAS 2005 we introduced a Lean Six Sigma pilot time frame.
programme, which, after positive initial Misys CPR 3rd in Acute Care, results, was extended in 2006.
Lean Orders, Charting Six Sigma is a set of quality and process Misys Homecare 3rd in Home Health improvement techniques pioneered by Thought leadership some very successful international Misys Homecare 2nd in Hospice companies.
We take our position as a leader in the Misys Vision 2005 Best in KLAS healthcare IT sector very seriously and The Lean aspect of the programme Misys EMR Increased customer invest in a range of initiatives designed to addresses the speed and efficiency of our satisfaction ratings by 4% position Misys as a leader in both strategy operational processes, while Six Sigma and deployment.
This year we developed addresses the quality and consistency of the Misys Center for Community Health Frost & Sullivan recognised Misys those processes.
One example of success Leadership: a body supported by industry Healthcare Systems with two major was in our Homecare operation where we experts across the country and designed to awards: one in January for its exceptional were able to reduce initial response times support the successful adoption of electronic leadership and dedication to serving from more than 72 minutes to less than 5 health records.
The Center was launched its home care clients: and in May for for more than 90% of the calls coming in.
formally in June 2006, with a clear focus customer service leadership in healthcare on increasing connectivity between billing and claims management.
The By year-end we had completed 15 Lean healthcare providers in local communities awards are based on Frost & Sullivans Six Sigma projects and are seeing real through the provision of grants of up to research coverage of the US market.
benefits in terms of improvements to US$10m in software from Misys.
Our numerous awards Out of over 200 vendors in the healthcare for customer satisfaction underline that IT marketplace, Misys Healthcare satisfaction levels are also increasing Systems was among an elite group of significantly.
Customer satisfaction only 12 receiving a 5-star rating for Electronic Medical Record EMR and In development we have introduced CMMI Customer satisfaction is a key performance practice management solutions from the Capability Maturity Model Integration and indicator for Misys Healthcare Systems.
AC Group, which evaluates and ranks automated software testing to improve During the year our focus on this was practice management and EMR vendors quality and speed of development.
CMMI recognised in a number of significant in the healthcare marketplace twice is a rigorous process that will allow us to industry awards.
The report recommended Misys reduce the number of defects earlier in EMR as a top choice for multi-specialty the development cycle, thus improving the KLAS Enterprises is dedicated to groups as well as for practices seeking quality of the product to the customer and improving standards in healthcare an integrated practice management and improving our efficiency.
Its annual Best EMR solution.
Page 24 Misys plc Annual Report 2006 Defects in our CPR product have been reduced by over 70% since we acquired the original product in 2003 We are transitioning to higher growth Looking ahead market areas and we have the expertise and development capabilities needed We expect substantial and sustained to lead in our chosen segments.
Our growth in demand for IT products and emphasis now is on generating higher solutions in this market and believe the levels of revenue growth, continuing to prospects for established healthcare IT enhance product quality and striving specialists such as Misys are particularly to provide the best possible service to good.
New and existing competitors our customers.
represent a significant challenge, but we are confident that our advantages will enable us to compete in the high growth markets across all venues of care.
In addition to the core market developments described earlier, we see a number of promising trends in this sector.
These include: Brockville General Hospital implements Misys CPR in record time Demand for a universal connection across the healthcare community, with all venues of care and patients linked This 103-bed acute care facility in Ontario, Canada, successfully by easy-to-use systems based on open deployed our computer-based patient record system in just four standards.
Our Web-based data sharing months.
Misys CPR now enables all 600 employees to access solution, Misys Connect, will play an patients medical records, supporting more informed clinical important role in making this a reality.
Interest in pay-for-performance models, with electronic medical records seen as Implementation began in December 2005 and by April 2006 CPR one possible way to assess and record functionality was being used live in the laboratory, radiology and the effectiveness of outcomes.
Growing international market opportunities, with a number of Later this financial year all physicians within the hospital will also healthcare systems observing the benefits be using a computerised physician order entry function within IT is delivering to customers in the US.
Misys CPR, which places orders, tracks medication administration Currently, we serve 50 hospitals outside and improves clinical and business reporting.
the US and we see opportunities to grow here.
