Sesame Sesame is a leading provider of support services to financial advisers in the United Kingdom.
Sesame is capitalising on opportunities presented by a more positive investment climate, growth in mortgages and response to its new multi-tie offering.
The changes in regulation have shaken up Market overview existing business models for all participants.
Several large product providers opted to All key economic, regulatory, consumer and concentrate on the products likely to create financial trends in the United Kingdom affect the greatest value for them long-term and Sesames addressable market.
The mortgage exited certain segments of the market.
sector performed better than expected this Advisers are reassessing their strategy.
Financial advisers remain interested Many are drawn to the multi-tie model and in both standard and non-standard lending Sesame expects to see substantial growth such as buy-to-let and sub-prime in demand for multi-tie offers and services mortgages and additional services such in the next couple of years.
as protection, insurance, valuations and conveyancing.
There was further growth in investment and pensions, as a result of positive equity markets, A Day pension Market position and strategy reform and increased consumer confidence.
Sesame provides services to more than High levels of consumer complaints affected 7,000 financial advisers in the United a significant number of advisers this year, Kingdom, which makes it one of the largest inhibiting their ability to grow profits.
support services providers in its market.
Business failures and heightened risk Its strategy is to provide financial advisers generated consolidation in the market and using both independent and multi-tie Sesame benefited from this.
models with the best support possible.
It assesses its performance according to The implementation of the Financial the level of revenue generated from its Services Authoritys FSA depolarisation core adviser customers, the quality of its rules which came into effect during 2005 processes and customer satisfaction.
had a profound effect on the market.
The changes enable financial advisers to offer Sesames services enable advisers to advice based on products from the whole make informed decisions when advising of the market all product providers, a their clients on financial products.
It uses single company, or a limited number of its scale to help advisers benefit from better companies.
This third option known as commission terms from product providers multi-tie was introduced by the FSAs and discounted professional indemnity rule changes and was intended to provide insurance.
It also provides in-depth product consumers with better advice and a clearer research: regulatory, technology and understanding of how their adviser will training support: and online services that be paid for the services provided, or the help to minimise administration and introductions they make.
Page 26 Misys plc Annual Report 2006 Sesames services enable advisers to make informed decisions when advising their clients on financial products increase cost efficiency.
Scale is essential clients are not disadvantaged.
At year-end Looking ahead to its profitability, as it enables the business Sesame had attracted more than 1,000 to deliver innovative and competitive financial advisers into Sesame Select Sesame, since its formation in 2003, has propositions to its customers and also and 700 had begun trading.
As expected, consistently developed and implemented means it has the capital base to provide a number of these advisers have rigorous processes designed to mitigate ongoing compliance support and meet its transferred from Sesames existing risk, particularly any failure to comply obligations as a regulated firm.
propositions, contributing to a reduction in with a regulation or otherwise motivate a the membership of the Sesame Network customer complaint.
These improvements Sesame had a positive year, benefiting and Sesame Direct.
provide the business with great long-term from strong growth in productivity per stability.
Sesame is essentially in a longadviser across all major product lines In the general insurance field, in June term transition from its traditional network and particularly mortgages.
2006 Sesame launched a new product business, to a service company offering for financial advisers, Sesame Insure, in solutions to advisers, no matter their Sesame Network provides a rich suite collaboration with Royal & SunAlliance, regulatory status, their choice of of bundled services e. g. compliance, to strengthen its position in this market.
independent or multi-tie style of trading or research, technology, commission rates the product range they offer to their clients.
and processing to its clients and the During the year Sesame continued to invest The attraction of Sesame Select as a primary source of income is a percentage in its brand.
It was the first business in its business model is that it provides healthy of commission and fees received by its market to establish a national brand and this revenue potential per registered individual customers for their services to retail clients.
has given it a powerful voice in the industry.
but with much lower cost, as the embedded Sesame has high levels of recognition regulatory risk is transferred to the directly Sesame Direct offers a bundled or menu amongst customers, providers and media authorised firm.
This improved business range of services, but as the firms are and plans to leverage this and continue model, together with the opportunity to regulated directly by the FSA, it is not to enhance the value of its brand with generate more income per user by delivering responsible for the advice of these firms.
The clarity and character of new innovative propositions, such as general the brand has also proved popular with insurance, will drive growth in the business.
Sesame Select was launched in July 2005. employees, assisting the delivery of higher This is an open multi-tie proposition customer service.
Sesame places particular Sesame is not within Misys main focus as that provides advisers, who are directly importance on building financial awareness a software company and it sits outside the authorised by the FSA, with a range of in the younger generation and its jargonCompanys long-term strategy.
Discussions competitively priced products sourced from free guide for 14-24 year-olds Money with potential purchasers of Sesame were five of the top financial services brands in Money Money continues to attract ended in March 2006 as the Misys plc Board the United Kingdom AXA, Legal & General, readers: its associated lesson plans are considered it was not possible to achieve Norwich Union, Prudential and Standard Life.
used as course material in over 700 schools.
a sale price at that time which reflected In the circumstance where the adviser is Sesames value and long-term prospects.
not able to meet a clients needs via the Misys will continue to own and manage chosen five, then they will go off panel to Sesame for the time being.
the open market thereby ensuring retail Page 27
