Misys Banking Systems Intense competition, consolidation and the need for ever-greater operational efficiency all served to drive market growth this year.
For Misys it was a demanding 12 months with significant change.
for institutions, are also searching for Market overview efficiencies, performance improvement and simplified vendor relationships.
The banking sector remains highly dynamic Cost control is critical and focused on as financial institutions continue to pursue two key activities: the search for greater growth strategies through globalisation and efficiencies within transactions to relieve cross-border consolidation.
Cross-border margin pressure and the hubbing of IT mergers and acquisitions have been rising infrastructure and systems management for the past three years, particularly in in one low cost, high quality centre.
This Europe and in the faster growing economies strong emphasis on cost cutting together of developing countries in Central and with high levels of M&A and complex Eastern Europe.
compliance is driving demand for systems consolidation.
With many large banks In Asia Pacific smaller, local banks are dedicating up to 90% of IT investment to facing increased competition from foreign maintenance Celent IT Spending Trends entrants and aggressive, larger domestic in European Banking, 2005, there are banks.
There has been strong underlying opportunities for new solutions able to growth in many of these economies, with replace inefficient legacy products.
India and China, in particular, driving investment.
Our market remains relatively fragmented, however.
A small number of software In terms of IT, market consolidation companies including Misys has the stimulates demand as acquiring banks greatest presence, with hundreds of niche work to assimilate acquisitions.
Indeed, businesses focused on producing one or many financial institutions are evolving two best-in-class products, together with towards a more integrated approach a number of mid-size players.
Major throughout their business, introducing vendors such as SAP and Oracle are common products, systems and standards seeking to enter or extend their presence across all areas rather than operating as in this market.
Many customers are technologically independent divisions.
An streamlining vendor relationships, creating increasing number of banks are also opportunities for established players to converging their retail IT solutions those develop strategic supplier relationships.
used to serve consumers and small businesses and wholesale solutions those Overall, annual growth in bank IT budgets serving larger business clients and interis around 45% Financial Insights, 2005, bank transactions in pursuit of better with in-house development still common.
customer service and cost efficiencies.
We believe that as cost pressures increase and systems consolidate around common Banks in the treasury and capital markets standards such as.
NET and Java, thirdspace, where the speed to market of party packaged solutions will remain a new services is a competitive advantage significant growth area.
Page 18 Misys plc Annual Report 2006 Misys systems manage approximately 1 in 3 of the worlds loans including Misys Opics, Misys Loan IQ and and markets with high growth potential, Our market position and strategy Misys Summit.
Treasury & Capital Markets with organic development complemented had a very successful first year, establishing by bolt-on acquisitions that enhanced our Misys is one of the top five financial itself as a major force in a dynamic market product offering.
customers in more than 120 countries, we serve more international banks than any In the second half of the year we other banking software business.
restructured our businesses responsible Investing in product development for retail and wholesale solutions, bringing Our strategy is to focus on customers them together as Core Banking.
This As a software product provider, product in the high growth markets within the enabled us to simplify our management development plays a vital role in our wholesale, retail and treasury and capital structure reducing overhead speeding business.
This year we again increased markets banking sectors.
up decision making and making it easier spending on product development and moved for our customers to do business with us.
forward with important product upgrades and Three key strengths set us apart.
the breadth of our international coverage We also decided to discontinue large scale provides us with exceptional experience development of our Risk Vision product.
Nearly 40% of our employees are in across all markets and regulatory We will retain the Risk business unit and development functions and we were jurisdictions.
International banks trust will focus it exclusively on supporting our successful in increasing our development us to understand the issues they will face existing Risk Vision customers, undertaking resource while keeping tight control on costs.
wherever they choose to operate.
Second, funded development where existing we have a very large base of installed customers request it.
A major customer Nearly 80% of product development now products within customers organisations, recently signed a contract to upgrade, takes place at our centres of excellence which means our employees develop deep a clear sign of confidence in the product in Bangalore and Manila, including work customer understanding and we benefit and we expect more customers to request on Equation Plus and Midas Plus.
TCM from robust recurring revenue streams.
upgrades and funded development in is now also establishing a development Third, our product development centres of the near future.
We also incorporated team in Bangalore, focusing on its Opics excellence throughout the world develop, Almonde, our powerful Basel II compliance product at first.
support and bring to market high quality, solution, into the Core Banking business.
We now have two main business units.
The last 12 months have been demanding They are focused on market segments which with performance affected by contract have differing needs and different dynamics, deferrals.
We have, however, made but they are also working together closely considerable changes in the business to maximise our strengths in this sector.
and its management to position it for sustained growth.
While we were reorganising the business we maintained a strong momentum in In June 2005, we created our Treasury & product and new business development.
Capital Markets TCM business, bringing We prioritised investment and together previously discrete product areas, management resource on the products Page 19 Misys Banking Systems continued Misys Treasury Plus is trusted to confirm US$100bn of foreign exchange and money market transactions each working day enabling us to meet customer demand of banks to manage their trade services This year in Core Banking for more integrated retail-to-wholesale via the Internet.
We have re-branded this systems.
Over the longer term, as product as Misys Trade Portal.
Misys We continued our development of Misys convergence in requirements gathers pace Trade Portal was recently awarded Best Equation Plus in the market, we expect to develop more Trade Finance Software Provider for Misys Equation provides real-time commonalities between the two product coming first in a poll conducted by Trade information on retail banking transactions families utilising Service Orientated Finance Magazine, beating competitors across all accounts, offices, channels Architecture SOA and common such as SAP.
This new version is being systems, such as cash management, to written entirely in the Java programming generate cost efficiencies.
We do not language and will offer advanced customer envisage merging Equation and Midas relationship management and business into one product: both have distinct and in Treasury & Capital Markets process management functionality.
market share and extensive customer Using Java, Equation Plus will be able to bases that need to be protected.
We strengthened Misys Summit integrate seamlessly with banks existing Misys Summit is an award winning retail products and systems, expanding We acquired and integrated Almonde multi-asset class solution used by many our addressable market substantially.
We In July 2005 we acquired Almonde, the institutions from global banks to hedge completed initial tests this year and we are leading regulatory risk management funds and corporate treasuries.
Over pleased with what we have seen thus far.
We integrated Almondes the past three years Misys has invested market leading asset and liability to re-engineer Misys Summit.
Our We achieved positive momentum for management and regulatory compliance investment in the MUST product has Misys Midas Plus with Global Processing solutions with our existing banking positioned Summit to benefit from the Midas has been a major product in solutions.
continuing product innovation trend in our portfolio for many years and used complex cross-asset instruments with extensively by banks around the world We acquired and integrated INTESIO multi-underlyings, including credit in their wholesale operations.
The latest In February 2006 we bought INTESIO, a derivatives.
version, Misys Midas Plus, has improved specialist multi-channel retail banking functionality, including global processing solutions business.
INTESIO software We launched Misys Opics Plus for banks.
Global processing supports integrates data from many different Misys Opics has been a successful front the market trend towards hubbing, where channels call centres, Internet, points to back office product for more than a banks centralise IT infrastructure and of sale, phone and bank counter decade and is used by more than 140 systems management in one location.
providing banks with a holistic picture financial institutions worldwide.
We have It is one of the most technologically of real-time transactions and we are invested in re-engineering Misys Opics, advanced products on the market and using the software in our development launching Misys Opics Plus in May able to provide support across every of Misys Equation Plus.
This provides customers with local currency, language, regulation an SOA environment delivering huge and technical standard currently in use We acquired and integrated NEOMAlogic performance leaps in processing and by major banks.
In March 2006 we acquired NEOMAlogic, scalability.
We have also built in significant the award-winning trade finance solutions risk and compliance functionality to SOA common architecture company.
NEOMAlogics electronic further enhance the product.
This year we started to integrate elements banking trade finance solution, Global of Equation functionality into Midas Plus, Trade Portal, enables corporate customers Page 20 Misys plc Annual Report 2006 80% of product development takes place in our Bangalore and Manila centres We increased the addressable market further improve our quality and therefore for Misys Loan IQ customer satisfaction as well.
Misys Loan IQ remains the market leading middle and back office solution in commercial lending for both the syndicated lending and secondary loans Looking ahead markets.
We have responded to market demands by increasing our front office We have come through a demanding year capability and offering greater user and as a result of the changes we have put configurability.
The product is currently in place we are now in a stronger position being migrated to Java and is on schedule to address opportunities in a dynamic for release later next year.
In particular, we have a clear product strategy and an energised sales force.
Our reorganisation has enabled us to streamline and present a more coherent Quality improvement face to customers.
We have entered the new financial year confident we can This year our product development generate impressive value long term.
teams made particularly significant progress in the area of product architecture.
We are investigating how best to exploit commonality in our products, with a more Bank of India rolls out Misys Midas Plus across consistent product set that meets customer three continents expectations and has fewer defects.
Before any new products are launched they will undergo rigorous, external testing.
This year Bank of India implemented Misys Midas Plus in its We have established a core competency international branch banking operations.
This was one of the testing team, separate from the product developers, who will act as the customer widest and most advanced deployments of any core banking advocate.
They will give an independent system in the world, stretching across 16 locations, seven time assessment of each product based on code, zones and three continents.
The production process improvement Concentrating its operations in Singapore, the system provides programme based on Lean Six Sigma the bank with a single real-time view of its entire business introduced in Misys Healthcare Systems worldwide.
All functionality is managed centrally, including generated clear cost and performance improvements, particularly in the area of transaction processing across treasury and capital markets, customer satisfaction, which is critical for commercial lending, trade finance, payments and retail services.
Later this year we expect to introduce Lean Six Sigma programmes in Banking, drawing on Healthcares experiences to Page 21
