Misys makes world-class software We develop and deliver IT products and solutions for the banking and healthcare markets.
We are one of the top five software providers to healthcare organisations in North America and one of the top five software providers to financial institutions around the world.
Our expertise is in Making things that really matter, work better.
So how is Misys aiming to create value for shareholders?
Highlights 2005 06 Strong cash flow from operations Continued transition to higher growth market segments Product development investment to improve quality and cost-efficiency Core product sales improved in Banking and Healthcare Banking: improved sales performance and better customer alignment Healthcare: good operating profit performance and strong industry recognition Sesame: revenue growth and launch of multi-tie offering Successful sale of General Insurance business Page 01 Unsustainable rising costs.
Improving for 16.2% of the US performance in line with government economy more commitments is presenting tough challenges than housing, for the US healthcare system.
IT has a vital clothing and role to play in this transformation.
energy combined By making things work better in healthcare Page 02 Misys plc Annual Report 2006 and in banking Intense competition.
Demands in banking have never in bank IT been greater.
Software is at the heart of one budgets is of the biggest, fastest-moving industries in the around 45% world.
Page 03 Constantly improving our trusted products This year we invested 90 million in product Misys has nearly development.
That enables us to enhance 40% of its worldthe performance and functionality of our most wide employees successful products and solutions, ensuring they engaged in product remain valuable to customers going forward.
development Page 04 Misys plc Annual Report 2006 Established products generate strong cash We increased flow.
And that means we can invest in creating the number of new products for high growth markets.
staff devoted We use our unique processes, experienced to product people and deep industry knowledge to development address customers most important by 10% challenges and opportunities.... and innovating for the future Page 05 Misys is a market leader in banking software with over 1,200 customers worldwide Our products have a critical role to play.
In banking, Misys software carries out the complex processing needed by institutions to manage money safely and efficiently.
Every day billions of dollars, euros and pounds pass across our systems.
To provide support for everyday life Page 06 Misys plc Annual Report 2006 and life changing information The availability, accuracy and mobility of 110,000 information is just as critical in healthcare.
physicians trust Thousands of care givers rely on our products Misys products to capture and share medical data.
Improved to manage connectivity and efficient data sharing can essential patient create better quality of life.
data every day Page 07 Delivered by committed, talented people...
It takes a rare combination of technical and business expertise to deliver sophisticated software solutions.
Talk to people anywhere within Misys and youll witness the same desire to produce great products that make a real difference to customers and the wider public.
We employ 6,000 people in over 30 countries worldwide Page 08 Misys plc Annual Report 2006 We invest in attracting, developing and inspiring the best people in our industry, providing talented employees with opportunities to make a real difference.
Our business is about technology, but its the quality of Misys people that sets our products and solutions apart.
We serve customers in more than 120 countries... in locations around the world Page 09
