Misys Group overview 953m revenue 6,000 employees 30 countries Misys plc is one of the worlds largest and longestestablished providers of industry-specific software.
Founded in 1979, Misys primarily serves the international banking and healthcare industries, combining technological expertise with in-depth understanding of customers markets and operational needs.
Financial highlights Revenue continuing operations Dividends per share m pence 06 953 06 7.18 05 855 05 6.84 04 04 869 6.52 03 982 03 5.67 Page 16 Misys plc Annual Report 2006 Banking 267m 38m 2,500 Page 18 Revenue Adjusted operating profit Employees Key products and product areas Misys Summit Misys Banking Systems is one of the Multi-asset class solution top five providers of software to financial Misys Midas Plus Misys Opics Plus Core banking wholesale institutions worldwide.
We serve retail, Comprehensive front to Misys Equation back office solution wholesale and investment banks, corporate Core banking retail Misys Trade Portal treasuries, hedge funds and other financial Misys Bankmaster e-business institutions.
Our products enable customers Core banking retail Misys Loan IQ to improve the quality and efficiency of Misys Treasury Plus Commercial lending Fund management the systems they use to collect, analyse, transmit and manage financial data.
For more on our products visit www.
com Healthcare 316m 48m 2,800 Page 22 Revenue Adjusted operating profit Employees Key products and product areas Payerpath, A Misys Company Misys Healthcare Systems is one of the Financial transactions top five providers of software in the North Misys CPR Computer-based processing patient records American healthcare IT market.
We serve Misys Lab, Misys Radiology Misys EMR Electronic Departmental solutions physicians offices, hospitals, patients medical records Misys Tiger, Misys Vision homes and long-term care facilities.
Our Misys Homecare Physicians practice products enable customers to make more management solutions Misys Optimum Family of efficient and effective use of patient data.
leading clinical products and Misys Connect Web-based web-based technologies data sharing And they help to improve communication between patients and providers.
com Sesame 370m 9m 800 Page 26 Revenue Adjusted operating profit Employees Key products and product areas Sesame Select Provides Sesame is one of the largest providers of advisers with a range of support services to financial advisers in Sesame Network Provides competitively priced products advisers with core services, from five of the top financial the UK.
It supports independent financial specialist support and services brands in the advisers who cover every available product other benefits.
and multi-tie advisers who advise on Sesame Direct Provides research, rate quotations, products from five leading providers.
Its technology and compliance services offer enhanced rates, regulatory advice to intermediaries regulated directly by the FSA.
advice, professional development resources and research.
