About us | Financial highlights | Chairmans statement | Operating and financial review Key Performance Indicators | Directors report | Corporate governance | Audit Committee report | Remuneration report | Directors responsibilities | Report from the auditors | Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements | Five year review | Parent company balance sheet | Notes to the parent company financial statements | Shareholder information | Glossary Alignment of remuneration incentives with KPIs Key Performance Indicators It is a key principle of the Company to align the interests of the Mitchells & Butlers implements and monitors its performance against Directors and other key employees with those of its shareholders.
its strategy principally through four key performance indicators KPIs.
Executive remuneration as detailed in the Remuneration report The performance in 2006 and the basis of calculation are: on page 29 therefore includes schemes which contain elements of remuneration linked to the above KPIs.
Same outlet like-for-like sales growth Mitchells & Butlers growth, EPS and incremental return on expansionary capital are operational and marketing plans have delivered some of the used as performance measures within the Short Term Deferred strongest like-for-like sales growth in the industry with growth Incentive Plan STDIP and the amount by which CROCCE exceeds of 4.1% this year.
WACC is used within the Performance Restricted Share Plan PRSP scheme.
EPS growth Mitchells & Butlers strong trading performance, together with 177m of share repurchases in FY2005 and Total shareholder return TSR is also an important measure of FY2006, has generated Earnings per Share growth of 15.4% performance for Mitchells & Butlers shareholders as it combines before exceptional items this year.
the increase in the value of the Companys shares with any dividend returns made to shareholders.
CROCCE in excess of WACC The difference between the post-tax one of the performance conditions within the PRSP scheme.
Cash Return on Cash Capital Employed and Mitchells & Butlers Weighted Average Cost of Capital is a key measure of value creation, Mitchells & Butlers TSR performance compared with its selected where the cash returns generated by the business are above the comparator group is highlighted in the Remuneration report.
For overall cost of funding for the business.
the purposes of remuneration schemes, TSR is taken over the life of the scheme rather than as an annual measure.
Over the last A CROCCE of 11% after tax was achieved this year, 5% points three years, the Company has delivered an increase of 152% in ahead of our estimated WACC of 6% reflecting the good operating TSR reflecting the success that has been achieved in executing performance supported by our efficient use of the balance sheet.
Incremental return on expansionary capital The Company continues to pursue attractive opportunities to invest in the profitable development of the estate.
Expansionary capital is allocated to individual projects to acquire new sites, or to upgrade the potential of existing pubs, based on a rigorous review of the likely returns.
Our track record in this area has remained very strong during the year, with pre-tax returns of over 20% being achieved on the investments made in the last two years.
KPI definitions: Same outlet like-for-like sales growth The sales this period compared to the sales in the same period in the The WACC is the post-tax weighted average cost of capital, calculated previous year of all managed pubs that were trading throughout the two using the post-tax cost of debt during the year and the cost of equity, periods being compared, expressed as a percentage.
weighted according to the proportion of the Company financed through debt and equity.
EPS growth The Earnings per Share for the period before exceptional items, compared Incremental return on expansionary capital to the comparable period last year as reported in the financial statements Incremental return is the growth in annual pub operating profit expressed expressed as a percentage.
as a percentage of the associated capital investment for sites having received expansionary investment over the last two financial years.
Sites CROCCE in excess of WACC are included once they have been trading for three months.
For sites which The post-tax Cash Return on Cash Capital Employed CROCCE compared have not been trading for a full 12 months, incremental return is estimated to the Weighted Average Cost of Capital post-tax WACC, where the cash based on an annualisation of actual post-investment trading.
Expansionary return is earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation less capital is capital invested to increase the trading area of a pub or to cash tax that would be charged on operating profit without any tax shield materially change the customer offer.
Expansionary capital represents from interest.
investment over and above the maintenance investment cycle for a pub.
Cash capital employed is the average net operating assets, plus the average accumulated depreciation, plus goodwill written off, less the historical revaluation reserve.
Mitchells & Butlers Annual report and accounts 2006 Report 7 |
