Directors Report The Directors submit their Report together with the audited G Going Concern financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006.
The Directors have formed a judgement that there is a reasonable P Principal Activity and Business Review expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For The principal activity of the Group is the provision of services to this reason, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern buildings and infrastructure.
The principal activity of the Company basis in preparing the Accounts.
is to provide management services to the Group.
P Payment of Creditors The review of the years operations, key risks and future developments are contained in the Chairmans Statement, The Groups policy is to comply with the terms of payment agreed the Chief Executives Review, the Chief Operating Officers with suppliers.
Where terms are not negotiated, the Group Review, the Finance Directors Review and Corporate endeavours to adhere to the suppliers standard terms.
31 March 2006, the Group had 55 days purchases outstanding 2005: 56 days and the Company had 17 days purchases D Donations outstanding 2005: 17 days.
Charitable contributions made during the year amounted to F Financial Instruments 105,800 2005: 85,300.
Included in donations were 66,000 to Cancer Research UK.
The remainder of the donations were made The Groups policy with regards to financial instruments and to local charities serving the communities in which the Group the risks to the Group are discussed in the Group Finance operates.
As a matter of policy, no political contributions were Directors Review.
O Other Interests in Shares S Share Capital The Company has been notified of the following interests in Details of changes in the share capital during the year and the 3.0% or more of the issued share capital of the Company as at number of Ordinary Shares in issue at the year end are set out in 18 May 2006.
Number of % of S Share buyback programme Ordinary Shares Share of 2.5 p each Capital In June 2004 the Company commenced a share buyback programme which has continued pursuant to the renewed Fidelity Corp. and Fidelity International Ltd 43,775,764 14.18 authority given by Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in Prudential plc 19,630,820 6.36 2005.
During the year to 31 March 2006 the Company purchased a total of 992,305 Ordinary Shares, representing 0.3% of the issued Mirabaud Investment Management Ltd 14,211,579 4.60 share capital of the Company, for a total consideration of 1.6m.
Legal & General Group plc 10,252,378 3.32 There have been no further purchases since the year end.
All Ordinary Shares purchased have been subsequently cancelled.
Further details are given in Note 22 to the Accounts.
The exact amount and timing of future purchases, and the extent to which E Employee involvement repurchased shares may be held as treasury shares rather than Communication continues to have high priority in the process of being cancelled, will be determined by the Company and will be ensuring that employees are involved in the Company.
The Group dependent on market conditions and other factors.
now delivers an enhanced quarterly publication and a bimonthly D Dividends publication to all employees.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 2.4p per Ordinary Our employee forum is now firmly established and has held two Share to be paid on 29 September 2006 to Ordinary Shareholders meetings during the past year.
Both meetings have been chaired on the Register on 8 September 2006, which together with the by Ian Stewart Chief Executive which indicates to the employee interim dividend of 1.9p paid on 31 March 2006 makes a total of representatives the importance that both Ian Stewart and the 4.3p for the year 2005: 3.4p.
Group attach to this forum.
We look forward to an increase in involvement and activity of our company representatives.
D Directors The Directors believe that employees should be encouraged to Details of the Board of Directors are given on page 36. become Shareholders.
The Savings Related Share Option Schemes established in 1991 and 2001, currently have a total of Ishbel Macpherson and David Jenkins were appointed 1,529 2005:1,561 contributing employees.
In addition, other Non-Executive Directors of the Company on 28 July 2005 and employees were awarded Executive Share Options in recognition 1 March 2006 respectively.
Manish Chande stepped down as a of achievements during the year.
Suzanne Baxter was appointed Group Finance Director on 10 April 2006.
A Auditors In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the Colin Acheson, David Ord, Ruby McGregor-Smith and Cullum Company at the date when this report was approved: McAlpine will retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election at the AGM.
Ishbel Macpherson, so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant David Jenkins and Suzanne Baxter, all having been appointed audit information as defined in the Companies Act 1985 of since the last Annual General Meeting, will retire and offer which the Companys auditors are unaware: and themselves for re-election.
each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director to make himself herself aware of The Board considers that the performance of those Directors any relevant audit information as defined and to establish that proposed for re-election continues to be effective and that they the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
demonstrate a strong commitment to their role.
Deloitte & Touche LLP have expressed their willingness to continue Details of the Directors interests in the share capital of the in office as auditors and the Resolution to reappoint them will be Company are shown in the Directors Remuneration Report.
proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
MITIE Group PLC 37 Directors Report continued A Annual General Meeting S Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Annual General Meeting will be held at 12 noon on The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Thursday 27 July 2006 at The Merchants Hall, The Promenade, and the financial statements.
The Directors are required to Clifton Down, Bristol.
prepare accounts for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and have chosen to prepare The Resolutions to be proposed at the AGM are contained in the Company financial statements in accordance with Notice of Meeting.
United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
Resolution 12 seeks a renewal of the Directors authority to allot shares without the prior consent of Shareholders up to a nominal In the case of UK GAAP accounts, the Directors are required to amount of 780,110.
On 19 September 2001 the Shareholders duly prepare financial statements for each financial year which give conferred authority on the Directors to exercise all the powers of a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Company to allot relevant securities up to a specified amount of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing for a five year period, which authority will expire on 18 September these financial statements, the Directors are required to: 2006.
It is now proposed to seek renewal of this authority annually, and accordingly Resolution 12 proposes a renewal of the existing select suitable accounting policies and then apply them authority for a period expiring at the conclusion of the next consistently: Annual General Meeting of the Company or, if sooner, on make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and 27 October 2007.
This will continue the Directors' flexibility to act in prudent: and the best interests of the Shareholders, when opportunities arise, by state whether applicable accounting standards have been issuing new Ordinary Shares.
The Directors will be able to issue new followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and Ordinary Shares up to a nominal value of 780,110 which is explained in the financial statements.
approximately equal to 10.1% of the Company's issued share In the case of IFRS accounts, International Accounting Standard 1 capital as at 18 May 2006.
The Company held no shares in requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial treasury as at 18 May 2006. year the Companys financial position, financial performance and Resolution 13 seeks a renewal of the Directors authority to allot cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of new Ordinary Shares, not exceeding 5.0% of the issued share transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the capital, for cash without first being required to offer them to definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and existing Shareholders in the proportion of their holdings.
expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and Presentation of Resolution 14 seeks a renewal of the Companys authority to Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair purchase its own shares, not exceeding 10.0% of the issued share presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable capital.
The Directors will continue to exercise this authority if International Financial Reporting Standards.
Directors are also satisfied that to do so would result in an increase in the Groups required to: earnings per share and would be in the interests of Shareholders generally.
Following the introduction of The Companies properly select and apply accounting policies: Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 present information, including accounting policies, in a companies are now permitted to retain any of their own shares manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and which they have purchased as treasury stock with a view to understandable information: and possible re-issue at a future date, rather than cancelling them provide additional disclosures when compliance with the as had previously been required by legislation.
Accordingly, if specific requirements in International Financial Reporting the Company were to purchase any more of its own shares, it Standards is insufficient to enable users to understand the would consider holding them as treasury stock, pursuant to the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions authorisation conferred by this resolution.
This would give the on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
Company the ability to re-issue treasury shares quickly and The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting cost-effectively, and would provide the Company with additional records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the flexibility in the management of its capital base.
financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a Directors Report and Directors Remuneration Report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
C Corina K Ross Company Secretary 19 May 2006 38 MITIE Group PLC
