Report of the directors 70252 3 Directors 5 3 07 17:11 Page 26 Morgan Sindall Report and Accounts 2006 Introduction The directors present their annual report to shareholders together with the financial statements and independent auditors report for the year ended 31 December 2006.
Principal activities Morgan Sindall is a construction group with four divisions: Fit Out, Construction, Infrastructure Services and Affordable Housing.
Further details of the Groups activities are provided in the Business Review on pages 4 to15 and the divisional reviews on pages 16 to 23.
The principal subsidiary companies operating within this divisional structure are shown on page 83.
The principal activities are carried out in the United Kingdom and the Channel Islands.
Business review and future developments The chairman and chief executive's statement on page 3 and the Business Review on pages 4 to 15 report on the activities during the year and likely future developments.
This statement and the Business Review include information which is required to fulfil the requirements of the business review pursuant to the Companies Act 1985 and are incorporated into the report of the directors by reference.
Details of the use by the Company and its subsidiary undertakings of financial instruments are set out in the Business Review on page 10 and in note 15 to the accounts on page 58.
Results and dividends The Groups revenue for the year was 1.5bn 2005: 1.3bn and profit before tax for the year amounted to 47.6m 2005: 41.7m.
An interim dividend of 8.0p 2005: 7.0p per ordinary share amounting to 3.4m 2005: 2.9m was paid on 29 September 2006.
The directors are recommending a final dividend for the year of 20.0p 2005: 18.0p per share amounting to 8.4m 2005: 7.6m payable on 2 May 2007 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 10 April 2007.
Acquisitions during the year On 24 March 2006 the Group acquired the entire issued share capital of Gleeson MCL Limited renamed Morgan Est Rail Limited from MJ Gleeson plc for a consideration of 22.8m.
Further details of this transaction are set out in note 25 to the accounts on page 66.
Share capital Details of shares allotted and issued during the year on the exercise of options under employee share option schemes appear in note 22 to the accounts on page 64.
No other shares were issued during the year.
Directors The names of the directors at the date of this report are set out below under Directors interests.
All of the directors held office throughout the year.
Further information on the Board's policies and procedures is set out in the corporate governance statement on pages 37 to 40.
Bernard Asher will retire by rotation at the forthcoming annual general meeting and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
Jack Lovell will be retiring at the forthcoming annual general meeting and will not be standing for re-election.
Biographical details, including details of their roles, responsibilities and significant external commitments, of all the directors intending to continue serving on the Board following the annual general meeting are set out on pages 24 to 25.
26 Report of the directors 70252 3 Directors 1 3 07 12:39 Page 27 Directors interests The interests of the directors, all of which are beneficial, in the ordinary shares of 5p each in the capital of the Company shares are given below: 2006 2005 Number of shares Number of shares John Morgan 4,085,170 4,330,538 Paul Smith 2,876 2,876 David Mulligan 1,250 1,250 Paul Whitmore 6,006 2,250 Bernard Asher 5,000 5,000 Gill Barr 1,013 Jon Walden - Jack Lovell 3,415,273 3,409,968 There have been no changes in the interests of the directors between 31 December 2006 and 19 February 2007.
The directors share options and interests in shares under long-term share incentive and other schemes are set out in the directors remuneration report on pages 30 to 36.
Directors indemnities The articles of association of the Company entitle the directors of the Company to be indemnified, to the extent permitted by the Companies Act 1985 and any other applicable legislation, out of the assets of the Company in the event that they suffer any loss or incur any liability in connection with the execution of their duties as directors.
In addition, in common with many other companies, the Company has in place directors and officers insurance in favour of its directors and other officers in respect of certain losses or liability to which they may be exposed due to their office.
Substantial shareholdings In addition to certain of the directors, as set out above, as at 19 February 2007, the Company had been notified of the following substantial interests in the share capital of the Company: Name of holder Number Percentage held Aviva plc 3,078,426 7.24% JP Morgan Chase & Co 2,574,427 6.05% Barclays plc 2,487,182 5.85% Standard Life Group 2,133,103 5.02% Employment policies The average number of employees in the Group during the year is given in note 3 on page 51.
The Company insists that a policy of equal opportunity employment is adhered to throughout the Group.
Selection criteria, procedures and training opportunities are designed to ensure that all individuals are selected, treated and promoted on the basis of their merits, abilities and potential.
The Group will not tolerate sexual, mental or physical harassment in the workplace.
Subject to the nature of its businesses in the construction industry, the policy of the Group is to ensure that there are fair opportunities for the employment, training and career development of disabled persons, including continuity of employment with re-training where appropriate.
The Group recognises the need to ensure effective communication with employees.
The key channels used for employee communications are the Groups intranet and newsletter.
The Morgan Sindall intranet is available to employees and has an extensive index and search capability containing relevant information such as corporate policies and directories.
Its news desk is updated regularly and features a constant flow of news about the Group and the construction industry sectors in which the Group operates.
In addition Morgan Sindall News, the Groups newsletter, is issued to all employees every three months and this reviews the Groups performance and activities and outlines its future plans to give employees a better understanding of the Groups developments.
27 Report of the directors 70252 3 Directors 1 3 07 12:39 Page 28 Morgan Sindall Report and Accounts 2006 Supplier payment policy The Companys policy, which is also adopted by the Group, is to agree clearly and set down terms of payment with suppliers and subcontractors when agreeing the terms for each transaction and to make payments in accordance with its obligations, save in cases of genuine dispute.
As at 31 December 2006 the Groups number of creditor days outstanding were equivalent to 26 days purchases 2005: 26 days, based on the average daily amount invoiced by suppliers during the year.
Political and charitable contributions During the year the Group made charitable donations of 64,783 2005: 53,984 principally to local charities serving the communities in which the Group operates.
No contributions were made to any political parties during the current or preceding year.
Directors' responsibility statement The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, directors' remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
The directors are required by the International Accounting Standards IAS Regulation to prepare the Groups financial statements under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The Groups financial statements are also required by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
IAS 1 requires that IFRS financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Group's financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Board's 'Framework for the preparation and presentation of financial statements'.
In almost all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRS.
However, directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entity's financial position and financial performance The directors have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the parent company financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company's website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
So far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information that is, information needed by the Companys auditors in connection with preparing their report of which the Companys auditors are not aware.
Each director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken in his or her duty as a director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
28 Report of the directors 70252 3 Directors 1 3 07 12:39 Page 29 Going concern After making enquires, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason the directors continue to adopt a going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Annual general meeting The annual general meeting will be held on 19 April 2007.
The notice of the meeting is set out on pages 84 to 86.
In addition to the ordinary business to be transacted at the meeting, the following items of special business will be proposed: Authority to allot shares An ordinary resolution will be proposed to give the directors authority to allot share capital in the Company in accordance with section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act.
The authority will be limited to an aggregate nominal value of 708,668 representing approximately one third of the current issued share capital of the Company and will expire fifteen months from the date on which this resolution is passed or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting.
The directors currently have no intention of issuing further shares or granting rights over shares other than in connection with the Companys employee share option and share incentive schemes.
Disapplication of pre-emption rights A special resolution will be proposed to renew the directors power to allot equity securities for cash other than by way of rights or other pre-emptive issues.
The power will be limited to an aggregate nominal value of 106,300, representing approximately 5 per cent of the current issued ordinary share capital of the Company and will expire fifteen months from the date on which the resolution is passed or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting.
Amendment to articles of association A special resolution will be proposed to amend the articles of association of the Company.
The purpose of the resolution is to allow the Company to take advantage of the new Companies Act 2006 rules for communications between companies, shareholders and others that came into force on 20 January 2007.
The key change made by the new Act is that the Company will be able to send notices and other documents to shareholders by publishing them on its website, provided that certain conditions are met and procedures are followed.
One of the conditions is that the Companys shareholders have resolved that the Company may send or supply notices or documents to members by making them available on a website.
Shareholders are being asked to do this by approving relevant amendments to the Companys articles of association.
The amendments cover all notices or documents other than share certificates that the Company may send to shareholders.
This includes, but is not limited to, annual accounts and reports, notices of general meetings and any documents which the Company is required to send to shareholders under the FSAs Listing Rules or other rules to which the Company is subject.
If the resolution is passed, the Company will in the near future ask each shareholder individually to agree that the Company may communicate in this way.
The request will explain that, if the Company has not received a reply within 28 days of the request, the shareholder will be taken to have given his or her consent.
Even if a shareholder fails to reply, and is deemed to have consented to website communications, he or she will be able to ask for a hard copy of any document from the Company at any time.
These new arrangements are expected to speed up communication to shareholders in a convenient form whilst saving administrative, printing and postage costs as well as delivering environmental benefits.
The directors are of the opinion that the aforementioned resolutions are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole and recommend you to vote in favour of them.
Independent auditors Deloitte & Touche LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as independent auditors and a resolution to re-appoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
By order of the Board Mary Nettleship Company Secretary 20 February 2007 29
