70252 2 REPORT 1 3 07 12:36 Page 18 Morgan Sindall Report and Accounts 2006 16 70252 2 REPORT 1 3 07 12:36 Page 19 The divisions ability to deliver contracts of differing size and complexity has been developed with recent success in delivering a number of large projects Fit Out The Fit Out division is a leading UK provider of design, fit out and refurbishment services to the commercial property market.
It operates from locations in London, the South East, Midlands and the North of England.
The division comprises four dedicated businesses, namely: Overbury, the office fit out and refurbishment specialist Morgan Lovell, the office interior design, fit out and refurbishment company Vivid Interiors, a specialist in fit out and refurbishment solutions for the hotel, retail, leisure and entertainment sectors Backbone Furniture, a furniture supplier for commercial interiors The divisions clients come from a broad range of sectors, both public and private, which gives the division flexibility in maintaining consistent performance as market conditions change.
Recent growth has been driven by the strength of the financial and professional services sectors, particularly in London, and by improvement in the technology and media sectors in the South East of England.
The overall market is buoyant, supported by a healthy public sector workload and significant investment in new office space addressing the overall shortage of quality accommodation.
The divisions ability to deliver contracts of differing size and complexity has been developed with recent success in delivering a number of large contracts.
This track record helped the division to secure its largest single contract to date, a 33m fit out in London for a major professional services business, which will commence in mid-2007.
In addition the division delivers work under a number of framework arrangements, which have helped it to lengthen its order book.
17 70252 2 REPORT 1 3 07 12:37 Page 20 Morgan Sindall Report and Accounts 2006 A continued focus for Bluestone is to increase its workload from key clients and through framework arrangements Construction Bluestone is a national construction business with a network of local offices across England and Wales which provide new build, refurbishment and maintenance projects to the private and public sector under a variety of procurement routes.
Bluestones sector expertise is in education, healthcare, light industrial and commercial, leisure and retail.
In its core sectors the division is the construction partner to Morgan Sindalls joint venture Community Solutions for Primary Care, which has been appointed preferred bidder on its fifth NHS LIFT scheme to build primary care facilities in Bury, Glossop and Tameside, as well as constructing further developments under the Groups four existing LIFT schemes.
In the education sector Bluestone secured major schemes such as a 20m student residence for developer Derwent Living in Birmingham and an 8m student living scheme for York University which demonstrates its expertise in the construction of student accommodation.
A continued focus for Bluestone is to increase its workload from key clients and through framework arrangements.
In particular the division has been successful in expanding its portfolio of national frameworks with new frameworks now in operation with the Driving Standards Agency, South East Centre of Excellence and Norfolk Property Services as well as extending key account business with national clients Unite, St Modwen and BUPA.
During 2006 the division extended its geographic coverage when it opened an office in Liverpool thereby strengthening its business presence in the North West.
This will allow the business to target significant Government regeneration programmes and new construction and maintenance work in the lead up to Liverpools 2008 European Capital of Culture event.
18 70252 2 REPORT 1 3 07 12:37 Page 21 19 70252 2 REPORT 1 3 07 12:37 Page 22 Morgan Sindall Report and Accounts 2006 The business is poised for growth, having secured 800m of new contracts in 2006 Infrastructure Services Morgan Est is a leading UK provider of infrastructure and utilities services across the public and private sector.
Morgan Est specialises in complex engineering projects, working from feasibility and early stage design through to delivery and completion.
The division comprises four businesses covering its tunnelling, infrastructure, rail and utilities operations.
During the year the division acquired from M J Gleeson plc its non-track rail business.
The business delivers infrastructure projects, to a range of clients, for example, Network Rails programme of station upgrades, a three-year construction framework to ensure station facilities across Britain meet Disability Discrimination Act regulations.
In addition the division benefited from recent Government investment in modernising road and rail transport, particularly in Scotland where the Scottish Executive is introducing a new multi-billion pound roads building programme.
Morgan Est has secured key projects such as the 30m A68 Dalkeith Bypass for Transport Scotland as well as the 100m A876 Upper Forth Crossing at Kincardine, the latter being delivered through a joint venture with Vinci.
In the utilities sector, Morgan Est has been successful in being appointed preferred bidder with consortium partners ABB and Atkins for a five-year scheme for National Grid, worth up to 175m to Morgan Est, to build electricity substations across central England.
In the gas sector the division secured a seven-year 420m gas networks upgrade with consortium partner Balfour Beatty for United Utilities in the North of England.
In the water sector the division secured key contracts such as Esholt, a 39m project for Yorkshire Water and a three-year, 92m scheme to upgrade Belfasts sewerage system for the Northern Ireland Water Service.
20 70252 2 REPORT 1 3 07 12:37 Page 23 21 70252 2 REPORT 7 3 07 22:32 Page 24 Morgan Sindall Report and Accounts 2006 22 70252 2 REPORT 1 3 07 12:37 Page 25 The division is developing new forms of project delivery and is currently preferred bidder on its first PFI project Affordable Housing Lovell is a leading provider of affordable housing and operates across the UK.
Working in partnership with housing associations and local authorities, the division specialises in mixed tenure developments, refurbishment and large-scale regeneration schemes.
The divisions expertise embraces new-build affordable housing and private housing for sale as well as Decent Homes housing refurbishment schemes and mixed use regeneration schemes.
Key mixed tenure projects developed during 2006 include The Heart of Bow development in Londons East End, near the site of the 2012 Olympic Stadium and The Way at Beswick, East Manchester, the UKs biggest housing development to be built using off-site construction techniques.
Lovell continues to work on a large number of Decent Homes housing improvement schemes including a 30m housing modernisation programme for Your Homes in Newcastle.
New refurbishment work recently secured includes contracts worth 76m under the Decent Homes programme in London for Hammersmith & Fulham Housing Management Services and a 25m programme of work for Norwich City Council.
The division is also developing new forms of project delivery and is currently preferred bidder on its first PFI project, which is a project to refurbish 1,600 council properties and build over 1,000 new homes in Miles Platting for Manchester City Council.
The construction work is worth a potential 200m to Lovell and is due to commence in mid-2007.
