DIRECTORS REPORT The directors present their report and accounts for the 52 weeks ended 25 February 2006.
Activities and results The principal activities of the group are retailing through direct home shopping, fulfilment and financial services.
The activities are more fully explained in the chief executives review on pages 4 to 13.
Group profit before taxation from continuing operations for the 52 weeks ended 25 February 2006 amounted to 51.8m 2005, 18.4m.
No geographical segmentation is provided as, apart from a small operation in the Republic of Ireland, all activities take place in the United Kingdom.
Dividends and reserves An interim dividend of 1.82p per share 2005, 1.74p was paid on the ordinary shares of the company on 6 January 2006.
The net cost of this dividend was 5.3m 2005, 5.1m.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 4.45p per share 2005, 4.10p for the 52 weeks ended 25 February 2006, the net cost of which will be 13.1m 2005, 12.1m.
Movements in reserves are shown in note 28 on page 59.
Acquisitions and disposals In May 2005 the group disposed of Teleview Direct Ltd, its television rental operation for 6.2m and by September 2005 had sold the debtor portfolio of its financial services division for 16.2m.
Share capital The companys authorised share capital is 39.0m 2005, 39.0m.
During the year, 5,740 ordinary shares were issued in connection with the groups qualifying employee share ownership trust.
Details of outstanding share options are shown in note 33 on page 62.
Annual general meeting The annual general meeting is to be held on 18 July 2006.
The notice convening the annual general meeting is being sent to members by way of separate circular together with full explanatory notes on each resolution to be proposed at the meeting.
Directors The biographies of the directors, all of whom served throughout the year are shown on page 16.
In accordance with the provisions of the 2003 Combined Code those non-executive directors who have served a term of more than 9 years on the board will be subject to annual re-election.
Those affected by such a provision are, Lord Alliance of Manchester CBE, Nigel Alliance OBE and Ivan Fallon.
Accordingly they will retire at the next annual general meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for reappointment at that meeting.
In addition, in accordance with the Articles of Association of the company Alan White will retire at the next annual general meeting and being eligible, offers himself for reappointment at the meeting.
Directors interests are separately disclosed in the remuneration report on page 33.
Directors and officers liabilities The group maintains insurance for directors and officers of the group, indemnifying them against certain liabilities incurred by them whilst acting on behalf of the group.
Major shareholders In addition to the directors shareholdings shown in the remuneration report on page 33, the directors are aware of the following shareholdings of 3 per cent or more of the issued share capital at 30 April 2006: Holding % of issued share capital Fidelity Investment Services Ltd 19,860,628 6.72 Aberforth Partners 17,553,300 5.94 Invesco Asset Management 9,531,826 3.23 18 N Brown Group plc Report and Accounts 2006 DIRECTORS REPORT Ethical and social issues Ethics The board regards achievement of the highest ethical standards as an essential feature in the way in which the group does business.
A code of ethical conduct dealing with issues of commercial standards, conflicts of interest, gifts and hospitality has been circulated to all staff.
All directors and employees of the group are required to comply with both the letter and the spirit of the code of ethical conduct in all their dealings on behalf of the group and are required to file an electronic return detailing compliance with the policy on gifts and hospitality, online each month.
In their dealings with each other, other group companies and their shareholders, customers, suppliers, competitors with regulatory authorities and the wider community, employees are required to: - conduct all dealings with honesty, integrity and fairness: - comply with all relevant laws, regulations and internal company policy: - encourage and support a business culture which exhibits and promotes ethical conduct at all levels within the organisation: and - avoid any situation or action which could cause damage to the groups reputation.
Directors of all group companies will be required to disclose details of related party transactions for review by the audit committee.
A register of gifts and benefits offered by, and to, suppliers and other parties whether accepted or declined is maintained under the control of the head of internal audit.
Summary information is presented to the groups audit committee.
All employees, managers and directors are required, each month, to declare any offer of gifts or hospitality with a value of 25 or more, offered, accepted or declined.
The group has drawn up and issued a comprehensive whistleblowing policy providing employees with an appropriate means of communication in case of ethical concerns regarding the way the group operates in its day-to-day activities.
Environment The group recognises its environmental responsibilities and is committed to minimising any damage which its activities may cause to the environment.
It has delegated specific responsibility for environmental matters to a nominated director on each of its principal subsidiary boards.
In addition, it actively pursues a number of environmental policies, including those designed to contain energy costs, the recycling of paper and packaging materials wherever practical and the use of information technology systems to reduce the level of consumption of paper by its employees.
In 1994 the Government in consultation with Europe adopted an environmental policy EC Packaging Waste Directive 94 62 EC, which required larger companies to recover and recycle the packaging waste that they put into the environment.
The group was one of the first organisations to join the Valpak Organisation, which, with the endeavours of its members and their combined financial contributions, has succeeded in building a national sustainable recovery and recycling infrastructure.
The groups complement of skilled packaging technologists look at every product sold within the group to ensure its compliance to European Environmental Law with particular emphasis on the Pack Minimisation Essential Requirements 1998 Regulations.
All packaging components are made from materials and processes causing minimum harm to the environment when either manufactured, processed, recycled or eventually disposed of.
All of the groups paper packaging is made from a minimum of 75% recycled paper and all other paper is sourced from 100% recyclable papers.
Wherever practically possible packaging materials and processes are derived from managed and renewable sources.
The group will continue to search out new ways of reducing our packaging impact on the environment by adopting a cradle to grave view on all packaging products used by the group.
The group firmly believes that continuing success can only be achieved by an enthusiastic, motivated and well-trained workforce.
Consequently, considerable resources are devoted to staff training.
Departmental team briefings are held and a staff attitude survey is conducted regularly.
Over 600 group employees either hold shares in the company or have options awards to acquire them through the groups various share option and long-term incentive schemes.
Constructive relationships with the trade unions which represent its employees principally USDAW and SATA are encouraged.
Elements of the group are covered by a collective bargaining arrangement with USDAW.
The group supports the principle of equal opportunities in employment and is opposed to all forms of discrimination, including those on the grounds of colour, race, nationality, ethnic or national origin, religion, gender, age, sexual orientation, marital status or disability.
Our selection processes for recruitment, promotion, training and development are non-discriminatory.
We believe it is in the best interests of employees and the group to provide these opportunities to the most suitable candidates.
N Brown Group plc Report and Accounts 2006 19 DIRECTORS REPORT Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
In the event of any employee becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the group continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
It is the policy of the group that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
The groups policy is to adhere to all relevant legislation to ensure, as far as is reasonably practicable, the health, safety and welfare at work of all employees and of other people working on our premises but not employed by the group.
We endeavour to ensure that products and services used in the workplace or sold by us are designed so that they are safe and without risk when properly used.
Pre-employment questionnaires, physiotherapy, audiometry, an improved management referral process and rehabilitation programs have enabled occupational health issues to be better controlled.
Customers One of the key factors of the groups success is the quality of its relationship with its customers.
Regular customer satisfaction surveys are conducted, both directly and through third parties, to ensure that the group closely monitors the opinions and requirements of its customers.
In addition, telephone enquiry and complaint calls received from customers are analysed and appropriate action taken to improve the levels of service offered to them.
Suppliers The group sources products and services from across the world.
A significant proportion of this expenditure is with suppliers with whom the group has a long-term relationship, which helps to provide a continually improving quality of product and service to customers, whilst reducing costs.
It is the groups policy to comply with the terms of payment agreed with its suppliers.
Trade creditors of the group at 25 February 2006 represented 38 days 2005, 35 days of purchases.
The group is aware of the potential social impact of its business dealings, particularly in developing countries.
Our standard terms and conditions for the purchase of all goods for resale require that, in relation to the manufacture of merchandise, the supplier warrants that all labour, safety and other relevant laws in the country of manufacture will be strictly observed with respect to all workers at all stages of production.
Community The group believes that it has a responsibility to invest in the communities in which it operates.
The family, health and wellbeing programme launched in 2003 providing additional benefits for all our employees is actively supported and continues.
The company maintains close links with the Christie Hospital in Manchester and regularly assists in fund-raising for that organisation.
Recently the group has agreed to start donating its redundant IT equipment to charities operating in third world and developing countries.
The group is also a member of Business in the Community.
Charitable and political donations During the year, the group made charitable donations of 39,593 2005, 37,433.
No political donations have been made.
Pension fund The group continues to ensure that the N Brown Group Pension Fund is managed in accordance with best practice and current legislation, including the Pensions Act 1995.
The funds assets are administered by a trustee company which is controlled by a board of directors, all of whom have a vested interest in the performance of the fund, representing the interests of pension fund members, pensioners and N Brown Group plc.
The funds investments are managed by Deutsche Asset Management Limited and Legal and General Assurance Pensions Management Limited and the actuarial and administration services are provided by William M Mercer Limited.
The N Brown Group Pension Fund was closed to new entrants with effect from 31 January 2002.
New employees joining the group after 31 January 2002 and existing employees who had not joined the N Brown Group Pension Fund as at that date, are entitled to join a stakeholder pension scheme providing a defined contribution pension arrangement, administered by Prudential Stakeholder Pensions.
Financial risk management, objectives and policies The group is exposed to certain financial risks, namely interest rate risk, currency risk and credit risk.
Information regarding such financial risks is detailed in notes 18, 19 and 20.
The groups risk management policies and procedures are also discussed in the financial review.
Tax status The company is not a close company within the meaning of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
Auditors A resolution to reappoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors to the company and to authorise the directors to fix their remuneration will be proposed at the annual general meeting on 18 July 2006.
20 N Brown Group plc Report and Accounts 2006 DIRECTORS REPORT Directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the financial statements.
The directors are required to prepare financial statements for the group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and have chosen to prepare company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
Company law requires the directors to prepare such financial statements in accordance with IFRS, UK GAAP, the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
In the case of UK GAAP accounts, the directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial period which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed.
In the case of IFRS accounts, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a directors report and directors remuneration report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the company website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
By order of the board Philip F Harland LL.
B Hons Solicitor Secretary 31 May 2006 N Brown Group plc Report and Accounts 2006 21
