CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED New challenges create the need for The expected benefits include revitalised new partnerships for example, as stations for Central Trains, better energy and environmental issues move maintained assets and less vandalism up the political agenda.
In Spain, our for Network Rail.
In addition, there Alsa coach business is engaged in a is greater security and an improved major study of transport system energy environment for customers, extra consumption, in partnership with amenities for the community, and leading educational and university greater engagement for all the organisations.
The project is part of a stakeholders involved.
Ministry of Public Works Research and Innovation Programme linked to its rail or bus timetable is a Strategic Plan for Infrastructure and picture of order and Transport.
The Ministry is a key predictability.
Real life, CREATING OPTIONS stakeholder for Alsa because of its role FOR OUR CUSTOMERS unfortunately, is not.
CAN MAKE LIFE JUST A in regulating the industry.
Beneath the surface of LITTLE MORE FUN Safety is a common concern for smooth-running many stakeholder groups.
In North operations there is a huge amount of America we join forces with the National activity by people with a passion for Association of State Directors of Pupil detail.
They have a deep sense of their Transportation Services to promote responsibility for delivering safe, reliable National School Bus Safety Week.
The more  event enables successfully they do their jobs, the less us to work with students, parents, our customers should notice.
school administrators and our own Our goal is to Make Travel Simpler.
drivers to raise safety awareness.
To do that, we first have to achieve The key to productive stakeholder operational excellence.
Rather GETTING There is no operational issue more than leave unused station buildings important than safety.
Trains, coaches boarded up and forgotten, Central and buses are rightly recognised as THE Trains is making them available to local three of the safest forms of transport, community organisations.
Working with and we guard that reputation jealously.
DETAIL Network Rail it has created an Safety is our first responsibility to our innovative three-way lease that gives customers and our people, and non-commercial groups tenancies of up RIGHT essential to our business success.
to 25 years at peppercorn rents of as We constantly review ways to little as 1 a year.
Tenants so far include improve our performance.
All our UK a sustainable development project, a coaches are fitted with seat belts by music teaching and practice facility, a law, and since 2006 it has been local enterprise agency and an art mandatory for passengers over 14 to gallery in a converted urinal.
In Spain, the law will require seat belts to be fitted to coaches registered from October 2007.
On that basis, it could have been 2011 before our whole Alsa fleet was seat belt TABLE 1 TRAINS PUBLIC PERFORMANCE MEASURE NATIONAL RAIL TRENDS, OFFICE FOR RAIL REGULATION, 19 DEC 2006 PERCENTAGE OF TRAINS ARRIVING ON TIME MOVING ANNUAL AVERAGE TO SEPT 2006 SECTOR SECTOR OPERATOR RANKING SCORE AVERAGE ALL UK FRANCHISES C2C 1 20 94.0 87.5 LONDON & SOUTH EAST UK FRANCHISES PEAK C2C 1 9 94.0 86.2 SILVERLINK 2 9 92.9 86.2 LONG DISTANCE FRANCHISES MIDLAND MAINLINE 1 6 92.5 84.3 REGIONAL UK FRANCHISES GATWICK EXPRESS 1 5 91.8 86.4 NATIONALLY, C2C, SILVERLINK, MIDLAND MAINLINE AND GATWICK EXPRESS OCCUPIED THE TOP 4 POSITIONS 8 NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006 equipped.
But in fact, Alsa has been As we achieve the standards customers fitting this vital safety equipment to new expect in basic criteria such as coaches since 2003.
And last year, with punctuality, we can now address belts fitted to just under half the seats in more of the other details that affect its long distance scheduled fleet, Alsa customer satisfaction.
decided to retro-fit belts to the rest of its We are defining and formalising the long distance fleet.
The work will be levels of service customers can expect completed this year.
for example, Midland Mainline now We maintain the same drive for has written standards for every train constant improvement in our Trains setting out details such as when the division, where the key measure of buffet must be open.
Customers are safety performance is SPADs signals frustrated by complex fare structures passed at danger.
Each of our rail and timetables, so we have been businesses has its own SPAD reduction working with the Association of strategy involving driver training, driver Train Operating Companies on fare assessment and competence simplification and the results will be management.
Our SPAD rate has been seen in 2007.
In Birmingham we have improving for several years and the worked in partnership with Centro to 2006 figure was our lowest ever.
To simplify fares and use distinctive maintain further improvement we are branding on certain routes to make working in partnership with the drivers identification simpler.
AIMING FOR union, ASLEF, on a development In Spain, we have just launched the programme that will further enhance the Bus Plus card for regular customers.
CONSTANT way we support safety awareness and Cardholders get priority booking and IMPROVEMENT competence in our driver workforce.
fare discounts, and can change or After safety, customers greatest cancel reservations with less hassle concern is reliable, punctual services.
They also get In the most recent National Rail Trends access to premium waiting rooms, reliability and punctuality table, National special offers, discounted theatre tickets Express companies topped all three and a prize draw.
Which makes life a bit categories see Table 1.
Each of these little extras is have work to do.
In 2006 Central Trains just a detail.
But taken together, we achieved its highest ever scores for believe details like these make a real punctuality.
In the National Passenger difference.
Surveys twice-yearly customer satisfaction figures, the weighted average of our train companies has been consistently ahead of the national average in both our focus areas of punctuality and cleanliness see Table 2.
TABLE 2 PASSENGER SATISFACTION AUTUMN 2006 ALL NATIONAL OPERATORS EXPRESS COMPANIES WEIGHTED AVERAGE PUNCTUALITY RELIABILITY 79 82 CLEANLINESS OF TRAIN 72 74 CLEANLINESS INSIDE 71 74 CLEANLINESS OUTSIDE 67 69 SOURCE: NATIONAL PASSENGER SURVEY, SEPT-NOV 2006 PASSENGER FOCUS, 29 JANUARY 2007 9 NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED ur devolved structure Were actively combating climate means all our change in three ways: making our CARING businesses can engage own operations more carbon-efficient, with their local working with government and other communities in their bodies such as the WWF and the ABOUT own way.
For example, Climate Group to help shape lowerin the US our Durham carbon transport policies: and directly WHAT school bus business originally encouraging people to switch to specialised in carrying pupils with public transport.
Today, its commitment to We are reducing our own energy WE DO them extends beyond the school run, consumption and carbon emissions for the past 10 years it has been where we can.
With vehicles, the supporting Special Olympics, an options are limited while newer buses organisation that helps people with and coaches produce lower exhaust intellectual disabilities to participate in emissions there is a trade-off with fuel sports training and competitions.
New safety, comfort and Durham is the charitys official transport accessibility equipment can add to sponsor for Texas, Northern California weight or energy demand.
However, by and Southern California, and last year raising our load factors we have been over 500 of our people volunteered to able to maintain or improve the help with Special Olympic events.
emissions on a per passenger kilometre In the UK, Midland Mainline basis.
Although the energy used by our developed its wide-ranging momentum sites is only a small percentage of our programme to help secondary school total greenhouse gas emissions we teachers engage pupils in debate on have worked at improving efficiency and topics ranging from waste last year we reduced energy use in our management to disability awareness.
Since its launch in September 2005, Our Trains division has activated it has involved 20 schools in Derby, regenerative braking technology, which Leicester, Sheffield and Nottingham.
recovers energy during braking to Pupils are encouraged to put their generate electricity and can reduce ideas into action: one school created train power consumption and CO2 a fully accessible organic community emissions by about 16% in the relevant garden: another sold fruit smoothies electric trains at Silverlink, Central Trains at Derby station to raise money for and one.
By May 2007, c2cs fleet Children in Need.
Our employee will also have been included in this involvement in the programme is led process, meaning all trains capable by 24 voluntary champions.
of regenerative braking will have We continue to support and been activated.
encourage community-centred projects like these throughout the business, and to tackle our environmental impacts in areas such as waste reduction and recycling.
But for us, the hottest issue by far is climate change.
10 NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006 RELATIVE GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Our Spanish business, Alsa, has been But not any more.
In partnership AGAINST JOURNEYS BY CAR tCO2e trialling the use of biodiesel which with Alsa, the local authorities have reduces CO2 emissions.
Initially, the trial established a flexible park and ride NATIONAL EXPRESS COACHES began in 2005 with buses on Premium scheme involving three car parks and Coach 98,891 inter city services.
It has now been 40 coaches on a 25km route.
During Car 355,504 extended to 40 urban buses in Oviedo.
peak seasons the road is closed to Net Saving 256,613 Experience to date has been cars and visitors travel quickly and encouraging, and when the trials are comfortably by coach, watching an NATIONAL EXPRESS BUSES complete Alsa will consider running its onboard video about the area and Bus 185,967 whole fleet on biodiesel.
Car 256,355 Meanwhile, we are planning to The project has greatly improved the Net S. Net S. 70,388 begin trials of biodiesel on buses in the local environment, makes access UK.
And we are having positive quicker and easier, and saves an NATIONAL EXPRESS TRAINS discussions with Transport for London estimated 64,000 litres of fuel and Train 559,643 to trial five diesel-electric hybrid buses almost 800 tonnes of CO2 a year.
Car 838,223 which should lead to a significant We will continue to explore ideas Net Saving Net Saving 278,580 reduction in both CO2 emissions and like these, and every avenue for exhaust pollutants.
Not least The Coach Bus Train bar shows the emissions But the most important thing we because we also have to ensure that arising from our fleet operations.
The car bar can do to combat global warming is our operations are able to cope with represents the estimated emissions if 80% of our passengers had travelled by car instead.
achieve large-scale shifts to public the more extreme weather conditions Net Saving represents the emissions saved as transport.
As well as making public that have been forecast.
n a result of people travelling with our services transport more attractive by improving rather than by car.
Data provided by the Edinburgh Centre for our services, we are also promoting the Carbon Management.
environmental benefits: this year, for example, we are launching a new facility on our websites that enables people to calculate how much CO2 they can save by changing their transport habits.
The figures can be startling, for example, swapping from car to coach on a London to Birmingham return trip, travellers could cut their CO2 emissions by up to 91%.
Overall our services result in a massive net saving in emissions than had the journeys been undertaken by a car.
As well as saving energy, public transport eases congestion.
In crowded town centres and in some of Europes finest mountain wilderness.
In Northern Spains Picos fide Europa National Park in Asturias, holiday traffic on the road to Covadonga Lakes meant the 11km journey could take three hours in summer.
IN SPAINS PICOS fide EUROPA NATIONAL PARK, WEVE HELPED CLEAR THE AIR BY REMOVING THREE HOUR TRAFFIC JAMS 11 NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006
