PRINCIPAL RISKS AND transport companies remains intense.
year wage agreements where UNCERTAINTIES This is seen both in competition possible, which contain an element of In addition to the opportunities we have for passengers and when bidding productivity enhancement to ensure that to grow and develop our business, for contracts.
cost increases above inflation are the Group faces a range of risks and We compete using the key themes mitigated as far as possible.
uncertainties as part of both its day to explained in the Chief Executives MAJOR INCIDENTS day operations and its corporate review: customer service, leading the As our business is based on the activities.
The processes that the Board way, knowing our stakeholders, transportation of passengers, there is a has established to safeguard both operational excellence and showing risk that any incidents that the Group is shareholder value and the assets of the we care.
involved in, directly or indirectly, could Group are described in the Corporate ENERGY COSTS result in injury to our passengers or Governance Report.
All of our businesses incur energy costs staff.
The potential impact on the Group The narrative which follows with UK Bus, UK Coach, Alsa and is wide ranging and includes possible describes those specific risks and North America predominantly using damage to our reputation with uncertainties that the Directors believe diesel, and UK Trains using either gasoil passengers, financial loss following could have the most significant impact or electricity.
All energy prices are insurance claims and our ability to win on the Groups long term value subject to significant changes driven by future contracts.
The risks and uncertainties international economic and political To mitigate this risk, the Board described below are not intended to be factors.
In recent years, weather operates a Safety and Environment an exhaustive list.
patterns such as mild or cold winters Committee which reviews the Groups RISKS INHERENT IN BIDDING and hurricanes have also had an effect safety practices, procedures and record FOR CONTRACTS on energy prices.
as described in the Corporate One of the principal methods of We seek to limit the effect diesel Governance Report.
For our increasing shareholder value is bidding and gasoil costs have on our year on employees, this translates itself into our for new contracts.
Inherent in bidding year profitability through a risk culture of operational excellence that for new contracts is a risk that management programme using fuel seeks to ensure the safety of all our assumptions are made in the bid model price swaps.
In our UK Trains division passengers.
that turn out to be undeliverable for any we are currently negotiating with The impact of insurance claims number of reasons.
To take UK Train Network Rail to reach a new agreement costs is managed through the Groups bids as an example, if underlying on electricity pricing.
The economic growth falls short of the current policy is to self-insure high POLITICAL AND REGULATORY growth assumed in the bid, the frequency claims with the businesses CHANGES passenger revenue target may not and then provide protection above Our businesses are subject to varying be achievable.
these types of losses by purchasing degrees of regulation and as such, there Additionally, when a business is insurance cover from a selection of is a risk that political and regulatory based on winning contracts, there is a proven and financially strong insurers.
changes could impact their future requirement for the business to win a A risk remains that the number or size prospects.
At the current time, the minimum number of contracts to retain of the self-insured claims could be highest profile political and regulatory its existing scale of operations.
If that significantly higher than expected.
uncertainty is around the UK Bus minimum number is not achieved, that business where the debate around ECONOMIC CONDITIONS divisions revenue and profits would quality partnerships and quality Changes in economic conditions have be affected.
an effect on the ability of our customers The division most exposed to this To mitigate the risk from political to pay for our services or an impact on risk is UK Trains, where a robust and regulatory changes, the Group the number of journeys that they make.
process is followed to ensure that all looks to service the needs of its In particular the Trains divisions historic bids are subject to sufficient challenge.
stakeholders and lobbies national, growth has been closely correlated to In addition, UK Bus, North America and regional and local government in the growth in the overall UK economy.
Alsa bid for contracts on a regular basis, addition to passenger, employee We look to mitigate this risk by but no one contract is material to those and environmental bodies.
closely monitoring the affordability of businesses.
our services and varying the price where LABOUR COSTS COMPETITION appropriate and possible.
Our aim to offer high quality services is With the exception of North America, dependent on recruiting and retaining our businesses are competing with the right calibre of employees.
For each alternative modes of transportation.
of our businesses, local economic Our UK Coach, UK Trains and Alsa prosperity, employment levels and our businesses face competition from a mix image as an employer affect our ability of long distance coaches, trains, lowto deliver this aim.
Additionally, we incur cost airlines and the car.
The principal significant other staff costs such as alternative to our UK Bus business is recruitment and training.
the car, and with the cost of owning it Employee costs are the largest remains imperative to create a more single component of the Groups positive operating environment for the operating costs.
In addition to modal competition, this risk by securing competitive multithe competitive environment between 25 NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED ITS ABOUT WHAT WE DO AND HOW WE DO IT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY that transport can play in tackling National Express Groups commitment climate change and this is supported to corporate responsibility goes far by Transport 2000, a leading non beyond a passing acknowledgement.
government transport organisation, We believe that corporate responsibility which has highlighted that there are is about what we do and how we do it.
large net savings to be made when Corporate responsibility is at the customers use public transport services heart of what we do.
We report more instead of a car.
It is the role of public fully on our initiatives through our transport operators to make their dedicated Corporate Responsibility services attractive to encourage car CR Report which is published each users to use public transport services.
year at the time of our Annual General We know from our own research Meeting.
Our profile in the CR area has that there are net savings from also been evidenced through our customers using our services instead involvement with key organisations in of the car with coach travel being the the field and our inclusion in a number most efficient of all modes.
This is of key CR indices: the Dow Jones highlighted on page 11.
With the coach ENGINEERS PROVIDE Sustainability and the FTSE4Good.
being the most environmentally friendly COMPREHENSIVE AND With the forecasted increase in mode, during 2007, we will be REGULAR VEHICLE MAINTENANCE TO ENSURE leisure travel and greater wealth promoting the environmental benefits THE HIGHEST EFFICIENCY enabling more time spent travelling, of travelling by coach.
AND SAFETY STANDARDS public transport has a key role to play At National Express we have been LISTENING AND in improving our quality of life.
Our 2006 leading the industry in driving forward RESPONDING TO OUR CR report will focus specifically on the national environmental agenda by CUSTOMERS NEEDS highlighting to policymakers the heading up forums in the sectors contribution that public transport can where we operate.
We chair and make to the economic, social and guide much of the debate amongst environmental landscape and the rail operators at the Rail Sustainability overall quality of life.
Development Group and participation in this forum has led to the rail industrys CLIMATE CHANGE commitment to reduce carbon This year has seen the increased profile emissions by 5% over the next of climate change.
benefits of public transport have been In 2007 we have shown our very much at the forefront following the commitment to reducing emissions publication of the Department for by joining the Climate Group, an Transports Eddington Transport Study independent, non profit organisation and the Stern Review on the dedicated to advancing business and Economics of Climate Change.
As government leadership on climate operators we are already providing change.
We are one of the founding additional capacity through growth in members and will be developing our coach services, longer trains, rail practical promotions and initiatives platform extensions, and greater usage as part of the Were In This Together of buses for journeys where cars have campaign to encourage changes in historically been used.
The Stern individual behaviour which reduce Review highlighted the important role carbon emissions.
As part of this Group 26 NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006 we believe that by making it easier for reward and recognition, in addition to UNDERSTANDING THE OFR individuals to change their behaviour graduate and non graduate recruitment.
STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE through our products, services and Through focus groups we have This OFR is intended to develop the communications we can, step-by-step, identified seven leadership capabilities Groups narrative reporting to meet change public attitudes from concern to to drive our business success.
Over the many of the requirements of the focus on positive action.
By signing up coming year all our leaders, about statutory OFR as laid out in the to this initiative we have committed to 4,000 of them, will be involved from the Accounting Standards Boards the development of a consumer frontline to the boardroom.
Reporting Statement of Best Practice proposition which will make a difference.
STAKEHOLDER RECOGNITION on the OFR.
This OFR ensures In addition we are participating in the We are also focused on the requirements compliance with the legal requirement WWF One Planet Business discussion of our external stakeholders, many of under the Companies Act to provide a forum where companies with an interest whom are key for the development Business Review and is referenced from in sustainability will develop longer of our operations.
Our stakeholders the Directors Report.
term initiatives to reduce CO2 emissions.
range from those who award us We note that this is the first year Within our operation we have contracts such as the Department for that UK companies have been required trialled alternative fuels such as biodiesel Transport, local authorities, transport to produce a Business Review and in a fleet of 40 buses within the Alsa bodies and school boards to our therefore best practice is still emerging.
Within our Trains division we customers who use our services each We will continue to review the narrative undertook a detailed review of energy day.
In addition there are numerous disclosure we provide in the Annual consumption.
This identified a number other stakeholders such as non Report and Accounts to ensure that the of engineering and operational government organisations, Trades disclosures provided meet the measures we can take to improve Unions, suppliers and user groups with requirements of our stakeholders.
energy efficiency and we are now whom we have a constant dialogue.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT focused on delivering these.
We have Working with our stakeholders The OFR focuses on matters that are also implemented regenerative braking we believe the biggest challenge for relevant to the interests of the across the divisions electric-powered public transport in the future is to make shareholders of the Company.
Most significantly we have reduced its use easy and simple whether it be purpose of the OFR is to assist the site energy usage at our train depots by planning journeys or the actual shareholders of the Company in 17% during the year.
To make this a reality assessing the strategies adopted by the In addition, safety and development during 2007, our commitment to Company and the potential for those of our people are key to the success of our customers will be focused on strategies to succeed.
It should not be our business as well as our contribution Making Travel Simpler.
relied on by any other party or for any and reputation in those communities other purpose.
The Groups overall Where this OFR contains forwardvision is for continuous improvement in looking statements, these are made health, safety and environmental by the Directors in good faith based on management and practice and, where the information available to them at the appropriate, continuous improvement time of their approval of this report.
in health, safety and environmental Shareholders will understand that these performance.
In 2006 we continued statements should be treated with to reduce the risk of customer and caution due to the inherent uncertainties employee injuries across our operations underlying any such forward-looking and are pleased to report that our information.
signals passed at danger level is at its lowest ever at 0.76 signals passed at danger per million miles compared to 0.79 in 2005.
We look forward to continuing this improvement.
FUTURE LEADERS During 2006 the Group has developed a comprehensive leadership development strategy on the back of the Group Employee Survey which highlighted that a leaders performance has a big impact, both good and bad, on those around them.
This strategy ensures that as we grow our business, we develop those who will lead the business in the future.
The three year leadership development plan has projects including personal and skills development, talent and succession planning, performance management, 27 NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND COMPANY SECRETARY DIRECTORS 12 1 DAVID ROSS CHAIRMAN 2 RICHARD BOWKER CBE CHIEF EXECUTIVE 3 ADAM WALKER FINANCE DIRECTOR 4 RAY OTOOLE CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER 5 SIR ANDREW FOSTER NON EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 6 BARRY GIBSON NON EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 7 SUE LYONS OBE 34 NON EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 8 JORGE COSMEN NON EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 9 TIM SCORE NON EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 10 TONY MCDONALD COMPANY SECRETARY 56 78 910 28 NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND COMPANY SECRETARY 1 DAVID ROSS 6 BARRY GIBSON CHAIRMAN NON EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR # David Ross joined the Board in February 2001 Barry Gibson joined the Board in November as a Non Executive Director and became 1999 and became the Senior Independent Chairman in May 2004.
He is Non Executive Director in September 2005.
He served on the Deputy Chairman of The Carphone Warehouse Board at BAA plc as Group Retailing Director.
Group PLC, a Non Executive Director of Trinity Until October 2001 he was the Group Chief Mirror PLC, Big Yellow Group PLC and Executive of Littlewoods Organisation plc.
He is also a Non Executive Director of William Aged 41.
Hill PLC and Homeserve plc.
2 RICHARD BOWKER CBE 7 SUE LYONS OBE CHIEF EXECUTIVE NON EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR # Richard Bowker was appointed to the Board Sue Lyons joined the Board in May 2001. as Chief Executive on 12 September 2006.
Her career has been principally with Rolls He was formerly Chief Executive of Royce which she joined in 1975 and where Partnerships for Schools PfS, a government she held the position of Managing Director, body responsible for delivering the Building Defence Europe.
In 1998 she received an Schools for the Future Investment Programme.
OBE for services to the engineering industry Between December 2001 and September and in 1999 she was awarded the European 2004 he was Chairman and Chief Executive of Woman of Achievement Award Business the Strategic Rail Authority.
Prior to that he was Category.
Sue is also a Non Executive Director Group Commercial Director of Virgin Group DIVISIONAL HEADS of Wagon plc.
Aged 54. and Co-chairman of Virgin Rail.
Richard is a NEIL BARKER 8 JORGE COSMEN chartered management accountant and a ACTING CHIEF EXECUTIVE, BUS DIVISION NON EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Non Executive Director of British Waterways.
Neil Barker joined the Group as Operations Director of Jorge Cosmen was appointed to the Board on Aged 41. the Groups Bus Division in January 2005.
In February 1 December 2005 at the time of the Alsa 2007 he was appointed Acting Chief Executive of the 3 ADAM WALKER transaction.
He was Corporate Manager for Bus Division.
Neil joined the company from Arriva plc FINANCE DIRECTOR the Alsa Group from 1995, becoming where he held a number of senior management roles Adam Walker joined the Board in March 2003, Chairman in 1999.
Between 1986 and 1995 latterly as managing director of the Midlands Regional Bus business.
He joined the Group in he worked in sales, distribution and banking.
October 2001 as Corporate Development He is a Business Administration graduate and PAUL BUNTING Director working closely with the Groups has an International MBA from the Instituto fide CHIEF EXECUTIVE, COACH DIVISION operational subsidiaries on developing their Empresa in Madrid.
Paul Bunting joined the Group in 2004 as Managing financial strategies.
Prior to joining the Group Director at Midland Mainline from Stagecoach, where 9 TIM SCORE he was Director of Corporate Finance at Arthur he was Business Development Director for the UK NON EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR # Bus Division.
Prior to that Paul has held a number of Andersen and an Associate Director at Tim Score was appointed to the Board in senior positions within the rail industry, principally in NatWest Markets.
He is Chief Financial Officer at planning and marketing roles in both InterCity and accountant.
Before joining ARM he Regional Railway businesses.
Aged 47. worked as Finance Director of Rebus Group 4 RAY OTOOLE JAVIER CARBAJO Limited which he joined in 1999.
Between CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER CHIEF EXECUTIVE, ALSA GROUP 1997 and 1999, he was Group Finance Ray OToole joined the Board in November Javier Carbajo joined the Group in December 2005 Director of William Baird plc, which he joined 1999 as Chief Operating Officer.
He has 30 when National Express acquired Alsa.
A graduate in from LucasVarity plc.
He is a chartered economics and with an MBA, Javier has been with years operational experience in transport.
Alsa for 28 years during which time he has held accountant.
He spent the early part of his career in various management positions in most areas of the business.
engineering management positions at Greater 10 TONY MCDONALD In 1999 he was appointed Chief Executive of Manchester Passenger Transport Executive.
COMPANY SECRETARY Enatcar following its acquisition by Alsa.
In 2003 He joined National Express from FirstGroup Tony McDonald was appointed Company he was appointed CEO of Alsa Group.
Aged 54. plc, where he was responsible for its Secretary in May 2000.
Prior to joining the DAVID FRANKS operations in Yorkshire and the North West as Group he held senior legal positions with the CHIEF EXECUTIVE, TRAINS DIVISION both Divisional Director and Group Engineering in-house legal teams at Guardian Royal David Franks joined the Group in January 2003 as Director.
He is a Member of the British Exchange and BP and in private practice with Trains Divisional Director North.
He was appointed Transport Police Authority.
Aged 51. as Chief Executive of the Trains Division in February Slaughter and May.
David has over 30 years experience in the rail Aged 46.
5 SIR ANDREW FOSTER industry and immediately prior to joining National NON EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Express he was Managing Director of South Central Sir Andrew was appointed to the Board in at the GoAhead Group.
Member of the Audit Committee August 2004.
He has had an extensive career Member of the BRIAN STOCK in the public sector having served as Chief CHIEF EXECUTIVE, NORTH AMERICA Nomination Committee Executive of the Audit Commission for England Brian joined the Group in 2002 through the # Member of the and Wales between 1992 and 2003.
Before acquisition of Stock Transportation.
He has overseen Remuneration Committee this he was Deputy Chief Executive of the NHS the North American student bus operations since Member of the Safety and and is currently Deputy Chairman of the Royal March 2004 and was appointed as Chief Executive Environment Committee Bank of Canada Europe Limited and a Non of the Groups North American operations in October Executive Director of the Sports Council, 2004.
Brian has had over 25 years in the bus industry.
Nestor Health Care and PruHealth.
Sir Andrew Prior to joining the Group, Brian was President of Stock Transportation and responsible for guiding has also recently completed reviews of Further the business to become the fifth largest school bus Education and Athletics for the Government.
29 NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006
