The Obligation to Produce Regulatory Accounting Statements National Grid Gas plc is the holder of two gas transporter licences: one in respect of its gas transmission NTS business and one in respect of its gas distribution network DN businesses.
Under Standard Special Condition A30 of each of these licences, National Grid Gas plc is required to prepare and publish annual regulatory accounting statements setting out the financial position and performance of each of the regulatory businesses covered by that licence.
These regulatory accounting statements are in respect of National Grid Gass DN businesses, including its gas metering businesses.
National Grid Gas also prepares and publishes regulatory accounting statements in respect of its NTS business, including its LNG storage business.
Together, these two sets of regulatory accounting statements must comprise all the businesses and activities of National Grid Gas, except for the four gas distribution networks which National Grid Gas sold on 1 June 2005.
Restructuring of the regulatory accounts The year ended 31 March 2006 is the first year for which the requirement to prepare separate regulatory accounting statements for the NTS and DN businesses applies.
Previously, they were reported as a single consolidated transportation business.
National Grid Gas is now required to allocate taxation, borrowings, and shareholders equity across all its regulated businesses for the purpose of preparing regulatory accounting statements.
Previously, these items were not so allocated and were reported in total for National Grid Gas.
As a result of these significant changes in presentation, audited prior year comparative information is not available for the NTS or DN businesses.
However, prior year information for these businesses has been restated on the same basis as the information for the year ended 31 March 2006, in so far as reasonably practicable, and is presented on an unaudited basis.
2 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2005 06
