Directors and Officers CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS David Jones CBE John Barton, Deputy Chairman and Aged 63 Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Joined the Group and was appointed to the Board in 1986.
Aged 61 Appointed Chief Executive in 1988 and became Deputy Became a member of the Board in 2002.
He is also Chairman of Chairman in 2001 and Chairman in 2002.
He is also a nonWellington Underwriting Plc and a non-executive director of executive director of Wm.
Previous Hammerson Plc and WH Smith Plc.
Formerly Chief Executive of experience includes twenty years in a large home shopping and JIB Group Plc for thirteen years and Chairman of Jardine Lloyd consumer services group and five years as Chief Executive of a Thompson Group Plc for five years.
UK listed home shopping plc.
Nick Brookes EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Aged 55 Became a member of the Board in 2003.
He has held a number Simon Wolfson, Chief Executive of directorships within the British American Tobacco Plc group, Aged 38 was Company Secretary and most recently Regional Director, Joined the Group in 1991.
Appointed Retail Sales Director in America Pacific.
Previous experience includes a career in the legal 1993, became responsible for NEXT Directory in 1995 and was profession and operational roles for BAT in Africa and the USA.
appointed to the Board in 1997 with additional responsibilities for systems.
Appointed Managing Director of the NEXT Brand in Christine Cross 1999 and Chief Executive in 2001.
Aged 54 Became a member of the Board in 2005.
She is also a nonChristos Angelides, Group Product Director executive director of George Wimpey plc, Sobeys Inc Canada, Aged 42 Fairmont Hotels Canada and retail advisor to Apax Partners.
Joined the Group in 1986 and was appointed General Manager Previous experience includes fourteen years at Tesco plc and of NEXTs sourcing office in Hong Kong in 1989, Menswear fifteen years lecturing and consulting at Edinburgh and Bath Product Director in 1994 and Womenswear Product Director in Universities.
Appointed to the Board in 2000.
Jonathan Dawson David Keens, Group Finance Director Aged 54 Aged 52 Became a member of the Board in 2004.
He is also a nonJoined the Group in 1986 and was appointed to the Board in 1991.
Previous experience includes seven years in the executive director of Galliford Try plc, National Australia Group accountancy profession and nine years in the UK and overseas Europe Ltd and a senior advisor to Apax Partners financial operations of multi-national manufacturers of consumer goods.
Previous experience includes eight years in the Ministry of Defence and twenty years in investment banking with Andrew Varley, Group Property Director Lazard.
Aged 55 Joined the Group in 1985 and was appointed to the Board in Derek Netherton 1990.
Previous experience includes twelve years in retail and Aged 61 commercial property.
Became a member of the Board in 1996.
He is also Chairman of Greggs Plc and a non-executive director of Hiscox Plc and St. BOARD COMMITTEES Jamess Place Capital Plc.
Formerly a director of J. Henry Schroder Co. Limited.
Audit Committee D N D Netherton Committee Chairman R J O Barton Company Secretary N G Brookes A J R McKinlay C Cross J D S Dawson This committee reviews the Groups internal control, accounting Registered Office policies and financial reporting.
Desford Road, Enderby, Leicester, LE19 4AT Remuneration Committee Registered in England, no.
4412362 R J O Barton Committee Chairman N G Brookes Registrars C Cross Lloyds TSB Registrars, J D S Dawson The Causeway, D N D Netherton Worthing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA This committee sets the remuneration of the Groups executive directors.
Auditors Nomination Committee Ernst & Young LLP D C Jones Committee Chairman R J O Barton N G Brookes Merchant Bankers C Cross Lazard & Co. Limited J D S Dawson D N D Netherton This committee considers the appointment of the Groups Stockbrokers directors.
