Directors Report The directors have pleasure in presenting their annual report and audited accounts for the period ended 28 January 2006.
Principal activities The principal activities of the Group are retailing, home shopping and customer services management.
Review of operations Group results are summarised in the consolidated income statement on page 29.
The profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company was 313.5m.
Turnover and operating profit of the Group are shown in greater detail in the analysis in Notes 1 and 2.
The Chief Executives Review on pages 3 to 8 gives details of the Groups operations.
Dividends The directors recommend that a final dividend of 30p per share be paid on 3 July 2006 to shareholders on the register of members on 26 May 2006.
The Trustee of the NEXT Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT has waived dividends paid in the year on shares held by the ESOT, see Note 29.
Share capital The Company was authorised by its shareholders to purchase the Companys own shares for cancellation.
During the year the Company purchased a total of 15,010,984 ordinary shares of 10p each for cancellation at a cost of 217.5m, representing 5.7% of its issued share capital.
The authority to purchase shares is renewable annually and approval will be sought from shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in 2006 to renew the authority.
On 28 January 2006 the Company had 246,100,129 shares in issue.
As at 21 March 2006, there had been no subsequent changes to the Companys issued share capital.
Supplier payment policy The Groups policy for the payment of suppliers is either to agree terms of payment at the start of business or to ensure that the supplier is aware of the Groups payment terms.
Payment is made in accordance with contractual and other legal obligations.
Trade creditor days of the Group at 28 January 2006 were 25 days 2005: 27 days based on the ratio of the trade creditors at the end of the year to the amounts paid during the year to trade creditors.
The Company had no trade creditors at 28 January 2006 or 29 January 2005.
Treasury operations and financial instruments NEXT operates a centralised treasury function which is responsible for managing the liquidity, interest and foreign currency risks associated with the Groups activities.
As part of its strategy for the management of these risks, the Group uses derivative financial instruments.
In accordance with the Groups treasury policy, derivative instruments are not entered into for speculative purposes.
The Groups principal financial instruments, other than derivatives, are cash and short-term deposits, bank overdrafts, loans and corporate bonds.
The main purpose of these financial instruments is to raise finance for the Groups operations.
In addition, the Group has various other financial assets and liabilities such as trade receivables and trade payables arising directly from its operations.
Liquidity risk The Group manages its cash and borrowing requirements centrally to maximise interest income and minimise interest expense, whilst ensuring that the Group has sufficient liquid resources to meet the operating needs of its businesses.
Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to fair value interest rate risk on its fixed rate 300m corporate bond and cash flow interest rate risk on floating rate deposits, bank overdrafts and loans.
The Group uses interest rate derivatives to manage the mix of fixed and variable rate debt so as to reduce its exposure to changes in interest rates and the economic environment.
10 Directors Report Foreign currency risk The Groups principal foreign currency exposures arise from the purchase of overseas sourced products.
Group policy allows for but does not demand that these exposures may be hedged for up to 18 months ahead in order to fix the cost in sterling.
This hedging activity involves the use of spot, forward and option contracts.
The Group does not have a material exposure to currency movements in relation to translation of overseas assets or liabilities and consequently does not hedge any such exposure.
Credit risk Investments of cash surpluses, borrowings and derivative instruments are made through banks and companies which must fulfil credit rating and investment criteria approved by the Board.
All customers who wish to trade on credit terms are subject to credit verification procedures.
Receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis and provision is made for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Employees The Group has continued its policy of providing employees with information about the Group and ensures that the suggestions and views of employees are taken into account.
A pension scheme and Sharesave option scheme are available to all United Kingdom and Eire employees.
Full consideration is given to application for employment from disabled persons, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
The Group has continued the employment wherever possible of any person who becomes disabled during their employment.
Opportunities for training, career development and promotion do not operate to the detriment of disabled employees.
Donations During the year the Group made charitable donations of 350,000 2005: 708,000.
No donations were made for political purposes.
International Financial Reporting Standards The Group has prepared its financial statements under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS for the first time.
Details of the impact of the transition are given on page 63.
Substantial shareholders As at 21 March 2006 the following notifications had been received from holders of material interests in 3% or more of the Companys issued share capital as shown: No.
of 10p ordinary shares % Barclays plc 25,079,717 10.19 Fidelity Investments 16,803,593 6.83 Legal & General 8,167,754 3.32 Lloyds TSB Group 7,450,655 3.03 Directors The current Board is shown on page 9 of this report.
Mr Angelides, Mr Barton and Mr Netherton will retire by rotation.
All are eligible and willing to be reappointed.
Mr Netherton has now been a member of the Board for nine years.
The Board has formally considered his independence and concluded that through his conduct on the Board and his interests outside of the Group he continues to bring both independence and valuable experience to the Board.
In accordance with corporate governance guidelines, Nr Netherton will be subject to annual re-election.
The interest of the directors who held office at 28 January 2006 and their families are shown in the Remuneration Report on page 27.
11 Directors Report Auditors Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors of the Group and their reappointment will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting The following resolutions will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting, notice of which is on pages 74 to 84.
The NEXT 2006 Performance Share Plan NEXTs current Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP was adopted in 1997 and is due to expire in 2007.
Against this background, NEXTs Remuneration Committee recently undertook a comprehensive review of the Companys incentive arrangements for executive directors and other senior employees.
The review concluded that the current LTIP had provided commensurate rewards for participants who had contributed significantly to delivering above average total shareholder returns over the LTIPs life.
In the seven performance periods completed to date, NEXT has performed in the upper half of the comparator peer group every year, including three times in the top quartile.
The Remuneration Committee believes it appropriate that the Company should have an LTIP, which offers market competitive awards and is aligned to current best practice.
The directors consider that a replacement plan should be adopted this year, one year before expiry of the current LTIP, to incorporate changes in market practice.
Accordingly, resolution 8 proposes the adoption of a broadly similar scheme to include changes in legislation, practice and institutional share scheme guidelines.
A summary of the proposed plan is set out in Appendix 1 to the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Copies of the draft rules for the proposed plan may be inspected at the registered office of the Company, and at the offices of the Companys advisers, New Bridge Street Consultants, 20 Little Britain, London EC1A 7DH during normal working hours up to and including the date of the Meeting and at the Meeting itself.
Risk Reward investment plan The Remuneration Committee believes the Company must offer a competitive remuneration package.
The Committee considers that NEXT offers competitive base salaries and annual bonus incentives compared to most publicly listed retailers and, subject to resolution 8 being approved, its LTIP arrangement will provide appropriate long term incentives.
However, privately owned retailers offer their executives the opportunity for personal investment in the equity of those businesses and the prospect of a significant leveraged capital profit on their eventual sale or flotation, which publicly listed companies such as NEXT cannot.
In July 2005, shareholder approval was given to the adoption of a new risk reward incentive plan the Plan, and details of its implementation are included on page 22 of the Remuneration Report.
The purpose of the Plan is to assist in retaining and rewarding NEXTs key executives who have been instrumental in consistently delivering above average total shareholder return.
Over the five years to January 2006, the management team has achieved total shareholder return of 156%, including share price growth of 118%.
During this period, earnings per share have increased by 172%, dividends have grown by 83% and 929 million has been returned to shareholders through NEXTs share buyback programme.
The retail sector remains very competitive and NEXTs staff are still frequently targeted by our rivals for recruitment.
Accordingly, resolution 9 will be proposed to approve a further Plan for its directors and senior management, thereby enhancing the Companys ability to retain its key executives and attract new talent to the management team.
The structure of the Plan would be the same as in 2005 and would cost the Company a maximum of 2 million to implement.
The principal features of the Plan are summarised in Appendix 2 to the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Renewal of authority to allot shares Ordinary resolution 10 will renew the directors authority pursuant to Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot shares.
The nominal value of ordinary shares which the directors may allot pursuant to this authority in the period up to the date of the 2007 Annual General Meeting is limited to 8,000,000, being 33% of the total ordinary share capital in issue at 21 March 2006, none of which is held in treasury.
The directors do not have any present intention of exercising this authority.
12 Directors Report Special resolution 11 will renew the directors authority pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to issue ordinary shares wholly for cash without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings.
This resolution limits the nominal value of ordinary shares which may be issued by the directors to 5% of the issued ordinary share capital in conformity with the guidelines of the Association of British Insurers.
This authority also allows the directors, within the same aggregate limit, to sell for cash shares that may be held by the Company in treasury.
The directors do not have any present intention of exercising this authority which will expire at the Annual General Meeting in 2007.
On-market purchase of own shares Special resolution 12 will renew the authority for the Company to make market purchases as defined in Section 163 of the Companies Act 1985 of its ordinary shares of 10p each provided that: a the aggregate number of ordinary shares authorised to be purchased shall be the lesser of 36,000,000 ordinary shares of 10p each or no more than 15% of the issued ordinary share capital outstanding at the date of the Annual General Meeting, such limits to be reduced by the number of any shares purchased pursuant to special resolution 13: Contingent contracts and offmarket share purchases, see below: b the payment per ordinary share is not less than 10p and not more than 5% over the average of the middle market price of the ordinary shares according to the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase, and: c the renewed authority expires on whichever is the earlier of 15 months after the date on which the resolution is passed or at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2007.
The repurchase of ordinary shares would give rise to a stamp duty liability at the rate of 50 pence per 100 or part thereof of the consideration paid by the Company.
The liability will be a liability of the Company.
The directors intend that this authority to purchase the Companys shares will only be exercised if doing so will result in an increase in earnings per share and it is considered to be in the interest of shareholders generally.
It is the Companys present intention to cancel any shares purchased under this authority.
Contingent contracts and off-market share purchases Following shareholder authority granted at the 2005 Annual General Meeting, the Company entered into nine contingent purchase contracts.
As at 21 March 2006 a total of 2,150,000 ordinary shares had been bought back for cancellation under these contracts at a total cost of 30.6 million, representing a discount of 1.1 million or 3.5% compared to market prices prevailing when the relevant contract was entered into.
All these contracts have terminated, on reaching a pre-determined share price level set under each contract, and the Company will make no further purchases of shares under these contracts.
Special resolution 13 will give the Company authority to enter into further contingent purchase contracts with each of Goldman Sachs International, UBS AG and Deutsche Bank AG under which shares may be purchased off-market at a discount to the market price prevailing at the date each contract is entered into.
The principal features of these contracts are set out in Appendix 3 to the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Copies of each contract will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Company, and at the offices of the Companys legal advisers, Eversheds, Senator House, 85 Queen Victoria Street, London EC4V 4JL, during normal working hours up to the date of the Annual General Meeting and at the Meeting itself.
The directors consider that these contracts will enhance the Companys flexibility to purchase its shares for cancellation and will use this authority only after careful consideration, taking into account market conditions prevailing at the time, other investment opportunities, appropriate financial gearing levels and the overall financial position of the Company.
The Directors will only purchase shares for cancellation using such contracts if it would be earnings enhancing and in the best interests of shareholders generally.
13 Directors Report Change to Articles of Association Special resolution 14 proposes an increase in the Companys maximum borrowing powers limit in its Articles of Association from 1,000,000,000 to 1,500,000,000.
The proposed increase is required to give the Company sufficient headroom to develop its business and accommodate share buybacks under the authorities described in resolutions 12 and 13 above.
A copy of the proposed amended Articles of Association that reflect the above change is available for inspection at the Companys registered office at Desford Road, Enderby, Leicester, LE19 4AT up until the date of the Annual General Meeting and at the Meeting itself.
Recommendation Your Directors are of the opinion that all resolutions which are to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders and, accordingly, unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of the resolutions.
By order of the Board A J R McKinlay Secretary 23 March 2006 14
