N040009 Report 01-26 13 6 06 1:39 pm Page 14 Frozen Categories: Pizza 238.1m 22.9m Fish & Vegetables Continuing revenue up Continuing profit from operations Pastry 6% to 238.1m remains level at 22.9m 2004 05: 223.7m 2004 05: 22.8m Meat & Meat-free 9.6% 18.1% Continuing operating margin RONA return on net assets 9.6% 2004 05: 10.2% 18.1% 2004 05: 20.3% pre-restructuring 14 Performance review Northern Foods plc N040009 Report 01-26 13 6 06 1:39 pm Page 15 Performance review continued In Pastry, the year saw success in securing The Frozen division comprises several new UK and Irish own label contracts for frozen pies.
This was supplemented by eight principal manufacturing the launch of a new food service range in Hollands, the Lancashire based traditional sites in Ireland and the UK, meat pie brand.
Overall revenue in the Pastry category improved by 5% and represents operating across four product 26% of divisional sales.
categories: Pizza, Fish & Performance in the Meat & Meat-free products business reflected an ongoing decline Vegetables, Pastry and Meat in meat based grills, partially offset by growth in meat-free demand.
Overall category revenues fell 15% and represented 11% of & Meat-free.
The Dalepak brand continued to see erosion in meat grill products, with the impact of changes in consumer tastes exacerbated by high beef prices during the summer barbeque season.
Total market sales The division primarily manufactures branded In the frozen Pizza category, which represents for this sub-category fell 14% year on year.
products, with leading market positions in 49% of divisional sales, continuing revenue This decline in meat products is being most of its categories.
With the overall UK market for progressively offset by the roll out of an frozen pizza down nearly 6%, the Goodfellas exciting new range of meat-free products, 10 Continuing revenue rose 6% to 238.1m brand increased its share to over 26%.
under the new Grassingtons Food Co. brand, 2004 05: 223.7m with underlying revenue Goodfellas has established a clear launched in January 2006.
Average selling prices were segmentation in the market, with La Bottega immediately achieved national listings in the marginally higher, despite heavy promotion in the premium sector and Deeply Delicious initial target retailers, with a range including and intense competitive pressure in the frozen and Delicia in the everyday family segment.
ten vegetable based meals and meal cabinet.
The strong presence of our market accompaniments.
leading Goodfellas brand, supported by other The Goodfellas range was extended brands including the Donegal Catch fish brand during the year with the launch of Solos, Revenue by category in the Irish market, Hollands Pies, a regional a stonebaked pizza, targeted at the individual % retail and foodservice brand in the North West serving market.
This is the fastest growing of England, and Dalepak grills, drove strong sub-sector in frozen pizza, with its focus on 49% volumes, up 6% overall.
The Goodfellas development 11% team identified a consumer desire for a high Continuing profit from operations for the quality, 10 minute cook pizza, and Solos was Frozen division was maintained at 22.9m launched successfully in September 2005.
2004 05: 22.8m, although underlying Backed by a 5m advertising campaign, profits were 2% ahead, before the adverse Solos achieved immediate retailer listings impact of currency.
Profits were maintained and captured 22% of the segment in the 26% or improved in all categories except Meat & final quarter of 2005 06.
Operating margin declined slightly but remained robust at 9.6% 2004 05: The La Bottega range of premium pizzas, 14% 10.2%, despite increased promotional activity inspired by the Michelin starred La Bottega to drive share of space in this challenging del 30 restaurant in Italy, was successfully Pizza 49% sector.
Capital investment in the new relaunched and further new product Fish & Vegetables 14% Naas pizza bakery, which was commissioned developments are in progress to maintain Pastry 26% ahead of schedule, reduced RONA to 18.1% leadership of this key sector in both branded Meat & Meat-free 11% 2004 05: 20.3%.
Despite this, continuous and own label.
production improvement and value engineering of products has been successfully In the frozen Fish & Vegetables category, combined with new product development and Northern Foods has a strong presence in the selective marketing including primetime UK Irish market, with the category representing advertising and ITV programme sponsorship 14% of divisional sales.
Revenue grew by 8% to retain the market leading position of the in the year, driven by successful new product Frozen division.
The latter included a successful new childrens range under the Donegal Catch brand, Kids Ahoy!, together with a number of new vegetable product launches.
10 Source: ACNielsen Homescan Panel 52 weeks ended 25 March 2006 Northern Foods plc Performance review 15 N040009 Report 01-26 13 6 06 1:39 pm Page 16 Performance review continued Future service accrual action was taken We have focused heavily to balance the increased cost of pension provision by closing the principal UK on capital management scheme to new entrants in March 2005 and replacing it with a career average to drive shareholder value scheme.
In addition, the future cost of benefit accrual in this scheme was reduced by selected benefit changes and an increase in employee contributions.
The company Capital management Balance sheet contribution rate was reduced to 9.9% We have focused heavily on capital As a result of lower capital expenditure and of payroll from April 2006, giving an management to drive shareholder value.
restructuring, operating assets reduced to 11 estimated cash cost in 2006 07 of 16.5m The groups key performance indicator in this 656.4m 2004 05: 699.5m.
Net debt 2005 06: 21.6m : area is free cash flow and we use this measure increased by 36.8m to 363.1m 2004 05: to improve capital utilisation by investing 326.3m.
A significant reduction in the Past service deficit funding the company primarily in projects with strong returns groups pensions liability resulted in net completed its initial 50m programme of and by identifying opportunities to reduce equity of 152.1m 2004 05: 155.6m.
special contributions towards funding the working capital.
past service deficit in the principal UK Return on invested capital ROIC reduced to scheme, with a 20m payment in 2005 06 In 2005 06, free cash flow was 46.9m 8.4% 2004 05: 10.6%, due to the lower and a 10m payment in April 2006.
Despite the impact of operational profitability performance.
result, it is estimated that the deficit on lower profitability, free cash flow benefited an ongoing actuarial valuation basis has from reduced net capital expenditure of Pensions been almost eliminated the last full 52.0m 2004 05: 57.7m, significantly Within its defined benefit pension schemes, actuarial valuation was carried out as at below the depreciation and amortisation Northern Foods takes a responsible attitude 31 March 2005 and showed an ongoing charge of 65.1m 2004 05: 64.8m, to its commitments and has been working funding going concern deficit of 88.1m reflecting our ability to reduce investment closely with the trustees to protect member on assets of 556.3m.
given lower growth and improvements in benefits at an affordable cost for the company capacity utilisation.
Nevertheless, major and its shareholders.
The company objective In addition, the deficit for total group investment projects were completed, including is threefold to secure an affordable cost retirement benefit schemes calculated completion of the 15m Naas bakery for of future service accrual: to reduce the past under IAS 19, which uses a lower yield to Solos pizza production, additional automation service deficit over a suitable period of time discount liabilities and hence generates a to improve efficiency in biscuit production through a manageable schedule of annual higher deficit, fell from 171.2m pre-tax and investment in centres of excellence payments: and to ensure an equitable 120.8m net of tax at 2 April 2005 to in the Chilled division.
allocation of any disposal proceeds between 90.2m pre-tax 63.8m net of tax at the shareholders and debt providers on the 1 April 2006.
The company is now in Free cash flow helped fund cash restructuring one hand and the trustees on the other.
discussions with the trustee of the principal costs of 21.5m 2004 05: 20.1m, special Significant progress has been made towards UK scheme to set an ongoing payment over pension contributions of 20.0m 2004 05: achieving these objectives.
a suitable period to eliminate the residual 20.0m and dividend payments of 44.2m accounting based deficit.
to include payments into the scheme in relation to future disposals.
Pension Deficit IAS 19, net of deferred tax 200 175 150 125 100 75 50 25 11 Net debt is defined as total borrowings including both short and long term bank loans, bonds, loan notes and 0 finance leases less cash, cash equivalents and short term Apr 04 Oct 04 Apr 05 Oct 05 Apr 06 investments.
16 Performance review Northern Foods plc million N040009 Report 01-26 13 6 06 1:39 pm Page 17 Resolution of these issues will move the The facilities remain committed and Currency management: funding of the principal pension scheme, available subject to certain conditions, Currency management occurs at a Northern Foods Pension Scheme, onto a which are in line with most commercial transactional level for example, in clear and structured basis, removing a borrowing arrangements.
The principal purchasing ingredients in foreign currencies significant element of future uncertainty for conditions require sufficient coverage of and at a translational level for example, all stakeholders.
Underlining its commitment last 12 month EBITDA to each of net debt in relation to Irish operations or foreign to best practice pension management, Roger and interest charge covenants, tested currency debt.
Boyes, an independent and highly experienced semi-annually.
Since these covenants are professional, became chairman of the trustee key in managing liquidity, the measures are The policy is to hedge transactional board in March 2006. monitored monthly by the group.
At year exposures using forward foreign exchange end, net debt to EBITDA the covenant contracts wherever material and feasible, Financing and treasury management tests are measured under frozen UK GAAP, whilst translational exposures are generally The group has a centralised treasury function was 2.5 times 2004 05: 2.0 times.
The US private placement debt which operates within a policy framework the deterioration of this measure, action has has been hedged using currency swaps of approved by the board.
The policy was been taken to reduce risk to liquidity.
similar maturity subject to a one off right reviewed by the board in 2005 06 and the for the counterparty bank to break the swap board receives a monthly report.
Interest management: after seven years.
Interest management seeks to balance The primary aim of the function is to manage use of debt financing as a tool to improve Risks and uncertainties the treasury operations, to liaise with business returns to shareholders through leverage The operation of a public company involves a units, divisions and the Shared Service Centre in the capital structure with the potential series of risks and uncertainties across a range in their respective areas of cash management, for higher interest rates to impact profits of strategic, commercial, operational and and to manage the groups overall cash and negatively.
Northern Foods has a robust debt exposure to minimise borrowings and internal control and risk management process, interest costs.
The board policy is to operate with fixed as outlined in the Corporate governance rate borrowings within a range of 20% report, which is designed to provide assurance The principal areas of treasury management to 50% of total net borrowings over the but which cannot seek to avoid all risks.
and respective policies are as follows: medium term although the group may operate outside this range for short periods.
Below we have outlined potential risks that Liquidity management: could impact the companys operating and Liquidity management concerns the The US private placement bonds were financial performance.
These particular risks availability of sufficient debt funding raised as fixed interest debt.
At the year end, and uncertainties could cause actual results to meet the groups day to day needs.
40% of the groups net debt was fixed to vary from those experienced previously in this way.
Board approval is required or described in forward looking statements The boards policy is to maintain a for use of any interest rate derivative.
within this document, or which could impact reasonable headroom of unused, committed on our ability to meet our published targets.
bank facilities in a range of maturities The interest risk is monitored using the These risks are monitored on an ongoing basis at least 12 months beyond the year end, ratio of EBITDA to net interest charge.
through the companys risk management over and above that forecast to be required.
At the year end this was covered 6.1 times processes.
Additional risks and uncertainties, 2004 05: 7.5 times, measured under currently unknown to us or excluded from Currently, committed facilities are a five frozen UK GAAP.
the analysis below, may also have an adverse year revolving credit facility of 460m, material effect on the company.
expiring in July 2010, and a range of 7 to 12 year maturity US dollar private placement Customer relationships the company bonds totalling US$250m, which were seeks to manage the risks presented by its successfully placed in December 2005 and consolidated customer base, and the highly replaced the former, more costly 91m competitive environment that characterises 2008 convertible bond.
the industry, through its strategy of pursuing a competitive high service and quality low cost model targeted across a Northern Foods has a robust portfolio of categories where it has good market positions.
It has active product development programmes and focuses on internal control and risk maintaining and developing strong and robust relationships with each customer management process which support the growth objectives of both partners Northern Foods plc Performance review 17 N040009 Report 01-26 13 6 06 1:39 pm Page 18 Performance review continued Changing consumer trends we are Implementation of change, Financing, pensions and taxation exposed to changes in consumer trends, recruitment and retention the ongoing the company has committed financing in given the combination of snacking and transformation of the group described place, which can only be withdrawn in the convenience markets served.
Consumer in the Performance review continues to event of a breach of financing agreement, tastes continue to evolve in line with require close management attention.
The such as covenants, when the company three key trends: health, convenience and company has experience of managing such might be restricted in its ability to operate indulgence.
To maintain and increase sales risks and has action plans to mitigate them, normally and could be required by its Northern Foods needs to ensure that its which include board oversight and project financiers to dispose of assets to pay down portfolio is weighted towards these trends, management processes to monitor progress debt and incur additional costs of financing.
for example by managing new product against milestones.
Key performance The company sponsors several pension innovation to expand sales in these areas, indicators KPIs linked to remuneration, schemes and deficits could require an whilst managing the exposure to declining have been introduced to measure progress increase in future company funding.
Marked changes in against plan.
Failure successfully to addition, pension regulation could restrict consumer trends can impact profitability.
implement and complete the transformation the freedom of the company to undertake The company is working actively with its programme could impact financial results, certain corporate activities including retail customers, through its brands and employee recruitment and retention of disposals and return of capital to through its actions on healthy eating set sufficient suitably experienced personnel.
The company has certain out in the Corporate social responsibility In addition, failure to recruit and retain tax exposures totalling 23.9m which are CSR report employees from a pool of domestic and provided for but which, in the event of overseas staff could impact the companys an adverse finding by taxation authorities, Operational disruption given the ability to meet its service requirements.
could result in a substantial payment of short lead times involved in servicing our Reward, training and communication cash.
Further details on these risks are customers, disruption of our manufacturing programmes are used to mitigate this set out in the notes to the accounts.
and distribution facilities for example, by risk proactive initiatives are included fire, health & safety failure, problems of in the CSR report Key accounting judgements supply, information systems IS failure, Taking into account this analysis of risks and workforce action or environmental incident Managing procurement costs uncertainties, the key accounting judgements could impact our sales.
This risk is managed Northern Foods is exposed to price and which could impact future financial through a process including systems of supply fluctuations for its raw materials performance include the following: standard operating procedure, regulatory and services used as evidenced by recent compliance, dedicated steering groups, significant energy price rises.
It manages Pensions movements in equity markets, monitoring, audit, consultation and multiple this through a centralised procurement interest rates and life expectancy could sourcing.
A failure of the companys IS function, establishing better negotiating materially affect the level of surpluses and platform would impact all sites: therefore, power, fewer, closer relationships with deficits in the pension schemes.
The key the company maintains duplicated facilities, suppliers and by agreeing forward prices for assumptions used to value pension liabilities as well as back up and disaster recovery raw materials and services.
The company are set out in note 33 to the financial plans.
Whilst the company maintains seeks to pass on costs, where possible, statements insurance at levels that it believes are to its customers through price rises but appropriate for its industry, some of these constraints in achieving this can affect Tax the group carries out tax planning operational risks could result in losses and the companys results consistent with a group of its size, and liabilities in excess of its insurance coverage makes appropriate provision, based on or in uninsured losses and liabilities Food safety all the groups products best estimates, until tax computations require strict manufacturing and storage are agreed with the tax authorities New legislation, regulation and protocols and avoidance of contamination litigation Northern Foods manages a of product by inferior or incorrect Impairment the group has reviewed the range of regulatory requirements regarding ingredients.
Standard manufacturing and carrying value of goodwill and fixed assets the production, sale, safety, labelling and distribution protocols are in place to and impaired certain fixed asset values composition ingredients of the products manage this and proven product recall on a value in use basis.
Future changes it produces, together with environmental processes deal with any downstream in performance or disposals could impact impact, such as waste disposal and product recovery requirements.
Monitoring processes seek to widespread food scares can impact directly ensure ongoing compliance with all current through the sale of a contaminated product In addition to its key accounting judgements, legislation.
Proactive initiatives, beyond or indirectly through lack of supply or the group has significant accounting policies basic compliance, are actively pursued reduced consumer demand.
For example, for revenue recognition, foreign currencies, see the CSR report.
In addition, from approximately 10% of Northern Foods property plant and equipment, intangible time to time, certain group subsidiaries revenues come from products containing assets, inventories, and derivative financial may be the subject of various litigation poultry or eggs and the threat from avian instruments and hedge accounting.
These claims and proceedings, the resolution influenza is reduced through bio-security accounting policies are set out in note 2 to of which could have an adverse effect protection at source farms, use of a diverse the consolidated financial statements, but are on the companys results range of suppliers, and, in the unlikely not addressed in this section, as in general, event of product contamination, through they do not require significant estimates or destruction of the virus in the cooking subjective judgements to be made.
Indirect risks would be mitigated by expected increases in sales of other non-poultry products 18 Performance review Northern Foods plc N040009 Report 01-26 13 6 06 1:39 pm Page 19 Forward looking statements Forward looking statements are made Refocused for growth: throughout this report, including in the Performance review, the Report of the directors, and the Directors remuneration report.
These forward looking statements Radical refocus onto are based on a number of assumptions concerning future events and information currently available.
The user of these accounts five key categories should not rely unduly on these forward looking statements, which are not a guarantee Strong brands delivering 50% of sales of performance and which are subject to Strong positions in growing own label categories a number of uncertainties and other facts, many of which are outside of the companys control and could cause actual events to differ Four action areas materially from those in these statements.
Disposals - 40% of revenue, 200m proceeds expected Although Northern Foods believes that Chilled division turnaround the expectations reflected in those forward Cost reduction looking statements are reasonable, it cannot Rigorous capital and cash management assure users that those expectations will prove to be fulfilled.
In addition to those factors described under Risks and uncertainties Improved financial above, other important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectation, including economic and political profile conditions, changes in laws, regulation and accounting standards, customer relationships 40% lower revenue and actions, effectiveness of spending and Improved operating margin and RONA marketing programmes and unusual weather Profits from divested businesses expected to have been largely offset by patterns.
No guarantee can be given of future lower funding pension costs Disposal proceeds used to pay down debt, pension deficit and invest in new results, levels of activity, performance or focused group achievements.
Dividend cover targeted at 1.5-2 times basic EPS Free cash flow to cover dividends, tax and interest payments Comparative statements In this report, Northern Foods makes certain based on 2005 06 figures statements with respect to its market position pre-restructuring or its products or its brands market positions by comparisons with third parties or their products or brands.
These statements are based on both internal sources and independent sources and are accurate to the best of the knowledge and belief of Northern Foods.
31 May 2006 Northern Foods plc Performance review 19
