N040009 Report 27-88 13 6 06 1:46 pm Page 27 Report of the directors Report of the directors S Barden, R J S Bell and J K Maiden, who were appointed on the The directors of Northern Foods plc Northern Foods present their dates shown, retire and, being eligible, offer themselves for election.
annual report and the audited financial statements of the company for the year ended 1 April 2006.
As noted in last years report, C Dyer has served as a non-executive director for more than nine years and is, therefore, required to be Principal activities re-elected annually.
Accordingly he retires and, being eligible, offers Northern Foods is one of the UKs leading food producers, providing himself for re-election.
However, he has informed the company that own label and branded products to retailers.
The business is organised he will retire from the board on 6 September 2006. into three operating divisions based on manufacturing competency in chilled, bakery and frozen food production.
The executive directors service contracts, including those of S Barden and J K Maiden, the retiring executive directors, are referred to in Results for the year the Directors remuneration report set out on pages 33 to 42.
The Pre-tax profit before restructuring items for continuing operations was executive directors service contracts are terminable by the company 45.1m 2004 05: 62.4m.
After restructuring costs relating to group giving one years notice.
rationalisation and the redemption of the convertible bonds there was a pre-tax loss for continuing operations of 16.1m 2004 05: Other than service contracts, no director has a material beneficial profit 19.2m.
interest in any contract to which the company, or any of its subsidiaries, was a party during the year.
During the year the group adopted International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and these standards have been used to produce the Details of the remuneration of individual directors, and their interests financial results for the year ended 1 April 2006.
A description of the in the share capital of the company, are shown in the Directors main changes to accounting policies and the impact on the groups remuneration report on pages 33 to 42. results was published on 10 October 2005 and is available on the companys website.
Indemnity of directors and officers The companys articles of association include provision for the Business review indemnity of directors, the company secretary and other officers A detailed review of the business of the group, including a list of of the company to the extent permitted by the Companies Act 1985. the principal risks and uncertainties facing the group, is set out in This currently permits the company to provide indemnities to cover the Performance review on pages 4 to 19.
The Performance review defence costs in civil and criminal proceedings.
The director, employee also includes details of expected future developments in the business or officer would still be liable to pay damages and to repay defence of the group.
costs to the company if his her defence was unsuccessful.
Dividend Employees An interim dividend of 3.40 pence per share was paid on 31 March Northern Foods takes its responsibilities to its employees seriously.
2006 and the directors recommend a final dividend of 0.85 pence It is committed to equality of opportunity and aims to treat all of per share to be paid on 25 August 2006 to shareholders on the register its employees fairly in every aspect of employment.
Under IFRS the final dividend has not been accrued to giving employees the opportunity to maximise their potential.
The company encourages involvement in the companys performance in a variety of ways, including senior management briefings, in-house Directors publications and via the companys intranet.
The philosophy of The following were directors of the company during the year: encouraging employees to contribute to the performance of the group is reinforced by a number of share bonus and incentive schemes.
S Barden appointed 30 January 2006 R J S Bell appointed 1 September 2005 Disabled persons P H Blackburn retired 21 July 2005 Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully C Dyer considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
M T Gribbin resigned 28 February 2006 In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, every effort A J Hobson Chairman is made to ensure their employment with the group continues and J K Maiden appointed 5 September 2005 appropriate training is arranged.
It is the policy of the group that O G Ni-Chionna training, career development and promotion of disabled persons D T Nish appointed 1 July 2005 should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
P A O Driscoll non-executive directors Share capital Full details of changes in the companys share capital which occurred Directors biographical details are set out on page 26. during the year are shown in note 28 on page 65.
No shares were purchased during the year under the limited authority granted at the 2005 Annual general meeting to make market purchases of up to 10% of the companys shares.
Northern Foods plc Report of the directors 27 N040009 Report 27-88 13 6 06 1:46 pm Page 28 Report of the directors continued Substantial holders of stock Financial instruments At the date of this report the directors have received notification of Information on the groups financial risk management objectives and an interest of 3% or more in the issued share capital of the company policies and on the exposure of the group to relevant risks in respect from the following: of financial instruments is set out under the heading Financing and treasury management, on page 17 of the Performance review.
9.56% Sprucegrove Investment Management Ltd 6.78% Annual general meeting Standard Life Group 5.07% The notice convening the companys Annual general meeting to be Grantham Mayo Van Otterloo & Co LLC 3.37% held at 11.00 am on Wednesday 19 July 2006 at the Thorpe Park Legal & General Investment Management Limited 3.21% Hotel, 1150 Century Way, Leeds LS15 8ZB, is contained in the circular sent to shareholders with this report.
Corporate social responsibility Northern Foods is committed to a corporate social responsibility CSR Auditors policy that reflects our responsibilities to the marketplace, workplace, In the case of each of the persons who are directors of the company environment and the communities in which it operates.
It expects at the date when this report was approved: such a policy to have a positive impact on operational performance.
Details of our commitments are set out in the CSR report on so far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant audit pages 20 to 25. information as defined in the Companies Act 1985 of which the companys auditors are unaware: and Charitable donations each of the directors has taken all the steps that he she ought During the year the group donated 89,000 2004 05: 273,000 for to have taken as a director to make himself herself aware of any charitable purposes.
It is group policy not to make political donations relevant audit information as defined in the Companies Act 1985 and none were made during the financial year.
and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
Supplier payment policy It is the companys policy that payments to suppliers are made Deloitte & Touche LLP acted as auditors for the year ended 1 April 2006 in accordance with the terms and conditions agreed between the and have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors company and its suppliers, provided that all trading terms and of the company.
A resolution proposing their re-appointment will be conditions have been met.
Suppliers were paid on average 43 days submitted to the companys Annual general meeting.
after receipt of invoice, in line with the companys standard payment terms introduced in 2005 2004 05: 38 days.
By order of the board Carol Williams Research and development Company Secretary Throughout the year the company invested across the business in product development and research.
Further details are set out 31 May 2006 in the Performance review.
28 Report of the directors Northern Foods plc
