David Hodgson, aged 49, Non-Executive Chairman Divisional Managing Director, Non-Executive Director Mr Irens joined the Board as Non-Executive Northgate HR Mr Hodgson was appointed a Non-Executive Chairman on 7 January 2000.
He was Mr Aldis was promoted to the Board on 27 Director on 27 May 2004.
He is a previously Chairman of Cannons Group plc.
He has been Managing Director Managing Director at General Atlantic, He is a Non-Executive Director of Evolution of Northgate HR since 1998, and has the IT investment firm, which has an plc, Non-Executive Chairman of Esporta overseen the rapid growth of this division approximately 13% stake in Northgate.
He Group Ltd and a Director of a number of and the integration of Rebus HR into the serves as a Director of a number of public other unlisted companies.
and private information technology companies.
David Meaden, aged 44, Chief Executive Divisional Managing Director, 8.
Sir Stephen Lander, aged 58, Mr Stone was appointed a Director and Northgate Public Services Non-Executive Director Chief Executive on 31 October 1999.
He Mr Meaden was promoted to the Board on Sir Stephen was appointed a Non-Executive was formerly with Accenture where he was 27 May 2004.
He has been Managing Director on 29 January 2004.
He was an associate partner.
He previously held Director of Northgates Public Services previously Director General of the Security senior management positions with Digital division since May 2001, with overall Service MI5 1996-2002.
He is a NonEquipment Corporation UK and EDS.
responsibility for Northgates development Executive Director of Streamshield Ltd.
He in the local government and criminal justice also sat as a Non-Executive Director on the markets.
Board of HM Customs & Excise 2002-2005, 3.
John Stier, aged 40, and is the Chair of the Serious Organised Group Finance Director 6.
Jack Fryer, aged 67, Crime Agency.
Mr Stier was promoted to Group Finance Senior Independent Director and Director on 15 May 2003.
Prior to joining Non-Executive Director Northgate, he held senior financial positions Mr Fryer was appointed a Non-Executive 9.
Nick Starritt, aged 52, with Thames Water plc and Shanks plc.
He was Non-Executive Director previously with Marconi, Lucas Industries, Mr Starritt was appointed a Non-Executive Rank Xerox and Rolls Royce.
He is also Director on 27 May 2004.
His experience Chairman of Celoxica Holdings plc.
includes four years as the Group VicePresident of Human Resources for BP plc: he was also a Non-Executive Director of Rebus HR before its acquisition by Northgate.
He is European Managing Director of Sirota Consulting Ltd.
Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee.
Member of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee
