14 Company Profile Overview Northgate HR has developed and implemented the products and Northgate is one of the UKs leading suppliers of specialist services which organisations need to achieve the best return on software and information technology IT services for the human their HR and payroll investment.
From recruitment and resources, managed services education and public services induction to integrated HR and payroll, to self-service and markets.
Northgate has three major divisions focused on the intelligence gathering and pensions administration, Northgate Group's core business areas.
These are Northgate HR, Northgate HR has a range of fully integrated solutions for organisations Public Services and Northgate Managed Services.
Headquartered from small medium enterprises to large corporates.
in Hemel Hempstead, Hertfordshire, the Company employs approximately 3,200 staff and has in excess of 2,700 Northgate Public Services division is a technology provider with large medium customers and more than 7,000 small medium a difference.
We are committed to high quality public services customers across the UK and Ireland.
The original Company was and we understand the needs of the public sector.
Consequently, Northgate has more than 30 knowledge is core to our public services business.
years experience in the IT market.
Today, the Company works closely with many corporate organisations, in addition to all of We believe passionately in public services and are committed to the UKs regional police forces, approximately 90% of UK local community well-being which places the citizen at its heart.
We authorities and more than 50% of FTSE 100 companies.
believe that knowing the problem is halfway to solving it.
It's our business to understand the demands made of public services: Northgate's customer centric approach is based on fully from actively promoting social inclusion to building stronger, understanding application-specific business processes.
This safer and more secure communities and celebrating diversity.
enables organisations in both the public and private sectors to increase their business process efficiency when deploying We work in partnership to create innovative solutions using our Northgate applications and their associated services or when software, support and services expertise to promote economic utilising the Companys wide range of high quality IT services.
efficiency and social justice in a rapidly changing world.
Furthermore, Northgate manages many customers' key systems, providing a broad range of flexible and cost effective outsourced Northgate Managed Services supports customers from 25 of our solutions available either at client sites or our BS7799 accredited offices throughout the UK.
Our goal is to help our customers in hosting facilities.
local government, utilities, educational institutions and the corporate sector to improve their organisational performance Following a change in the Groups reporting structure, Northgate through effective Information Communication Technology ICT now has three major divisions focused on the Companys core solutions.
In choosing Northgate, all clients have selected a business areas.
These are Northgate HR, Northgate Public partner which is flexible, responsive and committed to the Services and Northgate Managed Services which includes the delivery of quality solutions to support their business.
Today, former Corporate Services division, parts of the Sx3 business Northgate: and some Managed Services that were previously reported in works with approximately 90% of local authorities in the UK: Public Services.
is the 2nd largest supplier of managed services in education in the UK: Northgate HR is Northgates specialist HR division and the supports 8 of the 10 largest water companies: leading UK supplier of HR, payroll and pensions solutions.
administers more than 17.0 billion of revenues and Working with organisations of any size from every industry benefits: and sector, Northgate HR offers an integrated and highly scalable is highly specialised in telecommunications, retail, and flexible suite of in-house, managed and fully outsourced finance, manufacturing, construction, pharmaceutical and solutions, that have been designed to meet the evolving membership organisations.
Consequently, Northgate HR is able to satisfy any HR or payroll requirement.
