Northumbrian Water Group plc 6 Annual report and financial statements 2005 06 Managing Directors statement John Cuthbert Delivery of our capital investment programme will reinforce our strong operational performance and high level of customer service and water quality.
This year has seen further development Sir Fred has consistently provided Within our investment programme we of NWG and highlights include: advice based on the rigorous science completed major environmental capital of his academic background and, investment projects at Birtley in Tyne a good start with the delivery of the above all, has helped to develop an and Wear, Hustledown, Sedgefield and investment programme of nearly ethos of commitment in our employees, Knitsley in County Durham and Hexham 1 billion over five years to 2010: a commitment to our customers, the and Cramlington in Northumberland.
increased focus on the core water and communities we serve, the environment Each of these will improve the quality waste water business with the sale of and to the business.
This ethos is of local watercourses.
We have also three subsidiaries: and central to the way we conduct our replaced or improved 91 unsatisfactory continuing high levels of water business and to the way we approach storm water overflows and 591 quality, customer service and corporate responsibility.
kilometres of water mains have been environmental standards.
His legacy is a Group recognised as One of the more significant announcements providing its customers with high levels NWL has also continued to invest in new during the year was that Sir Fred Holliday of service and which is seen to be an and refurbished assets to protect drinking will retire as Chairman at the AGM on important part of the communities water supplies.
Sir Fred has guided the Group it serves.
works at Horsley in Northumberland is wisely since he became Chairman in currently being upgraded to safeguard 1993 after first joining the former We are all grateful to Sir Fred for everything further the quality of water supplied to Northumbrian Water Group plc as he has brought to the Group and wish him the Tyneside area.
a non-executive director in 1991. a long and happy retirement.
We are committed to providing a good He was at the helm for the sale of the We welcome Sir Derek Wanless, who service to all our customers.
I am pleased former group to Lyonnaise des Eaux, joined the Board in December 2003, to report that the quality of the drinking later Suez, in 1995: the mergers of as incoming Chairman.
Under his water supplied by NWL remains among Northumbrian Water, North East Water chairmanship we aim to continue to the best in the country.
Our own and Essex & Suffolk Water: and the return build on our track record of service independently commissioned research to the stock market of the enlarged delivery, environmental performance records that the number of domestic company in 2003, when Suez decided and stakeholder value.
customers believing we provide value for to reduce its holding.
money was the highest for six years and Other significant developments during overall levels of customer satisfaction During that time, NWL has invested the year were that, in line with our remain high.
The results from our surveys 3 billion in the north east and Essex strategy to focus on our core water and of commercial and industrial customers and Suffolk to deliver demonstrable waste water operations, the Group were equally positive.
However, we are improvements in water quality and disposed of FPS on 8 July 2005, Entec not complacent and continue to work the environment.
on 5 October 2005 and ULG on hard to improve the quality of the service 10 April 2006. we offer to all our customers.
continued... CliCk to returN to CoNteNts Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2005 06 Right: NWLs Jim Teasdale and Sean Henderson working on the reed beds at Birtley sewage treatment works, part of the Lamesley scheme Below: Sir Fred with HRH The Princess Royal at the official opening of the new award-winning Wear Valley water treatment works Case study: lamesley partnership cleans up river team WHO: Jim Teasdale, production operator, has worked at Birtley sewage treatment works for 16 years.
WHAT: NWL is a member of The River Team Revival Project, a partnership initiative covering the river Team catchment, near Gateshead.
The project aims to accelerate environmental improvements in a sustainable and holistic way.
NWL has been working closely with fellow project team member The Coal Authority to create a unique and sustainable solution to removing pollution.
We have planted nine reed beds at Lamesley to combine the treatment of minewater and the effluent from our treatment works at Birtley.
WHY: This combined low energy treatment in aerobic wetland has many advantages over two separate treatment systems.
It uses almost the same area of land just one treatment system would require and will provide wider landscape and biodiversity benefits.
275 litres of water per second now pass through these reed beds and the results are well in line with our plans.
We will be able to treat 640 litres per second when the flows are combined with the minewater, explained Jim.
Its a bonus that I trained as a gardener first, so its really exciting showing students the plants and wildlife living here now.
CliCk to returN to CoNteNts Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2005 06 Managing Directors statement Left: John Cuthbert with MP Denis Murphy on a visit to Cambois sewage treatment works Right: NWLs Michael Grange inspecting the Ryal tunnel upgrade in Northumberland Ofwat has set tough and challenging The visit of the Tall Ships to the river Tyne Once again, I would like to take efficiency targets for the next five years in July 2005 was a major event both for this opportunity to thank all our and NWL is working hard to meet these.
the people of the north east of England employees across the Group for their NWL has established new consultant and for the many visitors who came to individual contributions to what has and contractor frameworks to improve the region specially.
I am very proud that been another successful year.
They the delivery of the capital investment NWL was a major sponsor of the race, have a genuine commitment to our programme and has extended the use providing essential water supplies to the customers, the communities we serve of the Six Sigma approach across the entire Tall Ships fleet for the second leg and the environment.
This statistically-based business of the races from the Tyne to Fredrikstad management tool was piloted at the in Norway.
We also supported the young outlook regional sludge treatment centre at people who acted as crew on two of NWG will maintain its focus on delivering Bran Sands, where it produced these ships, The James Cook and a solid performance in this regulatory excellent results, and it is anticipated Queen Galadriel.
We will continue to deliver that it will prove equally valuable efficiencies against a backdrop of upward throughout the business.
The importance of water to well-being cost pressure from energy prices, is being recognised increasingly and abstraction licences and other costs.
A highlight of the year was the visit of our Water for health campaign in the HRH The Princess Royal to open the Wear regions we serve is one of the leaders in In Essex, where water resources are most Valley water treatment works in Weardale the industry.
NWL has launched a series constrained, we are in a relatively strong in November.
This unique treatment of innovative campaigns.
These promote position and do not anticipate the need works has been supplying 250,000 the benefits of water for healthy living to for restrictions.
However, we are not customers in parts of Sunderland, Bishop the elderly, to businesses, to families and complacent and continue to monitor the Auckland and the Wear Valley since its provide direct support where appropriate, situation.
In the medium term, we will commissioning, and has already won for example, with our Chill out scheme implement our programme to increase 11 awards for design, innovation and for schools.
security of supply through the Abberton environmental achievement.
in an Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty Further afield, the Group is part of a in national parkland, the works was consortium that designed and built a Delivery of our capital investment designed to blend into its beautiful 70 million waste water treatment plant programme will reinforce our strong surroundings and built in natural for Cork City Council in Ireland which operational performance and high level stone and slate in the style of a was opened in June 2005.
We have of customer service and water quality.
now begun the 20 year operation and maintenance contract.
John Cuthbert Managing Director Analytical & Environmental Services 6 June 2006 Limited AES received its best assessment from the United Kingdom Accreditation Service UKAS.
It has won a number of significant contracts during the year, including one with Marks & Spencer to monitor the water systems in half of its stores nationwide.
CliCk to returN to CoNteNts Northumbrian Water Group plc 9 Annual report and financial statements 2005 06 Right: Tall Ships on the river Tyne Below: The highlight of NewcastleGatesheads festival of rivers and seas Treibgut on Kielder Water Case study: A sail away success for the region WHO: Andrew Dixon, chief executive NewcastleGateshead Initiative NGI.
WHAT: NWL supports NGIs efforts to increase tourism and its associated economic benefits for the region.
NWL was water and crew sponsor for the Tall Ships Races NewcastleGateshead 2005, providing essential water supplies for the entire Tall Ships fleet.
It also supported the crews on board The James Cook and Queen Galadriel.
At the same time NWL sponsored Treibgut during the Source of the Tyne Festival, part of NGIs Culture 10 programme, 2005 Alive.
Theater Titanicks Treibgut was a spectacular theatrical extravaganza on Kielder Water with water and lighting special effects.
WHY: These two events alone had a major impact on the economy of the region.
With the support of Northumbrian Water and other members, NewcastleGateshead Initiative has overseen a 5% growth in the tourism economy in the city, Andrew Dixon confirmed.
NGIs cultural events programme, including the Tall Ships Race, river festivals and sporting events, provided a platform for promoting both regional engagement with the environment and sustainable tourism which is now worth 1.8 billion to the north east region.
CliCk to returN to CoNteNts
