21 Directors Report Report of the Directors Report of the Directors to the members for the year ended 30 April 2006 Principal Activity and Review of Business Developments The principal activity of the Group is the development and supply of software and related services.
This comprises applications software including hardware and associated installation, maintenance services, facilities management and software support together with the development and supply of applications development tools.
The Group specialises in the provision of these services in the following markets:- Human Resources and Payroll, Local Government, Criminal Justice & Public Safety including the emergency services, and Education A general review of the operations of the Group and its future prospects is included in the Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Review and Group Finance Directors Review on pages 3 to 13.
Directors The Directors of the Company at the year-end and the date of this report are shown on page 15.
Mr Jack R Fryer continues to act as the Senior Independent Director.
Directors Interests The interests of the Directors who held office at the end of the financial year in the ordinary shares and in options to acquire ordinary shares in the Company appear on pages 32 to 34 of the Directors Renumeration Report.
Financial Performance and Development The Groups profit before taxation was 30.6m 2005: 15.7m.
The profit after taxation was 21.3m 2005: 14.9m.
Full results for the year are shown in the Consolidated income statement on page 39.
The Directors consider that the Companys development over recent years and the positive outlook for the Group justifies the introduction of a dividend payment.
The Directors have decided to recommend to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting a dividend payment of 0.6p per share 2005: nil.
The Key Performance Indicators KPIs used by Northgate to measure its own performance at Group level are revenue, adjusted operating profit and adjusted basic earnings per share.
The figures for the year ended 30 April 2006 are set out in the Financial Highlights on page 1 together with the figures for the previous year and in the Group Finance Directors Review on pages 11 to 13.
At divisional level the KPIs include divisional turnover, divisional operating profit, divisional operating margins, forward order book and organic revenue growth.
The KPIs for each division are shown in the Chief Executives Review on page 6 and page 7 as part of the Divisional review.
Northgate Group Objectives Northgates overriding objectives are to provide first-class IT solutions for its customers, a positive environment for its employees and superior financial returns for shareholders.
Key strengths Northgates key strengths are: P Pe eo op plle e - Northgates people are experienced, enthusiastic and committed.
They put customer solutions at the heart of all they do.
Our employees have on average 8 years of employment at Northgate, and often have many more years of relevant industry experience.
This rich experience of the market leads to solutions which directly address our customers requirements.
M Ma ar rk ke et t p po os siit tiio on ns s - with market leading positions, Northgate is able to devote more resources to developing innovative solutions, as well as being able to attract the best employees, partners and suppliers and have a deeper understanding of clients needs.
S Siiz ze e - as a substantial business, Northgate is able to bid for and win larger contracts and to make large scale investments that will enhance prospects and generate lasting value.
IIn nn no ov va at tiio on n - Northgate has an excellent track record of innovation.
During the year around 400 staff were employed directly in development roles and support, and 16.3m 2005: 12.8m was invested in product development.
NORTHGATE INFORMATION SOLUTIONS PLC 22 Directors Report continued New Products Introduced The following new products and developments were introduced or took place during the year: Northgate HR My Choice, a new flexible benefits product, integrates dynamically with existing HR systems and automates benefits administration.
Organisations will now be able to complete detailed analyses of their flexible benefits programmes using powerful management reporting to better examine the value of their compensation strategy.
Enterprise Insight, a highly advanced business intelligence system within the ResourceLink suite, will enable organisations to select Key Performance Indicators KPIs critical to their success, and monitor them in real time.
A 'dashboard' will alert users to instances where KPIs could be affected and enable the user to drill down and establish the cause of the problem.
Enterprise Insight has also been designed to link into external systems to provide enterprise-wide functionality.
Northgate Public Services The self service capability within our Front Office Citizen Relationship Management CRM solution was developed to enable citizens to access services online 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
The Public Consultation module within Front Office was developed to allow local authorities to segment their customer base and target specific proactive campaigns for services.
The eBenefits solution powered by Assert was introduced.
This product uses rulebase technology to transform the process of applying for benefits and improve the experience for the citizen.
In addition Northgate developed extensions to its range of mobile solutions delivering efficiencies in housing, revenues and benefits.
Northgate Managed Services Managed Services made significant progress in the development of an innovative Managed Learning Environment MLE which will be delivered to schools as part of the Building Schools for the Future programme.
As well as successfully developing and launching innovative new products, Northgate also uses its extensive market knowledge to act as a significant thought leader in the markets it serves.
In this way Northgate is able to bring its extensive experience and intellectual capability to bear on specific customer situations to deliver effective solutions.
Strategy Northgates group strategy is to develop a successful and sustainable business as an international Information Technology IT services provider by: building its business around intellectual property rights IPR to create market leading positions: using its IPR and customer service record to win an increasing share of work in human resources and public services: broadening its range of products and services using its technical skills to respond to client needs: supplementing organic growth with appropriate acquisitions that complement its existing business and product portfolio: and expanding overseas judiciously in areas where it can develop a strong market presence.
This is supported by the following division specific strategies:- Northgate HR Northgate HR is the market leading HR software business in the UK.
Whilst Northgate actively supports a range of legacy products, its research and development is concentrated on the flagship product, ResourceLink.
ResourceLinks functionality and Northgates ability to implement client solutions effectively means that the product continues to be successful in the UK.
Alongside the applications business Northgate continues to develop its outsourcing business and has won numerous new clients in the year.
Northgate HRs strategy is to continue to grow organically in the UK its software and services business whilst expanding the geographic footprint across the significant markets of Continental Europe.
This will be approached through organic growth and acquisitions.
Northgate already has some European distributors in place and is committed to supporting several customers in their key European locations.
It is actively developing ResourceLink to support this.
NORTHGATE INFORMATION SOLUTIONS PLC 23 Northgate Public Services Northgates Public Services division has developed a broad portfolio of software-based solutions for specific niches in the local government and criminal justice markets.
This has been created from a combination of targeted acquisitions and focused research and development.
The product portfolio has been integrated so that flexible solutions for individual client requirements can be rapidly and effectively deployed.
Northgate Public Services strategy is to enhance its product portfolio though research and development activities to drive organic growth and continue to assess acquisition opportunities to widen its product set and lead industry consolidation.
Northgate Managed Services Northgates Managed Services division provides world class Information Communication Technology ICT and managed service solutions across both public and private sectors.
The division specialises in three key sectors local government, education and utilities and provides infrastructure solutions across public, private and voluntary sectors with the following strategies: L Lo oc ca all G Go ov five er rn nm me en nt t to develop a market leading position through growth and capitalising on the Groups strong domain knowledge in this area: U Ut tiilliit tiie es s to support the electricity market opening in Northern Ireland: E Ed du uc ca at tiio on n to build on the successful business already established in Northern Ireland by winning new contracts in the rest of the UK.
The government programme Building Schools for the Future provides an opportunity for Northgate to build a successful business in this market: and IIn nf fr ra as st tr ru uc ct tu ur re e S So ollu ut tiio on ns s to support customers in improving business performance through the application of technology.
Risks and Uncertainties The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups approach to assessing risk and recognises that creating value is the reward for taking and accepting risk.
Executive management implement the Boards policies on risk and control and present assurance on compliance with these policies.
Further independent assurance is provided by an internal audit function which operates across the Group, and through external auditors.
This system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve corporate objectives.
Accordingly, it can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Control Whilst the Board maintains full control and direction over appropriate strategic, financial, organisational and compliance issues, it has delegated to the Executive Management Committee the implementation of the systems of internal control within an established framework.
The Board has put in place an organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority.
There are also established procedures for planning, capital expenditure, information and reporting systems and for monitoring the Groups businesses and their performances.
These include: review of divisional operating plans with the relevant Executive Directors prior to submission to the Board for approval: regular consideration by the Board of year-end forecasts: monthly comparison of each operating divisions actual financial performance with budget: operating policies and procedures: regular reporting of accounting and legal developments to the Board: and regular reporting review and updating of the Groups risk management schedules.
Corporate Governance Detailed statements of the Companys corporate governance principles and the Groups systems of internal control are set out in Corporate Governance on pages 16 to 20.
Resources In order to meet customer needs and optimise efficiency Northgate utilises a variety of resources:- Employees The Group has a very dedicated and loyal skilled workforce.
Average length of service is eight years and staff turnover was less than 13% for the year.
NORTHGATE INFORMATION SOLUTIONS PLC 24 Directors Report continued Employees continued During the year 600 new employees were recruited, an increase of 96 on the previous year.
400 contractors were also employed, predominantly on customer related projects, providing a flexible resource pool.
Northgate invested over 2.25m in external training as well as running a substantial number of development programmes in-house.
Northgates reward strategy aims to reinforce the link between employee and business performance.
In addition to a competitive basic salary, total reward may include variable pay elements such as bonuses, commission, recognition awards and long-term incentive plans.
In addition, Northgate offers a strong core benefits portfolio including a generous money purchase pension scheme, private medical cover, life assurance, status and job requirement company cars and a share participation plan.
It is of vital importance to Northgate that communications with employees are open and clear.
Communication takes place through a variety of means.
Approximately 215 Northgate employees are covered by union recognition agreements with either GMB or Unison and all employees have the opportunity to elect members to an Employee Consultation Group ECG.
The ECG meets formally with the Companys management on a quarterly basis to discuss issues of importance.
There is a structured programme of two-way communication with employees which involves face to face briefings, newsletters and regular group-wide e-mail bulletins.
All staff have an appraisal at least once a year, and have the opportunity to provide feedback as part of the performance management process.
The Group also undertakes an annual employee survey, ensuring staff can anonymously feed back both their positive and negative views to the Company.
This also enables the Group to proactively address any issues raised.
Overall, the findings from the last survey showed that employees have a high level of loyalty and commitment to Northgate with 98% stating that if a customer had a problem they would do everything to solve it.
It was also reported that employees have a strong relationship with their peers with 97% agreeing that they have a good working relationship with their colleagues and 82% agreeing that their manager was easy to approach if they had an issue at work.
Northgate was also considered to be an equal opportunities employer by the majority of our employees.
The survey also highlighted areas for improvement, including performance management and training and development.
Both of these areas are receiving significant business focus in 2006.
However, these results still exceeded the UK industry benchmark against other high performing companies.
Equipment During the year Northgate spent over 55.0m on IT hardware and software, ranging from servers, desktops, laptops, software, PC peripherals and consumables.
This was to support client needs and internal use.
The Companys IT procurement strategy centres on a group wide approach to developing strategic relationships with suppliers.
This is being delivered through the application of more efficient best practice processes and is underpinned by increased commercial leverage in the marketplace.
This is supported by a supplier rationalisation programme, a key component of our overall procurement strategy.
This has seen supplier numbers reduce from 1,100 to 770 during the year.
Financial Northgate has access to sources of capital that are sufficient to develop the business.
Its funds are provided by a syndicate of 14 leading banks and under the current agreements Northgate can call on up to 108.6m of unused facilities.
These arrangements, coupled with the cash-generative and recurring nature of the business, give confidence over Northgates financial strength, and provide the basis on which future investment decisions can be taken.
Locations In order to maximise customer responsiveness and to manage risk, Northgate operates from a range of different locations around the UK.
Our primary offices are in Hemel Hempstead, Belfast, Alderley Edge, Bristol, Bracknell, Sheffield, Peterborough and Solihull.
We also have smaller offices in 56 other locations across the UK.
Our entire trading property portfolio consists of 69 properties.
In addition we have six offices overseas supporting our international customers.
Health and Safety Northgate has an established health and safety policy that focuses on the ability to measure performance and to pursue continuous improvement in managing health and safety.
The policy was reviewed in September 2005 by the Audit Committee.
An Advisory Committee, that includes representatives from across Northgate, meets regularly to ensure that health and safety matters are continually addressed.
The Health and Safety manager chairs this committee.
NORTHGATE INFORMATION SOLUTIONS PLC 25 Consultation with employees is maintained through appointed health and safety representatives at each location.
Bulletins and other guidance documents are regularly distributed and health and safety has been established as a separate module on the Northgate Management Training Programme.
Accidents and Sickness During the past year there were 16 reportable injuries within Northgate.
This represented a reduction from the previous year of 16% 2005: 19 reportable injuries.
The total number of working days lost through sickness was 11,445 of which 969 days were classified as long term greater than 5 days, giving a total of lost working time through sickness of 0.2%.
Northgate actively supports staff during periods of sickness whilst managing this from a business perspective.
Environment The Group is committed to developing a sustainable business which minimises its environmental impact.
Northgates environmental policy provides that the Company will: minimise environmental risk and prevent pollution: conform to the statutory requirements placed upon it: promote efficiency in energy use and waste management: educate our employees in carrying out their environmental responsibilities: encourage our suppliers and other stakeholders to use energy and resources efficiently: and reflect the environmental concerns and statutory obligations of the Groups customers in the solutions that the Group provides.
In accordance with its policy objectives the Group is proceeding with the following initiatives: implementing a green travel plan: introducing an all diesel company car fleet: having video conference equipment in its principal offices thus reducing the need to travel: recycling waste products where economically practical: making every effort to conserve energy by good management of electrical, heating and cooling services: and rewarding employees through the Group Employee Suggestion Scheme for initiatives that improve the Groups environmental performance.
Northgate is committed to engaging in public policy debate and the development of shared solutions to public policy matters.
We continue to actively participate in government consultations such as the Governments IT strategy plan Transformational Government, and in our response to the Department for Education and Skills consultation we called on the government to place tackling the digital divide at the heart of its policy for young people.
Equal Opportunities and Diversity Policy Northgate recognises the business case for ensuring equality of opportunity and embracing diversity.
Northgates Equal Opportunity Policy provides that no person acting on our behalf shall discriminate in any situation against another individual or group, directly or indirectly because of sex, marital or family status, age, disability, colour, race, physical appearances, nationality, citizenship, ethnic or national origin, creed, religion or sexual orientation.
Opportunities also exist for employees of the Group who become disabled to continue their employment or to be trained for other positions in the Group.
Northgate endorses the principles that the workforce at each location should reflect as far as is reasonably possible, the composition of the local community.
Northgate is committed to and will vigorously enforce its Equal Opportunities Policy and to the elimination of all or any discrimination and to the promotion of equality of opportunity of employment.
Donations During the year, the Group made no charitable donations 2005: nil.
The Group made no political donations 2005: nil.
Payments to Suppliers It is the Groups practice to agree credit terms with suppliers in advance and to pay invoices in line with these agreed terms.
The Groups number of days purchases included in trade creditors at the balance sheet date was 63 days 2005: 61 days.
The main UK trading subsidiary companies details are disclosed in their accounts.
NORTHGATE INFORMATION SOLUTIONS PLC 26 Directors Report continued Relationships with key stakeholders Northgate manages its relationships with its key stakeholder groups as follows: Customers Northgates customers have a nominated individual through which all customer contact is managed.
Larger customers have dedicated account managers, or teams that focus directly on customer needs.
A number of active user groups are in place where customers can provide feedback on product performance, future requirements and issues of strategic significance.
Investors Northgate has an active investor relations programme that focuses on the annual and half-year results announcements and business.
Northgate meets with significant current and potential investors in order to brief them on the Companys progress and direction.
Northgate also holds ad hoc meetings to brief investors and analysts on specific issues and an annual analyst briefing at which senior managers review their markets in detail, as well as demonstrate products.
Suppliers and partners Northgate performs reviews of its key suppliers and partners on a regular basis to ensure that maximum performance and value are being obtained, and that risk and reward are equitably shared.
Northgate negotiates clear agreements within which the Company and its suppliers operate.
Local communities Northgate has active involvement in the communities it operates within.
This ranges from maintaining close relationships with local councils to sponsoring a range of community-based activities such as London Peace week.
Auditors KPMG Audit Plc has confirmed its willingness to continue in office as auditors of the Company and in accordance with section 384 of the Companies Act 1985, a resolution to re-appoint it will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at 11.00 am on 28 September 2006 at ABN AMRO, 250 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 4AA.
Formal notice and details of the meeting will be set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Substantial Interests Details of the share capital of the Company are shown in note 21 to the Financial Statements.
At 31 May 2006, the following persons have notified the Company of their interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company under sections 198 to 208 of the Companies Act 1985.
Number of shares % issued share capital Gap North Limited 68,780,000 12.84 Standard Life Investments 32,481,769 6.07 F&C Management Ltd 25,550,837 4.77 Resolution Asset Management 24,467,364 4.57 Legal & General Investment Management 21,282,718 3.97 Important Events Since the Year End There have been no important events affecting the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings since the end of the financial year.
Disclosure of Information to Auditors The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This report of the Directors was approved by the Board of Directors on 5 July 2006.
By order of the Board J D Richardson Secretary 5 July 2006 NORTHGATE INFORMATION SOLUTIONS PLC
