northumbrian Water Group plc 36 Annual report and financial statements 2005 06 Directors report The directors are pleased to present their report on the affairs of as at 31 March 2006 and, apart from Ron Lepin who was the Company, along with the audited financial statements and appointed on 24 October 2005, served throughout the year.
the auditors report for the year ended 31 March 2006.
At 1 April 2005, Bernard Guirkinger and Christophe Cros were Activities Suez nominated directors but resigned on 28 April 2005 The principal activities of the Group during the year were the following the sale of Suezs shareholding in the Company.
provision of water, waste water management and related services.
A review of the Groups activities for the year is Sir Fred Holliday will retire from the boards of NWG and NWL included in the business review on pages 15 to 33. following the AGM on 27 July 2006, and will be succeeded as Chairman of both boards by Sir Derek Wanless.
Financial results and dividends The Companys results and dividends are as follows: In accordance with the Revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in 2003 the Combined Code and the Year to 31.3.
2006 Companys Articles of Association the Articles, two directors will m retire by rotation and offer themselves for re-appointment at the forthcoming AGM.
Those directors are John Cuthbert and Chris Profit for the year from continuing operations 91.0 Green.
In addition, Ron Lepin, having been appointed to the Board since the 2005 AGM, will offer himself for appointment Dividends paid special 2.82 pence per share 14.6 at the AGM.
The directors biographies are set out on pages Dividends paid ordinary 3.52 pence per share 18.2 12 and 13.
Information about those directors who are seeking Dividends proposed ordinary 7.04 pence per share 36.5 appointment or re-appointment at the AGM is also contained in the Notice of Meeting booklet.
This booklet includes confirmation A final dividend payment of 7.04 pence per ordinary share will by the Chairman, following his evaluation of their performance, be recommended by the Board to shareholders at the AGM of their continued contribution and commitment to their roles.
If approved, the final dividend will be paid on 15 September 2006 to shareholders whose names Directors remuneration and interests appear on the Companys Register of Members at the close of Information about directors remuneration and their interests business on 18 August 2006.
Together with the interim and in the shares of the Company is contained in the directors special dividends of 3.52 pence and 2.82 pence per ordinary remuneration report on pages 42 to 48. share respectively, paid on 3 February 2006, the total dividend for the year will be 13.38 pence per ordinary share.
indemnification of directors The Company has in place directors and officers insurance substantial shareholdings and, on 28 November 2005, the Company entered into a deed As at 6 June 2006, the Company had been notified of the of indemnity to grant the directors further protection against following interests in 3% or more of its issued share capital: liability to third parties.
The deed, together with directors service contracts, will be available for inspection by shareholders Number of Percentage of at the AGM, or on application to the Company Secretary.
shares share capital Donations Ontario Teachers Pension The Group made charitable donations totalling 122,761 during Plan Board 129,655,961 25.00 the year.
It is the Companys policy that it does not, directly or Amvescap PLC 77,892,700 15.01 through any subsidiary, make what are commonly regarded as donations to any political party.
However, the definition of Barclays PLC 27,410,323 5.29 donations in the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 PPERA 2000 is wide and covers activities that form part of Waiver of dividends the normal relationship between the Company and political Northumbrian Water Share Scheme Trustees Limited, which organisations.
Political expenditure and or donations up to a total currently holds 976,668 shares to be used in the future to satisfy of 25,000 for the Group, for the period from 28 July 2005 until the vesting and exercise of awards under the Companys Long the date of the 2006 AGM, were approved by the shareholders Term Incentive Plan LTIP, has waived the right to all future at the AGM held on 28 July 2005.
Approval will be sought from dividends on the shares it holds.
Further details of the LTIP can be shareholders at the forthcoming AGM to permit the Group to found in the directors remuneration report on pages 43 to 45. make political donations as defined in PPERA 2000 up to a maximum of 20,000 from 27 July 2006 until the date of the Purchase of the Companys own shares 2007 AGM.
During the year, the Group made political donations, Authority was given by shareholders at the 2005 AGM to allow applying the wide definitions from the PPERA 2000, as follows: the directors to make market purchases of up to 5,186,238 of the Companys own ordinary 10 pence shares at a maximum price per Donations for share of 105% of the middle market price.
As at 6 June 2006, no Name of EU political organisation the year market purchases have been made.
This authority will expire at the 2006 AGM and the directors are not seeking to renew it.
Labour 5,570 Liberal Democrats 968 Directors The current directors are Sir Fred Holliday, Sir Patrick Brown, Conservative 1,177 John Cuthbert, Chris Green, Ron Lepin, Martin Ngre, Sir Derek total 7,715 Wanless and Jenny Williams.
All were directors of the Company CliCk to return to Contents northumbrian Water Group plc 37 Annual report and financial statements 2005 06 These payments covered attendance of employees and guests at employee share incentive Plan siP regional breakfast meetings and dinners and at a party conference The directors believe that employee investment strengthens fringe event, which gave employees opportunities to engage with the ties between the Company and the Groups employees by stakeholder groups and to heighten awareness within the political enabling employees to participate more closely in the Companys arena of key industry issues and matters affecting the Group.
A third of Group employees currently value of donations made to each party reflects the representation participate in the SIP, which was launched in 2004 and is open of political parties in NWLs areas of supply rather than the party in to all eligible Group employees.
The Company gives one Government.
free matching share for every three shares purchased by an employee, which must be kept in the SIP for five years to obtain research and development the full tax benefits.
Awards of all shares under the SIP are The Company, through NWL, maintains a programme of satisfied using existing ordinary shares purchased on the market, research and development activities which are linked to UK and dividends are paid in cash directly to participants.
This includes the provision of technical solutions to operations for water and waste water management Pensions and develops partnerships with academic and research Information about the pension schemes operated by the Group is organisations.
During the year, the Group incurred research contained in note 27 to the financial statements.
and development costs of 2.3 million.
treasury policies employees and employment policies Details of the Groups treasury policies are contained in note 22 to equal opportunities the financial statements.
The Group operates an equal opportunity policy, incorporated into Our Code of Conduct available on the Companys website.
The Creditors Company promotes equality of opportunity in recruitment, The Companys policy is to agree payment terms with suppliers employment continuity, training and career development and to pay on time according to those agreed terms.
In the throughout the Group.
The policy is designed to ensure that no absence of an alternative agreement, the policy is to make applicant or employee receives less favourable treatment on the payment not more than 30 days after receipt of a valid invoice.
grounds of age, gender, disability, race, religion or sexual orientation.
The ratio, expressed in days, between the amount invoiced to the Company by its suppliers during the year and the amount owed to The Company gives full consideration to applications for its trade creditors at 31 March 2006, was 5 days.
employment from disabled persons where the requirements of the job can be adequately fulfilled by a handicapped or disabled Annual General Meeting person.
Where existing employees become disabled, it is the The notice convening the AGM to be held on 27 July 2006 was sent Companys policy, wherever practicable, to provide continuing to shareholders with this report, together with an explanation of the employment under normal terms and conditions and to provide business to be conducted at the meeting, and a form of proxy.
training and career development and promotion to disabled employees wherever appropriate.
Auditors Ernst & Young LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in training and development office and a resolution proposing their re-appointment as Auditors Training and development of employees is important to the will be put to shareholders at the AGM.
achievement of Group goals and policies.
Annual appraisals are conducted and training needs are properly assessed throughout Financial statements preparation and going concern the Group.
A graduate development programme and team The directors consider that it is appropriate to prepare the financial leader and management development programmes are offered statements for the financial year on a going concern basis.
directors have arrived at their decision based on consideration of the Companys detailed budget for 2006 07 and the business plan Communication for the period to 31 March 2010.
Their analysis included a review Employees receive the Group magazine Watermark, which of the capital expenditure and investment plans, the anticipated includes articles on activities and news from subsidiary companies.
funding requirements and facilities available, and the Urgent or important information is communicated via a Group-wide reasonableness of the underlying assumptions of both the budget news flash facility.
Individual Group companies use a range of and business plan.
communication mechanisms, including team briefing, magazines, newsletters, intranet, noticeboards and regular team meetings.
In Directors declaration 2005, NWL won awards from Communicators in Business for its As required under Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985, so internal communications magazines.
The Group encourages open far as each current director is aware, there is no relevant audit feedback and is committed to protecting employees who wish to information of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and voice concerns about behaviour or decisions that they believe to be each director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have unethical.
All methods of internal communications for the Group taken as a director in order to make himself or herself aware of will be reviewed and updated during 2006 07. any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Health and safety The Group health and safety policy is maintained and implemented By order of the Board through each subsidiarys individual health and safety team.
The Martin Parker Groups medical advisor, Grosvenor Health, provides occupational Company Secretary health services.
The majority of employees are offered membership 6 June 2006 of a private healthcare scheme.
Registered office: Northumbria House, Abbey Road, Pity Me, Durham DH1 5FJ.
Registered in England and Wales No.
4760441 CliCk to return to Contents
