Directors Report The directors are pleased to present their report to Systems, the leading provider of customised state shareholders, together with the financial statements assessments for teacher certification in the US: and for the year ended 31 December 2006 on pages 52 to Paravia Bruno Mondadori, one of Italys leading 55 and 58 to 119 respectively.
Details of the businesses, educational publishers.
Net consideration paid for all the development of the Group and its subsidiaries acquisitions during the year ended 31 December 2006 and likely future developments are given on pages 1 was 363m and provisional goodwill recognised to 17 of the annual review and summary financial was 246m.
In total the acquisitions made in 2006 statements.
Sales and profits of the different sectors contributed an additional 147m of sales and 17m and geographical markets are given on pages 66 to 69. of operating profit.
Principal business activities Transactions with related parties Pearson is an international media company with Details of transactions with related parties, which are market-leading businesses in education, business reportable under IAS 24 Related party disclosures, information and consumer publishing.
We lead our are given in note 34 to the accounts on page 110. markets in quality, innovation and profitability.
Capital expenditure With more than 34,000 employees based in 58 The analysis of capital expenditure and details of countries, we are a large family of businesses which capital commitments are shown in notes 11,12 and are focused on making the reading and learning 33 to the accounts on pages 77 to 81 and 109. experience as enjoyable and as beneficial as it can possibly be.
Events after the balance sheet date On 15 February 2007 the Group completed the Results and dividend disposal of Pearson Government Solutions, its The profit for the financial year ended 31 December Government services business, to Veritas Capital.
2006 was 469m 2005: 644m and has been Sale proceeds consist of $560m in cash, $40m in transferred to reserves.
A final dividend of 18.8p per preferred stock and 10% of the equity of the business.
share is recommended for the year ended 31 December 2006.
This, together with the interim dividend already Directors paid, makes a total for the year of 29.3p 2005: 27p.
The present members of the board, together with their The final dividend will be paid on 11 May 2007 to biographical details, are shown on page 20 of the shareholders on the register at the close of business annual review and summary financial statements.
Details of directors remuneration and interests in Business review ordinary shares and options of the company are The chairmans statement and chief executives review contained in the report on directors remuneration on pages 2 to 17 of the annual review and summary on pages 32 to 51.
Four directors, Patrick Cescau, financial statements, report on the development and Rona Fairhead, Susan Fuhrman and John Makinson performance of the Group during the year ended will retire by rotation at the forthcoming annual 31 December 2006 and our likely future development.
general meeting AGM on 27 April 2007.
All of them, The elements covered in these reports, which are being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
required by the business review, are incorporated into Rana Talwar, who joined the board as a non-executive the directors report by reference.
The business review director in 2000, will retire at the forthcoming AGM itself can be found on pages 1 to 23 of the governance and will not offer himself for re-election.
In addition, Robin Freestone, who joined the board as Significant acquisitions and disposals chief financial officer on 12 June 2006, will retire from Pearson has made a number of acquisitions during office in accordance with the companys articles of the year including: Mergermarket, a financial association.
He will offer himself for reappointment information company providing information to at the AGM.
financial institutions, corporations and their advisors: Details of directors service contracts can be found Promissor, a computerised test provider focused on the on page 41.
No director was materially interested in regulatory market in the US: National Evaluation any contract of significance to the companys business.
24 Pearson Governance and Financial Statements 2006 Corporate governance Introduction A detailed account of how we comply with the provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code can be found on our website at www.
htm In terms of compliance with the Code during 2006, the only area where explanation is required relates to the independence of Vernon Sankey and Reuben Mark who had both served more than the recommended nine years when they resigned from the board in April.
During the four months that Mr Sankey and Mr Mark were on the board, the board deemed them to be independent despite the length of their tenure.
In all other areas the board believes that we are in full compliance with the Code.
Composition of the board The board consists of the chairman, Glen Moreno, five executive directors including the chief executive, Marjorie Scardino, and six independent non-executive directors.
Terry Burns was appointed as our senior independent director in 2004.
Independence of directors The board considers all of the non-executive directors to be independent.
Board meetings The board meets six times a year and at other times as appropriate.
The following table sets out the attendance of our directors at the board and committee meetings during 2006: Audit Personnel Nomination Board committee committee committee meetings meetings meetings meetings maximum 6 maximum 6 maximum 4 maximum 4 Chairman Glen Moreno 6 6 4 4 Executive directors Marjorie Scardino 6 6 4 4 David Bell 5 6 Rona Fairhead 6 6 1 Robin Freestone 4 4 John Makinson 6 6 Non-executive directors 2 David Arculus 4 5 3 4 2 3 2 2 3 Terry Burns 5 6 1 2 4 4 3 4 Patrick Cescau 6 6 6 6 4 4 4 Susan Fuhrman 5 6 3 4 3 4 5 Ken Hydon 5 5 3 4 2 2 6 Reuben Mark 1 2 1 2 0 1 1 2 7 Vernon Sankey 2 2 2 2 2 2 Rana Talwar 4 6 3 4 2 4 1 Appointed to the board on 12 June 2006 5 Appointed to the board on 28 February 2006 and to the audit 2 Appointed to the board on 28 February 2006 and to the audit committee in April 2006 and personnel committees in April 2006 6 Resigned on 21 April 2006 3 Resigned from the audit committee in April 2006 7 Resigned on 21 April 2006 4 Appointed to the audit committee in April 2006 25 Pearson Governance and Financial Statements 2006 Directors Report Continued The role and business of the board The formal matters During the course of the year the executive directors reserved for the boards decision and approval are: the were evaluated by the chief executive for performance companys strategy: acquisitions, disposals and capital against personal objectives under the companys expenditure projects above certain thresholds: all standard appraisal mechanism.
The chairman guarantees over 10m: treasury policies: the interim leads the assessment of the chief executive and the and final dividends and the financial statements: senior independent director conducts a review of the borrowing powers: appointments to the board: and the chairmans performance.
appointment and removal of the company secretary.
Directors training Directors receive a significant The board receives timely, regular and necessary induction programme and a range of information management and other information to fulfil its duties.
about the company when they join the board.
Directors can obtain independent professional advice This includes background information on Pearson and at the companys expense in the performance of their details of board procedures, directors responsibilities duties as directors.
All directors have access to the and various governance-related issues, including advice and services of the company secretary.
procedures for dealing in Pearson shares and their legal obligations as directors.
The induction also includes In addition to these formal roles, we endeavour to a series of meetings with members of the board, give the non-executive directors access to the senior presentations regarding the business from senior managers of the business via involvement at both executives and a briefing on Pearsons investor relations formal and informal meetings.
In this way we hope programme.
We supplement the existing directors that the experience and expertise of the non-executive training programme through continuing presentations directors can be garnered to the benefit of the about the companys operations at board meetings and company.
At the same time, the non-executive by making available to the directors the opportunity directors will develop an understanding of the abilities for additional visits to operating company divisions of the most senior managers that will help them judge as well as meetings with local management.
the companys prospects and plans for succession.
Externally run courses are also made available should Board evaluation directors wish to make use of them.
As we reported last year, with the introduction of Directors indemnities The company grants an a new chairman late in 2005, we have taken the indemnity to all of its directors in accordance with opportunity to carry out a thorough review of section 337A of the Companies Act 1985 in relation the effectiveness of our board and of the board to costs incurred by them in defending any civil or committees.
The chairman has spent time with each criminal proceedings and in connection with an of the directors over the last year in order to elicit their application for relief under section 144 3 or 4 views and a number of proposals have been developed, or section 727 of the Companies Act, so long as it is some of which were implemented during the course repaid not later than when the outcome becomes of 2006.
The chairman wrote to his fellow directors final if: i they are convicted in the proceedings: setting out his thoughts and observations on the ii judgement is given against them: or iii the court effectiveness of the Pearson board, and the directors refuses to grant the relief sought.
have had an opportunity to discuss this.
The chairman is keen that particular emphasis be placed on ensuring The company has purchased and maintains Directors that the board make their time together as productive and Officers insurance cover against certain legal as possible, and good progress has been made in liabilities and costs for claims in connection with any setting a board calendar so that adequate time is set act or omission by such directors and officers in the aside for the major topics to be covered.
The board execution of their duties.
committees were restructured during the course of the Dialogue with institutional shareholders There is an year, and each has reviewed its remit and has a new extensive programme for the chairman, executive chairman and terms of reference in place.
directors and top managers to meet with institutional 26 Pearson Governance and Financial Statements 2006 shareholders.
The non-executive directors meet The committee is responsible for assisting the boards informally with shareholders both before and after oversight of the quality and integrity of the companys the AGM, and respond to shareholder queries and external financial reporting and statements and the requests.
The chairman and senior independent company's accounting policies and practices.
director make themselves available to meet any The Groups internal and external auditors have direct significant shareholder as required.
Makinson access to the committee to raise any matter of concern Cowell reports to the board each year the results and to report on the results of work directed by the of an extensive survey on major shareholders views.
The committee reports to the full board Furthermore, reports on changes in shareholder of Pearson on a regular basis.
It also reviews the positions and views are given to the board at every objectivity of the external auditors, including board meeting.
non-audit services supplied, and ensures that there is an appropriate audit relationship.
Board committees The board has established three committees.
The committee met six times during the year with Chairmen and members of these committees are the chief financial officer, head of internal audit and appointed by the board on the recommendation other members of the senior management team, where appropriate of the nomination committee together with the external auditors, in attendance.
and in consultation with each requisite committee The committee met regularly in private with the chairman.
external auditors and the head of internal audit during the year.
Following a review of the board committees by the new chairman during 2006, it was decided to disband The requirement for training is kept under review the treasury committee, dividing its responsibilities and is provided to meet specific individual needs.
between the board with regard to approval of ii Personnel committee Following changes to our treasury policies and the audit committee committee structure in April 2006, the members to monitor compliance with these policies.
of the committee comprise David Arculus chairman, i Audit committee Following changes to our committee Terry Burns, Rana Talwar and since 1 January 2007, structure in April 2006, the audit committee now Glen Moreno.
comprises Ken Hydon chairman, David Arculus, The committee has responsibility for determining the Patrick Cescau and Susan Fuhrman.
remuneration and benefits packages of the executive All of the committee members are independent directors, the chief executives of the principal operating non-executive directors and have financial and or companies and other members of the management related business experience due to the senior positions committee, as well as recommending the chairmans they hold or held in other listed or publicly traded remuneration to the board for its decision.
companies and or similar public organisations.
The committee takes independent advice from Ken Hydon is our designated financial expert.
No director takes part in The committee has written terms of reference any discussion or decision concerning their own which clearly set out its authority and duties.
The committee reports to the full board These are reviewed annually and can be and its report on directors remuneration, which has found on the company website at been considered and adopted by the board, is set out www.
The committee is established by the board primarily The committee meets at least three times a year and for the purpose of overseeing the accounting and on other occasions when circumstances require, financial reporting processes of the company and and has written terms of reference which clearly audits of the financial statements of the company.
set out its authority and duties.
These can be found on the company website at www.
htm 27 Pearson Governance and Financial Statements 2006 Directors Report Continued iii Nomination committee Following changes to our They also confirm that there is an ongoing process committee structure in April 2006, the nomination allowing for the identification, evaluation and committee now comprises Glen Moreno chairman, management of significant business risks.
This process Marjorie Scardino, David Arculus, Terry Burns, Patrick accords with the revised Turnbull guidance and has Cescau, Susan Fuhrman, Ken Hydon and Rana Talwar.
been in place throughout 2006 and up to the date of approval of this annual report.
The committee is comprised of the chairman, chief executive and all of the non-executive directors The Groups internal control framework covers and meets as and when required.
During 2006 the financial, operational and compliance risks.
Its main committee met four times.
The committee primarily features are described below: monitors the composition and balance of the board i Board The board of directors, which has overall and its committees, and identifies and recommends responsibility for Pearsons system of internal control, to the board the appointment of new directors.
exercises that control through an organisational When considering the appointment of a new director structure with clearly defined levels of responsibility the committee reviews the current balance of skills and authority and appropriate reporting procedures.
and experience of the board.
To maintain effective control over strategic, financial, operational and compliance matters the board meets Whilst the chairman of the board chairs this regularly, and has a formal schedule of matters that is committee he is not permitted to chair meetings when brought to it, or its duly authorised committees, for the appointment of his successor is being considered attention.
Responsibility for monitoring financial or during discussion regarding his performance.
management and reporting, internal control and In accordance with the companys articles of risk management has been delegated to the audit association, directors are subject to reappointment committee by the board.
At each meeting, the audit at the AGM immediately following the date of their committee considers reports from management, appointment, and thereafter must seek re-election internal audit and the external auditors, with the aim no more than three years from the date they were of reviewing the effectiveness of the internal financial last re-elected.
The committee will recommend to and operating control environment of the Group.
the board the names of the directors who are to seek ii Operating company controls The identification and re-election at the AGM.
mitigation of major business risks is the responsibility The committee has written terms of reference of operating company management.
Each operating which clearly set out its authority and duties.
company maintains internal controls and procedures These can be found on the company website at appropriate to its structure and business environment, www.
htm whilst complying with Group policies, standards and guidelines.
Internal control The board of directors has overall responsibility for iii Financial reporting There is a comprehensive Pearsons system of internal control, which is designed strategic planning, budgeting and forecasting system to manage the risks facing the Group, safeguard assets with an annual operating plan approved by the and provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance board of directors.
Monthly financial information, against material financial misstatement or loss.
including trading results, balance sheets, cash flow statements and indebtedness, are reported against the In accordance with the provisions of the Code, corresponding figures for the plan and prior years, the directors confirm that they have reviewed the with corrective action outlined by operating company effectiveness of the Groups internal control system.
Group senior management meet, on a quarterly basis, with operating company management to review their business and financial performance against plan and forecast.
Major business risks relevant to each operating company are reviewed in these meetings.
28 Pearson Governance and Financial Statements 2006 In addition, the chief executive prepares a monthly vii Insurance Insurance is provided through Pearsons report 11 times a year for the board on key insurance subsidiary or externally, depending on the developments, performance and issues in the business.
scale of the risk and the availability of cover in the external market, with the objective of achieving the iv Risk management Operating companies undertake most cost effective balance between insured and formal, semi-annual risk reviews to identify new or uninsured risks.
The results of these reviews are submitted to internal audit for evaluation Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 and onward reporting to the board, via the audit As a requirement of our US listing we must comply committee.
Throughout the year, risk sessions with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, facilitated by internal audit are held with operating including Section 404 relating to the effectiveness company management and with the Pearson of our internal controls over financial reporting.
Management Committee to discuss and review At the date of this report, our 2006 404 attestation is the significant risks facing the business.
The only outstanding work relates to the testing of controls around the compilation of our v Internal audit The internal audit function is Form 20-F, which will be filed later in 2007. responsible for providing independent assurance to management on the effectiveness of internal controls.
Going concern The annual internal audit plan, derived from a risk Having reviewed the Groups cash, cash equivalents model, is approved by the audit committee.
Internal and borrowing facilities, and the 2007 and 2008 cash audit activity is supplemented by annual financial flow forecasts contained in the 2007 operating plan, the control self-assessment returns, completed by the directors believe that Pearson has adequate resources to businesses.
Recommendations to improve internal continue as a going concern for the foreseeable future.
controls and or to mitigate risks are agreed with For this reason, the financial statements have, as usual, operating company management after each audit.
been prepared on that basis.
Formal follow-up procedures allow internal audit Shareholder communication to monitor operating companies progress in Pearson has an extensive programme of implementing its recommendations and to resolve communication with all its shareholders large and any control deficiencies.
The internal audit function small, institutional and private.
We also make a also has a remit to monitor significant group projects particular effort to communicate regularly with our in order to provide assurance that appropriate project employees, a large majority of whom are shareholders governance and risk management strategies are in in the company.
We post all company announcements place.
Regular reports on the work of internal audit are on our website, www.
com, as soon as they provided to executive management and, via the audit are released, and major shareholder presentations committee, to the board.
are made accessible via webcast or conference The head of internal audit is jointly responsible with call.
Our website contains a dedicated investor the group legal counsel for monitoring compliance relations section with an extensive archive of past with our Code of Business Conduct, and investigating announcements and presentations, historical financial any reported incidents.
performance, share price data and a calendar of events.
It also includes information about all of our businesses, vi Treasury management The treasury department links to their websites, and details of our corporate operates within policies approved by the board and responsibility policies and activities.
its procedures are reviewed regularly by the audit committee.
Major transactions are authorised outside In 2006 we continued our programme of educational the department at the requisite level, and there is an seminars for our institutional shareholders focusing on appropriate segregation of duties.
Frequent reports are individual parts of Pearson.
The seminars are available made to the chief financial officer and regular reports to all shareholders via webcast on www.
com are prepared for the audit committee and the board.
29 Pearson Governance and Financial Statements 2006 Directors Report Continued Our AGM which will be held on 27 April this Supplier payment policy year includes opportunities to meet the companys Operating companies are responsible for agreeing managers, presentations about Pearsons businesses the terms and conditions under which business and the previous years results as well as general transactions with their suppliers are conducted.
company policy that suppliers are aware of such terms of payment and that payments to them are made in People accordance with these, provided that the supplier is During 2006, Pearson employed over 34,000 also complying with all relevant terms and conditions.
Each business has detailed Group trade creditors at 31 December 2006 were employment practices for recruitment, remuneration, equivalent to 31 days of purchases during the year employee relations, health and safety, and terms and ended on that date.
The company does not have any conditions designed for the different sectors and significant trade creditors and therefore is unable to countries in which it operates.
disclose average supplier payment terms.
We are committed to equality of opportunity for External giving all regardless of gender, race, age, physical ability, In 2006, Pearsons cash charitable giving totalled religion or sexual orientation.
In addition to cash donations, recruitment and to the promotion, development and Pearson also provides in-kind support such as books, training of people who are already part of Pearson.
publishing expertise, advertising space and staff time.
The company takes seriously its obligations to the Through the Pearson Foundation, we focus our disabled and seeks not to discriminate against current charitable giving on education and literacy projects or prospective employees because of any disability.
around the world: in a brain-powered world, we We are always willing to make reasonable adjustments believe that no job is more important than helping to premises or employment arrangements if these people to learn.
We encourage our employees to substantially disadvantage a disabled employee or support their personal charities by matching prospective employee.
Every effort is made to find donations and payroll giving and by providing suitable alternative jobs and, as necessary, training volunteering opportunities.
for those who are unable to continue in their existing More details can be found in our 2006 CSR report role due to disability.
com community csr report2006 Pearson is committed to clear and timely Share capital communication with its people concerning business Details of share issues are given in note 25 to the performance.
It works hard to maintain effective accounts on page 103.
At the AGM held on 21 April channels of communication and supports employee 2006, the company was authorised, subject to certain representation to help positive employee relations.
conditions, to acquire up to 80 million of its ordinary We believe that the best way for people to profit from shares by market purchase.
Although circumstances the success of the company is for them to become have not merited using this authority and there are no shareholders.
Pearson operates worldwide share plans plans at present to do so, shareholders will be asked to taking account of local country tax and securities renew this authority at the AGM on 27 April 2007. regulations.
With most of our people based in the US, we have taken special care to make it easy for them to acquire shares in Pearson.
The listing of our shares on the New York Stock Exchange allows us to operate a US Employee Stock Purchase Plan that makes share ownership in Pearson accessible to the majority of our employees.
30 Pearson Governance and Financial Statements 2006 At 28 February 2007, the company had been notified Act, and the report on directors remuneration.
of the following substantial shareholdings.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group, and hence for taking reasonable steps Number of shares Percentage towards preventing and detecting fraud and other Franklin Resources, Inc. 103,908,285 12.92 irregularities.
In preparing the financial statements on pages 52 to 55 and 58 to 119 inclusive, the directors FMR Corp. and Fidelity International Limited 49,800,888 6.19 consider that appropriate accounting policies have been used and applied in a consistent manner, Legal and General Group plc 28,868,364 3.57 supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and Annual general meeting estimates, and that all relevant accounting standards The notice convening the AGM to be held at 12 noon have been followed.
on Friday, 27 April 2007 at The Queen Elizabeth II The directors confirm that the auditors have concluded Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, that the directors report is consistent with the financial London SW1P 3EE, is contained in a circular to statements.
shareholders to be dated 26 March 2007.
The directors also confirm that, for all directors in Registered auditors office at the date of this report: In accordance with section 384 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act resolutions proposing the reappointment So far as each director is aware, there is no relevant of  LLP as auditors to the audit information of which the companys auditors company will be proposed at the AGM, at a level are unaware.
of remuneration to be agreed by the directors.
Each director has taken all the steps that they ought Auditor independence to have taken in their duty as directors to make In line with best practice, the audit committee has themselves aware of any relevant audit information introduced a policy that defines those non-audit and to establish that the companys auditors are aware services that the independent auditors, of that information.
 LLP, may or may not provide Approved by the board on 9 March 2007 and to Pearson.
The policy requires the provision of these signed on its behalf by services to be approved in advance by the audit committee.
The policy also establishes other procedures to ensure that the auditors independence has not been compromised.
A full statement of the fees for audit and non-audit services is provided in note 5 to the accounts on page 71.
Philip Hoffman, Secretary Statement of directors responsibilities Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group as at the end of the year and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time, the financial position of the company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the 31 Pearson Governance and Financial Statements 2006
