REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The directors present their annual report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006.
Results and dividends The results of the group for the year are set out in the financial statements on pages 38 to 77.
The directors recommend a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2006 of 2.0 pence per ordinary share.
Together with the interim dividend of 1.45 pence per share paid to shareholders on 3 October 2006, this brings the total dividend for the year to 3.45 pence per share.
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 2 May 2007 to shareholders appearing on the register at the close of business on 10 April 2007.
Total dividends paid in 2006 were 17.4 million, leaving retained profit for the year of 67.5 million.
Movements in reserves are set out in note 20 to the financial statements.
Review of operations A detailed review of the groups activities and future developments is presented in the Operational and Business Review on pages 2 to 13.
In addition to the acquisition of Reg Vardy plc in February last year, the following businesses were acquired or disposed of during the year ended 31 December 2006. Business Location Franchise Date Status 2006 Evans Halshaw Edinburgh Peugeot February Acquisition Reg Vardy Stourbridge Volkswagen March Disposal Reg Vardy Stafford Volkswagen March Disposal Reg Vardy Wolverhampton Volkswagen March Disposal Reg Vardy Leicester Volkswagen March Disposal Reg Vardy Redditch Volkswagen March Disposal Stratstone Chesterfield Volvo Chrysler March Acquisition Jeep Stratstone Crewe Volvo March Acquisition Stratstone Derby Volvo Chrysler March Acquisition Jeep Stratstone Mansfield Volvo March Acquisition Stratstone Nottingham Volvo March Acquisition Stratstone Nottingham West Bridgford Volvo March Acquisition Stratstone Stoke on Trent Volvo March Acquisition Stratstone Burton on Trent Volvo March Acquisition Stratstone Stafford Volvo March Acquisition Evans Halshaw Darlington Peugeot Citroen September Acquisition Evans Halshaw Huddersfield Peugeot December Acquisition Evans Halshaw York Peugeot December Acquisition Evans Halshaw Leeds Peugeot December Acquisition Stratstone Luton Land Rover December Disposal Business review Certain information required by the Companies Act 1985 to be included in the Directors Report on business review is principally contained in the Operational and Business Review Report on pages 2 to 13.
The Operational and Business Review principally covers the development and performance of the business and the external environment.
Other disclosures required are contained within the Directors Report, which includes the principal risks and uncertainties affecting the business and corporate social responsibility issues.
The company has not disclosed certain specific non financial KPIs in the absence of relevant measures that have been measured consistently over the past two years.
This will be addressed going forward.
Principal risks and uncertainties We have set out below certain risk factors that we believe could cause our actual future Group results to differ materially from expected results.
However, other factors could also adversely affect the Group results and so the factors set out below should not be considered to be a complete set of all potential risks and uncertainties.
The risk factors outlined should be considered in connection with the statement on internal control and risk management in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 18 to 24.
Health and safety is covered within the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 25 to 26.
15 Business conditions and the general economy The profitability of Pendragons businesses could be adversely affected by a worsening of general economic conditions in the United Kingdom.
Factors such as unemployment, the level and volatility of equity markets, interest rates, inflation, action taken by the UK government relating to the taxation of fuel for cars and the availability and cost of credit could significantly affect the market for the sale of new and used motor cars.
In the case of new car sales during a period of economic downturn there is likely to be an oversupply of vehicles leading to reduced margins.
Whilst a short term worsening in economic conditions in the United Kingdom should not significantly adversely impact profitability in our aftersales business, a sustained downturn over a number of years would be likely to lead to reduced profits in this area.
Franchise agreements We operate franchised motor car dealerships.
Franchises are awarded to us by the motor car manufacturers.
Failure to continue to hold franchises could result in a significant reduction in the profits of the Group due to our inability then to source new car stock to sell, perform warranty repairs and display motor car manufacturer trade marks.
Vehicle manufacturer dependencies We depend on the vehicle manufacturers financial condition, marketing, vehicle design, production and distribution capabilities, reputation, management and industrial relations.
Although we do not depend on any single vehicle manufacturer, a failure by a manufacturer in the areas noted could lead to significant losses especially in the case of the insolvency of a manufacturer.
Vehicle manufacturers provide sales incentive, warranty and other programs that are intended to promote new vehicle sales.
A withdrawal or reduction in these programs would have an adverse impact on our business.
Liquidity and financing Liquidity and financing risks relate to our ability to pay for goods and services required by the Group to trade on a day to day basis.
We have two main sources of financing facilities which are, from banks by way of committed borrowing facilities and from suppliers by way of trade credit.
A withdrawal of financing facilities or a failure to renew them as they expire could lead to a significant reduction in the trading ability of the group.
Regulatory compliance risk The Group is subject to regulatory compliance risk which can arise from a failure to comply fully with the laws, regulations or codes applicable, for example those set out by the Financial Services Authority.
Non compliance can lead to fines, enforced suspension from sales of general insurance products or public reprimand.
Competition We compete with other franchised vehicle dealerships, private buyers and sellers, internet based dealers, independent service and repair shops and manufacturers who have entered the retail market.
We compete for the sale of new and used vehicles, the performance of warranty repairs, non warranty repairs, routine maintenance business and for the provision of spare parts.
The principal competitive factors in service and parts sales are price, customer database, familiarity with a manufacturers brands and models and the quality of customer service.
We also compete with a range of financial institutions in arranging finance for vehicle purchases.
Some of our competitors may have greater resources and lower overhead and sales costs.
This could lead to our failure to be able to compete and result in a reduction in our profitability.
Reliance on certain members of management and staff The Group is dependent on members of its senior management team and skilled personnel and the future financial well being of the Group could depend in part on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled management and personnel.
The loss of the service of a number of such individuals could have a material adverse effect on the business.
Additionally, if we fail to recruit and retain skilled staff it may not be possible to continue to grow the business.
Failure of information systems Our businesses are dependent on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our information technology and computer systems, which are vulnerable to damage or interruption from power loss, telecommunications failure, sabotage, vandalism or similar misconduct.
Whilst we have put in place contingency and recovery plans in order to mitigate the impact of such failures it can never be certain that these plans could cover every eventuality or situation.
Reliance on the use of significant estimates The company enters into leasing arrangements whereby it agrees to repurchase vehicles from their lessees or providers of lease finance at the end of the lease agreement which are typically two to four years in the future.
The repurchase price is determined at the time the agreement is entered into based on the then estimate of a vehicles future residual value.
The actual value of the vehicles at the end of the lease contract and therefore the profits that the company can realise from their eventual sale could vary materially from these estimates due to changes in either the popularity or the reliability of the brand.
16 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CONTINUED Directors The directors of the company are listed on page 14.
Details of the terms of appointment and notice period of each of the current directors, together with their respective interests in the companys shares, appear in the Remuneration Report on pages 27 to 34.
The Combined Code and the companys Articles of Association require directors to retire by rotation or, in the case of non-executive directors who have served more than nine years, annually.
The notice to shareholders describes the business of the Annual General Meeting and includes details of the directors proposed for election or re-election.
The directors in question are: Mr M T Davies, Mr T G Finn, Miss H C Sykes and Mr W W Rhodes each of whom, being eligible, will stand for re-election.
Substantial Shareholdings At 8 January 2007 the directors had been advised of the following interests in the shares of the company:- Shareholder Shares % AXA Framlington Group Limited 49,158,115 7.49 Standard Life Investments 40,154,040 6.12 Lazard Asset Management LLC 38,881,190 5.93 Jupiter Asset Management Limited 34,651,410 5.28 The Bank of New York 33,791,378 5.15 JP Morgan Chase Bank Nominees 30,155,346 4.60 Scottish Widows Investment Partnership 27,488,790 4.19 Barclays Global Investors UK 25,130,981 3.83 Legal & General Investment Management 24,015,191 3.66 Fidelity International Limited 23,271,695 3.55 Aviva Plc 19,619,210 2.99 Employee involvement The companys approach to corporate social responsibility is set out on pages 25 to 26.
No political donations were made 2005: nil and the company does not intend the company or any member of the group to make any such donations.
Payments to suppliers The groups policy is to settle the terms of payment to its suppliers when agreeing the terms of the transaction and to abide by those terms, provided it is satisfied that the supplier has provided the goods or services in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions.
The group has not adopted any specific code or standard on payment practice.
The number of days purchases outstanding for the payment by the group at 31 December 2006 was 66 days 2005: 82 days.
The company had no trade creditors.
Repurchase of shares Details of movements in the companys share capital are given in note 19 to the financial statements.
At the Annual General Meeting on 28 April 2006 shareholders authorised the company to repurchase its own 25p ordinary shares in the market.
The company has not repurchased any of its own shares during the year.
The authority is exercised only if the directors expect it to result in an increase in earnings per share.
Auditors KPMG Audit Plc has indicated its willingness to continue as independent auditor and a resolution concerning its reappointment will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The directors who held office at the date of approval of this directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the groups auditors are unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the groups auditors are aware of that information.
By order of the Board H C Sykes Secretary 15 February 2007 Following an extraordinary general meeting of the companys shareholders held on the 22 December 2006, a sub-division of the companys ordinary shares was approved: the ordinary shares are now worth 5 pence each.
