DIRECT ORS' REPORT THE DIRECTORS SUBMIT THEIR REPORT AND AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2006 PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND BUSINESS REVIEW No Director has, or has had, a material interest, directly or indirectly, at any time during the year under review in any contract significant to the Companys business.
The principal activities of the Company and its subsidiaries the Group continue to be the provision of water and sewerage A list of all the Directors during the year is set out in the services and waste management.
Further information regarding emoluments table on page 33.
Further details relating to the the Group, including important events and its progress during Directors and their service contracts or contracts for services are the year, events since the year end and likely future set out on pages 29 to 35 and details of the Directors interests developments is contained in the Chairmans Statement, in the in shares of the Company are given on pages 34 and 35.
Chief Executives Overviews and in the Business Review on pages 2 to 27.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business Review as required by Section 234ZZB of the STATEMENT AS TO DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION Companies Act 1985, which is incorporated in this Directors TO AUDITORS Report by reference, can be found on the following pages of this Annual Report: a So far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Information Location Pages auditors are unaware, and Development and performance Chairmans statement 27 b Each of the Directors has taken all the steps they ought during the financial year and Chief Executives to have taken individually as a director in order to make overviews themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of Position at the year end Business Review 1415, including analysis and key 2325 that information.
performance indicators Other performance, Business Review 1618 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS including environmental and employee matters Details of the financial risk management objectives and policies Principal risks and uncertainties Business Review 1822 of the Group and the exposure of the Group to price, credit, facing the business liquidity and cash flow risk are set out in the Business Review on page 25 and also note 3 to the financial statements on page 53.
Explanation of amounts Business Review 2326 included in the and Notes to financial 4691 annual accounts statements EMPLOYMENT POLICIES AND EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT The principal subsidiaries of the Company are listed in note 37 to the financial statements on page 82.
The Group has a culture of continuous improvement through investment in people at all levels within the Group.
FINANCIAL RESULTS AND DIVIDEND The Group is committed to pursuing equality and diversity in all its employment activities including recruitment, training, career Group profit for the year after taxation was 37.8 million.
development and promotion and ensuring there is no bias or The Directors recommend a final dividend of 35.1p per Ordinary discrimination in the treatment of people.
In particular, share to shareholders on the register on 4 August 2006, making applications for employment are welcome from disabled persons a total for the year of 51.6p.
and special arrangements and adjustments as necessary are made to ensure disabled applicants are treated fairly when The Business Review on pages 8 to 27 analyses the results in attending interviews or for pre-employment aptitude tests.
more detail and sets out other financial information, including Wherever possible, the opportunity is taken to retrain people the Directors opinion on asset values page 24. who become disabled during their employment in order to maintain their employment within the Group.
DIRECTORS Employees are consulted regularly about changes which may affect them either through their Trade Union appointed Bob Baty will retire as Chief Executive of South West Water representatives or by means of the elected Staff Council which Limited and from the Board on 31 July 2006.
Chris Loughlin has operates in South West Water for staff employees.
These forums, been appointed by the Board as Bob Batys successor and as a together with regular meetings with particular groups of Director with effect from 1 August.
39 DIRECT ORS' REPORT employees, are used to ensure that employees are kept up to representing 0.135% of the issued share capital of the Company date with the operating and financial performance of the prior to the commencement of the repurchases.
The Group also uses a monthly information cascade The shares have been repurchased pursuant to the return of cash process to provide employees with important and up to date to shareholders as set out in the Circular to shareholders dated information about key issues and events.
23 January 2006 and in connection with the decision to move The Group encourages share ownership amongst its employees South West Water to a more highly-geared structure to enhance by operating an HM Revenue & Customs approved Sharesave the Groups balance sheet.
The shares have been repurchased Scheme open to all eligible employees and has recently for cancellation.
launched an HM Revenue & Customs approved Share Incentive Plan to further encourage share ownership.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS Further information relating to employee matters is set out in Details are set out in the Shareholder information section on the Business Review on page 16. page 107.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT AUDITORS Research and development activities within the Group involving  LLP were appointed auditors until water and waste treatment processes amounted to 0.1 million the conclusion of the seventeenth Annual General Meeting.
resolution for their re-appointment upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee of the Board will be proposed at the CHARITABLE DONATIONS Annual General Meeting.
The auditors have indicated their willingness to continue in office.
During the year, charitable donations amounting to 47,000 were made to registered charities involved in a wide range of APPOINTED BUSINESS activities and initiatives where funding assists groups including disadvantaged adults and children, local community South West Water Limited is required to publish additional organisations, educational establishments, special needs groups financial information relating to the appointed business as and other similar deserving causes.
Further details relating to water and sewerage undertaker in accordance with the charitable donations are set out in the Groups Corporate Instrument of Appointment from the Secretary of State for the Responsibility Report.
No political donations were made.
A copy of this information will be available from 14 July 2006 upon application to the Company Secretary at TAX STATUS Peninsula House, Rydon Lane, Exeter EX2 7HR.
The Company is not a close company within the meaning of the ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
The seventeenth Annual General Meeting will be held at the PAYMENTS TO SUPPLIERS Plymouth Pavilions, Millbay Road, Plymouth, Devon PL1 3LF on Thursday, 27 July 2006 at 11.00am.
It is the Groups payment policy for the year ending 31 March 2007 to follow the Code of The Better Payment Practice Group on In addition to routine business, resolutions will be proposed at supplier payments.
Information about the Code can be obtained the Annual General Meeting to: from www.
co. uk renew the existing authorities to issue a limited number of The Company will agree payment terms with individual suppliers shares and to purchase up to 10% of the issued share capital in advance and abide by such terms.
The ratio, expressed in seek authority to make political donations under the days, between the amount invoiced to the Company by its Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 suppliers during 2005 06 and the amount owed to its trade creditors at 31 March 2006, was 33 days.
undertake a share split eliminate authorised share capital created for the purposes ACQUISITION OF SHARES of the return of cash to shareholders earlier this year, which is no longer required.
The Company has authority from shareholders to repurchase up to 10% of its own ordinary shares expiring at the conclusion Details of the resolutions are set out in the separate Notice of of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 27 July 2006.
Annual General Meeting circulated to shareholders with this This authority was not used during 2005 06 but has been Annual Report.
used subsequent to the year end to buy back through the 1 market ordinary shares of nominal value 122 10p each.
By Order of the Board Up to and including 14 June 2006 160,000 shares were KEN WOODIER, Group General Counsel & Company Secretary repurchased for an aggregate consideration of 2,090,045, 22 June 2006 40
