BO ARD OF DIRECT ORS Kenneth George Harvey BSc, CEng, FIEE 65 David Jeremy Dupont MA, MBA 52 Non-executive Chairman Group Director of Finance Was appointed on 1 March 1997.
Ken was formerly chairman Was appointed on 2 March 2002.
David was formerly and chief executive of Norweb Plc.
He was chairman of regulatory and finance director of South West Water National Grid Holdings in 1995 and was previously deputy Limited, having joined Pennon Group Plc then South chairman of London Electricity and earlier its engineering West Water Plc in 1992 as strategic planning manager.
He has also been Chairman of a number of limited Previously he held business planning and development and private equity funded companies.
Currently he is the roles with Gateway Corporation.
He is a member of the senior independent non-executive director of National South West Council of the Confederation of British Industry.
Gerard Dominic Connell MA, 48 Robert John Baty OBE, FREng, CEng, FICE, Senior Independent Non-executive Director FCIWEM, CCMI, ACIArb 62 Was appointed on 1 October 2003.
Gerard is currently Group Finance Director of Wincanton Plc.
He was previously a Chief Executive, South West Water Limited director of Hill Samuel and managing director of Bankers Was appointed on 1 March 1996.
Bob was formerly Trust and has held other corporate finance and business engineering and scientific director of South West Water development positions in the City and in industry.
Services Limited having joined South West Water Authority in 1988.
Previously he held engineering and operational Katharine Mary Hope Mortimer MA, BPhil 60 appointments with North West Water Authority.
He is also Non-executive Director currently a non-executive director of the Royal Devon & Was appointed on 1 May 2000.
Kate is currently a freelance Exeter NHS Foundation Trust.
He will retire as the Chief financial consultant, a member of the Crown Agents Executive of South West Water and as a director of Pennon Foundation Council and a director of Crown Agents Asset Group on 31 July 2006.
Management Limited and Crown Agents Financial Securities Colin Irwin John Hamilton Drummond MA, MBA, Limited.
She was formerly a director of N M Rothschild & Sons Limited, Director of Policy at the Securities and LTCL, CCMI 55 Investments Board, Chief Executive of Walker Books and was Chief Executive, Viridor Waste Limited a member of the Competition Commission between 1995 Was appointed on 1 April 1992.
Company, Colin was a divisional chief executive of Coats Viyella, having previously been corporate development Dinah Alison Nichols CB, BA Hons 62 director of Renold plc, a strategy consultant with the Boston Non-executive Director Consulting Group and an official of the Bank of England.
Dinah was formerly is Chairman of the Governments Environmental Sector Director General Environment at the Department for Advisory Group and was a member of the Governments Environment, Food and Rural Affairs and previously held Advisory Committee for Business in the Environment various senior appointments within Government between 2001 and 2003. departments including being Head of the Water Directorate during the period of water privatisation.
She is also a Crown Estate Commissioner, a non-executive director of Shires Smaller Companies Plc, chair of the National Forest Company, a board member of Toynbee Housing Association and chair of Toynbee Partnership Housing Association.
COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD Group General Counsel & Company Secretary Ken Woodier Registered office Peninsula House, Rydon Lane, Exeter EX2 7HR Audit Nomination Registered in England No 2366640 Gerard Connell Chairman Ken Harvey Chairman Auditors Kate Mortimer Gerard Connell  LLP Dinah Nichols Kate Mortimer Chartered Accountants Dinah Nichols Environment 31 Great George Street, Bristol BS1 5QD Bruce Hewett Chairman co-opted member Remuneration Registrars Bob Baty Kate Mortimer Chairman Lloyds TSB Registrars Colin Drummond Gerard Connell The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA Dinah Nichols 28
