11406 Dec 2006 Persimmon Front 12 3 07 17:15 Page 17 Business Review Review of Strategy OUR STRATEGY product and then closely match our build programmes with our customer orders.
We look after our customers and aim to ensure ur business is the construction and sale of new homes that they receive good service, both during and after the house in the UK market, which includes land acquisition and buying process.
Our long term strategy is to continue to profitably grow our business.
We follow a strategy of reducing RISK FACTORS exposure to local market volatility by maintaining operations across geographically and economically diverse markets to enhance our We plan to continually mitigate and minimise the risks inherent growth potential.
within the residential development process.
However there are many substantial risks outside of our control which could affect Our growth strategy is a controlled process of managing our our business.
The principal risks are: balance sheet while we grow both organically, through land acquisition and development in existing business units and markets, National and regional economic conditions: the house and through the acquisition of other house building companies building industry is sensitive to changes such as job growth, where there is an opportunity to strengthen our presence in our housing demand, interest rates and consumer confidence.
Any deterioration in economic conditions could decrease demand and pricing for new homes which could have a We believe that our business requires in-depth knowledge of material effect on our business, revenues or profits.
local markets in order to acquire land, to engage subcontractors, to plan sites in accordance with local demand, to anticipate Competitive markets: we operate in a market with many other customer tastes in specific markets and to assess the regulatory national, regional and local housebuilders.
Our divisional structure is designed to utilise our competition could reduce the number of homes we build and local market expertise.
Land supply: there is a shortage of supply of land with residential LAND planning consent and increasing competition may affect our Our strategy is to maintain a land bank sufficient to ensure a ability to acquire suitable land at reasonable prices.
continued supply of land with residential planning consent, our Regulatory compliance: our business is subject to extensive and basic raw material.
We acquire land only after we have completed complex laws and regulations principally relating to planning, appropriate due diligence, including site investigations and the environment and health and safety.
Our obligations to evaluation of the planning status.
Although we purchase land comply with legislation can result in delays in land development primarily to support our house building activities, we also trade and house building activity causing us to incur substantial costs land with other housebuilders, primarily to secure additional sales and prohibit or restrict land development and construction.
We control a substantial amount of land, both owned and As an example, the proposed introduction of Home Information through option agreements, which we promote through the Packs by the Government in June 2007 could result in a planning process.
distortion of the residential housing markets.
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Our management teams supervise and control the design, We understand the need to take into account our impact on the development and construction of our housing sites.
We are not environment, our effect on the communities in which we build, dependent on any single supplier or subcontractor.
We have a the morale and welfare of our employees and the satisfaction of number of fixed price contracts with subcontractors and material our customers.
Our strategy is to integrate these complex social suppliers, which help limit the effect of commodity price increases.
and environmental issues into our management processes in We also attempt to maintain efficient operations by utilising running our business.
standardised materials available from a variety of sources.
Our supply agreements also allow us to leverage our volume through CONCLUSION quantity purchase discounts for a number of products.
We believe that the implementation of our strategy has placed us SALES in an excellent position to continue to grow our business and we have confidence in the future.
We monitor our sales to ensure that the mix of our new homes is aligned to meet demand and to ensure that we are not over Mike Farley Group Chief Executive exposed in any one particular house type.
We build show houses 23 February 2007 and view homes to enable our customers to see the finished 17 Persimmon Plc 11406 Dec 2006 Persimmon Front 12 3 07 17:16 Page 18 Green Drive Green Drive We work hard to minimise our effect on the environment, We work hard to minimise our effect on the environment, save energy and cut wastage.
save energy and cut wastage.
The Wharf, Ebley, Gloucestershire 11406 Dec 2006 Persimmon Front 12 3 07 17:16 Page 19 Somermead, Midsomer Norton Somermead, Midsomer Norton The Wharf, Ebley, Gloucestershire 11406 Dec 2006 Persimmon Front 12 3 07 17:16 Page 20 Business Review Mike Killoran, Group Finance Director 20 Persimmon Plc
