Directors and advisers Doug Dunn age 62, Chairman Mike Inglis age 47, Executive Vice President, Sales and Marketing Doug Dunn joined the board as an independent non-executive director in Mike Inglis joined ARM as EVP, Marketing in June 2002 and was appointed to the December 1998 and became non-executive Chairman on 1 October 2006.
He was board in August that year.
He became EVP, Sales and Marketing in January 2007. previously President and Chief Executive Officer of ASM Lithography Holding N. V. Before joining ARM, he led the UK Communications and High Technology team at until his retirement in December 2004.
Before joining ASML, he was Chairman A. T. Kearney Management Consultants and held a number of senior operational and Chief Executive Officer of the Consumer Electronics Division of Royal Philips and strategic marketing positions at Motorola.
He previously worked in marketing, Electronics N. V. and a member of the board.
He was previously Managing Director design and consultancy with Texas Instruments, Fairchild Camera and Instruments of the Plessey and GEC Semiconductor divisions and held several engineering and BIS Macintosh and gained his initial industrial experience with GEC and management positions at Motorola.
He is a chartered engineer and a MCIM.
He is a He is a non-executive director of ST Microelectronics N. V. Soitec S. A. LG.
Philips non-executive director of Superscape Group plc.
LCD Co. Ltd and TomTom N. V. Mike Muller age 48, Chief Technology Officer Warren East age 45, Chief Executive Officer Mike Muller was one of the founders of ARM.
Before joining the Company, he Warren East joined ARM in 1994 to set up ARMs consulting business.
He was was responsible for hardware strategy and the development of portable products Vice President, Business Operations from February 1998.
In October 2000 he at Acorn Computers.
He was previously at Orbis Computers.
At ARM he was Vice was appointed to the board as Chief Operating Officer and in October 2001 President, Marketing from 1992 to 1996 and Executive Vice President, Business was appointed Chief Executive Officer.
Before joining ARM he was with Texas Development until October 2000 when he was appointed Chief Technology Instruments.
He is a chartered engineer, FIEE and a Companion of the Chartered Officer.
In October 2001, he was appointed to the board.
He is a non-executive director of Reciva Limited and of fide La Rue Holdings plc.
Simon Segars age 39, Executive Vice President, Business Development Simon Segars joined the board in January 2005.
He was appointed EVP Business Tim Score age 46, Chief Financial Officer Development in January 2007.
He was previously EVP of Engineering and then Tim Score joined ARM as Chief Financial Officer and director in March 2002.
Before EVP, Worldwide Sales from January 2004.
He joined ARM in early 1991 and has joining ARM, he was Finance Director of Rebus Group Limited.
He was previously worked on most of the ARM CPU products since then.
He led the development Group Finance Director of William Baird plc, Group Controller at LucasVarity plc and of the ARM7 and ARM9 Thumb families.
He holds a number of patents in Group Financial Controller at BTR plc.
He is a non-executive director and Chairman the field of embedded CPU architectures.
of the Audit Committee of National Express Group PLC.
Kathleen ODonovan age 49, Independent non-executive director Tudor Brown age 48, Chief Operating Officer Kathleen ODonovan joined the board in December 2006.
She is a non-executive Tudor Brown was one of the founders of ARM.
Before joining the Company, he director and Chairman of the Audit Committees of Prudential plc and Great was Principal Engineer at Acorn Computers, where he worked on the ARM R&D Portland Estates plc and Chairman of the Invensys Pension Scheme.
At ARM, he was Engineering Director and Chief Technical Officer take up her appointment as a non-executive director of Trinity Mirror plc in May from 1993: in October 2000, he was appointed Executive Vice President, 2007.
Previously she was a non-executive director and Chairman of the Audit Global Development and in October 2001, he was appointed to the board Committee of the Court of the Bank of England and a non-executive director as Chief Operating Officer.
He is a non-executive director of ANT plc.
Prior to that, she was Chief Financial Officer of BTR and Invensys and before that she was a partner at Ernst & Young.
18 ARM Annual report and accounts 2006 Peter Cawdron age 63, Senior independent director non-executive Philip Rowley age 54, Independent non-executive director Peter Cawdron joined the board in March 1998 and will retire at the 2007 AGM.
Philip Rowley joined the board in January 2005.
He was Chairman and CEO From 1983 to 1997 he worked for Grand Metropolitan plc, where he served as of AOL Europe, the interactive services, web brands, internet technologies and Group Strategy Development Director.
He was previously Chief Financial Officer e-commerce provider until February 2007.
He is a qualified chartered accountant and a director of DArcy-MacManus & Masius Worldwide, Inc. and before that a and was Group Finance Director of Kingfisher plc from 1998 to 2001.
Prior member of the corporate finance team at S. G. Warburg & Co. Ltd.
He qualified as to that his roles included Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer a chartered accountant at Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co. in 1966.
He is Chairman of EMI Music Worldwide.
of GCap Media Plc and Punch Taverns plc and is a non-executive director of the following UK listed companies: The Capita Group Plc, Johnston Press plc and John Scarisbrick age 54, Independent non-executive director ProStrakan Group plc.
John Scarisbrick joined the board in August 2001.
He had previously worked for 25 years at Texas Instruments TI in a variety of roles including as Senior Vice Young Sohn age 51, Independent non-executive director President responsible for TIs $5 billion ASP chip business, President of TI Europe Young Sohn joined the board in April 2007.
He has extensive experience in the and leader of the team that created TIs DSP business in Houston, Texas.
Before semiconductor industry both in Silicon Valley and in Asia.
He is a director of joining TI, he worked in electronics systems design roles at Rank Radio Cymer, Inc. and M-Stream Technology Limited and an adviser to Panorama Capital, International and Marconi Space and Defence Systems in the UK.
He is Chief a Silicon Valley based venture capital firm.
Previously he was President of the Executive Officer of CSR plc and a non-executive director of Intrinsity, Inc. semiconductor products group at Agilent Technologies, Inc. and Chairman of Oak Technology, Inc.
Prior to that he was President of the hard drive business of Jeremy Scudamore age 59, Independent non-executive director Quantum Corporation and, before that, Director of Marketing at Intel Corporation.
Jeremy Scudamore joined the board in April 2004.
He was Chief Executive Officer of Avecia Group formerly the specialty chemicals business of Zeneca until April Lucio Lanza age 62, Independent non-executive director 2006 and previously held senior management positions both in the UK and Lucio Lanza joined ARM as a non-executive director in December 2004 following overseas with Zeneca and ICI.
He has been a board member of the Chemical ARMs acquisition of Artisan.
He was previously a director of Artisan, from 1996, Industries Association and is Chairman of Englands North West Science Council.
He is currently Managing Director of Lanza He was also a member of the DTIs Innovation and Growth Team for the Chemical techVentures, an early stage venture capital and investment firm, which he Industry and Chairman of the Innovation Team.
He is a non-executive director of founded in January 2001.
In 1990, he joined US Venture Partners, a venture Stem Cell Sciences plc and Oxford Catalysts Group PLC.
capital firm, as a venture partner and was a general partner.
From 1990 to 1995, he was an independent consultant to companies in the semiconductor, communications and computer-aided design industries, including Cadence Design Systems, Inc. and, from 1986 to 1989, was Chief Executive Officer of EDA Systems, Inc.
He is also on the board of directors of PDF Solutions, Inc. a provider of From left: Doug Dunn, Warren East, Tim Score, Tudor Brown, Mike Inglis, Mike Muller, Simon Segars, technologies to improve semiconductor manufacturing yields.
He holds a Kathleen ODonovan, Peter Cawdron, Young Sohn, Lucio Lanza, Philip Rowley, John Scarisbrick, doctorate in electronic engineering from Politecnico of Milano.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2006 19 Corporate governance UK reporting Role of the board He will join the audit and remuneration committees in May 2007.
The board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and Peter Cawdron, will be retiring from the board at the AGM on 15 May business integrity, which it believes are essential to maintaining the 2007 having served for nine years.
He will be replaced as senior trust of investors and other stakeholders in the Company.
The board is independent director by Jeremy Scudamore, who has a strong responsible for setting the Companys strategic aims and standards of background in industry and commerce.
Jeremy has also taken over the conduct, monitoring performance against the business plan and budget role of Chairman of the remuneration committee following Doug Dunns prepared by the executive directors and ensuring that the necessary appointment as Group Chairman.
Lucio Lanza and John Scarisbrick both financial and human resources are in place for it to meet its objectives.
have a broad understanding of the Groups technology and the practices The board and all employees are subject to a Code of Business Conduct of major US-based technology companies.
Philip Rowley is a financial and Ethics, a copy of which is published on the corporate website at expert and has knowledge of internet technologies and e-commerce.
The board has a formal schedule of matters specifically As part of the planned succession, Philip replaced Peter Cawdron as reserved for its decision, which includes the approval of major business Chairman of the audit committee in April 2006. matters, policies and operating and capital expenditure budgets.
The board is also responsible for sanctioning unusual commercial arrangements The table below shows directors attendance at meetings which they such as atypical licence agreements and investments.
The board were eligible to attend during the 2006 financial year: Audit Remuneration Nomination delegates authority to various committees that are constituted within Board Committee Committee Committee written terms of reference and chaired by independent non-executive Total number of meetings 8442 directors where required by the Combined Code.
Doug Dunn 7 8C 1 1 2 2C Warren East 8 8 Compliance with the Combined Code Tudor Brown 7 8 The Group complies and complied throughout 2006 with the Combined Peter Cawdron 5 8 2 4 3 4 1 2 Code, as issued in July 2003, with the exception only that the board did Mike Inglis 7 8 not comprise a majority of independent non-executive directors Lucio Lanza 8 8 4 4 2 2 throughout the year.
The board has considered the overall balance Mike Muller 8 8 between executive and non-executive directors and believes that the Kathleen ODonovan 1 1 number of executive directors is fully justified by the contribution made Philip Rowley 6 8 4 4C by each of them.
To increase the size of the board further to meet this John Scarisbrick 6 8 2 4 3 4 2 2 particular provision is not considered appropriate.
Jeremy Scudamore 8 8 4 4 4 4C Tim Score 8 8 Composition and operation of the board Simon Segars 8 8 The balance of the board and roles of the directors have undergone Sir Robin Saxby 6 6 2 2 some changes during the year.
At the date of this report, the board Mark Templeton 5 5 comprises six executive directors, seven independent non-executive directors and the Chairman.
The executive directors are the Chief Kathleen ODonovan was appointed to the board on 7 December 2006 and to the audit and Executive Officer, the Chief Operating Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, remuneration committees on 1 January 2007 Sir Robin Saxby retired from the board on 1 October 2006 the Chief Technology Officer, the Executive Vice President, Sales and Mark Templeton resigned from the board on 25 July 2006 Marketing, and the Executive Vice President, Business Development, C Chairman all of whom play significant roles in the day-to-day management of the business.
The board reviews the independence of directors on There is a procedure in place for additional meetings or conference appointment and at appropriate intervals and considers that each of calls on any pertinent issues to be organised as necessary during the seven non-executive directors is independent in character, judgment the year.
In addition, the Chairman held at least two meetings with and behaviour based on both participation and performance at board the non-executive directors without the executives present and the and committee meetings.
There are no relationships or circumstances non-executive directors met on at least one occasion without the which are likely to affect the judgment of any of them.
The beneficial Chairman being present.
interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company are set out on pages 30 to 35.
In the opinion of the board these shareholdings The board has an established procedure for individual directors, who do not detract from their independent status.
consider it necessary in the furtherance of their duties, to obtain independent professional advice at the Groups expense.
In addition all Mark Templeton stepped down as a non-executive director in July 2006 members of the board have access to the advice of the Company Secretary.
and Doug Dunn, who was an independent non-executive director, became Chairman on the retirement of Sir Robin Saxby on 1 October Information and communication with shareholders 2006.
Kathleen ODonovan joined the board as an independent nonBefore each meeting, the board is furnished with information executive director on 7 December 2006 and became a member of concerning the state of the business and its performance in a form the audit and remuneration committees on 1 January 2007.
She has a and of a quality appropriate for it to discharge its duties.
The ultimate strong financial background and is a financial expert.
The non-executive responsibility for reviewing and approving the annual report and directors provide a blend of experience and considerable knowledge to accounts and the quarterly reports, and for ensuring that they present the boards deliberations.
Young Sohn joined the board as an a balanced assessment of the Groups position, lies with the board.
independent non-executive director on 2 April 2007.
He has extensive The board delegates day-to-day responsibility for managing the Group experience in the semiconductor industry in both Silicon Valley and Asia.
to the executive committee and has a number of other committees, details of which are set out below.
20 ARM Annual report and accounts 2006 The board makes considerable efforts to establish and maintain good Executive committee relationships with shareholders.
The main channel of communication The executive committee is responsible for implementing the strategy continues to be through the CEO, the CFO and the VP Investor Relations, approved by the board.
Among other things, this committee is although the Chairman, the senior independent director and the other responsible for ensuring that the Groups budget and forecasts are non-executive directors remain willing to engage in dialogue with properly prepared, that targets are met, and generally managing and major shareholders as appropriate.
The Chairman met with one major developing the business within the overall budget.
Variations from the institutional shareholder at its request during 2006. budget and changes in strategy require approval from the main board of the Group.
The executive committee, which meets monthly, There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders throughout comprises the executive directors and the directors of ARM Limited, the year other than during close periods.
The board also encourages which now include the Company Secretary, and meetings are attended communication with private investors and part of the Groups website is by other senior operational personnel, as appropriate.
dedicated to providing accurate and timely information for all investors including comprehensive information about the business, its Partners Audit committee and products, all press releases, RNS and Securities and Exchange The audit committee has written terms of reference which are published Commission SEC announcements.
At present, around 20 analysts on the corporate website at www.
The committee has write research reports on the Group.
The Group publishes telephone responsibility for, among other things, monitoring the integrity of the numbers on its website enabling shareholders to listen to earnings financial statements of the Company and any formal announcements presentations and audio conference calls with analysts, and webcasts of relating to the Companys financial performance, and for reviewing any the AGM and other key presentations are also made available through significant financial reporting judgments contained in them: reviewing the website.
Members of the board, including some of the non-executive the Companys internal controls and risk management systems: making directors, attend the annual analysts day and develop an understanding recommendations to the board in relation to the appointment, of the views of major shareholders through any direct contact that may remuneration and resignation or dismissal of the Groups external be initiated by shareholders, or through analysts and brokers briefings.
auditors: reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence The board also receives feedback from the Groups financial PR advisers, and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process: developing who obtain feedback from analysts and brokers following investor and implementing policy on the engagement of the external auditors roadshows.
All shareholders may register to receive the Groups press to supply non-audit services: and considering compliance with legal releases via the internet.
requirements, accounting standards, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and the requirements of the SEC.
There is a procedure The board actively encourages participation at the Annual General in place for the committee to receive reports of any whistleblowing Meeting, scheduled for 15 May 2007, which is the principal forum for incidents from the compliance committee.
No such incidents were dialogue with private shareholders.
A presentation will be made reported in 2006 or, to date, in 2007. outlining recent developments in the business and an open questionand-answer session will follow to enable shareholders to ask questions The committee also keeps under review the value for money of the about the business in general.
audit and the nature, extent and cost-effectiveness of the non-audit services provided by the auditors.
The committee has discussed with The resolutions put to shareholders at the meeting and the voting the external auditors their independence, and has received and results will be published via RNS and the SEC and will be available on reviewed written disclosures from the external auditors as required by the Groups website.
the Auditing Practices Boards International Standard on Auditing ISA UK and Ireland 260 Communication of audit matters with those Board evaluation, induction and training charged with governance, as well as those required by the US The board undertakes an annual board evaluation.
During 2006, Independence Standards Boards Standard No.
1, Independence this exercise was conducted internally with each director completing discussions with audit committees.
To avoid the possibility of the a questionnaire and was facilitated by the Company Secretary.
auditors objectivity and independence being compromised, the Groups The evaluation covered board performance, processes, committees, tax consulting work is carried out by the auditors only in cases where composition, skills, director induction and performance of individual they are best suited to perform the work.
In other cases, the Group has directors against ten criteria.
The overall conclusion was that individual engaged another independent firm of accountants to perform tax board members are satisfied that the board works well.
They are also consulting work.
The Group does not normally award general consulting satisfied with the contribution made by their colleagues and that board work to the auditors.
From time to time, however, the Group will engage committees operate properly and efficiently.
Various recommendations the auditors to perform work on matters relating to human resources resulted from the evaluation which have been discussed by the board and royalty audits.
The Group may also seek professional advice from and will be reviewed and acted upon by the board in 2007, as another firm of independent consultants or its legal advisers.
It is intended that there will be a further board evaluation each year, involving external consultants as and when the board deems The current audit committee comprises Philip Rowley Chairman, appropriate.
A full, formal induction programme is arranged for new Kathleen ODonovan, Lucio Lanza and Jeremy Scudamore.
Philip Rowley directors, tailored to their specific requirements, the aim of which is to is the financial expert as defined in the Sarbanes Oxley Act 2002 US introduce them to key executives across the business and to enhance SOX and Kathleen ODonovan and Peter Cawdron are also qualified their knowledge and understanding of the Group and its activities.
The external auditors, Chief Executive Officer, Chief The Group has a commitment to training and all directors, executive Financial Officer and the Company Secretary attend all meetings in order or non-executive are encouraged to attend suitable training courses to ensure that all the information required by the audit committee for at the Companys expense.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2006 21 Corporate governance UK reporting continued it to operate effectively is available.
Representatives of the Groups The Company has a number of other committees which contribute to the external auditors meet with the audit committee at least once a year overall control environment: without any executive directors being present.
A risk review committee consisting of the Chief Technology Officer, Remuneration committee the Chief Financial Officer, the Financial Controller and the Company A description of the composition, responsibility and operation of the Secretary which receives and reviews quarterly reports from the business remuneration committee is set out in the remuneration report on units and corporate functions.
The committee is responsible for identifying page 28.
The terms of reference of the remuneration committee are and evaluating risks which may impact the Groups strategic and business published on the Groups website www.
objectives and for monitoring the progress of actions designed to mitigate such risks.
The risk review committee reports formally to the executive Nomination committee committee twice a year where its findings are considered and challenged The nomination committee leads the process for board appointments and, in turn, the executive committee reports to the board once a year.
and makes recommendations to the board in relation to new appointments of executive and non-executive directors and on board A compliance committee consisting of the General Counsel, the Chief composition and balance.
The terms of reference of the nomination Operating Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the EVP Business Development, committee are published on the Groups website www.
It is the EVP Human Resources, the Director of Quality, the Director of IT and chaired by Doug Dunn, and the other members are Peter Cawdron, the Company Secretary.
The committee oversees compliance throughout John Scarisbrick and Lucio Lanza.
The committee considers the roles and the business with all appropriate international regulations, trading capabilities required for each new appointment, based on an evaluation requirements and standards, including oversight of financial, employment, of the skills and experience of the existing directors.
In relation to the environmental and security processes and policies.
The compliance appointment of new directors, the services of external search consultancies committee reports to the audit committee.
A disclosure committee in compliance with SOX comprises the Chief In relation to the appointment of Doug Dunn as Chairman during 2006, Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Financial Controller, the the board considered that he had all the skills and experience to meet the General Counsel, the VP Investor Relations and the Company Secretary.
demands of the role and unanimously approved his appointment without The committee is responsible for ensuring that disclosures made by the the need for an external search.
The appointments of Kathleen ODonovan Company to its shareholders and the investment community are and Young Sohn followed the prescribed procedure laid down by the accurate, complete and fairly present the Companys financial condition nomination committee and involved the use of external search consultants.
Internal control risk management In addition, there is a series of interconnected meetings that span the The Company fully complies with the Combined Codes provisions Group from the weekly management meeting chaired by the Chief on internal control, having established procedures to implement the Executive Officer, and the weekly business review meeting chaired by guidance in the Turnbull Report 2005.
The board has established the Chief Operating Officer, the purpose of which is to monitor and a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the control all main business activities, sales forecasts and other matters significant risks faced by the Company.
The board confirms that the requiring approval that have arisen within the week, to the board necessary actions have been or are being taken to remedy any meetings of the Group.
Each month there are customer satisfaction and significant failings or weaknesses identified from this process.
process review meetings attended by managers representing different functions across the Group to review key performance indicators such as The board of directors also has overall responsibility for ensuring that revenues, orders booked, costs, product and project delivery dates and the Group maintains an adequate system of internal control and risk levels of defects found in products in development.
The outputs of the management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
During 2006, a weekly business review meeting and the monthly operations meeting considerable amount of resource and effort was committed to the project are reviewed by the executive committee which, in turn, raises relevant to achieve compliance with section 404 of SOX, which was successfully issues with the board of the Group.
These processes for identifying, completed in relation to the 2006 year end and is reported on in more evaluating and managing the significant business, operational, financial, detail in the Annual Report on Form 20-F that is filed with the SEC.
compliance and other risks facing the Group have been in place for the The processes and procedures which were successfully integrated into year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report day-to-day business operations during 2006 provide a sustainable solution and financial statements.
for compliance in 2007 and beyond.
The board has reviewed the system of internal control, including internal financial controls, which has been As required by the Combined Code, the audit committee has considered in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the whether it would be appropriate for the Group to have its own financial annual report.
Such systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate internal audit function and has concluded that, taking account of its the risks inherent in a fast-moving, high-technology business and can, relatively small number of employees and a high degree of centralisation therefore, provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against in the way the business is run, this is not appropriate at present.
The committee has confirmed this view to the board.
The Group does, however, have an operational internal audit function that audits the Groups business and product project management processes.
22 ARM Annual report and accounts 2006 These processes are documented, maintained and continuously The Group recognises the increasing importance of environmental issues improved, for effectiveness and efficiency.
In addition, they are audited and these are discussed at board level where the Chief Financial Officer externally by independent auditors for compliance with ISO 9001:2000. takes responsibility for them.
A number of initiatives in this area have continued in 2006.
The Groups environmental policy is published on its Ernst & Young has been retained by the Company during 2006 to provide website www.
com within the Corporate Social Responsibility skilled resource to assist with managements testing of processes and CSR report.
An environmental action plan is implemented through procedures for S404 compliance.
These include monitoring resource consumption and waste creation so that targets set for improvement are realistic and Any significant control failings identified are brought to the attention meaningful, ensuring existing controls continue to operate satisfactorily of the compliance committee and undergo a detailed process of and working with suppliers to improve environmental management evaluation of both the failing and the steps taken to remedy it.
is then a process for escalation of any significant control failures to the audit committee.
Energy usage and resource consumption data is published in the Groups CSR report on its website.
Corporate, social and ethical policies While the Group is accountable to its shareholders, it also endeavours At the 2007 AGM resolutions will be proposed to amend the Articles of to take into account the interests of all its stakeholders, including its Association in line with the Companies Act 2006 to enable the Company employees, customers and suppliers and the local communities and to send information to shareholders electronically and make documents environments in which it operates.
The Chief Financial Officer takes available through the website rather than in hard copy, which will responsibility for matters relating to corporate, social and ethical policies provide both environmental and cost benefits.
Shareholders can opt to and these matters are considered at board level.
A corporate social continue receiving a printed copy of the annual report if they prefer.
responsibility report is on pages 24 to 25 of this report and also on the Groups website www.
The Companys Code of Business Health and safety Conduct and Ethics is available on the Groups website www.
Although ARM operates in an industry and in environments which are The Group also operates a whistleblowing policy which provides for considered low risk from a health and safety perspective, the safety of employees to have access to senior management to raise concerns employees, contractors and visitors is a priority in all ARM workplaces in strict confidence about any unethical business practices.
Continual improvement in safety management systems is procedures were enhanced during 2006 by the addition of a facility achieved through detailed risk assessments to identify and eliminate to make reports by telephone to an independent third party through potential hazards and occupational health assessments for employees.
More detail about the Groups approach to environmental matters and health and safety is included in the CSR report on page 25.
As a company whose primary business is the licensing of IP, employees are highly valued and their rights and dignity are respected.
The Group By order of the board strives for equal opportunities for all its employees and does not tolerate any harassment of, or discrimination against, its staff.
In November 2006, ARM was chosen as UK Business of the Year at the National Business Awards, an award taking account of market leadership, innovation, growth and financial return.
In January 2007, Patricia Alsop Company Secretary ARM was recognised as European Business of the Year, competing against other national award winners within the European Union.
Further, at the Management Today awards in November 2006 for Britains Most Admired Companies, ARM was recognised as the company with the greatest capacity to innovate.
Whilst these awards were for companies with headquarters in the UK or the European Union, they recognise the efforts of all ARM employees worldwide.
The Group endeavours to be honest and fair in its relationships with its customers and suppliers and to be a good corporate citizen respecting the laws of the countries in which it operates.
Environmental policies The Groups premises are composed entirely of offices since it has no manufacturing activities.
Staff make use of computer-aided design tools to generate IP.
This involves neither hazardous substances nor complex waste emissions.
With the exception of Development Systems products, the majority of products sold by the Group comprise microprocessor core designs that are delivered electronically to customers.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2006 23 Corporate social responsibility UK reporting ARM considers itself to be a good corporate citizen and continually The Group has continued to work closely with the British Safety Council strives to improve its performance in this area.
The Group aims to in 2006 to establish ways to formalise its environmental objectives and reduce the impact it makes on the environment and to make positive performance as well as implementing recommendations made through connections with the communities in which it operates.
Considerable working with The Carbon Trust.
A Facilities Summit was held in 2006 efforts are made to communicate effectively with the Groups where the sustainability of ARM Built Environments dominated the shareholders, partners, suppliers and employees.
ARM invited key suppliers to the event, which concluded with a commitment to consider the environmental case in the provision The Group is a corporate member of the Institute of Business Ethics IBE of facilities and infrastructure to ARMs business operations.
To this and was one of the first members of the GoodCorporation, which was end, ARM is working with suppliers and service providers to provide founded in 2001 to help organisations to develop, manage and monitor sustainable solutions wherever practicable.
Based on principles set out by the IBE, the GoodCorporation charter enables companies to measure how Connecting with local communities effective they are in achieving these responsibilities.
The charter The Group aims to be a good corporate citizen of the communities in includes being verified against a 62-point charter standard covering the which it operates and supports local initiatives and fundraising.
In the fair treatment and protection of its employees, customers, suppliers, UK, the focus has been on educational projects, particularly for pupils shareholders, the community and the environment.
This independent who are interested in mathematics, science, IT and business subjects.
verification process is repeated each year and, during 2006, the Group This support is sometimes financial and sometimes in the form of successfully retained its membership.
The GoodCorporation assessment providing employees time and skills.
ARM has established relationships satisfied some of the testing requirements for SOX compliance in 2006. with the local business community and is a founding member of The In addition, ARM is listed on the FTSE4Good Index, is a member of Learning Collaboration TLC within the Cambridge business community Business in the Community and takes part in its Business in the in the UK.
The TLC enables member companies to pool resources to Environment Index and Corporate Responsibility Index each year.
collaborate to learn, improving the quality, availability and value of training and related services.
The environment The Groups business focuses on designing IP which enables devices Supporting education to use less power and, as a result, to be more environmentally friendly.
ARMs support for education stretches from financial sponsorship Its activities do not produce harmful waste or emissions and the Ethical of science IT-related education initiatives, donations of redundant Investment Research Service EIRIS grades ARM as an environmentally computer equipment to schools and education charities, working on low impact business.
Nevertheless, environmental performance is extra-curricular engineering projects with school and college students monitored to enable targets to be set, for example reducing resource and working on specific projects with students at management schools.
usage, increasing the amount recycled and controlling carbon emissions The Group supports the Engineering Education Scheme, Young Engineers, through energy use.
The Group can demonstrate an increase in paper and contributes funding to train the UK team for the International and packaging recycling, improved facilities to promote recycling of Maths Olympics.
ARMs University Programme directly engages with these and other materials and increased recycling initiatives with much universities worldwide, designing course material, providing technical impetus being created by employees themselves.
Energy usage is now seminars, donating equipment and software and offering assistance to monitored across an increased number of sites to understand how it is students.
ARM has now worked with universities, in nearly every region used, which aids the setting of new targets.
The monitoring of larger of the world including the EU, North and South America, Australia and sites in 2007 will see a web-based resource made available so that with new initiatives in India and China.
This reflects ARMs commitment all employees can understand the environmental impact and their role to help universities produce graduates with the necessary skills that in reducing it.
Renewable energy sources have also been investigated its partners need.
In addition, the Group has some formal involvement and are planned for 2007 where the majority of the UK sites will be with a number of universities.
The Chairman Emeritus, for example, supplied with power through green tariffs.
Application of a greener is a visiting professor at Liverpool University in the UK.
policy on energy procurement will be extended to other ARM locations globally.
Where the policy cannot be applied, such as in smaller serviced Supporting good causes offices, ARM is committed to offsetting its carbon impact.
There are ARM encourages employees to support their local communities.
Some recycling bins for aluminium cans in the majority of the Groups offices are school governors, some organise events to raise money, others and air conditioning systems run on non-ozone-depleting refrigerants.
In India, ARM employees have given time and donations to help children at a local orphanage.
In the US, ARM The supply of company cars is discouraged and in a Group of more than employees have supported a variety of charitable organisations 1,600 people, there are less than 30 company cars.
Employees are including those supporting sufferers of cancer, multiple sclerosis, encouraged to cycle to work through the provision of improved facilities diabetes and AIDS.
The Group doubles the efforts of employees who at the Groups offices, to share car journeys, or to use public transport.
raise money for approved charities by matching the funds they raise Business travel is important in maintaining ARMs very effective with the exception of political donations or other non-approved partnership network but ways in which it can be reduced are regularly causes.
Charities supporting the care of premature babies, sufferers reviewed and, where possible, travel is reduced through the use of of heart disease and those with autism or colitis and Crohns disease video conferencing equipment.
have been some of the beneficiaries of this scheme.
24 ARM Annual report and accounts 2006 Connecting with employees Health and safety ARMs aim is to attract and retain the best people available by being The safety and welfare of employees, contractors and visitors is a a good and ethical employer.
The skills, knowledge and motivation priority.
ARM measures and analyses all accidents and near misses of employees are crucial to ARMs success.
The Group promotes and as part of its continuous improvement in this area.
This data along with supports individuals and teams through on-the-job and formal training, sickness data is monitored to ensure trends are understood and action coaching and mentoring.
A comprehensive portfolio of learning and taken to reduce these occurrences.
To date ARM has had no serious development opportunities is available to all employees, depending issues and retains a very low accident rate.
Despite the low-risk nature upon their needs and career aspirations.
Every effort is made to keep of its operations, ARM aims to provide a safe, secure and sustainable employees well informed about the Company and matters that affect working environment for all employees and stakeholders.
This is done through both formal and informal communication methods across all offices worldwide and includes employee consultation The Group is verified by GoodCorporation each year to ensure that its groups in regions where they are culturally appropriate.
The Group also health and safety requirements are met and, in addition, its UK offices carries out a regular, comprehensive, global opinion survey to monitor are audited by the British Safety Council.
With the UK legislative employee views and to provide valuable input on how the Company framework being seen as one of the most developed, ARM has adopted operates.
The Employee Assistance Programme helps staff and their this as a corporate standard in health and safety provision to all sites families with issues such as care for children or elderly relatives, legal worldwide.
To this end, ARM engaged the British Safety Council to audit and health advice and stress or other counselling.
its two largest sites outside the UK in 2006, being Sunnyvale, California and Bangalore, India.
In the UK, there is a health and safety committee Equal opportunities and all other ARM offices have fire wardens and first aiders.
Health The Group needs highly-qualified staff and does not see age, colour, and safety is high on the agenda and there has been an increase in the disability, ethnic origin, gender, political or other opinion, religion or amount of communication with employees particularly on occupational sexual orientation as a barrier to employment.
If any member of staff health matters.
Health and safety issues are communicated through becomes disabled, their needs and abilities are assessed with a view different media, including the intranet, and an extensive health and to them continuing in their current role.
If this is impossible, every effort safety workshop is run as part of the Companys induction process.
is made to offer them alternative employment.
Benefits Employees receive benefits including private medical healthcare: health, travel and life insurance: pensions 401k plan: sabbaticals: flexible working: restricted shares under the Employee Equity Plan and a Save As You Earn share scheme.
The Group supports family friendly initiatives and offers a child care voucher scheme for UK tax payers.
Flexible working arrangements are available for all employees, regardless of whether they have children.
Understanding and acceptance of national and cultural diversity is encouraged by giving employees the opportunity to work in offices other than in their home country, where appropriate.
Accessibility The Group endeavours to provide access to all whether through building design to allow easy disabled access or through improving access to our website for those with visual impairments.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2006 25 Directors report UK reporting The directors present their annual report and audited financial by the Company in 2006 2005: 13.9 million at a total cost of statements for the year ended 31 December 2006.
Principal activities and review of business Research and development R&D The principal activities of the Group and its subsidiaries are the licensing, R&D is of major importance and, as part of its research activities, the Group marketing, research and development of RISC-based microprocessors and collaborates closely with universities worldwide and plans to continue its systems.
The nature of the global semiconductor industry is such that successful engagement with the University of Michigan.
Key areas of most of its business is conducted overseas and, to serve its customers product development for 2007 include the development of further low better, the Group has sales offices around the world.
These include power, high-performance engines for both data and control applications six offices in the US and offices in Shanghai and Beijing, PR China: and ARM processors based on symmetric multiprocessor and superscalar Shin-Yokohama, Japan: Seoul, South Korea: Taipei, Taiwan: Kfar Saba, technology.
The Group is investing in future physical IP development Israel: Paris, France: Munich, Germany and Bangalore, India.
Design offices including low power, low leakage technologies and through its recent are based in Cambridge, Maidenhead, Sheffield and Blackburn, UK: Sophia acquisition of SOI technology to ensure leadership in this market.
In addition, Antipolis and Grenoble, France: Leuven-Heverlee, Belgium: Aachen and the Group will deliver development tools, 3D graphics and fabric IP to Grasbrunn, Germany: Trondheim, Norway: Sentjernej, Slovenia: Austin, enable its customers to design and programme system-on-chip products.
Texas: Olympia, Washington: Sunnyvale and San Diego, California in the US and Bangalore, India.
More information about the business is set out The Group incurred R&D expenses of 84.5 million in 2006, representing in the business review, comprising the Chairmans statement on pages 4 32% of revenues, compared with 80.3 million in 2005.
R&D expenses to 6, the Chief Executive Officers review of operations on pages 7 to 9, have been charged to the income statement since the requirements and the operating and financial review on pages 10 to 17. for capitalisation were not met.
The requirements for capitalisation are considered in more detail in note 1 on page 43.
Future developments The Groups stated objective is to establish a global standard for RISC Donations architecture and physical IP for the embedded microprocessor market.
During the year the Group made donations for charitable purposes The directors believe that to achieve this goal it is important to expand of 44,831 2005: 65,795.
The total amounts given were: the number and range of potential customers for its technology.
The Local Cambridge charities 9,184 Group intends to enter into licence agreements with new customers and Promotion of education 16,616 to increase the range of new technology supplied to existing customers.
Wider understanding of science, maths Relationships will continue to be established with third-party tools and and information technology 15,000 software vendors to ensure that their products will operate with the Medical research 3,724 ARM architecture.
As a result of its position as an emerging standard in Relief of poverty 250 its industry, the Group is presented with many opportunities to acquire Other 57 complementary technology or resources.
It continues to review these opportunities and in May 2006, the Group acquired Falanx Microsystems AS now ARM Norway AS, an innovative graphics IP company and The Group does not make any political donations.
ARM employees are certain assets of PowerEscape Inc. which will enhance the portfolio of encouraged to offer their time and expertise to help charities and other development systems products.
In October 2006, the Group acquired groups in need.
The Group operates a gift matching system for Soisic SA, a company with physical IP based on silicon on insulator employee fundraising.
Directors in the year Going concern The following served as directors of the Company during the year ended After reviewing the 2007 budget and longer term plans, the directors 31 December 2006: are satisfied that, at the time of approving the financial statements, Doug Dunn OBE Chairman from 1 October 2006, previously an it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the independent non-executive director financial statements of both the Group and the parent company.
Warren East Chief Executive Officer Tim Score Chief Financial Officer Dividends Tudor Brown Chief Operating Officer The directors recommend a final dividend in respect of the year to Mike Muller Chief Technology Officer 31 December 2006 of 0.6 pence per share which, subject to approval Mike Inglis Executive Vice President, Sales and Marketing at the Annual General Meeting on 15 May 2007, will be paid on Simon Segars Executive Vice President, Business Development 21 May 2007 to shareholders on the register on 4 May 2007.
This final Peter Cawdron independent non-executive director and financial expert dividend, combined with the interim dividend of 0.4 pence per share Lucio Lanza independent non-executive director paid during the year, makes a total of 1.0 pence per share for the year Kathleen ODonovan independent non-executive director and financial 2005: 0.84 pence.
expert appointed 7 December 2006 Philip Rowley independent non-executive director and financial expert Share buyback programme John Scarisbrick independent non-executive director In accordance with the rolling authority given by shareholders at the Jeremy Scudamore independent non-executive director 2006 AGM, 63.6 million shares of 0.05 pence each were bought back Sir Robin Saxby KBE Chairman retired 1 October 2006 Mark Templeton resigned 25 July 2006 26 ARM Annual report and accounts 2006 Election and re-election of directors Annual General Meeting AGM In accordance with Article 79 of the Groups Articles of Association, The AGM will be held at 110 Fulbourn Road, Cambridge, CB1 9NJ, UK, Warren East and Lucio Lanza will retire by rotation at the Companys on 15 May 2007 at 2pm.
A presentation will be made at this meeting Annual General Meeting AGM and will seek re-election at that meeting.
outlining recent developments in the business.
The Group will convey the Kathleen ODonovan and Young Sohn retire under Article 83 and are results of proxy votes cast at the AGM.
Shareholders are invited to submit seeking election at that meeting See pages 18 to 19 for the directors written questions in advance of the meeting.
Questions should be sent to biographies.
The Secretary, ARM Holdings plc, 110 Fulbourn Road, Cambridge CB1 9NJ.
Directors shareholdings in the Company A resolution to reappoint  LLP as auditors to the The interests of the directors in the Companys ordinary shares of Group will be proposed at the AGM.
Details of other resolutions to be 0.05 pence, all of which were beneficially held, are disclosed in the proposed at the meeting are set out in the Circular and Notice of AGM remuneration report on page 30. which will be sent to all shareholders together with a proxy card.
Substantial shareholdings Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are aware of the following substantial interests in the The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, remuneration issued share capital of the Company as at 28 March 2007: report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law Percentage of issued and regulations.
ordinary share capital Fidelity Investments 13.25% Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for Janus Capital Corporation 11.04% each financial year that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs Capital Group Companies 8.85% of the Group and the Company, and of the profit or loss of the Group Legal and General Investment Management 6.23% for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors, Nordea Investment Management 3.37% are required to: MFS International 3.09% Select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: Make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Save for the above, the Company has not been notified, as at 28 March State whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, 2007, of any material interest of 3% or more or any non-material subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the interest exceeding 10% of the issued share capital of the Company.
financial statements: and Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless Disabled persons it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Company will The Group has a strong demand for highly-qualified staff and, as such, continue in business.
disability is not seen to be an inhibitor to employment or career development.
In the event of any staff becoming disabled while with The directors confirm that they have complied with the above the Group, their needs and abilities would be assessed and the Group requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The directors are would, where possible, seek to offer alternative employment to them responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with if they were no longer able to continue in their current role.
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and Company and for ensuring that the financial statements comply with Employee involvement the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for the system of As the Group is an IP enterprise, it is vital that all levels of staff are internal control, for safeguarding the assets of the Group and Company consulted and involved in its decision-making processes.
To this end, and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection internal conferences and communications meetings are held regularly of fraud and other irregularities.
which involve employees from all parts of the Group in discussions on future strategy and developments.
Furthermore, employee share The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the ownership is encouraged and all employees are able to participate in Groups website.
Information published on the internet is accessible in one of the Groups schemes to encourage share ownership.
The Group many countries with different legal requirements.
Legislation in the UK has an informal and delegated organisational structure.
It does not governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements presently operate any collective agreements with any trade unions.
may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Policy on payment of creditors Disclosure of information to auditors The Groups policy is to pay suppliers before the end of the month So far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information following receipt of the invoice, unless terms have been specifically of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
Each director has taken agreed in advance.
This policy and any specific terms agreed with all steps that he or she ought to have taken in his or her duty as a suppliers are made known to the appropriate staff and to suppliers director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit on request.
Trade creditors of the Group at 31 December 2006 were information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of equivalent to nine days purchases for the Group 2005: 11 days that information.
and nil days for the Company in both years.
By order of the board Financial instruments The Groups financial risk management and policies and exposure to risks are detailed in note 20.
Patricia Alsop Company Secretary ARM Annual report and accounts 2006 27 Remuneration report UK reporting Remuneration committee The remuneration committee has responsibility for determining and agreeing with the board, within agreed terms of reference, the Groups policy for the remuneration of the executive directors and the individual remuneration packages for each executive director.
This includes basic salary, annual bonus, the level and terms of conditional awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan and the terms of performance conditions that apply to such benefits, pension rights and any compensation payments.
Where the remuneration committee considers it appropriate, the committee will make recommendations in relation to the remuneration of senior management.
The committee also liaises with the board in relation to the preparation of the boards annual report to shareholders on the Groups policy on the remuneration of executive directors and in particular the directors remuneration report, as required by the Companies Act 2005, the Combined Code and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
Chairmanship of the committee passed to Jeremy Scudamore on 1 October 2006, on the appointment of Doug Dunn as Group Chairman and the other members are Peter Cawdron, and Kathleen ODonovan who was appointed with effect from 1 January 2007 in place of John Scarisbrick.
The committee met four times during 2006.
Given their diverse experience, the three independent non-executive directors are able to offer a balanced view with respect to remuneration issues for the Group.
The committee has access to professional advice from external advisers generally appointed by the Executive Vice President, Human Resources in the furtherance of its duties and makes use of such advice.
During 2006, KPMG provided advice on the new Deferred Annual Bonus Plan and Employee Equity Plan, Linklaters provided legal services, Deloitte and the Executive Vice President, Human Resources, have provided other advice or services to the committee and to the Group.
The Chief Executive Officer and the Executive Vice President, Human Resources, normally attend for part of remuneration committee meetings.
No director is involved in deciding his own remuneration.
Following an extensive review of executive remuneration by the remuneration committee, a new Deferred Annual Bonus Plan for executive directors and senior managers and an Employee Equity Plan for all other employees were approved by shareholders at the 2006 AGM.
These plans brought the remuneration structure more closely in line with UK market norms, increased alignment between remuneration and financial performance and strengthened the retention aspect of the deferred bonus.
Cessation of option grants to executive directors other than in exceptional circumstances and the reduction from three plans to two for executive directors and senior managers, together with the move away from options to shares for all employees reduces potential dilution and simplifies remuneration arrangements.
Remuneration policy The remuneration committee, in its deliberations on the remuneration policy for the Groups directors, seeks to give full consideration to the principles set out in the Combined Code.
The committee also monitors developments in the accounting for equity-based remuneration on an ongoing basis.
The Group operates a remuneration policy and framework for executive directors designed to ensure that it attracts and retains the high-quality management skills necessary to achieve a high level of corporate performance, in line with the best interests of shareholders.
This policy seeks to provide rewards and incentives for the remuneration of executive directors that reflect their performance and align with the objectives of the Group.
These comprise a mix of performance-related and  remuneration.
The committee believes that a directors total remuneration should seek to recognise his worth in the external market and, to this end, operates a policy of paying base salaries which are in line with the market median, as part of a total remuneration package which is upper quartile.
The committee believes that this is justified, recognising that more than 50% of total potential remuneration is performance-related.
The committee obtains information about the external market from various surveys, including the Watson Wyatt High Technology and Executive Reward Surveys and the Deloitte Executive Directors Remuneration Survey.
The nature of the Groups development has meant that there has been a good deal of focus on the attainment of short-term objectives with a high level of variable remuneration.
In 2006, variable remuneration consisted of three elements: annual cash bonus, a conditional award under the Long Term Incentive Plan and a final award of discretionary share options to provide potential benefits in 2009, when there would otherwise be a gap because deferred shares under the deferred bonus plan will not vest until 2010.
As described above this will reduce to two elements in 2007, both of which are performance-related and, as a result, more than half of each executive directors remuneration is targeted to be performance linked.
A shareholding guideline is in place for executive directors and certain senior managers who are required to build up a holding of shares in the Company over a period of five years.
The shareholdings may be built up of shares received under the Companys share option schemes and or the Long Term Incentive Plan and or the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan and, in the case of executive directors, the required holding is 100% of basic salary.
Incentive arrangements The remuneration committee aims to ensure that individuals are fairly rewarded for their contribution to the success of the Group.
The various incentive schemes that comprise the remuneration packages of executive directors and senior managers are described below: 28 ARM Annual report and accounts 2006 Deferred Annual Bonus Plan There is a strong bonus element to executive directors remuneration and for 2006 a bonus of up to 125% of base salary including a personal performance multiplier which flexes the payment by 0.75 to 1.25, could have been earned through the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan if all targets were met.
There is compulsory deferral into shares of 50% of the bonus earned and an opportunity to earn an equity match of up to 2:1, subject to achievement of an EPS performance condition.
Deferred shares and any matching shares earned will normally be transferred three years from the date of award.
Payment of bonus is subject to the achievement of US$ revenue and EPS targets set by the remuneration committee, which are directly related to the Groups financial results and encourage the achievement of the Groups short-term financial goals.
The bonuses payable to executive directors in respect of performance during 2006 are shown in the table on page 36 and are in the range 70% to 73% of base salary, 50% of which was compulsorily deferred into shares.
At EPS growth equal to the increase in the Consumer Prices Index CPI plus 4% per annum, the deferred shares will be matched on a 0.3:1 basis, rising to 2:1 when EPS growth is in excess of CPI plus 12% per annum.
While the deferral can only be forfeited for gross misconduct, the matching shares are subject to forfeiture for bad leavers.
For 2007, 50% of bonus is dependent on achieving the US$ revenue target and 50% on achieving the EPS target.
Maximum bonus is 125% of base salary depending on the personal performance multiplier described above.
Existing option schemes The grant of options under the existing share option schemes ceased once the new Deferred Annual Bonus Plan and the new Employee Equity Plan were approved by shareholders at the 2006 AGM.
These plans have the facility for option grants to be made, but this will be done only in exceptional circumstances.
The existing option grants to executive directors remain available for exercise and vesting in accordance with the rules of the relevant schemes.
In line with practice among the Groups peers in the technology sector, there are generally no performance conditions attached to the issue or exercise of discretionary options under the existing schemes, except for those issued to executive directors where performance conditions based on real EPS apply.
Share options issued to executive directors prior to their appointment to the board of the Group do not have performance conditions attached to them.
However, discretionary options issued to executive directors after their appointment to the board of the Group do have performance conditions attached to them.
These discretionary options will vest after seven years, but may vest after three years from grant if the performance conditions are satisfied.
The performance conditions applicable to the Long Term Incentive Plan are described in more detail below and are based on TSR rather than EPS, providing the link to performance against an appropriate peer group.
These performance conditions were selected having regard to the position of the Group within its sector and the nature of the companies against which it competes to attract and retain high calibre employees.
The Committee believes that the performance conditions represent the correct balance between being motivational and challenging.
Pensions The Group does not operate its own pension scheme but makes payments into a Group personal pension plan, which is a money purchase scheme.
For executive directors, the rate of Group contribution is 10% of the executives basic salary.
Service agreements Executive directors have rolling service contracts that may be terminated by either party on one years notice.
The service contracts also terminate when executive directors reach age 65.
These agreements provide for each of the directors to provide services to the Group on a full-time basis and contain restrictive covenants for periods of three to six months following termination of employment relating to non-competition, non-solicitation of the Groups customers, non-dealing with customers and non-solicitation of the Groups suppliers and employees.
In addition, each service contract contains an express obligation of confidentiality in respect of the Groups trade secrets and confidential information and provides for the Group to own any intellectual property rights created by the directors in the course of their employment.
The dates of the service contracts of each person who served as an executive director during the financial year are as follows: Director Date Warren East 29 January 2001 Tim Score 1 March 2002 Tudor Brown 3 April 1996 Mike Inglis 17 July 2002 Mike Muller 31 January 1996 Simon Segars 4 January 2005 Sir Robin Saxby retired 1 October 2006 31 January 1996 Where notice is served to terminate the appointment, whether by the Group or the executive director, the Group in its absolute discretion shall be entitled to terminate the appointment by paying to the executive director his salary in lieu of any required period of notice.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2006 29 Remuneration report UK reporting continued Non-executive directors During 2006, the Chairmen of the audit and remuneration committees and the senior independent director each received a total fee of 37,000 per annum and the other non-executive directors each received a total fee of 33,000 per annum.
These fees were arrived at by reference to fees paid by other companies of similar size and complexity, and reflected the amount of time non-executive directors were expected to devote to the Groups activities during the year, which is between 10 to 15 working days a year.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is set by the board and the term of appointment is three years.
Non-executive directors do not have service contracts, are not eligible to participate in bonus or share incentive arrangements and their service does not qualify for pension purposes or other benefits.
No element of their fees is performancerelated.
Share options held by Lucio Lanza were granted prior to the Groups acquisition of Artisan and share options held by Mark Templeton who resigned on 25 July 2006 were granted prior to his change of status from executive to non-executive director in October 2005.
Performance graphs A performance graph showing the Companys total shareholder return TSR together with the TSR for the FTSE All-World Technology Index from 31 December 2001 is shown below.
The TSR has been calculated in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
The TSR for the Companys shares was -64% over this period compared with -17% for the FTSE All-World Technology Index for the same period.
ARM total shareholder return performance from 31 December 2001 to 31 December 2006 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 31 December 2001 31 December 2002 31 December 2003 31 December 2004 31 December 2005 31 December 2006 ARM share price FTSE All-World Technology The directors consider the FTSE All-World Technology Index to be an appropriate choice as the Index contains companies from the US, Asia and Europe and therefore reflects the global environment in which the Group operates.
In addition, the Index includes many companies that are currently the Groups customers, as well as companies which use ARM technology in their end products.
Directors shareholdings in the Company The directors beneficial interests in the Companys ordinary shares of 0.05 pence, which excludes interests under its share option schemes and Deferred Annual Bonus Plan, are set out below.
30 ARM Annual report and accounts 2006 In addition to the interests disclosed above, all the executive directors together with all the employees of the Group are potential beneficiaries of the ARM Holdings plc Employee Share Ownership Plan.
They are, therefore, treated as interested in all the shares held by this trust, being 2,882,979 ordinary shares at 31 December 2006 and 5,000,000 ordinary shares at 31 December 2005.
The executive directors also have interests in dividend shares that could be awarded under the Long Term Incentive Plan, the amount of which will depend on the extent to which the performance criteria are satisfied and the dividends declared during the performance period.
There have been no changes in directors interests in the Companys shares to the date of approval of the remuneration report.
Auditable information The following information has been audited by the Companys auditors,  LLP, as required by Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985.
Denotes share options issued under the Groups Unapproved Share Option Scheme.
Denotes share options issued under the Groups Unapproved Share Option Scheme with performance conditions attached.
Denotes share options issued under the Groups Unapproved Share Option Scheme which are exercisable as follows: 25% maximum from first anniversary, 50% maximum from second anniversary, 75% maximum from third anniversary, 100% maximum on fourth anniversary.
For options granted before January 2003, the performance condition is that the Group must achieve average real EPS growth of at least 33.1% i. e. 33.1% greater than the percentage over a performance period of three years from the start of the financial year in which the options were granted the performance period.
For options granted in 2003 and 2004 the performance conditions requiring average real EPS growth of at least 33.1% were satisfied and 100% of the options vested on 1 February 2006 and 8 February 2007 respectively.
For options granted in 2005 and 2006 under the performance condition, 50% of the shares under option will vest after three years if the Group achieves average real EPS growth of 12.5% over the performance period.
If average real EPS growth of at least 33.1% is achieved over the performance period, 100% of the shares under option will vest after three years.
Where the average real EPS growth over the performance period is between 12.5% and 33.1%, the number of shares which vest after three years increases on a straight-line basis.
32 ARM Annual report and accounts 2006 Details of options held by directors under the Groups Save As You Earn option schemes are set out below: As at As at 1 January 31 December Exercise 2006 Granted Exercised 2006 price Earliest date Expiry Director Number Number Number Number of exercise date Sir Robin Saxby 15,771 15,771 0.5865 01 08 06 31 01 07 Warren East 15,771 15,771 0.5865 01 08 06 31 01 07 Tim Score 27,152 27,152 0.5865 01 08 08 31 01 09 Mike Inglis 15,771 15,771 0.5865 01 08 06 31 01 07 Mike Inglis 9,109 9,109 1.0264 01 08 09 31 01 10 Options issued under this scheme are issued at a 15% discount to market value.
34 ARM Annual report and accounts 2006 Conditional awards vest to the extent that the performance criteria are satisfied over a three-year performance period from 1 January of the year of award and no re-testing thereafter is possible.
The performance conditions are based on the Companys TSR when measured against that of two comparator groups each testing half of the shares comprised in the award.
The first index comprises UK companies across all sectors FTSE 350 and the second comprises predominantly US companies within the Hi Tech sector FTSE Global Technology Index.
For each comparator group, the number of shares that may vest may be up to a maximum of 200% of the shares conditionally awarded if the Companys TSR ranks in the upper decile, 50% will vest in the event of median performance and between median and upper decile performance vesting will increase on a straightline basis.
Additional shares may vest to cover dividends paid by the Company during the performance period.
No shares will be received for below-median performance.
In addition, no shares will vest unless the committee is satisfied that there has been a sustained improvement in the underlying financial performance of the Company.
Deferred annual bonus plan As described above, there is a compulsory deferral of 50% of the annual bonus earned by executive directors in the year.
The emoluments detailed below include the full bonus earned, although only half has been settled in cash and the deferred element will be settled in shares after three years.
The following awards over ordinary shares were made on 8 February 2007 in respect of the deferred portion of the 2006 bonus: Warren East 108,828: Tim Score 91,645: Tudor Brown 74,461: Mike Inglis 64,438: Mike Muller 61,860 and Simon Segars 57,736.
Except as described above, there have been no changes in directors interests under the Groups share option, LTIP or Deferred Annual Bonus schemes since the end of the 2006 financial year up to the date of approval of the remuneration report.
The Companys register of directors interests contains full details of directors shareholdings, options to subscribe for shares and conditional awards under the LTIP.
Share prices The market value of the shares of the Company as at 31 December 2006 was 125.75 pence.
The closing mid-price ranged from 99 pence to 141 pence during the year.
K ODonovans fees are for the period from appointment on 7 December 2006.
All the executive directors receive family healthcare and annual travel insurance as part of their benefits in kind.
In addition, T Score has the use of a company car and W East, T Brown, M Inglis, M Muller and S Segars receive a car and petrol allowance.
The bonus payments above represent the full bonus earned during 2006.
According to the terms of the deferred annual bonus, 50% of this bonus is paid in cash and 50% is deferred and becomes payable in shares after three years.
Details of the awards made in February 2007 in respect of these deferrals are detailed above.
It is the Companys policy to allow executive directors to hold non-executive positions at other companies and to receive remuneration for their services.
The board believes that experience of the operations of other companies and their boards and committees is valuable to the development of the executive directors.
Details of executive directors roles within other companies and their remuneration are as follows: Warren East is a non-executive director of Reciva Limited and of fide La Rue Holdings plc.
The Group holds 1.43% of the issued share capital of Reciva Limited and more details about this investment are included in note 14 on page 56.
In relation to Reciva Limited he was awarded options on 17 February 2006 which vested monthly in equal instalments as to 1,360 shares at an option price of 16.50 between March and July 2006 and as to 1,080 shares at an option price of 25.00 between August 2006 and January 2007 and received no other remuneration.
In relation to fide La Rue Holdings plc he joined the board in January 2007, so did not receive remuneration in 2006.
Tudor Brown is a non-executive director of ANT plc.
In this capacity he received remuneration totalling 30,000 up to 31 December 2006 2005: 20,000.
Mike Inglis is a non-executive director of Superscape Group plc.
The Group holds 8.12% of the issued share capital of Superscape Group plc and more details about this investment are included in note 14 on page 56.
In this capacity, Mike Inglis received remuneration totalling 17,019 up to 31 December 2006 and options over 13,333 shares in Superscape Group plc vested and are exercisable until 7 January 2014 at an option price of 33 pence.
Tim Score is a non-executive director of National Express Group plc.
In this capacity he received remuneration totalling 45,000 up to 31 December 2006.
Simon Segars was a non-executive director of Plastic Logic Limited during 2006 and in this capacity he received remuneration totalling 15,000 up to 31 December 2006 2005: 10,000.
All the executive directors are accruing benefits under a money purchase pension scheme as a result of their services to the Group, contributions for which were all paid during the year.
Jeremy Scudamore Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 36 ARM Annual report and accounts 2006
