Premier Farnell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 19 Directors Report Principal activities and business review A formal evaluation process having been carried out during the course of the year in respect of Mr Korb, Mr Roques and Mr Nolan, the performance A detailed review of the Groups activities, the development of its business of each of them continues to be effective and they each continue to and an indication of likely future developments are dealt with on pages 4 demonstrate commitment to their respective roles.
Harriett Green, who, as noted above, was appointed in April 2006, will retire The principal activity of the Group remains unchanged and is the and offer herself for election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
distribution of electronic, electrical and industrial products to the design, Harriet is an Executive Director of the Company and has a service contract maintenance and repair sectors.
with the Company, further details of which are set out in the Remuneration Report on page 26. profit and dividends As announced on 25th January 2006, Mr Andrew Fisher has resigned from The Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report are the Company and will cease to be a Director on 16th May 2006.
On the first to be reported under International Financial Reporting Standards 16th March 2006 the Company announced that Mr Michael Lester will IFRS.
Details of the effects of adopting IFRS are given in the Accounting retire from the Board with effect from the close of the Companys Annual Policies on page 33 and in note 29 to the Consolidated Financial General Meeting in June 2006.
The Board has commenced the process to Statements.
The financial statements of the Company continue to be recruit a new Non-Executive Director to replace Mr Lester.
prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting During the year to 29th January 2006 the Company provided indemnities Principles.
to each of its Directors in accordance with the provisions of the Companys The Groups operating profit for the financial year was 60.3 million Articles of Association providing for the indemnification of Directors out of 2005: 72.5 million, after charging 6.6 million for obsolete and slow the assets of the Company to the extent permitted by law.
These moving inventory as a result of the Restriction of the use of certain indemnities constitute qualifying third party indemnities for the purposes of Hazardous Substances RoHS legislation, 3.9 million relating to the the Companies Act 1985 and remain in force at the date of approval of restructuring of the BuckHickman InOne business and 1.4 million of this report.
severance costs relating to the Groups redundancy programme during Additional information relating to Directors remuneration, service contracts the year.
Excluding these one-off charges, Group operating profit was and interests in the Companys shares is given in the Remuneration Report 72.2 million 2005: 72.5 million.
The details of Directors interests in the Companys The Groups profit for the financial year attributable to ordinary shares form part of this report.
The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 5.0 pence 2005: 5.0 pence per Financial instruments ordinary share be paid on 21st June 2006 to those shareholders on the register of members at the close of business on 26th May 2006.
An interim Information on the Groups financial risk management objectives and dividend of 4.0 pence per ordinary share was paid on 19th October 2005, policies and on the exposure of the Group to relevant risks in respect of making a total for the year of 9.0 pence 2005: 9.0 pence per ordinary financial instruments is set out under the heading Treasury operations on share.
page 12 and in note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Acquisitions Supplier payment policy In June 2005 the Group acquired Weldon Technologies, Inc. a The Groups operating companies are responsible for agreeing terms and manufacturer of state-of-the-art lighting devices and customised electrical conditions under which business transactions with their suppliers are control solutions for speciality vehicle markets for a cash consideration of conducted.
Payments to suppliers are made in accordance with those 5.9 million.
terms, provided that suppliers also comply with all relevant terms and conditions.
At 29th January 2006, the amount the Group owed its suppliers In June 2005 the Group purchased the assets of R&R Instrumentation for a represented 35 working days purchases 2005: 33 working days.
The cash consideration of 1.7 million and the business and its employees were Company is a holding company and does not have any trade creditors.
Further details of these acquisitions are given in note 23 to the Consolidated Product research and development Financial Statements.
The Groups product research and development activities are restricted to the development of new or enhanced products for Akron Brass and are not Share capital significant in the context of the Group as a whole.
Details of changes in the issued, ordinary share capital of the Company during the year are set out in note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Charitable and political donations Statements.
In the US, the Group has an ongoing policy of donating certain items of At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the Company will be seeking stock to charitable organisations.
In addition, during the year the Group authority to purchase its ordinary and preference shares.
Authorities were made charitable donations in cash of 44,000.
Further details of the previously granted at the Annual General Meeting in 2005, but expire at the Groups charitable activities appear in the Corporate Responsibility section close of the forthcoming meeting.
of the Operating and Financial Review on page 17.
The Group continues its policy of not making contributions to political Directors parties.
The names and biographical details of the Directors who held ofce at the date of this report appear on page 18.
Sir Malcolm Bates retired from the Employment Board on 28th February 2005 and Mr John Hirst resigned on 4th July The Group places great emphasis on optimising the contribution made by 2005.
On 3rd April 2006 Harriet Green was appointed to the Board.
employees at all levels around the world.
A Group-wide Performance In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Mr Wiliam Korb, Review and annual Management Audit process are in their seventh year Mr John Roques and Mr Cary Nolan will retire at the forthcoming Annual of operation.
The Group continues to develop new people development General Meeting of the Company and offer themselves for re-election.
During the year the management skills programme was
