Board of directors 20 Sir David John 68, became non-executive Tony Durrant 48, joined Premier in June Simon Lockett 42, Chief Executive, joined Chairman on March 998.
After qualifying as a Chartered Premier in 995 from Shell and has worked executive Chairman of the BOC Group plc Accountant with Arthur Andersen, he in a variety of roles for Premier, including from January 996 until January 2002 and joined Lehman Brothers in London, the management of investor relations, as is currently Chairman of Balfour Beatty plc initially as an oil sector analyst.
He joined Commercial Manager in Indonesia and as and the British Standards Institution.
Sir the investment banking division of Lehman Country Manager in Albania.
He became David is a Member of the CBIs International in 987 and from 997 was a Managing a member of the Premier Board on Advisory Board, and is the Chairman of Director and Head of their European 9 December 2003 as Operations Director.
In this role, Simon Lockett was appointed Chief he managed both client relationships Executive with effect from 24 March 2005.
Robin Allan 47, joined Premier from and numerous transactions for a variety Burmah Oil in 986, working initially as of European and North American clients.
John Orange 64, joined Premiers Board a geologist.
After technical and new He is a non-executive director of Clipper as a non-executive director in February venture roles he spent six years in South Windpower plc.
He held a variety of senior East Asia, initially managing Premiers Board on July 2005 as Finance Director.
international management and legal Asian existing and new venture business posts during his 30 years with the BP and later becoming Premiers Country Ronald Emerson 60, joined Premiers Group.
Mr Orange is Premiers senior Manager in Indonesia.
He became Board as a non-executive director in independent non-executive director, a member of the Premier Board on March 200.
He has held a number of Chairman of the Remuneration 9 December 2003 as Director of Business senior positions in the banking sector, Committee and a member of the Audit Development.
including roles at Bank of America, and Risk and Nomination Committees.
Nomura Bank and, most recently, Scott Dobbie 67, joined Premiers Board Professor David Roberts 63, joined with Standard Chartered Bank where as a non-executive director in December he was Chief Executive of their Malaysia Premier on 28 June 2006 as a non-executive 2000.
He has a career background in director.
Professor Roberts has over operations before becoming the Group stockbroking, as Managing Director Head of Corporate Banking.
He was 30 years experience in all aspects of of Wood Mackenzie and subsequently exploration worldwide and extensive a Senior Advisor to the Bank of England Chairman of NatWest Securities.
He is between 997 and 998, and to the knowledge of deepwater areas, currently Chairman of the Securities & sedimentary basins, stratigraphy and Financial Services Authority between 998 Investment Institute, The Edinburgh and 2000.
He is a non-executive director prospect assessment.
He spent 22 years Investment Trust plc and of Standard with BP in a number of technical roles, of Ace European Group Ltd, a Bermuda Life European Private Equity Trust.
based, New York listed insurance including Global Exploration Adviser He is also a Commissioner of the Jersey and Distinguished Exploration Adviser.
Mr Emerson is Chairman Financial Services Commission.
of Premiers Audit and Risk Committee, On his retirement from BP in 2003, Mr Dobbie is a member of Premiers Professor Roberts established his own and a member of the Remuneration Audit and Risk, Remuneration and and Nomination Committees.
He is a visiting Nomination Committees.
professor and fellow of Royal Holloway, Neil Hawkings 45, joined Premier in 2005 University of London, the University of after more than 20 years with Conoco where Southampton and IFP school in Paris.
he worked in a variety of engineering, He is a non-executive director of GETECH commercial and management roles around plc.
Professor Roberts is a member the world, undertaking assignments in the of Premiers Remuneration and UK, Dubai and Indonesia.
He joined the Nomination Committees.
Premier Board on 23 March 2006 as Operations Director.
Premier Oil Annual Report and Accounts 2006
