Steve Lonsdale BA, FCA Chairman Group Managing Director - Finance Aged 53.
Sir Richard was appointed to the Board in July Aged 49.
Steve graduated from the University of Newcastle 2004 and was appointed Chairman in November 2004. upon Tyne with a degree in Economics and Accounting before joining Coopers & Lybrand in 1978.
He qualified as a Sir Richard is the Senior Independent Director of Barclays plc Chartered Accountant in 1981 and spent eight years working and was Executive Chairman, HM Customs and Excise, from in the profession in the UK and overseas.
He was formerly a member of the Group group in 1987 where he worked as Group Accountant Executive Committee of Schroders plc and Non-Executive until 1991 when he was appointed to the Board as Group Director of the Securities Institute.
As Chairman, Sir Richard chairs the Nomination Committee In March 2005 he was appointed Group Managing Director of the Board and is also a member of the Safety Committee.
- Finance with responsibility for all finance, legal and 2.
David Martin BA, FCMA, MiMgt company secretarial matters.
Steve Clayton BA, FCIT, MiMgt Aged 55.
David qualified as an accountant in 1977 after Group Managing Director - Corporate Affairs graduating in Business Studies.
He held a variety of general Aged 53.
After graduating from London University in 1975, management positions before joining the bus industry in Steve held various management positions with London 1986.
After leading a management buy-out of an East Transport.
He was Managing Director of Leaside Bus Company Midlands based bus company, he was involved in the Limited from 1988, which was acquired by the group in 1994. acquisition of National Express and subsequent management buy-outs leading to the creation of British Bus Group Limited.
Steve was appointed to the Board in February 1998 with David joined Arriva in 1996 on the acquisition of British responsibility for the groups UK Bus operations.
In March Bus, becoming a member of the Board in February 1998 with 2005 he was appointed Group Managing Director - specific responsibility for the groups international operations Corporate Affairs, with responsibility for Human Resources, and development.
Health, Safety and the Environment, Corporate Communications and all Government Relations activities In March 2005 he was appointed Group Managing Director across the group.
He sits as a member of the Safety - Operations and Deputy Chief Executive.
On 19 April 2006 Committee and is Chairman of the Community Relations David succeeded Bob Davies as Chief Executive.
Nick Buckles Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Aged 53.
Simon joined the Board as a Non-Executive Aged 46.
Nick was appointed to the Board as a NonDirector on 1 October 2003 and since 1 January 2004 he has Executive Director on 19 July 2005 and on 18 October 2005 been Chairman of the Audit Committee: he also sits on the was appointed as Chairman of the Safety Committee: Nick Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
also sits on the Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Simon is Chief Financial Officer of Thames Water Utilities He was appointed to the Board of Securicor plc in 2000, Limited.
having joined the group in 1985, and became its Chief Executive in January 2002.
Following the merger between After he graduated from Oxford, Simon worked for Armitage Securicor plc and the security businesses of Group 4 Falck and Norton now part of KPMG where he trained and in July 2004, he was appointed Deputy Chief Executive and qualified as a Chartered Accountant and worked in a number Chief Operating Officer of the merged company, Group 4 of management posts.
He was appointed Chief Executive of Group 4 He was Group Finance Director of United Utilities plc from Securicor in July 2005.
Before this appointment he was Group 8.
Veronica Palmer OBE Finance Director of AMEC plc from 1992 and prior to that Non-Executive Director was Deputy Finance Director.
Veronica was appointed to the Board as a Non- 6.
Steve Williams LLB Executive Director in September 2001 and since June 2005 Non-Executive Director has chaired the Remuneration Committee of the Board: Aged 59.
Steve was appointed to the Board as a Nonshe also sits on the Audit and Nomination Committees of Executive Director on 1 September 2005 and on 18 October the Board.
Prior to this she had held the position of Director 2005 was appointed Senior Independent Director: Steve General of the Confederation of Passenger Transport UK sits on the Nomination, Audit and Safety Committees.
Earlier she worked in the brewing industrys trade association as Parliamentary Steve is General Counsel and joint Company Secretary of Secretary following a successful career in the Royal Air Force Unilever plc and Unilever NV.
Prior to joining Unilever, Steve and work as an employment consultant in Europe.
spent 11 years at Imperial Chemical Industries plc in the Veronica has an MBE for military services and an OBE for legal and company secretarial departments and served for services to the transport industry.
She is Chairman of the nine years as a Non-Executive Director of Bunzl plc, Northern Ireland Transport Holding Company Board.
Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 33
