Our markets Transport market characteristics UNITED KINGDOM Population: 60 million In the UK, the bus market in London is tendered out by the operating as a commercial business, owns and operates the authority Transport for London.
Buses in the rest of England, UKs rail infrastructure.
Scotland and Wales operate in a deregulated market, with Arrivas presence: Arriva is one of the top three bus private, and some municipal, operators running the majority operators in the UK, and is Londons largest bus operator.
of services, and local authorities tendering additional services.
We operate virtually all trains in Wales and are bidding to The UK government awards franchises for train services for secure more rail franchises.
set timescales to private operators through a bidding process.
Network Rail, a private company limited by guarantee and DENMARK Population: 5.4 million The Danish bus market is regulated and largely operated by Arrivas presence: In 2003 Arriva won contracts to run private companies.
Funding comes from local authorities, 15 per cent of the Danish rail network.
Arriva has a market which award service contracts through competitive tendering.
share of 40 per cent of bus services in Copenhagen and 30 per cent of regional services outside the capital.
The rail sector is currently dominated by DSB, the Danish State Railway, but is becoming increasingly open for tender opportunities.
SWEDEN Population: 9.1 million The Swedish bus market is regulated and about 95 per cent Arrivas presence: Our Swedish buses operate predominantly of routes are tendered.
Responsibility for the procurement around Helsingborg and Malmo.
Arriva has also won entry and funding of bus transport rests with local authorities.
into the Swedish rail market, with a nine-year contract to operate the Pgatg regional train service in the Skne The government owned operator SJ dominates the rail region of southern Sweden from the summer of 2007. market, but the devolution of responsibility for the procurement and provision of services to regional authorities has stimulated competitive tendering.
THE NETHERLANDS Population: 16.4 million The Dutch bus market is regulated, with local authorities Arrivas presence: Arriva Netherlands operates rail services awarding contracts of up to six years in length.
The Dutch in the north of the country and won the contract to operate Transport Act of 2001 stipulates that all bus transport must rail services for 15 years in the provinces of Friesland and be awarded to contractors through a competitive tendering Groningen.
We have a 12-year bus and rail contract in the process by 2009.
This programme represents a good south of the country operating between Dordrecht and opportunity for Arriva Netherlands to grow its business.
privatisation of state-owned Connexxion is expected in 2007.
Arriva is one of the two biggest private bus operators in the Netherlands.
It operates 20 per cent of the regional bus The responsibility for regional rail is being transferred from services in the country, in the city and province of Groningen, the national government to the regional authorities.
This is the province of Drenthe, in Waterland and in the centre of already the case in the regions of Groningen, Friesland and the country near Rotterdam.
CZECH REPUBLIC Population: 10.2 million Procurement of public transport is devolved to regional Arrivas presence: Arriva entered the Czech Republic bus authorities, with funding centrally controlled.
and coach market in 2006, acquiring bus operator Transcentrum Bus s. r. o, followed by Bosak Bus s. r. o, in 2007, The former state-owned regional bus companies have all operating to the north and south of Prague.
been privatised for some years, and negotiated contracts are in place.
10 Moving you across Europe GERMANY Population: 82.7 million Although the German bus sector is dominated by publicly We have secured several rail contracts via our Prignitzer owned companies, some regional authorities have announced Eisenbahn Gruppe PEG and Regentalbahn operations.
PEG provides rail services in the federal states of North Rhine-Westphalia, Berlin, Brandenburg and  tendering has been a feature of rail services Western Pomerania, and Regentalbahn provides rail for a number of years.
However less than 20 per cent of passenger and freight services in Bavaria, Thuringia, Saxony the services have been tendered to date and only a proportion and cross-border services into the Czech Republic of those have moved into the private sector.
In 2007 we have contracted to acquire over 85 per cent of Arrivas presence: Arriva entered the German rail market bus and rail company Osthannoversche Eisenbahnen AG, in April 2004 and the bus market in February 2005.
The based in Celle near Hannover in the north of Lower Saxony.
group operates Sippel, which provides bus services in the Rhine-Main area, Verkehrsbetriebe Bils KG which operates in the Mnsterland region and Neieverkehr in north east Germany near the Polish border.
ITALY Population: 58.1 million The Italian market is regulated, with the bus and rail sectors Operator certification remains a function of the Ministry of moving towards competitive tendering.
A state law reintroducing the obligation for market testing Arrivas presence: Arriva entered the Italian market in July through competitive tendering is expected to be in force 2002, acquiring SAB Autoservizi SrI, a bus operator in the during 2007.
Only a small number of regions have awarded Lombardy, Liguria and Friuli-Venezia Giulia regions of bus services by tender so far.
Arriva later acquired 60 per cent of Societ Autoservizi FVG S. p. A. SAF in the Udine area of the FriuliThe General Transport Plan in July 2000 laid down the Venezia Giulia region, and in October 2005, acquired guidelines for the restructuring of the national rail system, 80 per cent of the Sadem S. p. A. operations near Turin.
Arriva emphasising the need to separate rail infrastructure is the largest wholly private sector bus operator in Italy.
PORTUGAL Population: 10.5 million The bus market is fragmented outside the main cities with Arrivas presence: Arriva entered the market in 2000. long, rolling licences typically of ten years.
There is little We operate Transportes Sul do Tejo TST, which provides bus competitive tendering and maximum fare levels are and coach services in the commuter region south of Lisbon, controlled by the national government.
There are proposals and Arriva Portugal - Transportes LDA which provides bus to create new metropolitan authorities, which may lead to services in north west Portugal.
In 2006 we purchased the introduction of competitive tendering for bus and rail 21.5 per cent of the Barraqueiro Group, Portugals leading services in the cities of Lisbon and Oporto.
transport operator, which has bus, tram and the countrys only private rail operations and covers the area from Lisbon The state rail system is yet to be privatised but the infrastructure to the south of the country.
has been separated from the regional operators.
There is speculation regarding plans to tender some key lines which will provide future opportunities for private operators.
SPAIN Population: 43.4 million The bus market is fragmented outside the main cities with Arrivas presence: Arriva entered the market in 1999.
The rail market is yet to open up Arriva Noroeste business operates bus services in Galicia in to tendering.
Historically the market has developed on a north west Spain.
We also operate bus services in the north regional basis.
In December we purchased Esfera which provides school contract and private hire bus services in Madrid.
Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 11
