Who we are and what we do Arriva is a leading operator of passenger transport in Europe, carrying people on buses, trains, commuter coaches and water buses.
Nine countries, more than a billion passenger journeys a year 20,000 employees 6,620 buses 116 trains 2,300 employees 1,250 buses 51 trains 3,700 employees 1,390 buses 47 trains 1,000 employees 340 buses 1,300 employees 360 buses 111 trains 260 employees 170 buses 1,700 employees 860 buses 320 employees 240 buses 2,200 employees 1,700 buses We operate an extensive range of services in nine countries: the UK, Italy, Germany, the Netherlands, Denmark, Sweden, Portugal, Spain and the Czech Republic.
In the UK Arriva is also engaged in bus and coach distribution.
Over the last decade the group has transformed itself from a UK-based motor retailer and bus operator into one of the largest Europe-wide passenger transport operators.
Arrivas operations include a mixture of cash-generative businesses in mature markets, and profitable growth businesses in markets which are opening up to competition.
In some countries we are amongst the market leaders, in others we are growing from a small base.
But we never enter a national market without a firm belief that we can become one of the most successful operators in that country, and move a step closer to our vision: to be recognised as the leading transport services organisation in Europe.
2 Moving you across Europe Arriva is: One of the UKs largest regional bus operators, serving A rapidly growing contender in both bus and rail in the customers in the North East, North West and South East German public transport market - the largest in Europe of England, Yorkshire, the Midlands, Scotland and Wales The largest wholly private sector bus operator in Italy, The largest operator in London, where it runs more than providing urban, inter-urban and airport services in the 1,500 buses under contract to Transport for London.
regions of Lombardy, Friuli-Venezia Giulia and Piemonte Arriva also operates The Original Tour sightseeing buses in the north of the country The operator of the Arriva Trains Wales Trenau Arriva A major bus operator in the Netherlands with around Cymru passenger rail franchise providing inter-urban, 20 per cent of the regional market.
Arriva is already the rural and commuter passenger rail services throughout largest private rail operator and its presence continues Wales and the English border counties to grow A bus and coach distributor marketing a range of bus One of Portugals leading bus companies, with operations and coach chassis and bodywork solutions, together with in the north west of the country and around Lisbon, and flexible finance options.
The company has the exclusive a 21.5 per cent holding in Portugals largest passenger rights to import VDL bus and coach chassis and products transport operator, Barraqueiro The largest provider of services in the Danish bus market A growing entrant in the Spanish bus market, in Galicia, and the first private company to operate rail passenger Madrid and Mallorca franchises in Denmark A recent entrant into the Czech Republic with operations A bus operator across southern Sweden.
Arriva has also around Prague now entered the Swedish rail market with a nine-year contract to operate the Pgatg regional train service in the Skne region, beginning in the summer of 2007 Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 3 Who we are and what we do continued The services we provide The main variations include: To the travelling public Arrivas core business may appear Gross cost contracts straightforward and easy to understand.
But we operate In a gross cost contract the tendering authority agrees to according to several different business models which vary pay an operator a specified sum to provide the specified by country, by region, and by the mode of transport.
Revenue from fares is passed to the tendering authority, which bears the revenue risk.
Deregulated services The service provider generally carries the cost risk, though In a deregulated bus market, the key commercial there may be provisions for certain cost increases to be relationship is directly between Arriva and our passengers passed through, such as elements of wage or fuel costs.
- they are our customers, and their fare payments are the Generally the tendering authority will take responsibility for dominant source of income for the business.
Our services working out routes, and may also specify the vehicles used.
have to be profitable in order to be sustainable, to generate the profits which underpin investments in replacement Because the operator has no direct commercial relationship vehicles, in our depot facilities, and in expansion and with passengers it is common for the tendering authority to development of services.
provide a system of bonuses and penalties to give operators a financial incentive to provide the desired quality of service.
In a deregulated market we compete against other forms of transport, and against other operators of similar transport, Examples of Arrivas gross cost contracts include: in just the same way as a high street retailer competes for the The UK London bus business spending power of the public.
We bear the revenue risk, Oberhausen rail in Germany which is to say that if the travelling public decides to switch Arriva Denmark, HUR Copenhagen bus contracts to another form of transport, the lost revenue directly affects Net cost contracts our finances.
In a net cost contract the operator takes on both the revenue Even deregulated services are subject to significant scrutiny risk and the cost risk.
It keeps the revenues from fares.
and regulation in various ways, including the full law of The tendering authority provides an additional contribution the land and the same regulation as any other business on in the form of a subsidy to offset obligations that it may subjects like consumer protection, environmental protection, have to ensure the provision of a public transport service, safety and many other aspects of our operations.
There is or to meet social objectives where the cost of providing such usually a layer of sector-specific regulation too.
In our UK a service would not be commercially viable if it depended Bus operations, for example, the quality of operation and solely on the fare income that it could achieve.
fitness for service of our vehicles and drivers is regulated by Traffic Commissioners.
On particularly popular and important routes it may be possible for the tendering authority to reap a premium Outside London, most of the bus operations in the UK are payment from the operator rather than providing a subsidy.
currently deregulated and operate on a purely commercial Examples of Arrivas net cost contracts include: basis.
Some partially deregulated bus markets exist in other European countries too, although contracted services Arriva Netherlands rail contracts are more common.
Arriva Italy bus contracts Arriva Trains Wales Contracted services In most of our mainland European bus and rail markets, UK rail and the London bus market, our primary customer is some form of public sector body.
A regional government or transport authority may offer various forms of contract which give an operator the right to operate services, usually exclusively, on a particular route or in a specific area.
Increasingly, as European transport markets become more liberalised, these contracts are awarded on the basis of competitive tendering.
During a transition period, however, contracts may be awarded directly following negotiation with an incumbent operator.
4 Moving you across Europe Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 5
