Industry issues Planning to minimise the negative impact of the impending smoking ban and maximise the opportunities it presents has been a major focus of activity for the last two years.
Smoking Our award winning training and eld based support Planning to minimise the negative impact of give us the edge and we are confident that the future the impending smoking ban and maximise the people resource needs of the business can be met.
opportunities it presents has been a major focus Perceptions of alcohol of activity for the last two years and lessons learned Alcohol consumption has become the focus of some from our Scottish pubs have been invaluable in adverse publicity in recent times, with media attention enabling future plans for England and Wales.
The concentrating on the effects of excessive consumption establishment of comfortable outdoor areas has and resultant anti-social behaviour.
proved crucial: 95% of the English and Welsh estate has an outdoor area.
Refocusing on Underage drinking, drink driving and adverse health better food offerings and promoting the pub issues have all contributed to poor perceptions of as a smoke-free social environment, has reaped drinking generally and could contribute to a decline rewards and we have strengthened the catering in pub-based drinking in some areas.
Legislation development team to support this.
which imposes an obligation on pub operators to pay towards the cost of certain policing, medical The whole estate has been reviewed and best-t care and street cleaning has the potential to affect solutions agreed for all sites.
Our leased estate the Groups cost base and profits.
retailers are being encouraged to use the lead time available to best effect to establish facilities, develop We fully accept the key role we have to play both new offerings and to market the changes within as a Group and as an industry, and to counter this, their communities, encouraging a fresh view of we fully support initiatives such as the BBPAs the pub to new customers.
campaign to eliminate under-age drinking, issuing posters and other information to all of our pubs.
Detailed plans have been established within the managed estate to cover all pubs with schemes We actively promote responsible drinking through being designed to maximise every opportunity our communications and include clear messages in to cater for the smoker outdoors.
our marketing materials, ensuring that promotions include alcohol-free elements and that retailers Finding and retaining good people have ready access to support materials.
Recruiting and retaining good quality people is fundamental to our success.
Competition from supermarkets Home drinking continues to grow in popularity.
Competition is strong for retailers with both the Supermarkets offer drinks at heavily discounted financial resources and commercial acumen to prices tempting consumers to stay at home and build successful pub businesses, and potential consume alcohol in an unregulated environment.
recruits naturally seek sustainable opportunities.
Our actions to source retailers for our leased estate Partly as a result, beer volume sales have declined have proved highly successful, although inevitably in recent years.
the ongoing transfer of former managed houses Extensive campaigns to promote responsible beer to the leased model has placed extra pressures on drinking, links with cask ale producers and the the process.
offer of improved variety, linked with continued In the managed estate we have continued to attract and substantial investment in the estate to provide excellent individuals at all levels.
Market leading a quality experience in a quality environment should training and competitive remuneration helps to combine to mitigate this.
ensure that our pubs are staffed by highly skilled individuals.
Going forward, we are continuing to review our offer and drive up standards through re-aligning core competencies with company values.
Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 21
