Driving quality Delivering value 9,200 pubs, 1 purpose p10 Continually improving retail standards in our pubs delivers consumers a quality experience in a quality environment.
Whether leased or managed, consumer expectations are high and getting higher.
Quality and value p12 Supporting the right people and providing the right ambience creates a quality experience for our consumers whatever their tastes and wherever they are.
At the heart of the community p14 We are highly mindful of the social effects of drinking and our responsibilities.
We strive to ensure that we work with our communities to respect their needs and their environment, and encourage responsible retailing.
Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 9 Driving quality delivering value 9,200 pubs, 1 purpose To the consumer, a pub is a pub.
Whether leased or managed, a quality experience is key, be it for a quick pint or a special occasion meal with the family.
The addition of a substantial managed portfolio added commercial diversity to our business and underlined our strategic aim of continuing to raise the overall quality of the estate.
Our leased estate consists of over 7,800 independently run, individual businesses generating income for Punch primarily from rent and drink.
Customer service, stafng and the type of offering are decided by the retailer.
We manage our relationship with our retailers through a team of eld based specialist managers.
Our managed estate consists of large, quality pubs run by directly employed staff, giving total control of every aspect of the service, the menu and the ambiance in the pub.
To the consumer, a pub is a pub.
com Transition We have identied a number of managed outlets that are more suited to a leased operating model.
This has enabled a progressive transfer programme for over 700 houses which is on-going and due for completion in 2007.
The addition of 82 top quality managed outlets from Mill House Inns in September 2006 has further strengthened the estate.
Engagement and support Effective, eld based management is critical to success.
Both leased and managed outlets are supported by a locally based network of skilled professionals with the remit to engage with pub retailers or managers, advising and guiding as necessary and building genuine working relationships to maximise returns on every activity in every pub.
Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 11 Driving quality delivering value Quality and value Recruiting excellent people and giving them training enables us to offer great service.
We are actively uplifting the quality of the estate through selective acquisition and investment to ensure that great people have great pubs to work in: what constitutes a good pub is a matter of personal taste, but some factors are constant people, service, environment, good food and drink and good company.
People Recruitment and retention of competent, commercially driven, entrepreneurial people is central to our success and initiatives to nd good retailers and managers have ensured our pubs are in the hands of the best.
Our introductory and ongoing training processes continue to support and develop them, allowing good people running good pubs to get better and grow with the company both personally and commercially.
In recognition of our professional approach, our training courses regularly win industry awards including the National Innkeepers Training Awards NITAs.
Quality, well trained people build quality businesses.
com Service In the face of erce competition, pubs must encourage custom through offering the best experience to everyone who visits them.
We support this through extensive marketing and promotional campaigns, training and eld based business support and measured mystery shopper exercises which drive continuous improvement.
Striving to uplift the quality of the experience every time someone visits one of our pubs encourages repeat visits and develops consumer loyalty.
Ambience The ambience and environment in a pub is key to its success.
For example during the year, we have invested over 70m in 950 of our leased estate to improve comfort standards both inside and out, working with retailers to match their business ambitions and budgets.
Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 13 Driving quality delivering value At the heart of the community Pubs are at the very heart of the communities they serve.
They represent a unique social hub, a focus for people to meet and a forum for local debate.
Their place at the centre of the lives of many, places a responsibility upon us to acknowledge the potential effects of irresponsible alcohol consumption, to respect the environment and to support local charities.
Responsible retailing Becoming Responsible Retailer of the Year in 2005 recognised our extremely serious ownership of our responsibility to sell alcohol in a way which eliminates underage and binge drinking and reduces alcohol related crime.
Around 52% of our retailers are active members of local Pub Watch schemes and we are keen supporters of the British Beer and Pub Associations BBPA Challenge 21 initiative.
We believe that working within the industry to go further than the law requires to tackle the issues will eliminate the need for greater regulation in the future.
com Environment We know that we consume resources and are driving towards greater environmental awareness.
For example, a recent project within our managed estate to monitor and minimise water consumption has resulted in a saving of over 725,000 cubic meters of water per year with a consequential cost saving.
The project, which has been shortlisted for the Environment Agency Water efficiency Awards, will continue to roll out throughout the managed estate in the coming year.
Charity Across our whole estate, our leased pubs raised an average of over 3,000 each for charity, most for local causes.
Our Shine Awards recognise excellence within the leased estate and are geared to leverage the support of entrants by their customers through a phone voting system.
This year, we raised over 30,000 through this initiative alone.
In addition, around 115,000 people come together to take part in pub teams and activities every year, and many more support them, building social fabric and bringing communities together.
Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 15
