Senior Management 1 3 2 4 5 1 Francis Patton Customer Services Director 3 Neil Preston Company Secretary Francis Patton, 43, is responsible for the Groups Neil Preston, 46, is responsible for ensuring that the Company meets all our legal and regulatory requirements as a plc.
He is relationships with key stakeholders: retailers, shareholders, employees, the media, the city and the government.
a Fellow of the Chartered Association of Certied Accountants and has held various roles within Punch, including that of the This is done through the internal communications team Finance Director of Punch Group and Punch Retail now and frontline helpdesk, and the management of external known as Spirit Group.
Prior to this he worked for Allied agents for PR IR.
Francis began his career with Allied Domecq and started in the industry in 1986.
Breweries and Allied Domecq retailing in Operations.
In 1999, when Allied Domecq sold its pub retailing 4 Andrew Knight Managing Director, Spirit Group business, he became Commercial Director for the Punch Andrew Knight, 39, began his career with roles with Courage Pub Company and as the Company grew this role was Ltd, Allied Breweries and Allied Domecq Retailing.
In 1999, split into Commercial and Customer Services with him Allied Domecq sold its pub retailing business to Punch Group taking up his new role as Customer Services Director for and Andrew became Commercial Director for Punch Retail Punch Taverns in June 2003. now known as Spirit Group.
After 6 years as Commercial Director on the board of Spirit Group, Andrew was appointed 2 Neil Grifths Property & Strategy Director Managing Director following the sale of Spirit Group to Neil Grifths, 45 was appointed Property & Strategy Director Punch Taverns in January 2006. with effect from June 2005, and is responsible for the strategic development of the estate maximising profitability 5 Karen Caddick Group Director of Human Resources through acquisition, investment, rental growth and alternative Karen Caddick, 37, joined Punch in October 2006 and leads use development.
Neil joined Punch in 2001 and has been the HR function across the Punch Group.
Karen started her responsible for building the Companys industry leading career with Royal & SunAlliance in 1993 and performed acquisitions team.
Neil was previously with Warner Brothers several HR roles including Head of HR for More Th n. Karen where he was International Property Director responsible for then moved to Barclays as Head of Employee Relations & HR pan-European multiplex cinema development.
She also led the HR functions at Channel Five Neil held senior positions with Bass plc including Head of Broadcasting and The Financial Times prior to joining Punch.
Property and board member of Bass Leisure Entertainments as Karen is a Graduate of both the Chartered Insurance Institute Commercial Development Director.
and The Institute of Personnel & Development.
