Directors Philippe Litard Roger A Williams Chairman Group finance director Managing director of the Global Natural Resources Fund from Roger Williams is a chartered accountant with 19 years 2000 to 2003.
Prior to July 2000, he was director of the Oil, experience in finance including ten years in the gold mining Gas and Mining Department of the International Finance industry.
He joined Randgold Resources in January 1997 Corporation.
His experience in corporate and project finance when it was still a private company and he has been part of with UBS, IFC and the World Bank extends over 30 years, the management team that has overseen the companys growth most of them in the minerals business and in Africa.
Now an into a billion dollar market cap FTSE 250 company.
He was independent consultant and a promoter of mining and energy appointed group finance director in April 2002. investments.
Appointed a director in February 1998 and chairman in November 2004.
Bernard H Asher Senior independent non-executive D Mark Bristow From 1986 to 1998, he was an executive director of HSBC Chief executive officer Holdings plc and chairman of the HSBC Holdings subsidiary, Mark is a geologist with more than 20 years experience in the HSBC Investment Bank plc.
Was chairman of Lonrho Africa mining industry and holds a PhD in Geology from Natal University.
plc, vice chairman of the Court of Governors of the London In August 1995, he was appointed a director and subsequently School of Economics and of the Legal & General Group plc chief executive of Randgold Resources where he has been and a director of Morgan Sindall plc.
He is chairman of Lion instrumental in developing the company into a gold-focused Trust Asset Management and senior independent director of mining and exploration business with a market cap of more Morgan Sindall.
Was appointed director of Randgold Resources than US$1 billion and a strong investor following.
He has also in 1997 and senior independent director in 2003. played a significant role in encouraging the emergence of the mining sector in the West African sub region where Randgold Resources has found and developed world class assets and forged productive partnerships.
He is currently a non-executive director of Rockwell Resources International and previously held board positions at African Platinum, Harmony Gold Mining Company, Durban Roodepoort Deep and Randgold & Exploration.
04 Randgold Resources Annual Report 2006 Roger Williams Philippe Litard Mark Bristow Bernard Asher Norborne P Cole, Jr Aubrey L Paverd Independent non-executive Independent non-executive Norb Cole started working for the Coca-Cola Company as a Dr Aubrey Paverd was appointed to the board in 1995.
He field representative in the USA in 1966 and advanced steadily holds a MSc degree from Rhodes University, South Africa and through the organisation, becoming chief executive of Cocaa PhD from James Cook University, Queensland, Australia and Cola Amatil in Australia in 1994, a position he held until 1998. brings more than 40 years of international geological experience Under his leadership, Coca-Cola Amatil was built into the to the board.
Served as vice president of exploration for second largest Coca-Cola bottler in the world.
Now based in Newmont in USA and from 1994 to 1999, was the group San Antonio, Texas, he serves on the boards of a number of executive exploration at North Limited in Australia.
independent consultant and a non-executive director of Compania fide Minas Buenaventura.
Robert I Israel Independent non-executive Karl Voltaire Until April 2000, a managing director of Schroder & Co Inc of Independent non-executive New York and head of its energy department.
Is now partner Dr Karl Voltaire is a graduate in mineral resources engineering at Compass Advisers, LLP.
His experience in corporate finance, from the Ecole des Mines in Paris and holds an MBA and a especially the natural resources sector, extends over 26 years.
PhD in Economics and Finance from the University of Chicago.
He started his career as a mining engineer in Haiti and subsequently spent 23 years in the World Bank Group in Washington DC, the bulk of it at the International Finance Corporation IFC where his last position was that of director of global financial markets.
Subsequently, was director of the Chairman of the audit committee and member of the remuneration committee Office of the President at the African Development Bank.
Since Member of the audit committee early 2005, has been CEO of the Nelson Mandela Institution.
Chairman of the remuneration committee Member of the remuneration committee Chairman of the governance and nomination committee Member of the governance and nomination committee Randgold Resources Annual Report 2006 05 Norborne Cole Aubrey Paverd Robert Israel Karl Voltaire
