Training In addition, an innovative transport allowance scheme tied to Three team effectiveness workshops were held at Loulo during a hire purchase arrangement between Somilo and its employees, was successfully negotiated with the union.
These were attended by the CEO, the Randgold consists of motor cycles being purchased by the company Resources capital projects team, the general manager of the on behalf of employees who repay the company over a period mine and all his departmental managers and superintendents.
of 36 months, using their monthly transport allowance.
The scheme overcomes a total lack of public transport in this Amadou Famanta obtained an MBA from the University of remote area, supports the sustainable development objectives Quebec and Rodney Quick, Chiaka Berthe and Abdoulaye of encouraging employees to remain in their home villages to Cisse earned management diplomas from the Graduate School support the economies of the villages such as assisting with of Business Leadership of the University of Cape Town in harvests and getting produce to local markets and creates South Africa.
job opportunities outside of the mine in the supply of fuel and maintenance of the motorcycles.
A five-day managerial and supervisory skills course held at Loulo in July 2006 was attended by 35 managers and Somilo, together with other large mining companies in Mali, is supervisors.
Twenty employees, including 14 from local villages, represented at the talks concerning a proposed new National successfully completed a crusher operator course at Morila Mining Industry Collective Agreement taking place between mine.
Structured engineering maintenance and metallurgical mining industry employers, SYNACOM Mining Union on-the-job action learning training was ongoing at the processing Confederation, the Directorate of Labour and the National Employers Association.
Two meetings were held during 2006 plant throughout the year.
This training has enabled those and further meetings are scheduled in 2007. employees recruited from the local villages to successfully transfer to their jobs the information and skills learned at the Community development initial job training programme they attended at Morila in 2005.
Relations with the community remained positive throughout the year and community liaison committee meetings were held All Somilo and contractor employees recruited during the year monthly.
The focus areas of the committee remain on were required to attend the mines induction and safety training employment of local villagers by the mine and the three pillars course, before commencing work.
In addition, all production of the mines social programme, which are basic education, employees attend workplace toolbox safety talks at the start food security and basic health which includes potable water of each shift.
A series of first aid and safety courses were provision.
attended by 47 engineering and metallurgical employees during During the year, the following community development activities the year.
Seventeen senior managers attended an ISO14001 were undertaken: executive briefing and five line managers and four environmental Employment of local villagers - Learning ability and other and safety staff attended the four-day ISO14001 audit course psychometric testing was carried out in all the villages during the last quarter of 2006. surrounding the mine to select young people to work on the newly installed crushing circuit.
Fourteen of the Industrial relations 20 successful applicants were from the local villages.
In Industrial relations remained positive throughout the year.
addition, Loulo and its contractors continued throughout Following the successful union election at the start of the year the year to apply a selection process that gives precedence and the subsequent establishment of union structures at Loulo to local villagers over other job seekers, with a view to in February 2006, regular monthly meetings were instituted maximising the employment of people from the villages between the union and management.
Agreement was reached most affected by the mine.
with the union in November regarding the mines rules and Education - The opening of the new school built by the regulations.
These were implemented in December 2006 mine in Djidian-Kenieba and the building of a new primary following authorisation from the Regional Labour Inspectorate.
school at Loulo 70% completed at December 2006.
The 22 Randgold Resources Annual Report 2006 repair and refurbishing of schools at Sakola and Baboto so that the cattle from Loulo village could be watered at and the provision of teaching resources and aids to all the Falm River.
The aim of the water provision exercise is to ensure a continuous and reliable supply of potable schools in the local area.
Furthermore under the supervision water to all the local villages.
of the Malian Department of Education there was the Local government support - The mine, with agreement subvention of teaching staff at Sakola village school in from the community development committee, financed terms of the mine funding one teacher for each one funded the construction of an office for the Mayor of the Commune by the community.
School furniture and learning resources at Sitikily village.
and equipment were donated by the mine to village primary schools.
Food security - Farming land was prepared as LOULO: EXPENDITURE ON 2006 compensation for those farmers who had lost fields due COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT US$ to the building of a security fence and the installation of a conveyor belt, in addition to the establishment of vegetable gardens, the setting up of crop production training Community liaison programmes and the provision of seeds and fertiliser to committee meetings 2 495 35 farmers in seven local villages surrounding the mine.
Potable water supply boreThe mines agricultural education programme for local holes and Indian pumps 59 564 farmers established a model beekeeping enterprise which Education 42 438 farmers are invited to visit.
The test apiary aims to educate Vegetable programme 1 059 people about beekeeping and encourage them to take Corn programme SETRA 5 644 up beekeeping in the area.
Health care evacuations 3 933 Basic health - The mines medical officer treated and Malaria control purchase provided medicines to 9 600 patients from the local of mosquito nets 990 community.
The mine evacuated several seriously Hygiene sanitation at Loulo ill villagers to hospitals in Bamako and Kayes.
village school 460 Malaria control and HIV AIDS awareness - Educational Building capacity 42 425 and awareness campaigns were undertaken, with Support revenue assistance from NGOs, to sensitise people in the local generation activities 16 188 villages about malaria and HIV AIDS, how to avoid TOTAL 175 196 contracting the diseases and the necessity of testing and treatment.
Malaria control programmes were introduced Note: Not reflected is the cost to the mine of providing medical in line with the recommendations from malaria vector treatment, medical evacuations, medicines, vaccinations, surveys carried out in 2005 and 2006 by Prof Richard creating disease awareness and education training.
Hunt of the school of Animal, Plant & Environmental Sciences, University of the Witwatersrand, South Africa.
Repeat spraying of the dwellings in local villages was undertaken prior to the start of the rainy season.
In addition, mosquito nets were distributed to households in DjidianKenieba and Kenieba, as part of a mine inspired best kept village competition.
Water provision - The mine installed a further two Indian pumps in the Loulo and Djidian-Kenieba villages.
In addition, all defective Indian pumps were overhauled using mine supplied spares and a new access road was prepared Randgold Resources Annual Report 2006 23 Operations and projects Randgold Resources major gold MORILA MINE producing asset since October 2000 The mine is controlled by a 50:50 joint venture management committee with day to day operations being the responsibility has been the Morila Gold Mine.
of AngloGold Services Mali SA Anser, a Malian Morila, which was discovered by subsidiary of AngloGold Ashanti Limited, under an operating the company in 1996, is now owned agreement.
by a Malian company, Morila SA which in turn is owned 80% by From the start of production in October 2000 through Morila Limited and 20% by the December 2006, Morila has produced approximately 4.3 million ounces of gold at a total cash cost of US$142 oz, State of Mali.
Morila Limited is and Morila SA has paid total dividends to its shareholders of jointly owned by Randgold US$505 million.
As forecasted, Morila produced in excess of Resources and AngloGold Ashanti.
500 000 ounces for the year, finally totalling 516 667 ounces of gold for the year, down from 2005s production as a result of lower grades from the pit.
The year started well with both the mining and plant operating at design capacity.
However, towards the middle of the year, plant production dropped and in the third quarter plant throughput was not reaching the expanded plant design capacity.
Together with its partners, Randgold Resources addressed the various issues with the goal of achieving consistent sustainable production.
The increased attention had the desired effect and in the last quarter the mine exceeded expanded design capacity in each of the three months.
Mining performance suffered particularly in the second half of the year but steps are being taken to catch up the backlog.
Costs were reasonably well contained given prevailing increases in input costs.
Cash operating costs, before adjustment for one-off costs relating to provisions and indirect taxes, were US$215 oz, up from last years costs of US$178 oz.
Total cash costs were US$258 oz for the year after adjustments.
24 Randgold Resources Annual Report 2006 MINERAL RESOURCES 12 months ending The mineral resource base estimated for the mine using MORILA: 31 December the results from infill drilling programmes as well as SUMMARY OF RESULTS 2006 2005 resource extension drilling, depleted to the end of 2006, is 2.85 million ounces.
Total mined tonnes million tonnes 21.5 24.6 Ore tonnes mined million tonnes 5.2 7.0 ORE RESERVES Mined grade g t 3.2 4.3 The ore reserve estimate for Morila, depleted for mining to Ore tonnes milled million tonnes 4.1 3.8 31 December 2006 and based on the current orebody model, Head grade g t 4.2 5.9 is 2.15 million ounces.
Recovery % 91.9 91.7 Ounces produced oz 516 667 651 110 Average gold price received It is currently estimated that mining activities will cease US$ oz 609 449 during 2009 with the processing of stockpiles continuing until Cash operating cost 2013. excluding royalty US$ oz 215 178 Total cash cost US$ oz 258 210 Remaining reserves are slightly lower than last year after Profit from mining activity US$ million 181.6 165.2 depletion has been taken into account as a result of changes Attributable 40% in the orebody model.
However due to the increased gold proportionately consolidated price more of the marginal stockpile material can now be Gold sales US$ million 125.95 120.8 treated economically so ore reserves have been partially Ounces produced oz 206 667 260 444 Profit from mining activity replaced, albeit at lower grade.
US$ million 72.6 66.1 Net profit US$ million 39.6 56.3 MINING Mining operations are carried out under contract by Somadex, Refer to explanation of non-GAAP measures provided in which is a subsidiary of DTP Terrassement, the mining arm of note 23 on pages 84 and 85. the French construction company, Bouygues.
A partnership Restated due to change in accounting policy related to stripping costs.
Refer to note 6 on page 73. agreement which incorporates the principle of sharing the MORILA: TONNES MINED 2 500 2 000 1 500 1 000 500 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2006 Randgold Resources Annual Report 2006 25 Tonnes 000 potential savings achieved by the contractor using agreed mobile plant.
As a result mining production dropped below productivity assumptions and allowing for an agreed return is budget.
Action was taken by the partnership to restore in effect.
productivity and the situation had started improving by year end.
Somadex have also committed to bringing extra mining While Somadex were able to maintain production in the early fleet to site at their own risk in order to maintain the desired part of the year by the mid-year a lack of experienced maintenance personnel led to increasing breakdowns of the levels of production.
Dilution of 10% and ore loss of 5% are incorporated into the calculation of reserves.
Cut-off grade of 1.4g t. Stockpiled ore included.
See comments and US disclaimer on page 31.
See glossary of terms on website at www.
