REMUNERATION OBJECTIVES The total executive directors remuneration for the year ended The committees objectives are to provide senior management, 31 December 2006, excluding the additional and final termination payment to Mr RAR Kebble was US$3 230 479 year ended including directors, with a competitive package which will 31 December 2005: US$2 872 089.
Full details are provided attract and retain executives of the highest calibre and encourage in a table on page 54 of this report.
The committee is cognisant that the market demands that performance criteria be established Details of the various components comprising executive which measure an individuals performance and that these remuneration are as follows: should form a significant proportion of a directors remuneration package.
The committee agreed performance criteria with Basic salary executive directors and used these in appraising their annual Executive directors receive a basic salary as determined by performance.
The committee believes that the bonus payments, the committee in accordance with the remuneration policy and which are linked to the performance of the companys share subject to agreed annual performance criteria.
Individual service price, together with participation in the companys share option contracts details of which are provided hereafter do not scheme for the finance director and share grants for the CEO provide for any pension or retirement payments nor does the are sufficient motivation for these executives and that these company have any such retirement liability.
The company align their interests with those of shareholders.
does, however, provide a defined contribution fund into which employees, including directors, may contribute.
As in the past two years, the committee continues to believe that the correct method of incentivising the CEO and motivating Share options his performance, but at the same time aligning him with the Share options are no longer awarded to non-executive directors interests of shareholders, is to award him shares which are or the CEO.
In respect of the non-executive directors, the last options were awarded in 1998.
Currently only two nononly granted upon the achievement of agreed performance executive directors have not exercised their options.
The CEO no longer participates in the companys share option scheme.
The companys finance director continues Awards of share options are determined by the remuneration to participate in the share option scheme, although no new committee guided by industry and international standards.
options have been awarded to him since August 2004.
Other The existing share option scheme is not subject to performance than the benefits listed above, the company has no other long criteria, which were not a standard at the time the present term incentive scheme.
The remuneration committee believes scheme was adopted.
The board acknowledges that any the existing schemes are sufficient to motivate executive future scheme would be performance related and its adoption directors and senior management.
Should, however, it be would, in accordance with the terms of the UK Listing Rules, deemed necessary to adopt any additional long term incentive be subject to approval by shareholders.
Any options awarded scheme or a new share option scheme, in accordance with are subject to an upper limit of two per cent of the companys the UK Listing Rules, these would be submitted to shareholders issued share capital.
No share options can be awarded at a for approval.
discount because the scheme rules provide that the exercise price is determined as the closing price of the shares on the EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION trading day preceding that on which a person is granted the The remuneration of the executive directors comprises: option.
It is not the policy of the company to grant annual A basic salary.
awards of share options to employees.
Participation in the share option scheme for the group The scheme provides that all options may be exercised early finance director.
in the event of an acquisition of the company that would require A deferred compensation structure for the CEO.
an offer to be made to all shareholders.
Details of the options Randgold Resources Annual Report 2006 55
