Management Tania fide Welzim Amadou Konta Group financial controller General manager - Loulo Tania is a chartered accountant with nine years experience in Has a degree in civil engineering as well as several management finance including seven years in the mining industry.
Prior to and project management qualifications.
Was appointed mine joining Randgold Resources in April 2004, she was an audit foreman and superintendent at Syama mine by BHP and manager with  in the UK and South served as mining manager from 1997.
to construction manager for Randgold Resources in Mali and to Loulo general manager in 2004.
David Haddon General counsel and secretary Victor Matfield Qualified as an attorney in 1984.
He has overseen the Corporate finance manager administrative obligations of Randgold Resources since its A chartered accountant, he was appointed corporate finance incorporation and assumed secretarial responsibility when it manager in 2001.
Prior to that, served as financial manager listed on the London Stock Exchange in July 1997.
He is a of the Syama mine and as financial manager of the Morila director of Seven Bridges Trading.
He is a director of Seven Bridges Trading.
Paul Harbidge Chris Prinsloo Exploration manager Group financial and commercial manager Geologist with over 14 years experience, mainly in West Africa, Qualified as a chartered secretary and has 34 years experience having previously worked for Rio Tinto, Anglo American and in the mining industry including finance, capital projects, Ashanti.
Joined Randgold Resources in 2000 and was administration and supply chain management.
Appointed as appointed exploration manager in 2004. commercial manager for the Randgold Group in 1993, financial director of Somisy SA in 2000 and group financial Bill Houston and commercial manager in 2002 responsible for group General manager - human resources accounting, supply chain management plus the risk Has a masters degree in human resources management and management and insurance portfolio.
Currently serves on 25 years experience in human resources and organisational the boards of Morila SA, Somilo SA and Kankou Moussa development.
Joined Randgold in 1992 as group training and SARL.
development manager, and headed the group human resources function from 1996.
He is a director of Morila SA and Seven Bridges Trading.
06 Randgold Resources Annual Report 2006 David Haddon Tania fide Welzim Bill Houston Paul Harbidge Chris Prinsloo Victor Matfield Amadou Konta Rod Quick Ngolo Sanogo New business development manager Financial controller - Mali A geologist with 13 years experience in the gold mining industry, Has a masters degree in economics from the National School of he joined Randgold Resources in 1996.
Rod has been involved Administration of Bamako as well as several management, in the exploration, evaluation and production phases of the accounting and financial qualifications.
Qualified as an auditor in Morila, Loulo and Tongon deposits and was appointed Somilo 1992 before joining BHP Mali in 1995.
Appointed material manager resource manager in 2004.
He now heads the newly formed in 1998 and management accountant in 2001 at the Syama African hunting team searching for further opportunities in mine.
Following the sale of Somisy SA in 2004 was appointed African countries not currently in the Randgold Resources Randgold Resources Mali financial controller.
John Steele Adrian Reynolds General manager - capital projects General manager - exploration and evaluation Gained extensive metallurgical and management experience Has 25 years experience in the mining industry and was part of in 17 years with Rand Mines and Randgold & Exploration.
the team that developed the Randgold Resources strategy.
Upon acquisition of Syama in 1996, was appointed a director Manages the evaluation function and compiles technical audits, of the Malian company, Somisy SA, and general manager of due diligences and feasibility studies as well as retaining the mine.
In 1998, assumed position of group general manager executive oversight of exploration.
He is a director of Morila SA capital projects, overseeing construction of the Morila and and Somilo SA.
Mahamadou Samak Lois Wark General manager - Mali Corporate communications and cartography manager A professor of company law at the University of Mali, Sam was A member of the Randgold Resources team since its inception, instrumental in writing the Malian labour legislation.
He is the Lois responsibilities include the coordination of the groups general manager of the Bamako office and a director of our Malian communication and investor relations programme, the production companies.
of materials and presentations to the market, as well as the management and integration of data captured in GIS, databases and various other software packages.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2006 07 Rod Quick Ngolo Sanogo Mahamadou Samak Adrian Reynolds Lois Wark John Steele
