Board of Directors Name Peter Johnson Ian Burke Position Chairman Chief Executive Appointment to the Board 2007 2006 Age 59 50 Committee membership Finance, Nominations Finance, Nominations Peter is Chairman of Inchcape plc, having Ian was formerly Chief Executive of been Group Chief Executive from 1999 Holmes Place Health and Fitness Limited.
He is a non-executive director Before joining Holmes Place he was of Bunzl plc, a director and Chairman Chief Executive of Thistle Hotels plc.
of Automotive Skills Limited and a Vice He has also held the position of Managing President of The Institute of the Motor Director of Gala Clubs, the bingo operator.
He was previously Sales and Ian is a director of Business in Sport and Marketing Director of the Rover Group, Leisure Limited.
Chief Executive of the Marshall Group and a non-executive director of Wates Group Limited.
Name Brendan ONeill Bill Shannon Position Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointment to the Board 2004 2006 Age 58 57 Committee membership Audit, Nominations Audit, Nominations, Remuneration Brendan is Chairman of RAC Pension Bill is Chairman of Aegon UK and Gaucho Trustees Limited and a non-executive Grill restaurant group and he is also director of Aegis Group plc, Tyco a non-executive director of Barratt International Ltd, Watson Wyatt Developments plc and Matalan plc.
Worldwide Inc. and of Endurance Speciality Previously he was an executive director Holdings Limited, a Bermudan-based of Whitbread PLC.
From 1999 to 2003 he was Chief Executive of ICI Plc and prior to joining ICI in 1998 he was Chief Executive of Guinness Ltd, the Guinness Groups worldwide business brewing interest, and a member of the Guinness Plc board.
22 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 Audit Committee John Warren Chairman Brendan ONeill Bill Shannon Finance Committee Peter Johnson Chairman Ian Burke Peter Gill Nominations Committee Peter Gill Richard Greenhalgh Peter Johnson Chairman Finance Director Senior Independent Non-executive Director Ian Burke 2005 2004 Richard Greenhalgh 51 62 Brendan ONeill Finance Nominations, Remuneration Bill Shannon John Warren Peter was formerly Group Finance Richard worked for Unilever for over Director of Xansa plc, prior to which he 30 years and was Deputy Director Remuneration Committee was with Pearson plc, initially as Director of Personnel for Unilever Plc before Richard Greenhalgh Chairman of Financial Operations and then as Chief becoming Chairman of Unilever UK from Bill Shannon Financial officer of the Penguin Group, 1998 until 2004.
He is Chairman of The John Warren its consumer books division.
Peter is a Council for Industry and Higher Education, Chartered Accountant.
CARE International UK, First Milk, and Executive Committee Chairman of the UK advisory board of a US Ian Burke Chairman listed outsourcing company, OPI.
Richard Peter Gill is also Vice Chairman of the Qualications Pamela Coles and Curriculum Authority.
Simon Wykes Managing Director, Mecca Bingo Valentin Corua Managing Director, Top Rank Espaa Peter McCann Managing Director, Grosvenor Casinos Martin Belsham Managing Director, Blue Square Alan Armstrong Compliance & Development Director Michele Jennings Commercial Director Sue Waldock Human Resources Director John Warren Pamela Coles Non-executive Director Company Secretary 2006 53 Audit, Nominations, Remuneration John was previously Group Finance Director of WH Smith PLC and United Biscuits plc and a non-executive director of RAC plc and Rexam plc.
Currently, he holds non-executive directorships at Arla Foods UK plc, Bovis Homes Group plc, BPP Holdings plc and Spectris Plc.
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 23
