Q In January 2007 the Casino Advisory Panel Q How would you describe the Groups trading issued a list of the local authorities that will performance since the start of 2007?
host the 17 new generation casinos granted A We are satisfied with the overall trading performance of the under the 2005 Act.
Within our annual results statement we made the following comments on trading during the first eight weeks A The list requires parliamentary approval, which is expected shortly.
Following this event, the successful local authorities are required to hold open competitive tender processes before appointing Mecca Bingo has generated like-for-like revenue growth in its developers and operators.
This stage is to be conducted in clubs in England and Wales as a consequence of higher spend accordance with guidelines from the Secretary of State, which per head.
Admissions are lower than in the same period last year are due to be published shortly.
due to lower expenditure on promotions.
Trading in Meccas clubs in Scotland remains difficult, with a slight increase in the level of Q Will Rank bid for any of the 2005 Act revenue decline.
During the winter months we have experienced a recovery in spend per head but a steeper decline in admissions.
Pleasingly, Top Rank Espaa has achieved revenue in line with the same period in 2006.
A We intend to bid for a number of these new casino licences, although we have concerns about the inequitable regulations Grosvenor Casinos has generated like-for-like growth in revenue governing existing 1968 Act casinos and the new 2005 Act against a strong comparative period in 2006, with improvements casinos.
We do not yet have full visibility on the bidding process in spend per head outweighing lower admissions.
We have chosen but it is likely to require a significant level of investment.
not to replicate the high level of promotional activity that stimulated double-digit admissions growth at the start of 2006 but are pleased As an established British casino operator with a track record with our new member and admissions performances.
of responsible operation and commercial success and with the rare combination of operating experience in casino, bingo and Our interactive business, Blue Square, has enjoyed a strong start to sports betting the three gambling elements of the new casinos the year with growth in gross win.
Poker is performing particularly we have the competencies and resources necessary to apply for well as a result of the launch of the Blue Square sponsored Grosvenor the new licences.
Q What are the Groups capital expenditure plans for 2007?
Ian Burke Chief Executive A During the year we anticipate spending between 50m and 60m on maintaining and developing our businesses.
The majority of this will be focused on Grosvenor Casinos and Mecca Bingo.
Q What progress have you made in exiting Deluxe Media and US Holidays?
A During 2006 we exited, via a series of disposals, all Deluxe Media Services operations in Europe including the UK.
In addition we reached agreements with our customers to terminate our media replication and distribution services in the USA.
Although there are ongoing lease commitments on a small number of properties in the USA, we anticipate exiting the business within the 56.6m provision established at 31 December 2005.
On 15 December 2006 we completed the sale of US Holidays for $32.6m approximately 16.8m.
Through the actions that we have taken in 2006 we have repositioned the Group to focus purely on mainstream gaming, a market where we have a depth of operating experience and a portfolio of strategically important assets.
06 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 We have a strong portfolio of assets, established brands and a track record of responsible operation.
These are the core strengths of our business and the foundations for our growth.
Our priorities for 2007 are to address the immediate challenges facing the Group while maintaining our focus on the long term growth opportunities.
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 07 Were putting on the best game in town... Last year, total money paid out in main stage bingo prizes topped 205m for the first time in five years.
We put an extra 18m back into the pockets of our Mecca Bingo customers and were rewarded with a 3.5% increase in active members.
1m 1.1m active members, up 3.5% 08 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 The best game in town During 2006 we have made significant gains in our share of the UK bingo market.
Meccas share of National Game ticket sales rose from 27.6% in 2005 to 28.8% in 2006.
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 09
