Were taking a leading role... As the gaming industry evolves, we are adapting our practices to ensure that our high standards of responsible operation are maintained.
20 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 Recognition Responsibility We have developed a training programme that combines computer-based training and experiential learning to enable As an employer of more than 8,000 people, serving in excess our people to recognise in customers those behaviours of two million customers per year and operating in the UK, associated with problem gambling.
Belgium and Spain, the social impact of Ranks business activities Communication with our customers helps them to recognise is significant.
As a result we take seriously our responsibilities to in themselves the behaviours associated with problem gambling.
our customers, to our people and to the broader communities within which we operate.
Intervention Through training we teach our people how to deal As an established British gaming company, Rank has a long track with customers who exhibit behaviours associated with record of responsible operation.
Self-exclusion from gambling in our casinos, bingo clubs In 2004, Rank began work in creating a Responsible Gambling and on our websites, amongst other mechanisms, enables Policy that would apply across the whole Group.
We took the customers to take positive action if they become concerned strongest elements from each of the industry voluntary codes about their behaviour.
and consulted a wide number of parties within the UK and We may consider a range of additional factors, such as internationally to develop a comprehensive policy for the Group.
concerns expressed by others in deciding whether to exclude The policy supports the guiding principles of the 2005 Act.
a member from gambling with us.
To prevent gambling from being a source of crime or disorder, We work closely with a wide variety of organisations to being associated with crime or disorder or being used to ensure responsible operation.
During 2006 members of Ranks support crime.
compliance department held a large number of separate To ensure that gambling is conducted in a fair and open way.
meetings involving bodies such as the Department of Culture, To protect children and other vulnerable persons from being Media and Sport, the Gambling Commission, and charitable harmed or exploited by gambling.
Keeping crime out In 2006, Rank contributed 220,000 to the Responsibility in Rank operates a sophisticated system of screening and Gambling Trust, an umbrella organisation that funds a variety intelligence gathering to keep crime out of gambling.
of charities working to prevent problem gambling or to provide support for problem gamblers.
In keeping with legal requirements, we require all of our UK casino croupiers, inspectors and managers and all our UK bingo club managers to be certificated by the Gambling Commission.
We carry out rigorous screening on casino employees to check for criminal convictions.
We maintain a close working relationship with regulatory bodies, including the Police and the Gambling Commission and regularly provide assistance to them on wider issues unrelated to our own businesses.
We require that all customers show proof of identity in order to gain access to any casino gaming area.
Across Blue Square we have put in place a series of stringent measures designed to prevent fraud and money laundering.
Fair and open gambling In each of our bingo clubs and casinos, our games and equipment are subject to strict security measures to ensure that gaming is conducted fairly, supported by a state of the art digital CCTV system.
Rules and charges relating to the games are displayed in our bingo clubs, as are how to play guides in our casinos and Showing we care interactive gaming websites.
As part of the transparency process, We have achieved accreditation we also provide leaflets detailing the house advantage on all from GamCare for the approach we casino games for the information of our customers.
take to responsible gaming in both Grosvenor Casinos and Blue Square.
Protecting children and vulnerable people Currently we are pursuing accreditation At the heart of our approach to problem gaming is a recognition for Mecca Bingo, which we expect to that we need to work with our customers to help them stay in achieve in 2007. control.
To this we apply a three-stage process of prevention, recognition and intervention.
Prevention Through regulated entry to casinos and bingo clubs and on-line screening measures we prevent under-18s from participating in gambling activities.
Through the games that we offer and through our communication with our customers, we encourage our customers to enjoy their visits to our bingo clubs, casinos and gaming websites.
Prominent signage, information and other material is displayed in all of our premises, using our easily identifiable helping you stay in control logo.
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 21
