RECKITT 01-22:RECKITT 01-22 7 3 07 02:07 Page 12 Report of the Directors The Directors submit their fifty-fourth Annual Open and regular communication with Details of the Directors service agreements Report to the members of the Company, employees at all levels is an essential part of the are given on page 22. with the audited financial statements management process.
A continuing programme Corporate governance for the year ended 31 December 2006. of training and development reinforces the The Company recognises the importance Groups commitment to employee involvement.
Review of the activities and development of high standards of corporate governance.
of the Groups business The Board encourages employees to become It understands, supports and has applied the The principal activities continue to be the shareholders and to participate in the Groups principles set out in the Combined Code on manufacture and sale of household and employee share ownership schemes, should they Corporate Governance, as issued in July 2003, healthcare products.
Sharesave schemes across the world and has complied with the great majority of now give more employees the opportunity the detailed provisions contained in the Code.
A review of the results and activities for the year to acquire shares in the Company by means The ways in which the Company applies these ended 31 December 2006 and information of regular savings.
principles, and the few provisions with which about business risks, uncertainties and financial the Company does not consider that it is risk management appears under the Business Share capital appropriate to comply, are set out in the Review on pages 4 to 10.
The Directors endorse Details of changes to the ordinary shares issued, appropriate sections of this Annual Report the content of that review.
shares held in Treasury, and of options and and Financial Statements.
awards granted, during the year are set out In July 2006, the Directors resolved to pay in Note 20 to the accounts.
The Board comprises eight Non-Executive an interim dividend of 20.5p per ordinary Directors including Adrian Bellamy, the share 2005 18p.
The dividend was paid As described in the Chairmans Statement Chairman, who has the responsibility for on 28 September 2006.
The Directors are on page 1 a rolling share buy back programme managing the Board, and two Executive recommending a final dividend for the year of has continued throughout 2006.
Details of Directors, Bart Becht, the Chief Executive Officer 25p per share 2005 21p, which, together with market purchases made, under the authority CEO and Colin Day, the Chief Financial Officer the interim dividend, makes a total for the year given to the Directors by shareholders at the CFO.
The Company has adopted a Board of 45.5p per share 2005 39p.
The final dividend, Annual General Meeting held on 4 May 2006 structure which is similar to that of its key if approved by the shareholders, will be paid to make such purchases up to a maximum of international competitor companies, the on 31 May 2007 to ordinary shareholders on the 72,280,000 shares, are given in Note 20 on majority of which are based in the USA.
The register at the close of business on 2 March 2007. page 47.
The shares purchased may be held Board approves strategy, carries out an advisory as Treasury shares or cancelled, depending In the view of the Directors, the Groups likely and supervisory role and accepts ultimate upon the best interests of the Company.
future development will continue to centre responsibility for the conduct of the Companys on the main product categories in which it A resolution seeking to renew this authority will business.
The CEO, together with the other now operates.
be put to shareholders at the Annual General members of his Executive Committee, provides Meeting AGM on 3 May 2007. the day-to-day management of the Company.
Research and development The Group continues to carry out research Directors The Board has identified Graham Mackay as and development in the search for new and Information regarding the Directors of the Company the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director improved products in all its categories and for who were serving on 31 December 2006 and in accordance with provision A.
3.3 of the increased manufacturing efficiencies.
Direct those serving at the date of this report is set out on Combined Code, having taken over the role expenditure on R&D in 2006 amounted to page 15 in the separately published Shareholders from Kenneth Hydon, the latter having been 84m 2005 63m.
Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006. appointed as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Further biographical details of all Directors are The majority of Non-Executive Directors are Acquisitions and disposals available from the Companys website.
independent, as recommended by the On 31 January 2006, following regulatory Combined Code.
Three of the Non-Executive clearance, the Group completed an agreement During the year there was one change to the Directors are not considered to be independent with Boots Group plc to purchase the Boots Board of Directors.
George Greener, having for all purposes: Adrian Bellamy, as Chairman Healthcare International business.
served on the Board for more than nine years, of the Board, Peter Harf, because of the did not offer himself for re-election at the AGM There have been no material disposals during shareholding he represents and Peter White, in 2006 and he therefore stepped down from the year.
since he has served as a Director for more the Board at the conclusion of that AGM.
Employees Directors to retire by rotation at the forthcoming During 2006, the Group employed an average The Companys policy is to allow Executive AGM are Colin Day, Judith Sprieser and Ken Hydon of 21,900 2005 20,300 people worldwide, of Directors one external directorship.
An exception and, being eligible, they offer themselves for whom 2,100 2005 1,400 were employed in the had been made in the case of Colin Day who re-election.
The Group is committed to the principle of held two external directorships, both on the equal opportunity in employment: no applicant Peter White has served on the Board for more boards of other FTSE 100 companies which was or employee receives less favourable treatment than nine years and, under the Combined Code, not in accordance with Code provision A.
4.5. on the grounds of nationality, age, gender, is therefore obliged to offer himself for However, Mr Day resigned as Non-Executive religion or disability.
The Group recognises re-election on an annual basis.
Director of Imperial Tobacco plc on 16 February its responsibilities to disabled persons and 2007 and the Company is now in compliance David Tyler joined the Board as Non-Executive endeavours to assist them to make their full with Code provision A.
As Mr Tylers contribution at work.
Where employees become appointment was made subsequent to the date The Articles of Association require that every disabled, every practical effort is made to allow of the 2006 AGM, he will offer himself for Director will seek re-election to the Board at them to continue in their jobs or to provide election at this years AGM.
least every three years, in line with provision retraining in suitable alternative work.
A statement of Directors interests in the share It is essential to the continued improvement capital of the Company is shown in Table 1 The Board meets a minimum of five times a year in efficiency and productivity throughout the at the end of this report.
and will meet further as necessary to consider Group that each employee understands the specific matters which it has reserved to itself Companys strategies, policies and procedures.
Details of Directors options to subscribe for for decision, such as significant acquisition shares in the Company are included in Table 2 or disposal proposals or major financing on page 21 in the audited part of the Directors propositions.
In 2006, there were five regular Remuneration Report.
meetings and two held by telephone conference.
A statement of the Directors 12 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 RECKITT 01-22:RECKITT 01-22 7 3 07 02:07 Page 13 attendance at these Board meetings, and at The members of the Executive Committee As and when vacancies arise on the Board, meetings of Board Committees on which they are appointed to the Committee by the CEO, the services of an external search consultancy served during the year, is shown in Table 2 at who leads the Committee.
are employed to seek candidates for the end of this report.
In compliance with Code appointment.
The Nomination Committee The Executive Committee manages the day-toprovision A.
1.3 the Chairman holds a session reviews each candidate as presented by the day operations of the Company.
Individual with other Non-Executive Directors at the consultancy and all members of the Committee Executive Committee members hold global conclusion of each formal Board meeting are involved in the interview process before responsibility for specific operating functions without the Executive Directors present.
The making their recommendations to the full including category development, supply, finance, Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors Board.
All members of the Board are given human resources and information services.
The devote sufficient time to the Company.
the opportunity to meet the recommended three Area Executive Vice Presidents covering candidates prior to their appointment.
During the year the Board has carried out a Europe, North America Australia, and Developing formal evaluation of its performance and that Markets are also members of the Committee.
The Committee comprises the Chairman, who of its Committees and individual Directors in also chairs the Committee, the CEO, the Deputy Committees of the Board accordance with Code provision A.
The Chairman and the Chairs of both the Audit and The Company has established three Committees Board analysed responses from all Board members Remuneration Committees.
The Board believes of the Board, the terms of reference of which to a detailed questionnaire.
Kenneth Hydon, this membership is appropriate to the Group are available on the Companys website and as the then Senior Independent Non-Executive despite this not being in compliance with Code upon request.
Director, conducted an evaluation of the provision A.
4.1, which requires a majority of the Chairmans performance in conjunction with Audit Committee members to be independent.
Adrian Bellamy his Non-Executive Director colleagues with input The Audit Committee, chaired by Kenneth Hydon is not considered independent as he is the from both Executive Directors.
since 16 November 2006, comprises three NonChairman of Reckitt Benckiser plc, Peter Harf Executive Directors.
The Committee does not is not considered independent because of the The Nomination Committee has primary comply with provision C. 3.1 of the Combined shareholding he represents and Bart Becht is not responsibility for reviewing the performance of Code as Peter White is no longer deemed to be considered independent because he is the CEO.
individual Directors and in addition to this review independent, having now served more than nine process, the Chairman carried out an evaluation Internal control years on the Board.
Kenneth Hydon has recent of the performance of individual Directors by The Board acknowledges that it has overall and relevant financial experience, having been face-to-face, one-on-one interviews.
The Board responsibility for the Groups system of internal Financial Director of Vodafone Group plc until is of the view that it is best placed to carry out control and for reviewing its effectiveness, and July 2005.
The Committee monitors the adequacy such evaluations, without the need to employ has established a control structure designed to and effectiveness of the internal controls, the services of an outside consultancy, and manage the achievement of business objectives.
compliance procedures and the Groups that this is an appropriate and cost-effective The system complies with the Turnbull guidance overall risk framework including the Groups procedure.
The performance of the CEO, and on internal control and provides reasonable, but whistleblowing arrangements.
It reviews of other members of the Executive Committee, not absolute, assurance against material the interim and full year financial statements is regularly reviewed by the Remuneration misstatement or loss.
before submission to the full Board and makes Committee of the Board.
recommendations to the Board regarding Throughout the year the Group has had in place The Executive Committee presents an annual the auditors and their terms of appointment.
an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating strategic review and the Annual Plan to the Board It reviews and monitors the external auditors and managing the significant risks and for its approval.
Actual performance against the independence and objectivity and the opportunities faced by the Group and the Board Plan is presented to the Board at each of its effectiveness of the audit process.
The CFO and has performed a specific assessment of internal regular meetings and any changes to forecasts other senior management attend by invitation.
control for the purpose of this Annual Report.
as a result of current performance are reviewed.
The Groups external auditors and the Groups The Groups control environment is supported Vice President, Internal Audit attend meetings by a Code of Business Conduct and a range of All members of the Board receive timely reports and have direct access to the Committee.
Other key on items arising at meetings of the Board to In evaluating its performance during the year, elements within the internal control structure enable them to give due consideration to such the Committee analysed responses from all are summarised as follows: items in advance of the meetings.
Committee members to a detailed questionnaire.
The Board and management the Board Non-Executive Directors receive appropriate Remuneration Committee continues to approve strategy and performs briefings on the Company and its operations The Remuneration Committee, chaired by an advisory and supervisory role with the around the world when they are appointed Judith Sprieser, meets regularly to review day-to-day management of the Company to the Board.
They are encouraged to visit the remuneration policy for Directors and senior being undertaken by the Executive Companys offices and factories, whenever the executives.
The Committee also has responsibility Committee.
The CEO and other Executive opportunity presents itself, where they can be for making decisions on the Chairmans Committee members have clearly briefed on the local business operations.
The Committee comprises three communicated the Group vision, strategy, Board endeavours to hold one meeting each members, of whom two are considered operating constitutions, values and business year at one of the operating units.
Full, formal independent as defined by the standards of the objectives across the Group.
and tailored induction processes are put in place Combined Code.
Accordingly the Company does on appointment to the Board which retain  structure the Group operates not comply with provision B.
2.1 of the Combined to allow the new Director to have input to the three area management organisations, Code issued in July 2003, since Adrian Bellamy induction process so that areas of particular Europe, North America Australia and is not considered independent being the interest to that Director can be accommodated.
Developing Markets and centralised functions Chairman of Reckitt Benckiser plc.
Under the covering category management, supply, sales, All the Directors have access to the Company revised Combined Code issued in July 2006, finance and legal, information services Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that however, it is now acceptable for the Chairman and human resources.
Throughout the Board procedures are followed and that the to sit on the Remuneration Committee.
organisation, the achievement of business Company complies with all applicable rules, Nomination Committee objectives and the establishment of regulations and obligations governing the The Nomination Committee is responsible for appropriate risk management and internal Companys operations.
A procedure exists for nominating candidates for the approval of the control are embedded in the responsibilities the Directors to take independent professional Board to fill vacancies on the Board of Directors.
advice, if necessary, in furtherance of their duties at the Companys expense.
Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 13 RECKITT 01-22:RECKITT 01-22 7 3 07 02:07 Page 14 Report of the Directors continued Budgeting there is an annual planning Group policy in respect of non-audit The issues of potential reputational risk process whereby detailed operating budgets services provided by external auditors considered by the Board include: for the following financial year are prepared The Audit Committee and the CFO keep under Industry sector and product safety risks: The and are reviewed by the Board.
Long-term review the independence and objectivity of household products and health & personal business plans are also prepared and are the external auditors.
The Committee reviews care sectors have a number of potential reviewed by the Board on an annual basis.
the nature and level of non-audit services product and ingredient risks relating to undertaken by the external auditors each year Management reporting there is a concerns voiced over the long-term effects to satisfy itself that there is no effect on their comprehensive system of management of household chemicals on human health independence.
The Board recognises that in reporting.
The financial performance of and the environment.
The Company has certain circumstances the nature of the advice operating units and the Group as a whole comprehensive management processes required may make it more timely and costis monitored against budget on a monthly in place to ensure that its products are both effective to appoint the external auditors who basis and is updated by periodic forecasts.
suitable and safe for their intended use, already have a good understanding of the Area and functional executives also perform in addition to meeting applicable regulatory Group.
Any significant information technology regular business reviews with their requirements.
Additionally, regulatory consultancy projects are put out to tender management teams, which incorporate compliance and product safety issues are and the external auditors are excluded from an assessment of key risks and opportunities.
proactively addressed by both national and this tender process.
regional industry associations of which the Risk management as part of the ongoing The external auditors report to the Audit Company is an active member, including risk and control process, operating units Committee on the actions they take to comply those in Europe and North America Australia.
review and evaluate risks to the achievement with professional and regulatory requirements For example, the HERA Human and of business objectives and the Board reviews and with best practice designed to ensure their Environmental Risk Assessment project, those significant risks which might impact independence from the Group, including established in 1999, is a voluntary industry on the achievement of corporate objectives.
periodic rotation of the lead engagement audit programme of publicly available risk Mitigating controls, together with any partner.
Details of non-audit services are set assessments on ingredients of household necessary actions, are identified and out in Note 3 on page 33. cleaning products www.
To this end, key corporate risks include the ongoing development of the new Environmental, social and governance ESG As part of the Companys commitment to make product pipeline, protection of intellectual matters and reputational risk continual improvements in the environmental property, financial and business controls in The Board regularly considers and takes account sustainability of its products and processes, emerging markets and continuing recruitment of the significance of ESG matters and their it continues to progress Ingredient Removal and retention of high-quality management.
potential risks to the business of the Company, Programmes, above and beyond regulatory including reputational risks and the opportunities requirements, to systematically remove A summary of the most significant risks faced to enhance value that may arise from an specific ingredients from Company product by the Group is included in the Business Review appropriate response.
formulas and packaging device component on pages 4 to 10. specifications globally.
For example, recent The Board undertakes a formal review of ESG Operating unit controls each operating programmes include: removal of nitro and matters at least annually, which includes providing unit maintains internal controls, which are polycyclic artificial musks from fragrances: oversight to ensure that the Company has in appropriate to its own business environment.
removal of PDCB paradichlorobenzene place effective policies, systems and procedures Such controls must be in accordance with from toilet blocks: removal of NPEs Nonyl for managing ESG matters and mitigating Group policies and include management Phenol Ethoxylates, APEs Alkyl Phenol significant ESG risks.
Additionally, as part of its authorisation processes, to ensure that all Ethoxylates and monoethylene series glycol risk assessment procedures, the Boards Audit commitments on behalf of the Group are ethers from use in household cleaning Committee undertakes regular review of the entered into after appropriate approval.
products: and the replacement of arrangements for, and effectiveness of, risk In particular, there is a structured process formaldehyde preservative.
management and internal audit, including the for the appraisal and authorisation of all full range of risks facing the Company, which REACH Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation material capital projects.
include ESG matters and reputational risks.
and Restriction of Chemicals is the new Monitoring the effectiveness of internal framework for regulation of chemicals in The CEO is the Board member with specific controls is monitored regularly through Europe which was formally adopted by the responsibility for ESG matters.
As part of a combination of management review, selfEuropean Union in December 2006 and established management processes, which assessment and internal and external audit.
enters into force on 1st June 2007.
Under include performance management systems The results of external and internal audit REACH, as part of a phased programme over and appropriate remuneration incentives, reviews are reported to and considered by several years, industry is required to register senior management reports directly to the the Audit Committee, and actions are taken substances that are manufactured, imported CEO on ESG matters on a regular basis.
to address significant control matters or used in Europe.
For the majority of identified.
The Audit Committee also Key areas of ESG internal control and substances i. e. ingredients used in the approves annual internal audit plans and performance, including ESG disclosures, are Companys products the responsibility for is responsible for performing the ongoing independently reviewed and verified by both registration will lie with its suppliers, who review of internal control on behalf internal and external organisations, including manufacture or import the ingredients used.
Internal Audit, and their findings regularly The Company will continue to work closely reported to senior management, the CEO, with its suppliers as REACH is implemented, The Board confirms that reviews of the the Audit Committee and the Board.
to ensure that the ingredients used in its appropriateness and effectiveness of the system products are registered.
In addition, the of internal control throughout the financial year The Board has identified and assessed the Company has established an internal REACH have been satisfactorily completed in compliance significant ESG risks and concluded that there Task Force to ensure that all of its products with provision C. 2.1 of the Combined Code.
are limited material risks to the Companys longand their ingredients remain compliant.
In particular major risks have been identified and and short-term value arising from ESG matters, ongoing monitoring procedures are in place.
other than potential reputational risks common to businesses with well-known brands.
14 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 RECKITT 01-22:RECKITT 01-22 16 3 07 10:14 Page 15 Supply chain risks: Most product, component include updates on the share price development, The Directors are required to prepare the financial and raw material supply chains present a major buyers and sellers of shares and on statements on the going concern basis unless number of potential reputational risks relating investor views, including analyst reports on it is inappropriate to presume that the Company to: labour standards: health, safety and the industry and specifically on the Company.
environmental standards: raw material sourcing: Feedback on presentations and roadshow Going concern and the social, ethical and environmental meetings with institutional investors is presented The Directors, having made appropriate performance of third party manufacturers and to the Executive Directors following twice-yearly enquiries, are satisfied that the Company and suppliers.
The Companys Global Manufacturing roadshows in Europe and North America.
the Group have adequate resources to continue Standard GMS mandates minimum The Chairman is available to discuss governance in operational existence for the foreseeable requirements regarding employment and strategy with major shareholders should future.
For this reason they continue to adopt arrangements, labour standards and health, such a dialogue be requested.
During the year the going concern basis in preparing the safety and environmental management, in the Chairman and the Senior Independent Nonfinancial statements.
line with international guidelines, for both Executive Director have met with shareholders the Company and its suppliers.
Management in satisfaction of Code Provision D. 1.1.
Audit processes and controls in place include Group, The Company believes that it is important that The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, Area and Regional monitoring and auditing it makes key executives available, along with state that: of compliance with the GMS and other the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, a so far as each Director is aware, there requirements, including the external audit if required, to discuss matters of concern with is no relevant audit information of which of third party product manufacturers.
the Companys auditors are unaware: and Product quality risks: Failures in product quality The Companys Annual General Meeting is b each Director has taken all the steps that controls could potentially lead to damage to used as the main opportunity for the Directors he she ought to have taken as a Director the reputation of, and trust in, the Companys to communicate with private investors.
to make him herself aware of any relevant brands.
The Company has comprehensive Policy on the payment of creditors audit information and to establish that quality management processes and procedures, It is the Companys policy to follow the CBI the Companys auditors are aware of including Group, Area, Regional and site-level Prompt Payers Code.
This policy requires that information.
Quality Assurance functions that oversee and the Company to agree the terms of payments monitor product quality globally.
Charitable and political donations with its suppliers, to ensure that those suppliers Donations to charitable organisations in the Further information on the Companys are aware of those terms and to abide by those UK amounted to 599,000 2005 568,000. management of ESG matters, specifically its terms.
Copies of the Code are available from No political donations were made 2005 nil.
forward-looking programmes to help tackle CBI, Centre Point, 103 New Oxford Street, climate change and invest in communities, is London WC1A 1DU.
As at 31 December 2006 AGM provided on page 9 of the separately published and 31 December 2005 the Company did not The notice convening the fifty-fourth AGM Shareholders Review and Summary Financial have any amounts due to its suppliers.
of the Company to be held on Thursday, 3 May Statement 2006.
The Companys annual 2007 at 11.15 a. m. at The London Heathrow Directors responsibilities Sustainability Report available at Marriott Hotel, Bath Road, Hayes, Middlesex The following statement, which should be read www.
com provides further UB3 5AN is contained in a separate document in conjunction with the Auditors Reports set out information on its policies, systems and for shareholders.
on pages 23 and 55, is made with a view procedures for managing ESG matters and any to distinguishing for shareholders the respective Auditors material risks arising from them, including: the responsibilities of the Directors and of the The auditors,  LLP, have extent to which it complies with those policies, auditors in relation to the financial statements.
indicated their willingness to continue in office systems and procedures: Key Performance The Directors are required by the Companies Act and a resolution that they be reappointed will Indicators KPIs : and its sustainability 1985 to prepare financial statements for each be proposed at the AGM.
year which give a true and fair view of the state Other information The Board believes that it receives adequate of affairs of the Company and the Group as As at 2 March 2007 the Company had received information and training on ESG matters and their at the end of the year, and of the profit or loss the following notices of substantial interests potential risks and opportunities to the business for the year.
3% or more in the total voting rights of the Company, including reputational risks.
The Directors consider that, in preparing of the Company: Sustainability and corporate responsibility the financial statements on pages 24 to 63 JAB Holdings B. V. : 111,105,415 shares 15.5%.
Information on the Companys management of including the information on Directors sustainability and corporate responsibility issues remuneration on pages 17 to 22, the Company Legal & General Investment Management is provided on page 9 of the separately published has used appropriate accounting policies Limited: 24,500,964 shares 3.41%.
Shareholders Review and Summary Financial consistently applied and supported by FMR Corp. and its direct and indirect Statement 2006 and in its annual Sustainability reasonable and prudent judgements and subsidiaries, and Fidelity International Limited Report, which provides information on its estimates, and that all applicable accounting and its direct and indirect subsidiaries: policies, programmes, targets and progress standards have been followed.
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that By order of the Board Relations with shareholders the Company keeps accounting records which Elizabeth Richardson The Board is committed to effective disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial Company Secretary communication between the Company and position of the Company and which enable them 103-105 Bath Road its shareholders.
The Executive Directors, with to ensure that the financial statements comply Slough, Berks SL1 3UH the Senior Vice President and the Manager, with the Companies Act 1985.
Investor Relations, meet regularly with 19 March 2007 The Directors are also responsible for ensuring institutional shareholders and financial analysts, that reasonable procedures are being followed in Europe and North America, to discuss matters for safeguarding the assets of the Group, relating to the Companys business strategy and and for preventing and detecting fraud and current performance issues.
The Board receives other irregularities.
regular monthly reports from the CEO which Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 15 RECKITT 01-22:RECKITT 01-22 7 3 07 02:07 Page 16 Report of the Directors continued Table 1 Interests in the share capital of the Company The Directors in office at the end of the year had the following beneficial interests in the ordinary shares of the Company: Note 2 March 2007 31 December 2006 31 December 2005 Adrian Bellamy 15,306 15,306 14,130 Bart Becht 3 1,232,484 1,232,484 996,731 Colin Day 304,074 302,107 249,591 Peter Harf 841,686 841,686 841,303 Kenneth Hydon 3,937 3,937 3,643 Graham Mackay 756 756 373 Gerard Murphy 472 472 178 David Tyler appointed 26 February 2007 Judith Sprieser 2,149 2,149 1,850 Peter White 2,335 2,335 2,041 Notes 1.
No person who was a Director or a member of a Directors family on 31 December 2006 had any notifiable share interests in any subsidiary of the Company.
The Companys Register of Directors Interests which is open to inspection contains full details of Directors shareholdings and options to subscribe.
As at both 31 December 2006 and 2 March 2007, Bart Becht also had a non-beneficial shareholding in the Company of 299,655 shares.
Table 2 Attendance at meetings In 2006, there were seven Board meetings two held by telephone conference in accordance with the Articles of Association, three Audit Committee meetings, four Remuneration Committee meetings one held by telephone conference and three Nomination Committee meetings.
Written resolutions are required to be signed by all Directors on the Board.
Attendance by individual Directors at Board meetings and at meetings of Committees on which they sit is given in the table below.
Number of meetings attended Note Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Adrian Bellamy 7 4 3 Peter Harf 7 3 Bart Becht 7 3 Colin Day 7 George Greener a 2 1 Kenneth Hydon 7 3 Graham Mackay 7 4 Gerard Murphy 7 3 Judith Sprieser 7 4 3 Peter White 7 3 3 Notes a George Greener resigned his appointment at the AGM on 4 May 2006.
He attended all meetings of the Board prior to his resignation.
16 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006
