RECKITT 01-22:RECKITT 01-22 16 3 07 15:56 Page 11 The Board of Directors and Executive Committee The Board Judith Sprieser 53, American # Gareth Hill 40, South African Adrian Bellamy 65, British # Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Was Senior Vice President, Information Services.
Was appointed a Non-Executive Director of the appointed a Non-Executive Director in August Joined Reckitt Benckiser in October 2006.
Company in 1999 and became Non-Executive 2003.
She was previously Chief Executive Officer He was previously Information Systems Director Chairman in May 2003.
He is Chairman of The of Transora, Inc. an e-commerce software and at Arcadia Group Ltd since 2000, having joined Body Shop International Plc and a Director of service company and Executive Vice President as the e-Commerce Development Director.
The Gap and Williams-Sonoma, Inc.
He was formerly Chief Financial Officer of Sara Lee Prior to Arcadia, Gareth was at IBM UK Ltd, formerly a director of Gucci Group NV and Corporation.
She is a Director of Allstate Insurance Rex Trueform Clothing Ltd in South Africa and The Robert Mondavi Corporation.
Company, USG Corporation, InterContinental Arthur Andersen.
He is a qualified chartered Exchange, Inc. and Royal Ahold, NV.
accountant and has a BA in Commerce from Bart Becht 50, Dutch # the University of Cape Town, South Africa.
David Tyler 54, British Joined the Board in 1999 on his appointment Was appointed Non-Executive Director in as Chief Executive Officer of the Company.
Gareth is responsible for global information February 2007.
He was Group Finance Director He was Chief Executive of Benckiser Detergents, systems and services and telecommunications.
of GUS plc from February 1997 until October subsequently Benckiser N. V. since 1995 Rakesh Kapoor 48, Indian 2006.
Previously he was Group Finance Director and Chairman of Benckiser's Management Executive Vice President, Category at Christies International plc and in his early Board from May 1999.
He holds no current Development.
Joined Reckitt & Colman in career he held positions within County NatWest external directorships.
1987 serving in various roles including Regional Limited and Unilever Plc.
He is a Non-Executive Colin Day 51, British Marketing Director, South Asia.
Following the Director of Burberry Group and Experian Group.
Joined Reckitt Benckiser in September 2000 merger in 1999, he assumed the position of Peter White 65, British from Aegis Group plc where he was Group Global Category Director, Pest Control.
He was Was appointed a Non-Executive Director in Finance Director from 1995.
He was formerly appointed SVP, Regional Director, Northern December 1997.
He was previously Group Chief a Non-Executive Director of Vero plc, the Bell Europe in 2002 and then EVP Category Executive of Alliance & Leicester Plc.
He was Group plc, easyJet plc and Imperial Tobacco plc.
Chairman of the Audit Committee between He is currently a Non-Executive Director Rakesh is responsible for global category May 1998 and November 2006. of WPP Group plc.
management, R&D, media and market research.
Executive Committee Dr Peter Harf 60, German # Alain Le Goff 54, French Javed Ahmed 47, Pakistani Joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director Executive Vice President, Supply.
Was appointed Executive Vice President, North America and in 1999 and is the Deputy Chairman.
He served EVP for Operations at Benckiser in October Australia and Regional Director North American as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 1996.
He joined the Company in 1986, serving Household.
Joined Benckiser in 1992 as General until June 2004.
He is Chairman of Coty Inc. as Industrial Director in France, Monaco, Manager, Canada and in 1995 became General and InBev and a Director of the Brunswick Germany and as Logistics Director for the Manager, UK.
Appointed SVP North American Corporation.
He is Chief Executive Officer Group.
He was previously with Lesieur.
Household in 2001 and EVP, North America and of Joh.
Prior to joining Alain is responsible for the global supply Kenneth Hydon 62, British # Benckiser, he previously worked with Procter chain including procurement, manufacturing, Was appointed a Non-Executive Director in & Gamble and Bain & Company.
Also responsible December 2003 and Chairman of the Audit for management of Squeeze and X-trim gross Javed is responsible for North America Committee from November 2006.
He was the margin enhancement programmes.
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director between February 2005 and November 2006.
Elio Leoni-Sceti 41, Italian Bart Becht 50, Dutch He retired as Financial Director of Vodafone Executive Vice President, Europe.
Joined Benckiser in 1988 Group plc in July 2005.
He is a Non-Executive Benckiser in 1992 serving in various marketing and served as General Manager in Canada, Director of Tesco plc, Pearson plc and the roles and as General Manager of Germany and the UK, France and Italy before being appointed Royal Berkshire NHS Foundation Trust.
Following the merger in 1999, Elio was Chief Executive of Benckiser Detergents, promoted to SVP, North American Household subsequently Benckiser N. V. in 1995.
He was Graham Mackay 57, British South African and to EVP Category Development in 2001. appointed Chief Executive Officer of Reckitt Was appointed a Non-Executive Director in He was appointed EVP, Europe in July 2006.
Benckiser following the merger in December February 2005 and the Senior Non-Executive Elio was previously with Procter & Gamble 1999.
He was previously with Procter & Gamble Director in November 2006.
He is the current in Italy and France.
both in the USA and Germany.
Chief Executive of SABMiller plc, one of the worlds largest brewers with brewing interests Bart is Chairman of the Executive Committee.
Elio is responsible for all European markets, or major distribution agreements in over 60 Western and Eastern.
Freddy Caspers 46, German countries across six continents.
He joined the Executive Vice President, Developing Markets.
Frank Ruether 54, German then South African Breweries Limited in 1978 Joined Benckiser in September 1997 as EVP Senior Vice President, Human Resources.
Joined and has held a number of senior positions for Eastern Europe.
He previously served in Benckiser in July 1996 as Personnel Director and within that group.
PepsiCo and Johnson & Johnson in a variety was appointed SVP Human Resources in March of international assignments in Europe, US, Dr Gerard Murphy 51, Irish 1997.
He was previously with Mars, 19861996, Eastern Europe and Turkey.
Was appointed a Non-Executive Director in June as Director of Compensation & Benefits Europe.
He is the current Chief Executive Officer Freddy is responsible for all companies in Asia Frank is responsible for human resources of Kingfisher plc.
He was previously Chief Pacific, Latin America and Africa Middle East.
management, remuneration and benefits, Executive Officer of Carlton Communications and organisational development.
Colin Day 51, British plc, Exel plc and Greencore Group plc.
Joined Reckitt Benckiser in his career, he held various senior positions in September 2000 from Aegis Group plc where within food and drink group, Grand Metropolitan Member of the Audit Committee he was Group Finance Director from 1995.
Prior now Diageo plc in Ireland, UK and USA.
to that he was at Kodak, British Gas, fide La Rue Member of the Remuneration Committee Group plc and ABB Group.
# Member of the Nomination Committee Colin is responsible for financial controls and reporting, treasury, tax, corporate development, legal affairs and internal audit.
Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 11
