CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW Redrow's activities are wide ranging and we look to embrace the CSR agenda in each aspect of our business.
As a leading developer, Redrow aims to play our part in shaping a better future Brian Duckworth Non-Executive Director Chairman of Environmental Corporate Responsibility Committee Values and objectives Sustainable development As one of the UK's leading residential and During the year Redrow developed and commercial developers, Redrow is committed adopted a Sustainability Policy.
This identifies to the delivery of quality, sustainable six key performance areas that will be communities through our focus on continuous regularly monitored and reviewed by the improvement, innovation and good design, Environmental Corporate Responsibility sympathetic to both the locality and the Committee.
The Policy can be found on our environment as a whole.
We have analysed the impact of our business 75% of legal completions in the year to June on all stakeholders and have further 2006 came from brownfield development Heathfields, Chester by Redrow Homes North West.
developed our strategy and supporting policies sites.
Looking to the future, 65% of our to enable benchmarking, performance owned landbank as at June 2006 is monitoring and progressive target setting and brownfield.
This puts Redrow ahead of the to address fully the social, environmental and Governments 60% target for the proportion ethical risks which we encounter.
In doing of residential development on recycled land.
this, we have been mindful of the need to balance our obligations to our shareholders in Redrow focuses on good design and terms of financial performance with our sustainability and we are committed to responsibilities to other stakeholders and the encouraging our customers to recognise the wider community.
benefits delivered through sustainable development.
Our Debut product epitomises this with our sites at Rugby, Buckshaw Village and Castle Vale all securing Building Brackla Junior Football Club, South Wales.
22 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW Buckshaw Village, Chorley by Redrow Homes Lancashire, winner of Best New Build Village 2005.
Research Establishment BRE EcoHomes Trade Network and our purchasing policy of excellent ratings.
In May 2006, our Debut at sustainable timber products encompasses and Sustainability policy Rugby site received a BREEAM award from promotes processes and working practices Covers 6 key performance areas: BRE as the highest scoring residential which support the use of timber only from Land maximise land use and development within the EcoHomes rating well managed and sustainable sources.
Where regeneration opportunities system in 2006.
It was also pleasing that our possible, Redrow specifies products and mixed use development at Buckshaw Village materials that generate the least Design focus on design excellence, durability and won the Your New Home Magazine Best New environmental impact, including timber from performance Build Village 2005 Award, and we secured the managed plantations, aggregates from the Procurement enhance Major Housebuilder of the Year Award from closest quarries and non-toxic paints.
efficiency of procurement Building Magazine, primarily as a result of our through partnering commitment to innovation and sustainability.
Environmental issues Construction achieve high Redrow has developed an Environmental quality construction having Redrow embraces the principles of lean Management Policy which complies with the regard to potential risks to the construction by maximising the value key elements of ISO 14001 to guide our environment: maintain high levels of Health and Safety delivered to our customers whilst improving development teams to build both in production certainty for our suppliers and compliance with legislation and using best Marketing encourage our accelerating the construction process.
We practice in sympathy with the environment.
customers to recognise the benefits delivered through work with our major suppliers and This policy is now being used on an sustainable development subcontractors to identify areas of our increasing number of sites within the Group.
operations where we can improve efficiency Waste management practices encourage waste Customer Service provide high standards of customer and reduce waste.
We encourage them to segregation and re-cycling where possible and service share our objectives in terms of sustainability.
we are now establishing benchmarks to Redrow is a member of WWF-UK Forest and monitor improvement in this important area 23 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW Collingwood Crescent, Gloucester, a Grade II listed refurbishment by Redrow Homes South West, winner of the Best Major Restoration award from Gloucester City Council Civic Awards.
to both improve our environmental We are a signatory to the Home Builders performance and manage our cost base.
Federation HBF Health and Safety Charter.
In 2006, we were proud to receive a Gold The Product Development Team is award from the Royal Society for the responsible for driving forward a progressive Prevention of Accidents RoSPA, improving agenda of innovation, both in terms of design on the silver and bronze awards won in 2005 and construction techniques.
There were no improving energy efficiency and designing out fatalities on our developments in 2006 wastage.
We monitor and collate data on the 2005: nil, no prosecutions for Health and SAP ratings of our new homes.
SAP ratings Safety issues 2005: nil, and the number of Crushing machine for brick and block waste, are the Standard Assessment Procedure for injuries reported under the Reporting of producing hardcore for use elsewhere on the Redrow development at Stamford Brook, Altrincham.
the Governments recommended system for Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences energy ratings for dwellings.
Regulations RIDDOR reduced significantly to 40 2005: 72.
In terms of Health and Health and Safety Safety Executive action, as in the previous Redrow places great emphasis on the year, there was one prohibition notice issued.
importance of Health and Safety.
No other enforcement notices were issued.
We recognise that the Health and Safety of Our Annual Health and Safety Report is all employees and those within the supply published on our website www.
chain is essential to our business.
Training is provided to employees and subcontractors and we take appropriate actions to comply with Health and Safety best practice and Robert Sayers, Redrows Health and Safety Director legislation throughout our organisation.
receiving the Gold Award from the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents RoSPA.
24 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW Customers We believe that delivering high standards of service to our customers is an integral part of our business.
In support of our objectives to raise levels of customer satisfaction, Redrow endorses and is committed to the efforts of the HBF in establishing a national survey of new home buyers in partnership with the NHBC.
We have committed to a Customer Service Charter which is published on our website.
It is based on the HBF model charter and underlines our commitment to our customers, both in the buying process and after they have moved in.
Employees We aim to make Redrow an employer of choice to attract good quality people and Our Corporate Social Responsibility report can be found at www.
co. uk reduce staff turnover by offering all our employees the opportunity to enhance their genuine concerns about unethical or unsafe related assistance, including respite care, for learning and personal development.
children in need, the elderly, the sick or Our Whistleblowing Policy is widely infirm.
Redrow donated 218,000 to the We provide excellent opportunities for publicised across the Group and provides Foundation in the year to June 2006 and will employees to develop appropriate skills, both employees with a confidential means to donate 50 for every legal completion secured through in-house training at our dedicated communicate their concerns.
training facility and external courses.
In addition, Redrow is currently training Redrow has also established an independent Summary around 70 apprentices.
As part of the HBF, Employee Support Service which offers Redrow's activities are wide ranging and we Redrow is playing its part in the industry skills confidential and free advice around the clock look to embrace the CSR agenda in each initiative in conjunction with the on a wide range of personal and family issues.
As a leading developer, Construction Industry Training Board Redrow aims to play its part in shaping a CITB - Construction Skills which targets Investing in communities better future.
Much more about our Corporate improving the skills within the industry.
Redrow is actively involved in the local Social Responsibility policies and practices communities within which we have can be found on our website in the form of a Redrow is committed to a culture of openness developments.
This involvement ranges from comprehensive report and a CD is also and to dealing fairly with any serious and relationships with local schools to promote available on request.
safety awareness, through participation in Business in the Community BITC projects to charitable donations and sponsorship.
Redrow's belief that we have a wider role to play in helping to provide social improvement Brian Duckworth within the communities we build has been Non-Executive Director further supported by the launch this year of Chairman of Environmental Corporate the Redrow Foundation.
The Foundation, 9 Redrow Assistant Site Managers receiving Responsibility Committee which is an independent trust, is particularly their accreditation certificates which includes 11 September 2006 passing NVQ Level 3. aimed at providing accommodation and 25
