DIRECTORS REPOR T The Directors have pleasure in presenting to the members their report Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of and the financial statements for the 12 months ended 30 June 2006. financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Principal activities and business review Going concern The principal activities of the Group are residential and commercial The Directors have considered the Groups financial position and property development.
trading prospects and consider they have a reasonable expectation for stating that Redrow plc has adequate resources to continue trading for Revenue and profit on ordinary activities before taxation are stated the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going at 770.1m and 120.5m respectively.
concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
A detailed review of the Groups activities during the year and of Substantial shareholdings its prospects is contained within the Chairmans statement, Chief As at 11 September 2006, the Company has been notified of the Executives Operational review and Group Finance Directors review.
following interests of 3% or more in its ordinary shares: The key performance indicators of the business are articulated in the No.
of % of issued Chief Executives Operational review and the Group Finance Directors Name shares held share capital review.
Statement of Directors responsibilities Bridgemere Securities Limited 11,048,952 6.9 The Directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare Mirabaud Investment financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair Management Limited 8,175,301 5.1 view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end Lloyds TSB Group plc 6,582,030 4.1 of the financial year and of the profit of the Group for that period.
Legal & General Group plc 5,488,182 3.4 In preparing the financial statements the Directors ensure that suitable accounting policies have been used and applied consistently, that Directors reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been made The Directors are listed together with their biographical details on pages and that applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The Directors are required to prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the In accordance with Article 84 of the Articles of Association, Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible D L Arnold, B K Harvey, R B Jones and J Martin will retire by rotation for maintaining adequate accounting records, and are also responsible at the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for for taking such steps and instituting and maintaining such systems and re-election.
As part of the Boards annual evaluation process, each controls as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Director underwent formal performance evaluations which included Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
looking at the individuals effective contribution.
The Board is conscious of the need progressively to refresh its membership as regards The maintenance and integrity of the Redrow plc website is the Non-Executive Directors and acknowledges the particular importance of responsibility of the Directors.
The work carried out by the external this once a Non-Executive Director has served more than six years since Auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and the date of their first election.
This is taken into consideration when accordingly, the external Auditors accept no responsibility for any considering the individuals effective contribution.
As a result of the changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they evaluation process, the Board confirms that D L Arnold and were initially presented on the website.
B K Harvey, who stand for re-election as Executive Directors and R B Jones and J Martin, who stand for re-election as So far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information Non-Executive Directors, continue to be effective and demonstrate of which the Groups external Auditors are unaware.
Each Director has the appropriate commitment to their roles.
taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish The Executive Directors have formal service agreements.
that the Groups external Auditors are aware of that information.
Termination of their employment may be effected by twelve months notice given by either party.
28 DIRECTORS REPORT The Non-Executive Directors have fixed term service agreements The Group supports the employment of disabled persons wherever outlining their duties and responsibilities.
possible through recruitment and by the retention and retraining of those who become disabled during their employment.
The Board acknowledges that if a Non-Executive Director serves more than nine years since first election, then that Non-Executive Director The Directors recognise the importance of good communications with will be subject to annual re-election and that the length of tenure on employees.
Companies within the Group are encouraged to make their the Board will be a relevant factor in determining their independence.
employees aware of the financial and economic factors affecting their respective companies and the Group.
This is assisted through the R B Jones and J Martin will have served nine years at the date of the medium of regular management meetings and staff publications.
2006 Annual General Meeting and therefore offer themselves for Employee share ownership is encouraged through savings related re-election.
As noted in the Nomination Committee report on page 34, schemes.
In the year ended 30 June 2006, the Save As You Earn scheme the Company is in the process of seeking a new independent was administered via a Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust Non-Executive Director to succeed J Martin.
It is intended that QUEST.
J Martin will retire when the appropriate appointment is made.
Creditor payment policy Directors interests The Group values its relationships with suppliers and subcontractors.
There were no material related party transactions which require It is the policy to agree credit terms prior to commencement of trading.
Subject to any items of genuine dispute, it is policy to pay creditors within the terms agreed.
At June 2006 the Group had 42 days purchases The Directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company are given outstanding in respect of payments to suppliers and subcontractors in the Remuneration report on pages 42 to 44.
The Company had nil days purchases outstanding in Charitable and political donations respect of payments to suppliers 2005: nil.
The Group made no political donations but paid 304,000 in charitable donations during the year being 246,000 in respect of National Research and development charities and 58,000 in support of local charities.
The Group and its The Group has a centralised Product Development Team charged with employees are actively involved in fund-raising activities for specific identifying and evaluating new construction techniques and products.
Environmental and sustainability issues play a prominent role in its activities.
In March 2006, Redrow established the Redrow Foundation.
Environment This independent charitable trust which is a registered charity seeks to Redrow recognises its responsibilities to the community as a whole relieve poverty and sickness in the UK, and in particular to provide and has adopted an environmental strategy which is a core part of the accommodation and related assistance, including respite care, especially Groups objectives.
Further details are provided in the Corporate Social for children, the elderly and those who are sick or infirm.
Redrow pays Responsibility review on pages 22 to 25 and also on our website at 50 per home legally completed to the Redrow Foundation.
paid to the Foundation is included within the charitable donations in respect of National charities disclosed above and amounted to 218,000 Auditors in 2005 06.
A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as external Auditors will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on Employees 7 November 2006.
Redrow places considerable importance on the provision of training and development: training@redrow, a purpose built in-house training facility at Tamworth, offers over 40 different courses including those which support the Group induction process.
29 DIRECTORS REPOR T Purchase of the Companys own shares Resolution 11 set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting seeks authority from Shareholders for the Company to purchase up to 15,955,472 ordinary shares, an aggregate nominal amount of 1,595,547, which is equivalent to approximately 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital at 30 June 2006.
The authority will expire at the end of next years Annual General Meeting and the resolution specifies the maximum and minimum prices at which the shares may be bought.
Other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the overall financial position of the Company will be taken into account before deciding upon this course of action.
Notice of Annual General Meeting Pages 83 to 86 set out the Notice of Annual General Meeting and details the resolutions proposed together with explanatory notes.
By order of the Board G A Cope Company Secretary 11 September 2006 30 DIRECTORS REPORT
