Return on capital employed in the year at these results and the progress made across our The fundamentals for the industry remain 22% 2005: 28.7% remained significantly business over the last twelve months.
Health sound with requirements for new homes in ahead of our cost of capital.
Gearing was 25% and safety rightly carries a high profile in our many regions being increased, particularly in 2005: 23% and our interest cover at 11.5 activities and we are delighted to have response to the continuous formation of new times 2005: 12.2 times remains strong.
secured a Gold Award from RoSPA in 2006 to households and the need to replace the follow the Silver and Bronze awards received Nation's ageing housing stock.
This provides Dividend in 2005 and 2004 respectively.
an environment that gives Redrow an In December 2003, the Board of Redrow plc opportunity to capitalise on the strategy we made a commitment to increase the dividend Outlook have put in place to deliver growth.
in the years to June 2004 and June 2005 by In the Spring of 2006, we witnessed a We recognise the commitment of the 20% per annum.
This underlined the Board's recovery in the housing market following Government to increase the number of new confidence in the quality and strength of the eighteen months of weaker demand.
We have homes, in particular through improving the Company.
In September 2004, we extended entered the new financial year with a forward efficiency of the planning system.
The latter this commitment for a further year to June sales position that remains ahead of our however continues to be the major issue in 2006, and we therefore propose to increase historic norm for our core product together terms of meeting the Government's the final dividend for the year to June 2006 to with significant forward sales for our Debut objectives.
This will bring the total product.
We are mindful that recent increases dividend for the year to 13.0p 2005: 10.8p, in unemployment levels and interest rates The quality of our current land bank and the representing a 20% increase, with dividend could affect customer confidence but sales positive advancement of a number of our cover standing at 4.1 times earnings.
levels in the early weeks of the new financial major forward land sites within the planning year are encouraging.
The overall growth system provides us with the capability to Our strong financial performance and the within the economy and the commitment of increase output in our core product range.
progress we have made with our growth the Redrow Team combined with the quality Our new Debut product continues to go from strategy provides the Board with the and effectiveness of our land bank should strength to strength and we are on track to opportunity to continue this progressive enable the Group to see continued growth in meet our objective of delivering 2,000 Debut dividend policy.
I am therefore pleased to the level of legal completions in the new homes per annum by 2010.
We continue to advise that the Board has decided to increase financial year both in our core and Debut derive advantage from mixed use the dividend by 20% per annum in each of product ranges.
As a consequence we expect developments and in due course expect to the next two years so that by November 2008, 2007 to be a year of further progress for secure benefit from the regeneration the dividend will have increased by 2.5 times Redrow.
We have a over a five year period.
In addition, we have strategy in place that provides us with the decided that in future years, the dividend will capability to deliver growth and through be rebalanced so that the interim and final which we can continue to produce value to dividend will be broadly equal thereby shareholders.
increasing the proportion of dividend paid at the interim stage.
People In 2006, Redrow secured the Major Homebuilder of the Year Award from Building Magazine.
This award was won through the commitment and dedication of the Redrow Robert Jones Team.
This team has risen to the challenges Chairman presented by recent markets.
On behalf of the 11 September 2006 Board, I would like to thank all those in the Redrows 50,000th customers with Paul Pedley, Redrow Team, including our suppliers and Executive Deputy Chairman, presenting a cheque subcontractors, for their contribution to both for 2,500 to Childline Scotland.
