Ensuring the maintenance of a sound system of internal control and Governance framework risk management: The Board of Redrow plc is committed to high standards of Corporate Governance.
Under the requirements of the Listing Rules of the UK 7.
Approval of corporate acquisitions or disposals, significant land Listing Authority, the Company sets out details below of how it has purchases or contracts: applied the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code 8.
Changes to the size, structure and composition of the Board: published in July 2003 the Code.
Approval of significant policies, including Redrows Health & Safety The Directors have considered the contents and requirements of the policy: and Code and believe that the Company is substantially compliant.
Within this section on Corporate Governance, the Directors have 10. Review of overall corporate governance arrangements.
identified those provisions with which it does not comply with the Board papers are distributed in advance of the meetings to allow Code and sets out the reasons for not doing so.
adequate time for review and preparation and include key strategic, operational and financial information.
The Board of Directors During the financial year ended June 2006, the Board comprised a Non-Executive Chairman, six Executive Directors and three Board structure independent Non-Executive Directors.
As at 7 November 2006, The Board considers that it is of a size and has a balance of skills, J Martin, Senior Non-Executive Director, will have served more than knowledge and experience that is appropriate for its business.
nine years since first election and will therefore cease to be considered The combination within the Executive team of the Chief Executive, independent in accordance with the Code.
All directors submit Executive Deputy Chairman and Group Finance Director, together with themselves for re-election at regular intervals of not more than three the local operational knowledge and experience provided by the years and are subject to re-election at their first Annual General Regional Chairmen, provides the Board with an appropriate view of the Meeting after appointment.
Non-Executive Directors submit themselves detail of the business.
The Non-Executive Directors bring a depth of for annual re-election if they have served more than nine years since experience and understanding from outside the Group.
Under the Combined Code, at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman should comprise independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board and this The Group does not comply with this provision.
In the period following responsibility is clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the the publication of the Combined Code in 2003, the Board has Board.
The Chief Executive leads the business and is responsible for considered a variety of changes that would lead to compliance and managing it within the authorities delegated to him by the Board.
continues to keep the matter under review.
A reduction in the number of Executive Directors on the Board is not considered appropriate at this The Board meets regularly and frequently, no less than ten times per point as the Board feels it would have a detrimental effect upon its annum and has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its performance given its current balance of skills, knowledge and decision.
In the twelve months ended June 2006, the Board met experience.
As regards the number of independent Non-Executive monthly.
The matters reserved include: Directors, the Board is taking steps to recruit a successor to J Martin, as 1.
Approval of Redrows long term objectives and strategy: set out in the report of the Nominations Committee.
Approval of the annual report and accounts, preliminary and Non-Executive Directors are able to meet the Chairman separately from interim financial statements, trading updates and the the Executive Directors if they so wish.
Approval of any significant changes in accounting policies or Independence practices: The Board considered each of its Non-Executive Directors to be independent during the year, with the Chairman having been 4.
Any changes relating to capital structure: independent upon his appointment in July 1997.
Approval of treasury policies: considered to be independent both by virtue of his position as Chairman CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 31 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT and because he will have served more than nine years since first election part of a broader continuous assessment programme to ensure as at the Annual General Meeting in November 2006.
In respect of performance is maintained at a high level.
considering the independence of the Non-Executive Directors, no The Board undertakes a formal annual review of its own effectiveness.
Non-Executive Director: This internal review during the financial year ended June 2006 was has been an employee of the Group within the last five years: conducted through a Board discussion of a paper prepared by the Chairman covering key areas of board performance.
As a result of this has, or has had within the last three years, a material business formal review, some minor changes were adopted in respect of Main relationship with the Group either directly, or as a partner, Board meetings.
shareholder, director or senior employee of a body that has such a relationship with the Group: Relationship with Shareholders has received or receives remuneration from the Group apart The Group announces its financial results half yearly and immediately from the directors fee, or participates in any of the Groups following their publication undertakes formal presentations to equity performance related pay schemes, or is a member of the Groups analysts.
These presentations are available on the Companys website.
pension plan: Following the results announcement, the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director meet institutional Shareholders and feedback from has close family ties with any of the Groups advisers, directors these meetings is independently collected and disseminated to the or senior employees: Board.
The Chairman also attends meetings with a sample of major holds cross directorships or has significant links with other Shareholders to ensure that contact is maintained to understand any directors through involvement in other companies or bodies: issues or concerns they may have.
Both the Chairman and Senior represents a significant shareholder: or Non-Executive Director are available to attend meetings at the request of major Shareholders.
In addition to the results presentations, the with the exception of J Martin, has served on the Board for Group publishes a trading update shortly after the end of June and more than nine years from the date of their first election.
J Martin is the Senior Non-Executive Director.
The Annual General Meeting AGM takes place at a venue close to the Groups Head Office, and formal notification, through the Annual Professional development and Board evaluation Report and Accounts, is sent to Shareholders at least 20 working days The Board recognises that a structured appraisal process and good in advance.
The AGM represents an opportunity for Shareholders to training are important requirements across the Group.
The Board table questions formally during the meeting and informally afterwards to receives regular presentations and briefings from those responsible for the Companys Directors.
In addition, the Board maintains close relationships with the local management teams, for example through Redrows website, www.
co. uk, gives access to current financial site visits and regional meetings attended by both Executive and and corporate information.
Performance evaluation of all Directors is undertaken as part of the Groups structured appraisal process.
All Executive Directors have an annual appraisal conducted by the Chief Executive at which performance against personal objectives is reviewed, having received input from the Board generally.
The Chairman conducts the annual appraisal of the Chief Executive and the performance evaluation of the Chairman is undertaken by the Chief Executive and Executive Deputy Chairman, in both cases having received feedback from their fellow Directors.
The Chairman and Chief Executive review the performance of each Non-Executive Director individually.
This appraisal process is 32 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Board and Committee composition and attendance The following table sets out the number of meetings held in the year ended 30 June 2006 for the Board and its Committees together with the attendance record of each Director: Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Environmental Committee Committee Committee Corporate Responsibility Committee Total number of meetings in 2005 06 12 4 4 2 2 R B Jones 10 12 2 2 1 2 N Fitzsimmons 12 12 2 2 P L Pedley 11 12 D L Arnold 12 12 B K Harvey 11 12 C E Lewis 12 12 J F Tutte 11 12 J Martin 10 12 4 4 3 4 1 2 B Duckworth 11 12 4 4 4 4 2 2 M J G King 10 12 3 4 3 4 2 2 The terms of reference for each Committee are available on the Redrow website or on request from the Company Secretary.
The following table sets out the membership of the Board Committees as at 30 June 2006: Audit Remuneration Nomination Environmental Committee Committee Committee Corporate Responsibility Committee R B Jones Non-Executive Chairman C M N Fitzsimmons Chief Executive M J Martin Senior Non-Executive Director C M M B Duckworth Non-Executive Director M M C M J G King Non-Executive Director M C M Key C - Chairman M - Member 33 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Board and its Committee regularly takes the opportunity to meet them without Committees and is a member of the Executive management team: all Executive Directors present.
Directors have access to his advice and services.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
The Committee receives regular updates and presentations on changes In certain circumstances, Board committees and individual Directors to accounting standards and best practice and individual members are may wish to take independent professional advice in connection with encouraged to attend external seminars and courses on areas relevant to their responsibilities and duties and, in this regard, the Company will their membership of the Committee.
meet the reasonable costs and expenses incurred.
The Audit Committee addressed a wide variety of issues in its meetings, including: Nomination Committee report The Nomination Committees terms of reference include reviewing the 1. Review of the interim and full year financial results including structure, size and composition of the Board, leading the process for the Annual Report and Accounts: Board appointments and making recommendations to the Board with 2.
Results of the 2005 external audit, the 2006 external audit plan and regard to any changes.
associated fees: In accordance with the Boards desire to refresh its membership on a 3. Review of independence and objectivity of external Auditors: regular basis and with the current term of office of the Senior 4.
Implementation of International Financial Reporting Standards: Non-Executive Director, J Martin, due to exceed nine years after the 5.
Internal audit plan, the effectiveness of the function and the level next AGM in November 2006, the Nomination Committee has of appropriate resources required: approved the appointment of a leading firm of headhunters to identify a field of candidates for the Nomination Committee to consider.
It has 6. Review of risk assessments: been agreed that J Martin will retire once an appropriate appointment is 7. Review of whistleblowing policy: and made.
8. Review of Audit Committee effectiveness.
Audit Committee report The Company has a whistleblowing policy which is publicised around The Audit Committees principal responsibilities lie in reviewing the the Group under which employees may raise concerns in confidence.
Groups financial reporting, overseeing the appointment and work of The Audit Committee receives reports on all occasions when such the external Auditors and for reviewing Redrows internal control issues are raised under this policy.
The terms of reference of the Committee are kept under regular review and are published on the Groups website.
Audit independence  LLP PwC were appointed Auditors in The Audit Committee is chaired by J Martin.
Jim is a Fellow of the 2003 having succeeded  who were appointed in Association of Chartered Certified Accountants, is the Non-Executive 1987.
The current audit partner was first appointed in respect of the Chairman of another FTSE listed company and is involved with a financial year ended June 2005. private company as Chairman where close monitoring of financial issues is expected by shareholders.
The other members of the The Audit Committee has an approved policy in respect of the work of Committee are B Duckworth and M J G King, both independent the external Auditors.
The intention of this policy is to ensure that the Non-Executive Directors.
Brian is a member of the Association of Auditors objectivity and independence is maintained by ensuring both Chartered Certified Accountants and has previously been Director of that the nature of any non-audit work undertaken or level of fees paid Finance at Severn Trent Water Limited.
The Board believes that as a does not compromise the Auditors position.
Appointments in respect result of Jims and Brians experience, the Committee has the of non-audit work require the prior approval of the Audit Committee.
appropriate level of expertise to fulfil its terms of reference.
The main non-audit work undertaken in the financial year ended The Committee met on four occasions during the financial year ended June 2006 related to advice provided to the Company by PwC in June 2006.
The external Auditors attended each meeting and the 34 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT their capacity as Scheme Actuary of the Redrow pension scheme.
This statement is designed to provide In addition, some costs were incurred during the year in respect of assurance that Group policies and procedures are being advice provided in connection with the Companys review and implemented and are being complied with in all material subsequent implementation of International Financial Reporting respects.
In addition, key functional directors complete a Standards.
Principal Controls Self Assessment Questionnaire which is reviewed by the Board to assist in improvements in the control Internal control framework.
The Board of Directors recognises its overall responsibility for the Defined authorisation levels exist over key areas such as land Groups systems of internal control and for monitoring their purchase and the placing of orders and contracts.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and A monthly reporting pack is circulated in advance and reviewed managing significant risks.
However, in reviewing the effectiveness of at each of the Main, Executive and subsidiary company board internal control, such systems can only provide reasonable but not meetings.
Annual budgets are set and quarterly forecasts absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
prepared, with actual performance compared against the annual budget and updated forecasts.
Key business activities including land acquisition, product design, procurement and information technology are controlled by the The Groups systems provide weekly updates on key statistics in Executive Directors.
All activity is organised within a defined structure relation to sales and production.
In addition, daily statements of with formal lines of responsibility, designated authority levels and a a reconciled cash position identifying significant payments are structured reporting framework.
A formalised reporting structure is established within Redrow.
Redrow has an Internal Audit function.
The Internal Audit Manager The Executive Directors and the Company Secretary meet monthly to reports to the Group Finance Director but maintains regular contact discuss the Groups key issues, risks and opportunities.
The operating with the Audit Committee Chairman and attends Audit Committee companies hold monthly board meetings which are attended by the meetings.
The work programme of Internal Audit is approved in Regional Chairmen on a regular basis.
advance by the Audit Committee and commented upon by the external Auditors.
This programme includes time for unscheduled visits to The Board has reviewed the Groups operations and processes and has companies within the Group.
The Internal Audit function updates the identified risk areas which have been assessed for their potential impact Audit Committee on this work at their meetings.
All reports are and internal controls in relation to those risks have been assessed.
distributed to the Board as well as to the external Auditors and any The Executive Board through its regular meetings reviews the areas of outstanding control weaknesses are followed up as appropriate.
risk on an ongoing basis and considers whether the internal controls identified in relation to those risks are appropriate.
Redrow places great emphasis on the importance of Health and Safety.
It has an in-house Health and Safety department which works closely The Audit Committee also reviews its assessment of risk at twice yearly with the operating companies.
Training is provided to employees and meetings.
The key features of the Groups internal controls are as subcontractors and we take appropriate actions to comply with Health follows: and Safety best practice and legislation throughout our organisation.
A Policy and Procedures manual covers all the significant aspects of the Groups operations and describes the systems and controls that are to be applied.
The manual is reviewed and updated regularly with amendments being approved by an Executive Director.
The Board asks each Director of its operating subsidiaries to complete an annual statement on Corporate Governance and 35
