Regus Report & Accounts 2006 34 Director statements Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the The directors are responsible for the maintenance and annual Report and financial statements integrity of the corporate and financial information included on The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the and the Group and parent company financial statements in preparation and dissemination of financial statements may accordance with applicable law and regulations.
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and Statutory statement as to disclosure to auditors parent company financial statements for each financial year.
The directors who held office at the date of approval of this Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent are unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that they company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting ought to have taken as a director to make themselves aware Standards and applicable law.
of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and performance of the Group: the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent company.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: For the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: For the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company and Group will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and to enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, a Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
