Regus Report & Accounts 2006 14 Board of directors c John Matthews Chairman John 62 joined Regus in 1995 as a non-executive director and was appointed Chairman in July 2002.
He is currently Chairman of Crest Nicholson plc and an independent director of Diploma plc, Rotork plc and SDL plc.
A Chartered Accountant, he was previously Managing Director of County Natwest and Deputy Chairman of Beazer plc.
John is Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Mark Dixon Chief Executive Officer Mark 47 founded Regus in 1989 and has been Chief Executive for over 17 years, leading the Groups worldwide expansion programme and the development of pioneering workplace solutions.
Since 2004, Mark has been located in the USA directly overseeing the integration of the HQ Global Workplaces acquisition.
Prior to Regus he established businesses in the retail and wholesale food industry.
Stephen Gleadle Chief financial Officer Stephen 48 joined Regus as Chief Financial Officer in October 2005.
Prior to Regus, he was Group Financial Controller of Tarmac plc and Finance Director at both Synstar plc and lastminute.
Rudy lobo Chief Operating Officer Rudy 51 joined Regus in 1992 and took on the role of Chief Operating Officer in October 2005, having previously been Group Finance Director.
In his role, he is responsible for commercial operations, human resources and for directing Regus IT and e-business strategy.
Rudy is also a Director and Trustee of the charity Great Causes Ltd.
Previously, Rudy was Head of Finance and Group Company Secretary of Medicom International Ltd, a publisher of medical journals.
Regus Report & Accounts 2006 15 a, b, c Roger Orf independent senior non-executive director Roger 54 was appointed a non-executive director of Regus in 1998 and is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Roger is currently Managing Director of Citigroup Property Investors.
He was formerly Head of European Operations for Lone Star, an investment company.
Prior to this, Roger made investments for his own account, managed investments on behalf of Apollo Real Estate Advisors and was in charge of Goldman Sachs European real estate department.
a, b, c Martin Robinson independent non-executive director Martin 44 was appointed a non-executive director of Regus in August 2002 and is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Martin is currently Chairman of Center Parcs UK Healthclub Holdings and is also a Director of the Supervisory Board of EuroDisney SCA.
He has previously held senior management positions with Scottish and Newcastle plc and Sara Lee Corporation and worked as a Management Consultant for four years with McKinsey & Co Inc. a, b, c Stephen East independent non-executive director Stephen 49 was appointed a non-executive director in 2005.
Stephen is currently Finance Director at Woolworths Group plc.
Prior to this, he ran his own consultancy business and held senior positions with Redland PLC and MEPC plc.
Stephen is a Chartered Accountant and President of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
He is also a non-executive director of Star Energy Group plc.
Notes a Member of the Audit Committee b Member of the Remuneration Committee c Member of the Nomination Committee
