Annual Report 4 8 06 08:50 Page 16 16 DIRECTORS REPORT The directors have pleasure in presenting their 33rd Annual There has been no change in the above holdings in the report, together with the audited financial statements for the period 1st July 2006 to 26th July 2006. year ended 30th June 2006 as set out on pages 24 to 58.
B R Taylor, who has a service contract with the Company and J P McGeehan, who has a letter of appointment with Trading results the Company, retire by rotation and being eligible, offer The Group results for the year were:- 2006 2005 themselves for re-election.
Biographical details of the 000 000 directors are shown on pages 6 and 7.
Environmental control Profit before taxation 38,102 31,733 The Renishaw Group operates in an  tax expense 7,621 6,297 responsible manner, making use of the most appropriate technologies and practices to minimise its impact on Profit for the year 30,481 25,436 the environment.
Environmental performance is a foremost criterion in the Principal activities and enhanced business review design of the manufacturing processes and extensive The principal activities of the Group during the year were recycling takes place throughout manufacturing operations.
the design, manufacture and sale of advanced precision Most machining activity has been relocated to the new metrology and inspection equipment, computer aided site at Stonehouse, which has been developed with the design and manufacturing systems and Raman most up-to-date facilities in order to ensure optimum work spectroscopy systems.
conditions for employees and maximum environmental A review of the business and likely future developments are performance.
This includes a new anodising plant, which given in the Chairmans statement and the Financial review.
has been specifically designed to minimise water Segmental information by geographical market is given in consumption and which complies with the most stringent note 2 to the financial statements.
The Companies Act requires the Directors report to include Throughout the sites, a programme of energy reduction a business review.
Certain information that fulfils the has been implemented: the lighting equipment is being requirements of the business review can be found in the systematically upgraded with high-frequency high-efficiency Financial review on pages 11 to 14 of the Annual report.
lighting systems: all air conditioning systems are being Further information is also available on the Companys converted to inverter control in order to adapt their output website: www.
com and in the Group profile.
to the area's specific requirements: motion sensor devices have been fitted to the lighting systems of low-usage areas Dividends and new lighting systems have been adapted to activate The directors propose a final dividend of 15.07p per share Patrol only lighting at times of low usage.
Also, a minibus 2005 13.70p which, together with the interim dividend of has been put in service between sites to reduce the impact 6.71p 2005 6.10p, makes a total of 21.78p for the year, of transport.
compared to 19.80p for the previous year.
Subject to In order to reduce energy consumption further, Renishaw shareholder approval, the final dividend will be paid on is investigating the merits of geo-thermal heating 16th October 2006 to shareholders on the register on technology, using the natural latent heat from the ground.
15th September 2006, with an ex-dividend date of 13th This technology is being evaluated through the September 2006. refurbishment of a building on the main New Mills site.
Directors and their interests From a design perspective, further effort has been made to The directors who served during the year and their interests eliminate unnecessary package and non-recyclable packing in the share capital of the Company, at the beginning and materials.
A programme is under way to develop the the end of the year, were:- design-for-lifecycle approach, which includes, in particular, Ordinary shares of 20p each consideration of the disposal and recycling of products at the end of their life in the most  2006 2005 manner.
This will integrate with the work done to comply D R McMurtry 26,377,291 26,377,291 with the requirements of the EU Directive on the reduction D J Deer 12,393,040 12,393,040 of waste of electrical and electronic equipment.
B R Taylor 10,147 10,147 Renishaw has wholeheartedly embraced the EU Directive A C G Roberts 5,165 5,165 on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous G McFarland - - substances RoHS and has correspondingly updated its surface mount technology soldering process to operate J P McGeehan 900 900 lead-free.
Although most Renishaw products fall outside T D Snowden 5,000 5,000 the scope of the directive, all new products are designed in T B Garthwaite 3,000 3,000 compliance.
It is planned that RoHS-compliant products will be produced from late 2006.
All the above holdings were beneficially held with the exception of 2,320,311 shares 2005 2,320,311 shares which were non-beneficially held by D J Deer but in respect of which he has voting rights.
Annual Report 4 8 06 08:50 Page 17 17 Work is under way to set up an information collection Research and development system that will allow monitoring of environmental The Group has a continuing commitment to a high level performance throughout all sites of the Group.
This will of research and development.
The expenditure involved be used in particular to assess the Groups performance is directed towards the research and development of new in relation to carbon emissions.
It will be a first step in products relating to metrology, computer aided design and preparation for the planned deployment of compliance manufacturing systems, Raman spectroscopy systems and to the ISO 14001:2000 standard.
Auditors Creditor payment policy A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of The Company has a variety of payment terms: the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming annual Contracts have been negotiated with a number of general meeting.
suppliers and payments are made in accordance with the terms of these contracts.
Disclosure of information to auditors The directors who held office at the date of approval of Payment terms are disclosed on the Companys this Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each standard purchase order forms, or, where appropriate, aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the specified in individual contracts agreed with suppliers.
Companys auditors are unaware: and each director has Two payment runs are made each month.
The Companys taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director policy is to ensure that all invoices are settled within 60 to make himself aware of any relevant audit information days of the receipt and agreement of a valid and complete and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware invoice.
Wherever possible, payments are made using the of that information.
Special business Typically, the Company settles all due invoices in the The notice of meeting on page 15 sets out a resolution calendar month following their receipt.
The number of days relating to the purchase of own shares, which the directors purchasing outstanding at the end of June 2006 was have resolved should be proposed as special business approximately 30 days 2005 30 days.
during the course of the meeting.
The directors consider Substantial shareholdings that the Company should have the flexibility to be able to Apart from the shareholdings of Sir David McMurtry make market purchases of its own ordinary shares, up to a and John Deer 36.2% and 17% respectively, the only total of 10% of the issued share capital.
Shareholders are shareholding notified to the directors, which represents 3% being asked to pass the necessary special resolution no.
7 or more of the issued share capital of the Company, as at at the annual general meeting to give the required authority 26th July 2006, is Aegon UK plc, which holds 3,645,018 until the earlier of the conclusion of the 2007 annual general shares 5.01%.
There is at present no intention to purchase shares and, if granted, the authority Donations and community involvement would only be exercised if an improvement in earnings per During the year the Group made charitable donations share were expected to result.
The Group organises its charitable donations by two methods: firstly, by allocating Employees a fund of money to its Charities Committee: and secondly, The maintenance of a highly skilled workforce is essential through direct grants as decided by the Board.
The to the future of the business and the directors place great Charities Committee meets at least four times a year to emphasis on the continuation of the Companys approved consider all applications for donations from local groups training policy.
Health and safety matters are given special in the UK.
Its donations policy is to provide funds to local attention by the directors and well established systems of causes or local branches of national groups, with focus safety management are in place throughout the Group to on youth projects.
safeguard employees, customers and visitors.
In addition to donations to charitable causes, the Company Employment policies are designed to provide equal is actively involved with the community, for example, opportunities irrespective of race, colour, religion, sex, age, hosting events at its premises for local schools and disability or sexual orientation.
Opportunities are given to supporting the community sports foundation efforts in employees who become disabled, to continue in their providing sporting facilities in Wotton-under-Edge.
No employment or to be trained for other positions.
political donations were made during the year 2005 nil.
Regular contact is maintained with all employees through monthly communications meetings and departmental channels.
The quarterly in-house journal ensures staff are By order of the Board kept well informed on the progress of the Group.
In A C G Roberts FCA addition, in August, the Assistant Chief Executive presents Secretary the final results, following their publication, to all employees.
