Annual Report 4 8 06 08:50 Page 6 06 DIRECTORS Sir David McMurtry Ben Taylor CBE, RDI, CEng, FIMechE, FREng Assistant Chief Executive, age 57, has been involved in Chairman and Chief Executive, age 66, was employed by the field of metrology all his working life, after graduating in Rolls-Royce plc, Bristol, for 17 years, latterly holding the mechanical engineering and design from Pennsylvania State positions of Deputy Chief Designer and Assistant Chief of University.
Before joining Renishaw Inc as President in Engine Design of all Rolls-Royce engines manufactured at 1985, he was the Director of Engineering at Sheffield the Filton, Bristol, works.
After inventing the original probe Measurement, USA.
Ben was appointed to the Board of in the early 1970s, Sir David founded Renishaw in 1973 Renishaw plc in 1987.
He serves on various metrology with John Deer and joined Renishaw in 1976.
His CBE was committees and other professional associations and is awarded for services to Science and Technology and he responsible for group marketing, international operations was appointed a Royal Designer for Industry RDI in 1989. and human resources.
He is a visiting Professor of Huddersfield University and has Allen Roberts, FCA been awarded an honorary Doctorate of Engineering at the Group Finance Director, age 57, is a Fellow of the Institute University of Birmingham and honorary degrees of Doctor of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Before of Engineering at Heriot-Watt University and Bristol joining Renishaw in 1979, he was employed for 11 years by University.
Sir David is a Chartered Engineer, a Fellow of the Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co.
He was appointed a director Institute of Mechanical Engineers, a Fellow of the American in 1980.
Allen heads group finance, business systems and Society of Manufacturing Engineers and a Fellow of the Wotton Travel and is the company secretary.
In addition to his role as Chairman and Chief Executive, Sir David also has Geoff McFarland responsibility for group technology.
Group Engineering Director, age 38, graduated with a BEng in computer aided mechanical engineering at Heriot-Watt John Deer University, where he subsequently worked for several years Deputy Chairman, age 68, trained as a mechanical engineer as a research associate.
After working briefly in the highand worked for Rolls-Royce plc, Bristol, from 1960 to volume manufacturing electronic sector, Geoff joined 1974.
He was Managing Director of Renishaw from 1974 Renishaws research and development facility in Edinburgh to 1989, primarily involved in the commercial direction of in 1994, before moving to Renishaws headquarters to the Group, with particular emphasis on marketing and the become Director and General Manager of the CMM establishment of the Groups wholly-owned subsidiaries in Products Division.
Geoff was appointed to the Board in USA, Ireland, Japan, Germany, France and Italy.
He heads the group engineering function and Sir David McMurtry were members of the four-man team is also responsible for group patents.
of Renishaw engineers honoured with the MacRobert Award in 1987.
John is responsible for group manufacturing and group quality and is chairman of the overseas marketing subsidiaries.
Annual Report 4 8 06 08:50 Page 7 07 Joe McGeehan, CBE, FIEE, FREng David Snowden, FCA the senior independent non-executive director, age non-executive director, age 69, was a partner at KPMG 60, is Managing Director of Toshiba Research Ltd: for 25 years, latterly acting as Senior Partner for KPMG in Telecommunications Research Laboratory, Bristol.
David was an audit partner covering a wide obtaining the degrees of BEng and PhD in electrical and range of businesses and was also regional partner in electronic engineering from the University of Liverpool, he charge of insolvency work for ten years.
Since his spent several years involved in industrial research before retirement from KPMG in 1993, David has been a director entering academia.
Since 1985, he has held a number of and corporate adviser to a number of private companies.
senior positions at the University of Bristol.
In 2003 he was David was appointed a director of the Company on awarded the degree of DEng by the University of Liverpool 1st July 2003 and is the chairman of the Remuneration for his major contribution to mobile communications and nomination committee.
research, much of which has formed the basis of international standards.
He is a Fellow of the Institution of Electrical Engineers and a Fellow of the Royal Academy Audit committee: of Engineering.
Joe was appointed as a director in Terry Garthwaite Chair January 2001.
Joe McGeehan David Snowden Terry Garthwaite, FCA non-executive director, age 59, is a chartered accountant, Remuneration and nomination committee: who, after qualifying, joined Price Waterhouse, London.
David Snowden Chair Following 12 years working at Foseco Minsep plc, a Terry Garthwaite specialty chemical company, Terry joined the specialist Joe McGeehan multinational engineering group, Senior plc as Group Finance Director.
Whilst at Senior he was also responsible for investor relations and chaired the groups tax and treasury committee and the UK pension funds.
Terry is a non-executive director of Brammer plc and Wilmington Group plc.
He was appointed a director of Renishaw plc on 1st July 2003 and is the chairman of the Audit committee.
FROM LEFT: David Snowden, Terry Garthwaite, Ben Taylor, John Deer, Sir David McMurtry, Geoff McFarland, Allen Roberts and Joe McGeehan.
Annual Report 4 8 06 08:50 Page 8 08 TOP LEFT: OMP400 high-accuracy strain gauge probe.
BOTTOM LEFT: Styli designed and manufactured by itp GmbH.
TOP RIGHT: Sir David McMurtry.
TM BOTTOM RIGHT: DSi dual SiGNUM interface and the REXM ultra high-accuracy ring encoder.
