REINVENTING OUR PRODUCTS In the past year, Washroom Services has introduced a number of innovative new products which our customers have warmly welcomed.
The Elite range is a stylish suite of co-ordinated washroom products designed to enhance any washroom environment.
Building on the success of the no-touch sanitact disposal unit, we have launched two additional no-touch products: a paper towel dispenser and a soap dispenser.
The new products create a more hygienically clean washroom environment at the same time as reducing waste and overusage.
Rentokil Initial plc [Review of Performance] previously carried out at branch level being transferred to centralised Revenue in the Netherlands fell by 3.1% compared with last year customer handling and back office facilities.
The action taken in the because strong competitive pressure in the second half of 2005 and first UK business in 2006 will reduce its cost base by 3 million per annum half of 2006 resulted in a net loss of portfolio.
Our ability to control and the restructuring is expected to be completed by the end of 2007. costs due to greater route density in this market limited the impact of The one-off costs incurred in the UK in 2006 were 5.1 million.
lower revenue on adjusted operating profit, which declined by 3.6%.
Inevitably, such a high level of change negatively affected performance In Germany, revenue increased by 3.4% in 2006.
However of the UK business.
In particular, a high level of terminations was adjusted operating profit was 7.1% lower as a result of continuing recorded in the second and third quarters from washroom customers losses in the hospital services business and cost inflation in excess who had previously also taken linen and workwear services, although of the price increases we could achieve in the market.
A plant review this began to stabilise in the fourth quarter.
As a result, revenue programme commenced during the year reflecting our desire to exit declined by 5.7% in the UK compared with the prior year and adjusted low margin activities in the south of Germany.
It is anticipated that operating profit fell by 13.8 million.
this will be completed by the fourth quarter of 2007.
The estimated In France, the industrial sector of the textiles business BTB was saving is 2.0 million per year which will be achieved in 2008. reorganised whereby processing is run centrally whilst profit and loss Revenue increased in the divisions business in Belgium by 1.2% responsibility remains at branch level.
The reorganisation aims to over last year but again higher costs resulted in a decline in adjusted develop a more coherent approach to plant investment and capacity operating profit of 2.6%.
utilisation and a more active and professional sales management.
Most of the divisions smaller European businesses recorded higher However, the difficult market environment of soft demand and revenue in 2006, including strong double digit growth in Austria, Spain, aggressive competition prevented the business from realising the full Finland, Portugal and the Czech Republic and mid to high single digit benefits of the structural change in 2006.
Consequently although growth in Denmark and Switzerland.
Operating profit came under revenue in France grew by 1.3% in 2006, adjusted operating profit fell pressure due to rising costs principally investment in sales and by 15.9%.
During 2006, BTB received a formal complaint from the service capacity and competitive pressure with only Austria, Portugal, French Competition Council alleging that certain activities in a period Switzerland and Spain making progress against last year.
between 1997 and 2002 infringed French competition law.
After taking The integration of the two legacy washroom businesses appropriate legal advice, the group has made a provision in respect of moved ahead during 2006 in the majority of the European markets.
the possible regulatory fine to be imposed by the French authorities.
As well as creating a more efficient structure and improving service While the provision represents our best estimate of the total liability performance, the aims of the integration include selling the full that may arise, it is possible that the ultimate liability may be different range of washroom services and mats to all markets.
from the amount of the provision currently recorded.
The total amount A number of capital investment programmes commenced in of the provision is not disclosed to avoid prejudicing the groups Europe in 2006 for completion in 2007 which will either upgrade position in this matter.
existing facilities or provide market entry.
These include Amstetten HAVE YOU CLICKED YET?
In 2006, we launched two new portals for different types of pest and the ability other activities.
Available in six languages, In the past, we had a rather limited our Rentokil and Initial branded businesses.
to request a free survey or consultation.
the site includes detailed descriptions of approach to marketing with many the services we offer plus contact details for businesses restricting their activities all Initial businesses across the world.
In the in this area to local advertising.
first four months of operation, there have 24,000 38 COUNTRIES Equally, our sales activities were one been more than 24,000 unique visitors UNIQUE VISITORS dimensional, mostly involving cold to initial.
com and on average traffic is For Pest Control, www.
com was calling of potential customers offering increasing by some 14% per month.
launched in March and gives us a web Launched in October, www.
com in many cases a one size fits all service connection to customers in 38 countries.
provides a portal for our Initial branded offering.
Many are full service websites that provide businesses, principally Cleaning, Facilities Research suggests that the first port of call users with information on our services, Services and Textiles and Washroom for many people looking to purchase the assistance in identifying the type of pests Services but also Hospital Services, Medical sort of services we provide is the Internet.
causing their problems, facts about many Services, Building Services and a number of 14 TAKING A NEW ROUTE Widening our routes to market took an important step forward in 2006 through the launch of www.
com for our pest control business and www.
com for our Initial branded activities.
CREATING A MAJOR PLAYER We are now the fourth largest pest control company in the USA following the acquisition of JC Ehrlich.
Based in Reading, Pennsylvania, Ehrlich has been the leader in its eastern seaboard market for decades, earning its place as the 911 of pest control.
Ehrlich and the existing smaller Rentokil business in North America have been fully integrated and are performing ahead of expectations.
Rentokil Initial plc [Review of Performance] in Austria, Lokeren in Belgium, Brie-Comte Robert in France and Pest Control Prague in the Czech Republic.
The total investment associated with these projects is estimated to be 24 million, of which 10 million was spent in 2006 with the balance to follow in 2007.
Market conditions Pest control markets are growing at around 1.5 times GDP.
They are 2007 preview driven by increasing hygiene standards, legislation and awareness 2007 is an important year for the division and it is vital that progress is of the need to take an outsourced pest control service.
Competition made in a number of key areas.
These include improved cost recovery for large commercial customers remains keen with price as well as and higher productivity and efficiency throughout the division.
We service quality being key.
Smaller commercial and residential will explore cross-border structures to improve customer service and customers have a very wide range of choice of potential suppliers reduce costs in processing, service and management activities.
At the due to the large number of small, private operators who service a same time, we will monitor developments in the wider market and very local area.
evaluate opportunities to protect and or create value as they arise.
Key performance indicators The changes in the UK will be completed by the end of the year.
m Change vs 2005 By then, the business will be operating from its final 20 locations: it Revenue 280.0 33.7% will have modern, efficient processing plants using new technology: Organic revenue 1.1% the centralised back office facilities will be running at full strength, Operating profit 61.6 8.3% as will the new Oracle systems.
The branch cost base will have Adjusted operating profit 68.4 4.4% reduced by 3 million.
Overall, we anticipate improved customer Net adjusted margin 24.4% 6.9 percentage points Contract portfolio gain 54.0 retention rates and higher new business wins leading to higher New business wins 31.4 organic revenue growth.
Net additions reductions 6.9 In France, there were positive trends in portfolio development Acquisitions 47.8 at the end of 2006 which have continued into the early part of Terminations 32.1 2007.
With this in mind, our aim in 2007 is to stabilise profits in the Retention rate 84.7% 2.6 percentage points French business.
Firstly, we must improve our ability to recover cost increases.
In 2006, our costs rose by some 4% but price increases 2006 review were less than 1%, a position which is clearly not sustainable.
Improving the performance of the UK pest control business, which We are also aiming to improve sales productivity and continue had revenue of 66 million in 2006, is an important part of the groups to develop range selling, that is to say the number of products overall strategy.
A new management team largely recruited from taken by each customer.
outside the group took charge in the UK in the first half of the Elsewhere in continental Europe, cost recovery is also a year and major changes to the structure of this business are now high priority.
In Germany, we expect to exit certain low margin underway with a focus on creating a more customer-centric activities in the south and also complete the washroom business organisation.
The previous 26 branch structure is being replaced by: integration.
A pan-European plant and infrastructure review will be 84 field based sales and service teams focused on the smaller, local undertaken.
We will be investing in new processing capacity in customer base: a team of technicians dedicated to meeting the Belgium, France, Austria, the Czech Republic and Spain and looking demanding service needs of the high dependency segment such as for market entry in eastern European markets such as Poland.
food manufacturers and national food retailers : and new business development via sector specific sales teams.
Customer service functions have moved to a new national customer contact centre in Dudley and administration support has been regionalised.
