Rentokil Initial plc [Review of Performance] expectations as the business performed very strongly, despite the 2007 preview potential for disruption with the integration of acquired franchises With 2006 ending with a record level of work in hand, there is a good and the acquisition of Target Express.
The market environment is positive in 2006 saw the beginning of the transformation of City Link from our markets for 2007, particularly in France and the USA.
Although a hub and trunking operation to a fully integrated parcel delivery margin pressure from price competition in installation is likely to service.
There were two important strategic developments: the buy continue, we are confident of our ability to mitigate gross margin back of franchise businesses during the course of the year and the pressure through productivity and efficiency savings.
A sale process acquisition of Target Express in November.
commenced in January 2007 with completion expected by the end Nine franchise businesses were acquired during 2006, of June.
The total acquisition consideration on franchises during the year was 51.2 million.
By the end of the year, Parcel Delivery City Link owned 80% of its network, representing 57 of the 69 territories.
Target Express was acquired for 213 million in November.
Target Express and City Link are highly complementary businesses Market conditions with similar operating models and strong cultures based on customer The UK market saw growth above GDP in 2006.
There was a modest service and operational excellence.
Bringing them together will create reduction in consignment prices.
The sector is consolidating, there a leading UK overnight parcel operator able to meet the increased are some weak players and strong economies of scale for larger players.
demands of current and prospective customers in a dynamic Key performance indicators marketplace.
The integrated business is expected to continue to grow m Change vs 2005 parcel volumes and revenues at an above-market rate.
In addition, City Revenue 213.3 70.0% Link management believes that synergies at an annual run rate of at Organic revenue 9.7% least 10 million will be achieved by the end of 2008.
These synergies Operating profit 34.8 19.6% will be realised through operational integration and investment in IT, Adjusted operating profit 36.1 21.1% resulting in improved network efficiencies and back office support Net adjusted margin 17.0% 6.8 percentage points functions.
The integration cost of this investment is expected to No.
of consignments m 35.7 10.7% Revenue per consignment 7.26 2.4% be 12 million.
2006 review 2007 preview Parcel Delivery volumes and revenue grew well above market rates, The focus for 2007 will be the integration of Target Express into a despite a decline in revenue per consignment experienced by the combined organisation which will be branded City Link.
This is a UK express parcels industry in general.
Organic revenue growth complex process and, although it will not be completed in 2007, was 9.7%.
Adjusted operating profit performance was ahead of significant progress is expected during the year.
Key deliverables FIRST CLASS DELIVERY In November we acquired Target Express City Link and Target Express have much in The integrated business will provide a We began the transformation of City Link for 213 million.
Together, City Link and common: outstanding management teams: wider range of services including same from a hub and trunking operation to a Target Express have a number two market a culture based on customer service and day deliveries, overseas deliveries, fully integrated parcel delivery business position in the UK express parcel delivery operational excellence: and similar international mail and fulfilment.
in October 2005 when we announced our sector and are in a strong position to operating models.
Customers will also benefit from intention to buy back the outstanding challenge for market leadership.
Both enhanced track and trace processes.
franchises responsible for customer businesses are growing ahead of the collection and delivery.
By the end of market with organic revenue growth of 2006 City Link owned more than 80% of around 10% in 2006.
Acquiring Target 340,000 its network and the buy-back programme Express was the right opportunity at the PARCELS HANDLED PER DAY is likely to be completed during the right price and we are delighted to BY COMBINED BUSINESS course of 2007, ahead of plan.
