STIMULATING THE SENSES Rentokil and Initial Tropical Plants are creating a new brand which involves a name change to Ambius.
Our new name is derived from the word ambience and invokes feelings of the special character of a place or the inspirational essence it seems to have.
Ambius is more than just a name change.
It is a whole new brand with its own identity, character and personality.
Our expanded products and services range from ambient scenting to fruit snack delivery or wellness programmes.
Ambius began with a simple belief that we needed a company name and brand that united us globally.
From there, Ambius evolved into a vision we had to offer our customers more to stimulate their five senses, their people and their business.
We aim to create surroundings that bring a sense of well-being and harmony to people's lives.
Our new name, Ambius, reflects this.
FIRST CLASS DELIVERY One night in the City Link hub in Wednesbury, UK in late November 2006.
Over 250,000 parcels were handled that night.
By mid-December, that number was approaching 500,000 parcels.
Within a period of six hours, parcels arrive at the hub from the collection branches, are sorted and despatched to the delivery branches.
City Link has recently been named UK Courier Company of the Year 2007 by the Institute of Transport Management in recognition of its total quality management approach which results in the highest customer care satisfaction levels in the industry.
Rentokil Initial plc [Review of Performance] Tropical Plants performance outside North America has Key performance indicators m Change vs 2005 generally disappointed.
Although a relatively small business in group Revenue 282.1 7.1% terms, it has the potential to do better and management changes Organic revenue 0.6% have been made to facilitate this.
Operating profit 39.4 10.1% In the UK, revenue declined by 3.9% which had a significant impact Adjusted operating profit 40.4 8.6% on the profitability of the business with adjusted operating profit down Net adjusted margin 14.3% 0.2 percentage points 18.5%.
The portfolio was affected by high terminations and weak Contract portfolio gain 4.8 sales performance, compounded by high sales headcount churn.
New business wins 8.1 Net additions reductions 2.5 Continental Europe recorded revenue 5.5% higher than last year Acquisitions 4.3 with increases achieved by many of the larger businesses including Terminations 10.1 the Netherlands, Belgium, Sweden and Norway.
Despite higher Retention rate 89.8% 0.6 percentage points revenue, adjusted operating profit declined overall in continental Europe with all markets behind last year.
2006 review The division performed well in 2006.
In the UK, revenue was 6.9% 2007 preview higher than last year with increases for both Fire & Security and 2007 will be an exciting year for the Tropical Plants division with Systems.
Adjusted operating profit was also higher for both businesses the completion of a process which will create a single, international, resulting in an increase of 9.4% for the UK as a whole.
UK Systems focused business under the new brand of Ambius.
The new brand was impacted in the first half of the year by a delay in the start-up which you can see on page 19 will be launched in the UK in March of business already won but this reversed to a certain extent in the and rolled out to all other countries during the rest of the year.
The UK portfolio increased, largely as a result of the two The UK restructuring will be completed which is expected to lead acquisitions made during the year but also due to higher retention.
to improved customer retention and sales performance.
We will Specific programmes aimed at tackling terminations introduced in seek to eliminate losses in some continental European countries to the second half helped to increase retention by one percentage point improve results in that region and continue to pursue acquisitions, to 90.0%.
Revenue and adjusted operating profit increased by 9.9% and 8.5% respectively in the French business.
Portfolio growth of 2.2 million came from organic net gain through the branch network Electronic Security and from acquisitions, of which five were made in 2006.
In November, the group announced that it was undertaking The Netherlands, which has been the subject of a performance a strategic review of the Electronic Security business.
A formal sale improvement programme for the past year, saw revenue fall by process commenced in January 2007 and completion is expected 4.1% as less profitable work was shed.
Despite lower revenue, by the end of June.
adjusted operating profit increased by 10.9% due to gross margin improvements and cost base reductions achieved by the Market conditions performance improvement programme.
The portfolio grew due to The overall electronic security market is relatively mature.
Although net gain and retention is the highest in the division at 93%.
there are a large number of operators providing installation services, In the small US business, strong revenue and operating profit only a small number offer monitoring and maintenance services.
increases were recorded, mostly as a result of acquisitions.
Revenue There are a few large players and a few of intermediate size plus many was 63% higher and adjusted operating profit almost tripled.
