GETTING CLOSER TO THE CUSTOMER Our cleaning business in the UK is leading the way in the introduction of daytime cleaning the ideal solution for customers who recognise the need for clean premises right throughout the day, not just first thing in the morning, and want to enhance the environment for customers and staff alike.
24 25 Rentokil Initial plc [Review of Performance] include the commencement of operational integration of the two 2006 review national networks and the implementation of a single sales proposition.
In Cleaning, solid revenue performance was achieved in all countries A regional operating structure for the combined business will also with overall revenue increasing by 20.9%.
Adjusted operating profit be established.
The first depot consolidation is expected to take for the Cleaning businesses fell marginally below last year reflecting place in August.
Around half of the 12 million integration cost will continued margin pressure in a very competitive sector and be incurred in 2007 although synergies will not be realised until 2008. infrastructure investment to support the increased size of the We will also continue to buy back the outstanding City Link franchises.
In the UK, the portfolio grew by 30% due to significant growth in the banking and transport sectors combined with the Insitu acquisition which strengthened presence in the shopping centre and Facilities Services leisure sectors.
In Spain and the Netherlands, the portfolio grew by 11%, mainly in the transportation and office cleaning sectors.
Market conditions The Catering business continued to suffer from problems in its Market conditions were tough and pricing competitive.
Despite this, education segment and also some contracts in the business and there was significant portfolio growth in the Cleaning businesses.
As a result revenue and operating profit both fell, Catering suffered from the introduction of the nutritional guidelines revenue by 10.5% and adjusted operating profit by 1.2 million.
Anti-smoking legislation in various We were able to exit some unprofitable education contracts in 2006 European countries is impacting the air filtration business but remain committed to others.
Hospital Services, which provides cleaning, catering and porterage services to NHS hospitals in the UK, recorded flat revenue Key performance indicators with an increase in adjusted operating profit, as 2006 was less m Change vs 2005 severely affected than 2005 by the Governments Agenda for Revenue 519.6 10.6% Change initiative.
Organic revenue 8.2% Operating profit 27.4 21.3% Specialist Hygiene, which comprises a number of different Adjusted operating profit 31.2 12.4% activities, recorded revenue at a similar level as last year but adjusted Net adjusted margin 6.0% 1.6 percentage points operating profit fell due to the impact of anti-smoking legislation Contract portfolio gain 63.0 which has undermined the air quality businesses in a number New business wins 60.0 of countries.
Net additions reductions 16.6 Medical Services revenue showed moderate growth but adjusted Acquisitions 17.5 Terminations 31.1 operating profit declined due to margin pressure and the cost of Retention rate 91.2% 7.6 percentage points growth initiatives.
A SMART WAY TO CLEAN Smartclean has many benefits for our security and lighting savings are made Smartclean daytime cleaning is as it says customers, our business and our employees: due to staff being on site during normal - cleaning throughout the working day.
daytime cleaning improves staff working hours: It is an exciting new initiative developed retention because jobs with daytime building occupants tidy up after by Initial Facilities Services in the UK hours are easier to fill and more people themselves because they respect the and more of our customers are realising are willing to work normal hours: visible and skilful efforts of the the benefits by the day.
labour costs are reduced due to not cleaning team.
having to pay unsocial hours of work: In fact, more than 100 customers have continuous cleaning means higher switched to daytime cleaning in the past standards are maintained, with fewer, year including major national retailers, better trained full-time staff and a variety of corporate customers and less machinery: a number of schools and colleges.
