PUTTING OUR CUSTOMERS FIRST In Malaysia, a programme called Destinasi 100 was introduced during 2006 which aims for 100% customer retention.
Destinasi 100 is a powerful programme to revitalise and motivate all staff at all levels to be customer-centric and to work towards a common goal of achieving 100% customer retention.
The programme has been so successful that it is now being rolled out to other countries in the Asia Pacific region.
Rentokil Initial plc [Review of Performance] by acquisition activity.
Adjusted operating profit performance also 2007 preview improved in most markets including Australia, New Zealand, In Cleaning, market conditions are expected to remain unchanged Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand, Indonesia and Hong Kong.
with pressure on margins continuing.
Initiatives are in place to 2006 saw a great deal of activity in Asia Pacific in terms of both mitigate margin pressure in terms of Smartclean and Contract building the management team and acquisitions.
Expanding group services into existing customers is welcomed a number of new senior members of the team, which is also a major focus for 2007. now at full strength.
In Catering, the focus is on growth in the business and industry A total of 25 acquisitions were completed in the region during segment.
We will continue to exit unprofitable education contracts.
2006 for a total consideration of 46.9 million.
The largest Hospital Services will focus on growth outside of NHS hospitals.
transactions were Pink Healthcare an Australian washroom We will endeavour to exit any unprofitable contracts.
Product business and the pan-regional CWS branded washroom and innovation and technology will play a key role in this business.
Other notable acquisitions included the number Specialist Hygiene anticipates good revenue and profit growth, one pest control player in Taiwan, various pest control and tropical other than in air filtration.
plants businesses in New Zealand and market entry acquisitions Medical Services anticipates moderate revenue and profit growth in Vietnam and electronic security in Singapore.
as the initiatives start to payback.
The one-off items incurred in 2006 reflected significant management and business restructuring activities in Australia, Asia Pacific New Zealand, Indonesia, Singapore, Malaysia, Hong Kong and Thailand, from which we are already seeing benefits.
Market conditions The markets for all services remained favourable in 2006 reflecting 2007 preview the general growth in the economies in the Asia Pacific region as well The Asia Pacific division will move ahead in many markets during as an increased focus on health and safety issues.
2007 and we expect good organic growth in all our operations in the region as we realise the benefits of the acquisitions made in 2006.
Key performance indicators We have strong management in all our businesses to manage m Change vs 2005 our growing activities and an experienced divisional team to Revenue 103.6 15.6% support them.
Organic revenue 5.7% In Australia, having turned the washroom services business around Operating profit 20.8 10.7% Adjusted operating profit 24.2 3.9% and integrated Pink Healthcare, good growth is expected in 2007.
Net adjusted margin 23.4% 2.6 percentage points The acquisition of Campbell Brothers in January 2007 has provided Contract portfolio gain 22.2 an entry into the Australian residential pest control market, which New business wins 12.2 makes up half of the pest control market in that country.
Net additions reductions 3.2 2007 will be an important year in the huge market of China with Acquisitions 19.4 investment anticipated in both pest control and washroom services.
Terminations 12.6 Retention rate 86.1% 2.5 percentage points We will also look to re-enter the pest control market in Japan and enter that market in Korea.
2006 review Productivity initiatives will be introduced in all our operations All the divisions businesses increased revenue in 2006, with strong in Asia Pacific during 2007 which will increase operating efficiency.
double digit growth achieved in the largest markets of Australia, We will also be pursuing cost savings and efficiencies with regional New Zealand, Indonesia, Singapore, Malaysia and Thailand, assisted procurement and IT.
