Rentokil Initial plc [Directors Report] Directors interests Alan Giles and Peter Bamford were appointed to the board on 18 May 2006 The interests of the directors and their families in the share capital of the and 10 July 2006, respectively, and under the companys articles of company on 1 January 2006, or their date of appointment if later, and association will offer themselves for re-appointment at the annual general 31 December 2006 are set out on pages 50 and 52.
The only director who meeting on 3 May 2007.
Neither has a service contract with the company.
has received an award under the companys performance share plan The directors retiring by rotation will be the chairman Brian McGowan and introduced during the year is Andrew Macfarlane, details of which are Ian Harley, who are eligible and offer themselves for re-election at the 2007 shown in the remuneration report on page 49.
No director had any annual general meeting.
Details of the chairmans contractual arrangements beneficial interest in the shares of any of the companys subsidiaries with the company are set out in the remuneration report.
Ian Harley does on those dates.
not have a service contract with the company.
Changes in the interests of the directors and their families in the company and its subsidiary companies during the period from the end of the Board committees financial year to 14 March 2007 are described in the directors The board has reviewed its procedures and practices and, in particular, remuneration report.
the terms of reference of the board committees.
The principal board committees are as follows: Directors indemnity and insurance The company has granted indemnities in favour of its directors as is Audit committee permitted by the Companies Audit Investigations and Community The terms of reference of the committee reflect the Smith Guidance Enterprise Act 2004.
It has also purchased cover for the directors against which is appended to the Combined Code.
Its members are Ian Harley liabilities arising in relation to the company, as permitted by the Companies chairman, Duncan Tatton-Brown, Peter Bamford and Alan Giles, all of Act 1985. whom are independent non-executive directors.
A report on its activities is set out below.
Interests of directors in contracts During 2006, no director had any material interest in any significant Nomination committee contract to which the company or any subsidiary was a party.
This committee is responsible for recommending board appointments.
Its terms of reference reflect the Higgs Guidance which is appended to the Related party transactions Combined Code.
Its members are Brian McGowan, Doug Flynn, Peter Long Other than in respect of arrangements relating to employment, details and Ian Harley.
The nomination committee met on two occasions in 2006 of which are provided in the remuneration report, or as set out in note 36 to consider non-executive director appointments which ultimately led to to the consolidated financial statements on page 115 there is no material the appointments of Alan Giles and Peter Bamford as non-executive indebtedness owed to or by the company to any employee or any other directors.
It also met at the end of the year to review succession planning person considered to be a related party.
Employees Remuneration committee The company attaches considerable importance to communicating with The terms of reference of the remuneration committee reflect the Higgs employees.
Internal communications take place at a group, divisional, Guidance.
The directors remuneration report is set out on pages 46 to 53. business and team level in order to ensure that employees receive accurate The members of the remuneration committee are Peter Long chairman, information in a timely manner.
Duncan Tatton-Brown and Alan Giles, all of whom are independent nonexecutive directors.
At a corporate level, the group intranet is used to announce company news with the support of direct email communication from the executive team.
The remuneration committee has reviewed its effectiveness during the year This is supplemented by a quarterly electronic magazine called The Bigger and concluded that it had continued to operate effectively.
Picture which features interviews with senior executives about major The terms of reference of the board committees may be found on the initiatives and performance.
A DVD of the 2006 leadership conference companys website, www.
com, or if a hard copy is required was made available to all businesses to support the communication of by application to the company secretary at the head office.
Divisional communications use a wide range of channels such as email, divisional intranets, electronic newsletters and quarterly magazines.
Great importance is placed on face-to-face team meetings.
41 Rentokil Initial plc [Directors Report] The Asia Pacific division has developed its own magazine called Rising policies.
In addition to the existing policies and procedures in respect of as a means of drawing together its entire staff across the region.
This the environment and health and safety, they comprise policies on ethics, includes insights into business activities, examples of building service the fundamental rights of employees, equal opportunities and diversity, excellence, information about community initiatives and introductions employee remuneration, training and employee development, job security of new employees.
and wealth creation, relationships with customers and suppliers and community involvement.
The chief executive, Doug Flynn, is the director In Europe, the company meets its European Forum EWC at least responsible for corporate responsibility matters.
once a year to communicate with employee representatives from across the continent.
It maintains an open dialogue with the Forum The company views the processes in place to manage risk and to motivate at times of change.
and incentivise managers described in the report as equally relevant to an analysis of social, environmental and ethical matters.
The ongoing Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully evaluation of systems and procedures is intended to ensure that the considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
management system including the internal control framework is effective In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, every effort is made in ensuring that issues of a social, environmental or ethical nature are to ensure that their employment with Rentokil Initial continues and that identified and acted upon.
The companys internal control verification appropriate training is arranged.
It is the policy of Rentokil Initial that the systems cover corporate responsibility matters to ensure that businesses training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, report periodically on their progress towards compliance with the as far as possible, be identical with those of other employees.
Post balance sheet events Donations for UK charitable purposes in 2006 amount to 116,000 and a Post balance sheet events are shown in note 37 to the accounts on further 82,000 was donated in other countries.
There were no payments page 115. to political organisations.
Payments are made to a wide range of charitable organisations both in the UK and overseas.
Encouragement is given to a Policy in relation to payment of suppliers matched giving scheme whereby the company matches donations made Rentokil Initial has a variety of payment terms with its suppliers in various by employees.
These are either negotiated along with other contract terms or conform to standard terms applied either by the relevant group company Research and development or by the supplier.
It is the companys policy to pay suppliers in accordance The company invests in an active programme of research and development with either negotiated or standard terms, provided that the relevant invoice in support of its major international business streams.
This programme is properly presented and is not the subject of dispute.
includes the conception, design, testing and manufacture of new products to enhance the quality and safety of the companys services and minimise At 31 December 2006 the trade creditors of the group represented 59 days their environmental impact.
Where appropriate, work is sponsored at of annual purchases and the UK businesses trade creditors represented universities with expertise in specific relevant areas.
The companys total 58 days of purchases: UK trade debtors represented 58 days of turnover.
research and development expenditure in 2006 was 3.1 million 2005: During the year the parent company did not have any trade creditors.
Corporate responsibility and charitable donations Financial instruments As described in the corporate responsibility review on pages 34 to 37, The companys financial risk management objectives and policies are set the group seeks continually to identify best corporate practices within out within the financial review on pages 29 to 33, which includes the policy the group in relation to employees, customers, suppliers and the for hedging certain forecast financial transactions.
The review and notes 17, communities on which we have an impact and to celebrate and encourage 22, 23 and 24 to the accounts also detail the companys exposure to price, the highest standard of responsible behaviour as well as continually to credit and liquidity risks.
The company is not materially exposed to cash seek to operate the business in ways which are most sympathetic to our flow risks arising from cross-border trading transactions.
The company publishes a corporate responsibility report annually which is available to download from the companys website, Corporate governance www.
The company complies with the Code of Corporate Governance issued by The company takes account of social, environmental and ethical the Financial Reporting Council on 23 July 2003 the Combined Code considerations when managing the business and when contemplating new save insofar as an explanation of a failure to do so is given below.
In 2002 the board adopted a range of corporate responsibility following specific disclosures are now made in accordance with Schedule C to the Combined Code.
42 Rentokil Initial plc [Directors Report] 1.
Effective board to demonstrate commitment to and effectiveness in the role.
The The board is responsible to shareholders for the overall direction and non-executive directors, led by the senior independent director, carried control of the company and specifically reserves certain matters for its out a performance evaluation of the chairman after taking account of consideration such as approval of the companys financial statements, the views of the executive directors.
The board intends to carry out major capital expenditure and major acquisitions and disposals in the further performance evaluations but will keep under review the method standing board procedures and practices, which are reviewed annually.
The chief executive has delegated authority from the board to manage the company, subject to the strategic direction of the board.
Dialogue with major shareholders responsible for the achievement of the objectives set by the board and The chief executive and chief financial officer hold regular meetings preparing an overall strategy for the company to achieve such objectives with analysts and institutional shareholders to discuss the companys and the implementation of the overall strategy decided by the board strategy and financial performance.
In the first half of the year the board through the management and organisation of the company.
commissioned Makinson Cowell to conduct an audit of leading shareholders in the UK, continental Europe and the USA to gauge their The board meets routinely eight times a year and additionally when views on strategy, performance, future expectations and corporate necessary and follows an agreed formal schedule of matters which are governance.
In November 2006, the company held a series of presentations considered at individual meetings.
In 2006 the board met on ten occasions.
and question and answer sessions for shareholders over a full day which Peter Bamford, Alan Giles, Ian Harley, Peter Long and Paul Mason were involved senior managers from operating businesses.
Feedback from this each unable to attend one meeting during the year because of other and other more routine meetings with major shareholders is reported to unavoidable commitments.
other members of the board.
The board is regularly provided with an analysis of the companys shareholder base and with commentary on 2.
Composition of the board market views and sentiment.
The company has sought the views of major Information on directors is set out on page 39.
UK-based shareholders on how members of the board and, in particular, the non-executive directors, should develop an understanding of the views 3.
Board committees of major shareholders about the company.
As a result the chairman and, if Details on the audit, nomination and remuneration committees are set out so requested, non-executive directors will make themselves available for on page 41. discussions with shareholders at the time of the release of the preliminary results and on other occasions if requested by shareholders.
Independent non-executive directors The board regards Peter Long senior independent director, Peter 8.
Accountability and audit Bamford, Alan Giles, Ian Harley and Duncan Tatton-Brown as independent The audit committee assists the board on matters concerning accountability non-executive directors within the tests set out in the Combined Code.
and audit, information on which is contained within the audit committee report on pages 44 and 45.
Further significant commitments of the chairman The external commitments of Brian McGowan have remained the same 9.
Going concern since his appointment as chairman in July 2004.
After reviewing group and company cash balances, borrowings and projected cash flows, the directors believe that the group and company 6.
Performance evaluation have adequate resources to continue operations for the foreseeable future.
The board has undertaken a formal evaluation of its own performance For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in and that of its committees and individual directors.
The directors preparing the accounts.
completed appraisals on matters relevant to board, committee and director performance.
A report was presented to and reviewed by the 10.
The board concluded that the evaluation exercise had confirmed The company has reviewed its relationship with its auditors, that the directors have the appropriate range of skills and experience  LLP, and concluded that there are sufficient and constituted an effective and unified board.
The review was conducted controls and processes in place to ensure the required level of independence.
internally but with the aid of a framework developed by external specialists.
Consequently there are no plans to replace  LLP, Individual director evaluation showed that each director including whose re-appointment is proposed as set out in the notice of AGM which those seeking election or re-election at the AGM in 2007 continues accompanies the annual report.
43 Rentokil Initial plc [Directors Report] Auditors and disclosure of information to auditors activities and the effect of completed acquisitions, gearing, debt levels and Insofar as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant audit the ability to obtain additional financing or make payments on our debt, information as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 1985 legal, regulatory or fiscal developments, demand for and pricing of our of which the companys auditors are unaware: and each of the directors products and other aspects of our business or general economic conditions.
has taken all of the steps that he should have taken as a director to Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance.
By their make himself aware of any relevant audit information as defined and nature, forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
assumptions because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will or may occur in the future.
Although we make such statements A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as auditors of based on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable, there can be, and the company will be proposed at the annual general meeting to be held we give, no assurance, whether express or implied, that actual results will on 3 May 2007. not differ materially or significantly from our expectations or estimations.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities Annual general meeting Company law requires the directors to take responsibility for preparing The annual general meeting of the company will be held at No 4 Hamilton the annual report, including the remuneration report, and the financial Place, London W1J 7BQ on 3 May 2007 at 11 a. m. A separate letter to statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the shareholders containing the notice of the annual general meeting and state of affairs of the company and of the group and of the profit and loss information on the resolutions to be proposed as special business and cash flows of the group for that period.
In preparing these financial accompanies this annual report.
statements, the directors are required to adopt suitable accounting policies and to apply them consistently, making judgements and estimates that are By order of the board.
reasonable and prudent and following applicable accounting standards.
These standards are: a UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP for the company: and b International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the EU and implemented in the UK for the group.
Paul Griffiths The directors are responsible for ensuring that the company keeps proper Secretary accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 14 March 2007 the financial position of the company and the group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 1985 and as regards the group financial Audit committee report statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and the group and taking The audit committees terms of reference are available on the companys reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other website and were updated at the beginning of 2004 to reflect the Smith irregularities.
The principal oversight responsibilities of the committee cover: financial reporting, internal control and risk management, various matters The maintenance and integrity of the Rentokil Initial plc website is the concerning the external auditors including their appointment, scope of responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does their duties, their independence and monitoring and receiving reports from not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors the internal audit function.
The committee reviewed its terms of reference accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the towards the end of 2006 and concluded that they remain appropriate.
financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
The members of the committee at the end of the year were Ian Harley Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of chairman, chartered accountant, Duncan Tatton-Brown, chartered financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
management accountant, Peter Bamford and Alan Giles.
In order to fulfil its terms of reference, the committee reviews, challenges and approves, as the Safe Harbour Statement case may be, presentations or reports from senior management, consulting The directors report and certain other sections of this annual report and as necessary with the external auditors.
During the year the committee had accounts include statements that constitute forward-looking statements.
a satisfactory level of dialogue with the companys auditors and did not Forward-looking statements include information concerning possible, find it necessary to seek external advice.
estimated or assumed future results of our operations, earnings, liquidity, cash flow and capital expenditures, industry or market conditions, acquisition 44 Rentokil Initial plc [Audit Committee Report] The audit committee met six times in 2006.
The meetings were fully The boards procedures for the review of internal controls, contained within attended other than four occasions when Messrs, Mason, Giles, Harley and its manual on procedures and practices, provide the framework for the Bamford were each unable to attend a meeting due to an unavoidable prior groups risks and how they are assessed, managed and monitored.
Three of the meetings included an element without executive identification and management process has been in place during the whole management present.
of 2006 and up to 14 March 2007, the date of the approval of the audited 2006 accounts and during that time the board, with the assistance of the In February 2006 the committee considered the following: proposed committee, has reviewed the process.
changes in narrative reporting requirements, draft financial statements for 2005, the preliminary announcement and related auditors reports, fees The process used to review the effectiveness of the system of internal for audit and non-audit work, plans for reviewing the internal control and control involved: a review of the changes since the last assessment in risk framework, a tax policy, the internal audit activity in 2005 and plans the nature and extent of significant risks and the companys ability to for 2006 and plans to consolidate all subsidiary audits on the companys respond to changes in its business: a review of the scope and quality of auditors,  LLP.
managements monitoring of risks and the system of internal control and the work of the internal audit function and other providers of assurance: In March 2006 the committee considered the following: the report and the incidence of control failings or weakness and their impact on financial accounts including IFRS disclosures and related reports from the auditors performance: and the effectiveness of the public reporting process.
and reports on the internal control framework, half-yearly report on The committee reviews the scope of external audit, the half-yearly and whistleblowing, external auditor effectiveness including a report on annual financial statements including compliance with legal and regulatory an internal survey used as a measurement tool.
requirements and trading updates and reports to the board on financial In August 2006 the committee considered the following: half year results and issues raised by both internal and external audit reports.
related audit reports, half-yearly report on whistleblowing, internal audit activity The committee receives reports from the internal audit department, report for the first half and the proposed audit strategy for 2007. covering financial, operational and information technology risks and In May and November 2006 the committee considered the first and third controls and reviews the performance of the department against its quarter trading updates and related auditor reviews.
In December 2006 the committee considered the following: internal audit Changes in the management structure introduced in 2005 and an resource plans, an amended risk management policy and related amended increased level of delegated authority to the divisions and operating procedures, outline of content for the 2006 business review, review of the businesses introduced changes in the control environment which needed effectiveness of the internal audit function and a review of the committees to be monitored and tested to ensure that the groups internal controls terms of reference.
and risk management procedures continued to be effective.
During 2006 a review was undertaken of the existing internal control framework which Auditor independence was considered at a number of meetings.
The was found to be generally good, although capable of improvement in committee invites the chief executive, the chief financial officer, director some areas, and action plans were put in place to improve systems and corporate accounting and control, director corporate internal audit and procedures where appropriate.
representatives of the external auditors to attend its meetings.
The company secretary attends meetings in his role as secretary of the committee.
An updated risk management policy was incorporated into the boards policies and procedures at the end of 2006.
This revised risk management Internal controls policy introduced a new assurance process which will be implemented The annual report provides information on and an assessment of the during 2007.
The board considers that the revised policy and the associated companys business, operations, financial position and prospects.
The review process will provide further assurance on the adequacy of the system board is responsible for maintaining a sound system of internal controls, of internal control.
including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management, Approved by the board of directors on 14 March 2007 and signed on its and reviews the effectiveness of the system at least annually in order to behalf by safeguard shareholders investments and the companys assets.
The system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, risk and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The audit committee assists the board in the performance of its responsibilities by reviewing the board procedures for review of internal controls, internal and external auditors reports on internal control issues Ian Harley and reports on internal controls and risk management systems.
Audit committee chairman 45 Rentokil Initial plc [Directors Remuneration Report] Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration Committee The companys remuneration committee is responsible for making recommendations to the board on the companys remuneration policy and, within the terms of the policy, determining the individual remuneration packages of the executive directors and other members of the Company Executive Board CEB comprising certain divisional managing directors and functional heads.
The terms of reference of the committee are available on the companys website or from the company secretary.
The committee consists wholly of independent non-executive directors.
Ron Spinney and Paul Mason ceased to be directors and members of the committee on 18 May 2006 on which date Duncan Tatton-Brown joined the committee as did Alan Giles on his appointment as a director.
Peter Long replaced Ron Spinney as chairman of the committee.
The committee met five times in 2006 and in addition was consulted on various remuneration issues between formal meetings.
Meetings were fully attended, except on three occasions when Messrs. Mason, Giles and Tatton-Brown were each unable to attend a meeting due to an unavoidable prior commitment.
None of the members of the committee participates in company incentive arrangements or has any personal interest other than as shareholders in the matters under consideration, any conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships or any day-to-day involvement in running the business.
No director plays a part in any discussion about his own remuneration.
Throughout the year, Peter Long has acted as chairman of Rentokil Initial Pension Trustee Limited and in addition has participated in the activities of the pension trustee companys investment committee.
His fees include an amount of 25,000 per annum in respect of his participation in pension scheme trustee matters.
The company secretary, Paul Griffiths, is secretary to the committee and the group human resources director, Andy Kemp, is invited to attend meetings of the committee to provide views and advice on remuneration matters.
Both the chairman and chief executive attend by invitation when appropriate.
The committee principally uses two independent external consultants, Watson Wyatt Limited and Deloitte LLP.
Watson Wyatt was appointed by the committee to provide advice on the measurement of the companys total shareholder return for historic awards under the old discretionary share option schemes.
Watson Wyatt also advised the company on its UK pension arrangements.
Deloitte has been retained by the committee to provide advice on executive remuneration and on the Performance Share Plan approved by shareholders at the annual general meeting in May 2006.
Deloitte also advised the company on acquisition and risk process consulting and tax matters.
During the year, the committee has also received advice from Hewitt Bacon & Woodrow Limited who are the actuaries appointed by the pension scheme trustees.
A resolution to approve the directors remuneration report will be put to the annual general meeting on 3 May 2007.
Approach to remuneration The companys remuneration policy is designed to support the strategic objectives of the business.
The remuneration and incentive arrangements seek to achieve this in a number of ways: by enabling the company to attract and retain the leadership talent necessary to turn around and grow the business: by rewarding individual contribution and company financial performance: and by aligning executives interests with those of shareholders.
The company periodically reviews the effectiveness and competitiveness of the total remuneration and benefit packages of executive directors and senior executives, with assistance from Deloitte.
The new Performance Share Plan, introduced during 2006, was developed in keeping with this policy.
Awards have been made under the plan to some 500 key senior executives in over 40 countries around the world, enabling us to bring together a large number of Rentokil Initial people under a new global incentive structure.
The pursuit of shareholder value creation is supported by the performance conditions attached to these awards, the development of performance management processes internationally and the increased level of share ownership through the plan.
