The Restaurant Group plc Report of the Directors 18 Annual Report 2006 The Directors present their annual report and the Group accounts for the year ended 31 December 2006.
Results and dividends The results for the year ended 31 December 2006 are presented under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
The report and accounts are drawn up on a 52 week reporting basis ending on 31 December 2006.
The results for the year are set out in the Group consolidated income statement on page 35.
An interim dividend of 1.05p per share was paid on 19 October 2006.
The Directors propose a final dividend of 4.95p per share to be paid on 4 July 2007 bringing the ordinary dividend payable in respect of 2006 to 6.00p 2005: 4.75p.
In addition, a special dividend of 16p per share was paid to shareholders on 9 March 2006, following the disposal of the Caffe Uno business in December 2005.
Principal activity The principal activity of the Group is the operation of restaurants.
Further information relating to the business is given in the Chief Executive Officers review on pages 6 to 11.
Directors Full details of the Directors of the Company are given on pages 16 and 17.
The Directors who held office during 2006 were as follows: Alan M. Jackson Andrew Page Stephen M. A. Critoph Kevin J. Bacon Patricia A. Corzine John E. Jackson Andrew Thomas Robert Ivell resigned 8 September 2006 David H. Richardson was appointed as a non-executive Director of the Company with effect from 1 February 2007.
In respect of 2006, each of the non-executive Directors excluding the Chairman is considered by the Board to be independent.
Alan M. Jackson transitioned from Executive Chairman to non-executive Chairman on 1 January 2006, and is not considered to be an independent non-executive Director.
No Director has a service contract with the Company requiring more than twelve months notice.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, the Directors retiring by rotation are Kevin J. Bacon and Patricia A. Corzine who, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
John E. Jackson has been a non-executive Director of the Company for more than nine years, and, in accordance with corporate governance best practice, also offers himself for re-election.
The Board considers John E. Jackson to remain independent and recommends his re-election as an independent non-executive Director.
In accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company, David H. Richardson offers himself for election at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 16 May 2007, being the first opportunity for shareholders to approve his appointment.
During the year the Audit Committee comprised the following non-executive Directors: John E. Jackson Chairman Andrew Thomas Robert Ivell resigned 8 September 2006 David H. Richardson was appointed as a member of the Audit Committee with effect from 1 February 2007.
During the year the Remuneration Committee comprised the following non-executive Directors: Andrew Thomas Chairman John E. Jackson Robert Ivell resigned 8 September 2006 David H. Richardson was appointed as a member of the Remuneration Committee with effect from 1 February 2007.
During the year the Nominations Committee comprised the following Directors: John E. Jackson Chairman Alan M. Jackson Andrew Page Andrew Thomas Robert Ivell resigned 8 September 2006 David H. Richardson was appointed as a member of the Nominations Committee with effect from 1 February 2007.
The Directors remuneration report, which includes details of Directors remuneration and interests in the Companys shares and options, together with information on service contracts, is set out on pages 24 to 29.
This information has been extracted from the statutory accounts of the group which were approved on 4 April 2007.
This information in itself does not constitute statutory accounts within the meaning of section 240 Companies Act 1985.
The Restaurant Group plc 19 Annual Report 2006 Directors shareholdings The interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company, all being beneficially owned, were as follows: At At At 4 April 31 December 1 January 2007 2006 2006 Executive Directors Andrew Page 250,173 183,950 156,449 Stephen M. A. Critoph 38,250 26,250 3,737 Kevin J. Bacon 108,140 95,566 49,421 Patricia A. Corzine 85,275 74,400 48,601 Non-executive Directors Alan M. Jackson 370,198 350,198 319,774 John E. Jackson 49,166 49,166 52,500 Andrew Thomas 48,888 48,888 50,000 David H. Richardson 5,000 n a n a Robert Ivell n a n a 10,000 Following the share consolidation on 27 February 2006, the Directors shareholdings were reduced by a factor of eight new shares for every nine existing shares held prior to the consolidation.
Details of the Directors share options are disclosed in the Directors remuneration report on pages 28 and 29.
The market price of the ordinary shares on 31 December 2006 was 309.25 pence and the range during the year was 148 pence to 309.25 pence.
Substantial shareholdings At 27 March 2007 the Company had been notified of the following interests of 3% or more in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: Number of % of issued shares share capital NewSmith Asset Management 16,126,427 8.2% JP Morgan Asset Management 14,682,268 7.5% Barclays Global Investors 11,807,878 6.0% Capital International 10,275,443 5.2% Legal & General Investment Management 8,839,914 4.5% M & G Investment Management 8,616,578 4.4% F&C Asset Management 8,376,065 4.3% Old Mutual Asset Managers 7,458,236 3.8% Aberforth Investment Managers 7,357,438 3.8% Corporate governance The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for good corporate governance.
This statement describes how the principles of corporate governance are applied to the Company and the Companys compliance with the best practice provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance and the Guidance on Audit Committees, together the Code.
The Company has been in full compliance throughout the year with the provisions set out in the Code except for provisions concerning the number of Directors considered to be independent, and the independence of the Chairman.
The Board The Boards role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the Company and Group within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board reviews the Groups strategic objectives and looks to ensure that the necessary financial and human resources are in place to achieve these objectives, and to review management performance against these objectives.
The Board also sets the Companys values and standards and manages the business in a manner to meet its obligations to shareholders and other stakeholders.
The Board currently comprises the non-executive Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Group Finance Director, the Executive Director of the Leisure division, the Executive Director of the Concessions division and three non-executive Directors.
Their biographies appear on pages 16 and 17 and these demonstrate a range of experience and sufficient calibre to bring independent judgement on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct which is vital for the success of the Group.
John E. Jackson acts as senior independent non-executive Director and is available to shareholders if they have reasons for concern on which contact through the normal channels is inappropriate or has failed to resolve an issue.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are clearly defined.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the strategic direction and operational management of the Group.
The Board meets on a regular basis and there is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its decision.
This includes approval of the annual budget and the three-year business plan, approval of the interim and year end report and accounts, review and approval of significant capital expenditure including development of new sites, significant disposals of assets and acquisitions or disposals of businesses.
The Restaurant Group plc Report of the Directors continued 20 Annual Report 2006 The Board continued Operational management are responsible for the day-to-day running of the Group and report on a regular basis on that performance to the Board.
The Board is responsible for reviewing, challenging and approving the strategic direction of the Group and monitoring operational performance.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group and has access to the necessary information to enable it to discharge its duties.
All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment, except where they are appointed by shareholders, and to re-election thereafter at intervals of not more than three years.
There is significant involvement from the non-executive Directors.
This involves an on-going dialogue with executive Directors with constructive challenges of performance and the Groups strategy.
The non-executive Directors are provided with sufficient information to allow them to monitor, assess and challenge the executive management of the Group.
Comprehensive board papers including financial information are circulated to all Directors prior to Board meetings and, on a weekly basis, they receive up-to-date trading information.
The non-executive Directors have the opportunity to meet without the executive Directors present, and this includes discussions of targets set and met by management.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and a procedure has been agreed for the Directors in the furtherance of their duties to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the expense of the Company.
On joining the Board there is a process for Directors to receive training as to their role and its requirements and for non-executive Directors to gain an understanding of the whole business.
Non-executive Directors are actively encouraged to meet with operational management to enhance their understanding of the Groups business, its brands, employees and processes.
During 2006 there were nine Board meetings.
Overall attendance at meetings was 100% by Board members.
Executive Directors are included in the annual performance evaluation of all senior employees within the Group.
This involves a comprehensive review of performance against objectives and covers areas for future development through appraisal documentation and meetings.
The non-executive Directors also meet in the absence of the Chairman to appraise the Chairmans performance in the light of his fee review.
The Company acknowledges the importance of developing the skills of the Directors to run an effective Board.
To assist in this, Directors are given the opportunity to attend relevant courses and seminars and to acquire skills and experience which may enhance their contribution to the on-going progress of the Group.
The Board and committees of the Board have been subject to a formal performance appraisal, through an internal questionnaire, and the performance of all members of the Board is considered as part of the annual remuneration review process.
Communications with shareholders Communications with shareholders are given high priority.
The Chairmans statement, Chief Executive Officers review and Group Finance Directors review on pages 4 to 15 include a detailed review of the business and the Chief Executive Officers review on pages 6 to 11 includes a review of planned future developments.
There is a regular dialogue with institutional investors including presentations after the Companys preliminary announcement of the year end results, and at the half year.
Feedback from major institutional shareholders is provided to the Board on a regular basis and where appropriate the Board will take steps to address concerns and recommendations.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
The Chairman aims to ensure that the chairmen of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nominations Committee are available at the Annual General Meeting to answer questions, and for all Directors to attend.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee consists of the non-executive Directors.
There was 100% attendance of the two Remuneration Committee meetings during 2006.
The role of this Committee and details of how the Company complies with the principles of the Code are set out in the Directors remuneration report on pages 24 to 29.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee consists of the non-executive Directors, the non-executive Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
It met once during 2006 with full attendance.
There are written terms of reference for the Nominations Committee.
It makes recommendations to the Board for the appointment or replacement of additional Directors.
It is also responsible for succession planning for the Group.
Kevin J. Bacon and Patricia A. Corzine offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 16 May 2007.
The Board have confirmed that they are satisfied that each of the Directors continues to contribute effectively and has demonstrated commitment to the role.
It was not felt necessary to employ an external search consultant in the recruitment of David H. Richardson, given his profile, experience and professional background.
This does not mean the Company would not use external search consultants for future appointments of Directors to the Board.
John E. Jackson has been a non-executive Director of the Company for more than nine years, and in accordance with corporate governance best practice, also offers himself for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
The Chairman and Board are satisfied that John E. Jackson is considered to be independent in his role as senior non-executive Director notwithstanding his length of service on the Board, and that he continues to provide valuable experience, judgement and insight to the Board and its Committees.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee consists of the three non-executive Directors.
The Committee is chaired by John E. Jackson who is a qualified accountant.
It meets on a regular basis under its terms of reference, and with the Group Finance Director and the external auditors This information has been extracted from the statutory accounts of the group which were approved on 4 April 2007.
The Restaurant Group plc 21 Annual Report 2006 to review the financial statements and external financial announcements made by the Company.
It has responsibility for reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity, and reviews supplies of all non-audit services provided by the external auditors to ensure that independence and objectivity are not compromised.
Andrew Thomas is a partner in an independent firm of Chartered Accountants.
The other members of the Audit Committee are non-executive Directors.
The Audit Committee met twice during 2006 with full attendance.
The Restaurant Group plc strategy The Restaurant Groups key objective is to grow shareholder value and the strategy deployed to achieve this is to build a business capable of generating long-term sustainable and growing cash flows.
In pursuit of this we have built a business which is focused on the growing casual eating-out market.
We have targeted segments of this market which offer distinct barriers to entry and where we can be confident of delivering good growth in profits and cash flows and where there is good potential for high returns on investment.
This has led the Group to focus our activities in two areas Leisure and Concessions, and this emphasis was underlined by the divesting of our high street businesses Caffe Uno and Est Est Est during 2005.
The Group operates in the expanding casual dining market, and our offerings continue to provide good value for money in comfortable surroundings and excellent service from our dedicated teams.
The Groups strategy is set to deliver further organic growth through the roll-out of our brands, in particular Frankie & Bennys, Chiquito and Blubeckers.
We have a robust pipeline of sites for development, coupled with a strong focus on continuing to deliver like-for-like sales growth from our existing restaurants.
Our Concessions business operates in a dynamic and complicated market where our management teams have market-leading expertise and a track record of innovation and improving sales performance.
The Restaurant Group plc risk factors The Board of Directors continually identify, monitor and manage potential risks and uncertainties to the Group.
The list below sets out what the Directors consider to be the current principal risks and uncertainties.
This list is not presumed to be exhaustive, and by its very nature is subject to change.
Increased supply of new restaurant concepts into the market Adverse economic conditions and decline in consumer confidence in the UK Increase in prices of key raw materials, wages and overheads including utilities Impact of terrorism in key locations including airports Increased regulation of industry leading to higher costs Possible health pandemic that may cause customers to stay away or prevent restaurants being adequately staffed Failure to provide customers with brand-standard value for money offerings and service levels Failure of key suppliers to deliver products into branches Damage to brand image due to failures in environmental health in the branches or from contamination of products The loss of key personnel or failure to manage succession planning Breakdown in internal controls through fraud or error The Restaurant Group plc key performance indicators The Board of Directors and executive management receive a wide range of management information delivered in a timely manner.
Listed below are the principal measures of progress that are reviewed on a regular basis to monitor the development of the Group: Like-for-like sales This measure provides an indicator of the underlying performance of our existing restaurants, and highlights successful development of our offerings to best match changing consumer demands over time.
During 2006, the Group like-for-like sales increased by 5%, which followed a 3% increase in 2005.
New sites opened The expansion of our brands is a key driver of Groups profitability.
As noted in the Group Finance Directors review, potential new sites are subject to a rigorous appraisal process before they are presented to the Board for approval.
This process ensures we maintain the quality of openings as well as the quantity of sites opened.
During 2006 the Group opened 47 new sites including 13 conversions of former Deep Pan Pizza units and plans to open 30-35 new restaurants during 2007.
EBITDA The ability of the Group to finance its roll-out programme is aided by strong cash flows from the existing business.
EBITDA serves as a useful proxy for cash flows generated by operations and is closely monitored.
During 2006 the Group generated 55.6m EBITDA, an increase of 11% on 2005.
Operating profit margin The Board and management closely monitor profit margins as an indicator of operating efficiency within restaurants and across the Group.
During 2006 the Group adjusted operating margin improved by 140 basis points to 12.5%.
In addition, the Group closely scrutinises the returns on invested capital from new site openings and the average EBITDA generated by restaurants.
Internal control The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In accordance with guidance for directors Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Guidance, the Board has ensured that there is an ongoing process for reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control including identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
This process, which is regularly reviewed by the Board, is carried out in conjunction with business planning and is documented in a risk register that has been progressively enhanced during the financial year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Restaurant Group plc Report of the Directors continued 22 Annual Report 2006 Internal control continued Whilst acknowledging its overall responsibility for the system of internal control, the Board is aware that the system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Group has well established procedures which have been developed over many years which meet the requirements of the Turnbull Guidance.
A key control procedure is the day-to-day involvement of executive members of the Board in all aspects of the business and their attendance at regular management meetings at which performance against plan and business prospects are reviewed.
Additionally, the Board seeks to continually strengthen the internal control system where this is consistent with improving the relationship between risk and reward.
The Groups associate company, Living Ventures Limited, does not fall under the same internal controls as the Group.
The internal controls within Living Ventures Limited are discussed with management of that company on a regular basis and are considered to be appropriate for an entity of its size.
Other key features and the processes for reviewing effectiveness of the internal control system are described below: terms of reference for the Board and its sub-committees, including a schedule of matters reserved for the Board and an agreed annual programme of fixed agenda items for Board approval: an established organisational structure with clear lines of responsibility and rigorous reporting requirements.
Operational performance and operational matters are considered at monthly meetings of the executive Directors with senior management.
Financial performance is monitored and action taken through weekly reporting to the executive Directors and monthly reporting to the Board against annual budgets approved by the Board: capital investment is regulated by a budgetary process and authorisation levels, with appraisals and post-investment reviews: comprehensive policy manuals setting out agreed standards and control procedures.
These include human resources related policies, information technology and health and safety: and an internal audit function headed by an experienced internal auditor has access to all areas of the Company and Groups business and reports to the Board.
Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to the accounts The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a Report of the Directors and Directors remuneration report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
Financial statements are published on the Groups website in accordance with legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements, which may vary from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The maintenance and integrity of the Groups website is the responsibility of the Directors.
The Directors responsibility also extends to the ongoing integrity of the financial statements contained therein.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
The Directors are required to prepare financial statements for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulations and have chosen to prepare financial statements for the Company in accordance with UK GAAP.
Group financial statements Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Groups financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
A fair presentation also requires the Directors to: consistently select and apply appropriate accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
Parent company financial statements Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The Restaurant Group plc 23 Annual Report 2006 Information provided to auditors All of the current Directors have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any information needed by the Companys auditors for the purpose of their audit and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
The Directors are not aware of any relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware.
Going concern Based on the Groups plans for 2007 and after making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue operations for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Employees The Restaurant Group plc is committed to the fair treatment and development of all employees.
Wherever possible, the Directors aim to promote talent from within by reviewing succession plans and offering development opportunities.
Through the application of appropriate policies, the Directors and their management teams ensure employees are not mistreated or discriminated against on the grounds of gender, colour, ethnic or national origin, disability, age, marital status, sexual orientation, religion or part-time employment status.
The Companys performance in these areas regarding employment practices is tracked and reported at Board level.
The Directors also ensure regular communication happens throughout the business through written material, team briefings and one-to-one reviews.
Environment The Restaurant Group plc acknowledges the importance of environmental matters within its role in the community.
The Group has established an environmental committee to develop initiatives to reduce the impact on the environment from the operations of the Group and is working with several key suppliers, partners and external agencies to ensure environmental concerns are considered in conjunction with economic factors.
In particular, the Group looks to reduce the production of waste in its operations and to maximise efficiency of water consumption and the use of non-renewable fuels.
Donations No donations for political purposes have been directly made by the Company during the year.
Charitable events, fund raising and sponsorship are organised by restaurants for organisations in their locality.
Creditor payment policy The Companys policy is to agree the terms of payments with its suppliers as and when a trading relationship is established.
The Company ensures that the terms of payment are clear and its policy is to abide by the agreed terms, provided the supplier meets its obligations.
At 31 December 2006 the Company had no trade creditors.
The Group had an average of 52 days 2005: 54 days purchases outstanding in trade creditors.
Financial risk management The Board of The Restaurant Group plc regularly reviews the financial requirements of the Group and the risks associated therewith.
The Group does not use complicated financial instruments, and where financial instruments are used it is for reducing interest rate risk.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Group operations are primarily financed from retained earnings and bank borrowings including an overdraft facility.
In addition to the primary financial instruments, the Group also has other financial instruments such as debtors, prepayments, trade creditors and accruals that arise directly from the Groups operations.
Further information is provided in note 24 to the accounts.
Effective from 16 January 2006, the Group entered into a new three-year interest rate swap, for an initial notional amount of 20,000,000, rising to 50,000,000 from 18 April 2006 until 16 January 2008, when it reduces to 30,000,000 until 16 January 2009, at which date it terminates.
The fixed rate for the duration of the three years is 4.695%.
Before the impact of the interest rate swap, the average rate of interest charged during the year on the Groups debt was 5.76% 2005: 5.32%, and the average year end rate was 6.30% 2005: 5.50%.
On 2006 results, net interest was covered 12.0 times 2005: 17.5 times by profit before tax, interest and exceptional items.
Based on year end debt and profits for 2006, a 1% rise in interest rates would reduce profits before tax and exceptional items by 0.1% 2005: 0.1% and interest cover would remain at 12.0 times 2005: 17.4 times.
At 31 December 2006 the Group had gross borrowings including overdraft of 48.2 million 2005: 12.8 million and cash balances of 0.7 million 2005: 0.4 million.
Annual General Meeting A separate Circular is included with the mailing of the Annual Report to shareholders setting out the resolutions to be voted on at the Annual General Meeting, which is to take place on at 11am on 16 May 2007 at the offices of Dresdner Kleinwort Investment Bank, 30 Gresham Street, London EC2P 2XY.
The Board believes that the proposed resolutions to be put to the Annual General Meeting to be held on 16 May 2007 are in the best interests of shareholders and, accordingly, recommends that shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions, as the Directors intend to do in respect of their own beneficial shareholdings in the Company.
Auditors BDO Stoy Hayward LLP have expressed their willingness to continue as auditors, and a resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting for their reappointment.
By order of the Board, Robert J. Morgan Company Secretary 4 April 2007 This information has been extracted from the statutory accounts of the group which were approved on 4 April 2007.
