43 RHM Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Report of the Directors Principal activities The principal activities of the Group continue to be food manufacturing and distribution.
Review of business A review of the Groups business during the year and future prospects are given on pages 12 to 21.
Profit and dividends The results for the year are set out in the consolidated income statement on page 46.
The directors have recommended the payment of a final dividend of 10.6p.
If approved at the AGM, it will be payable on 29 September 2006 to shareholders on the register on 1 September 2006.
Total dividends for the year are as follows: Interim dividend paid 5.3p 18.4m Final dividend proposed 10.6p 36.6m Total dividend for 2006 15.8p 55.0m Share and loan capital Immediately prior to and conditional upon the admission of the Companys shares to the Official List of the UKLA and to trading on the London Stock Exchange on 22 July 2005: i 1,875,000 ordinary shares were issued and allotted at par in order to satisfy the exercise of an option and a further 172,727,273 ordinary shares were issued and allotted at a price of 275p per share as part of the Global Offer under the Underwriting and Sponsor Agreement: and ii each of the outstanding issued A ordinary shares were converted into ordinary shares.
Substantial shareholdings As of 28 June 2006 the Company has been notified, in accordance with Sections 198 to 208 of the Companies Act 1985 of the following interests in its issued ordinary share capital: Ordinary shares % DH Partnerships & Co-Investors 92,686,201 26.61 Barclays plc 42,514,353 12.21 Merrill Lynch & Co. Inc. 19,658,858 5.64 Franklin Resources Inc. 10,767,990 3.09 Research and development Applied research and development work continues to be directed towards the introduction of new and improved products, the application of new technology to reduce unit and operating costs and to improve service to customers.
Directors and their interests The directors who served during the year and their biographies are given on page 30.
Details of their interests in the shares of the Company are given on page 37.
Jan du Plessis was appointed as Chairman on 1 June 2005, Michael Baulk and Roger Matthews were appointed as non-executive directors on 1 September 2005 and Erhard Schoewel was appointed as a non-executive director on 14 October 2005.
As announced on 29 June 2006, after the date of this report but prior to its printing, Brian Buchan was appointed on 1 July 2006.
Messrs Baulk, Matthews, Schoewel and Buchan have been appointed to the Board since the last General Meeting, and will therefore be offering themselves for election at the forthcoming AGM.
Directors interests in contracts No contract existed during the year in relation to the Companys business in which any director had a material interest.
Directors and officers liability The Company has arranged liability insurance covering the directors and officers of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Employment policies The Company recognises the importance of encouraging all employees to contribute to the achievements of the Group.
It has a comprehensive set of employment practices designed to achieve that objective.
In particular the Groups equal opportunities policy is designed to create an environment in which all employees are encouraged to develop their individual potential whatever their sex, race, religion, colour, age or disability.
The same opportunities for training, career development and promotion are available to all employees including those with disabilities, in so far as that disability does not prevent them from performing their job or any suitable alternative available job.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are fully considered bearing in mind the respective aptitudes and abilities of the applicant concerned.
44 RHM Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Report of the directors Consultation with employees or their representatives takes place at all levels: there is an RHM European Employment Forum which satisfies the requirements of the European Works Council Directive and other communication processes appropriate to the Companys businesses.
These are designed to ensure that employees views are taken into account when decisions are made that are likely to affect their interests.
Great importance is attached to the quality of communication with all employees.
Employees are provided with information about the performance of the Group through a variety of briefing mechanisms appropriate to their circumstances.
Creditor payment policy The Groups policy is to determine terms and conditions of payment with suppliers when negotiating each transaction, to ensure that suppliers are made aware of the terms and how disputes are to be settled, and to abide by the terms of payment.
The average number of days credit taken by the Group for trade purchases at 29 April 2006 was 43 days 2005: 39 days.
Charitable and political donations During the year, the Group made various charitable donations totalling 18,283 2005: 31,246.
No political donations were made 2005: nil.
Directors responsibilities Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to select suitable accounting policies, and then apply them on a consistent basis, making judgements and estimates that are prudent and reasonable.
The directors must also prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business, and ensure that applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 the Act.
The directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
So far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined by the Act of which the auditors are unaware.
Each director has taken all steps that ought to be taken by a director to make themselves aware of, and to establish that the auditors are aware of, any relevant information.
A copy of the financial statements is placed on the RHM Group website.
The maintenance and integrity of this website is the responsibility of the directors.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Going concern The balance sheet shows the financial position of the Group at 29 April 2006.
The Group has sufficient funding arrangements in place to meet its liquidity requirements and is in a position to service its debt obligations as they fall due.
The Group is not in breach of any financial covenants or loan agreements.
As a result of this, and after having made due and careful enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in existence for the foreseeable future.
For these reasons, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in the preparation of the financial statements.
Auditors Resolutions proposing the reappointment of  LLP as the Companys auditors and authorising the directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Authority to make market purchases The Company will be seeking authority at the forthcoming AGM to make market purchases of its own shares, in line with current practice.
The Company does not currently have this authority.
AGM The Annual General Meeting of the Company is to be held at Haberdashers Hall at 2.30 pm on Tuesday 26 September 2006.
Notice of the meeting, together with explanatory notes, is given in the booklet accompanying this report.
By order of the Board Andrew Allner Group Finance Director 28 June 2006 Registered office: Chapel House, Liston Road Marlow, Buckinghamshire SL7 1TJ Registered in England and Wales: number 3946774
