31 RHM Annual Report and Accounts 2006 01 02 Executive Management 03 04 05 01 Ginny Knox 04 Susan Fox 02 Miles Warnick 05 Gerry Walsh 03 Tim Kelly Ginny Knox 43 Tim Kelly 48 Chief Operating Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Culinary Brands Division Cakes & Customer Partnerships Division Ginny Knox was appointed Chief Operating Tim Kelly joined RHM as Chief Operating Officer Officer of the Culinary Brands Division in April of the Customer Solutions Division in August 2003 and is also charged with coordinating 2003 and is also charged with coordinating group-wide marketing.
Prior to this she was group-wide customer relationships.
He joined RHMs Director of Corporate Communications.
RHM from Constellation Brands where he was Ginny joined RHM in 1996 from Coca-Cola as Chief Operating Officer, International.
Prior to Managing Director of the Groups fruit drinks this, he held senior marketing roles at Diageo business, now sold.
Miles Warnick 49 Susan Fox 50 Chief Operating Officer, Group HR Director Bread Bakeries Division Susan Fox was appointed Group HR Director in Miles Warnick was appointed Chief Operating September 2003.
She joined RHM from Cable and Wireless, where she was Director of Human Officer of the Bread Bakeries Division in May 2002 and is also charged with coordinating Resources, Regional and Corporate.
Prior to this Susan held HR Director roles at Leaseplan UK, group-wide enhancement of its operational performance.
He was previously Managing Pearl Assurance and Grand Metropolitan plc, at the latter of which she was HR Director for Director of Ranks Hovis, the flour milling and bakery ingredients business.
He is currently International Distillers and Vintners.
Chairman of the Federation of Bakers.
Gerry Walsh 49 Group Procurement and Logistics Director Gerry Walsh joined RHM as Group Procurement and Logistics Director in September 2003.
Before joining RHM, he was Vice President, Global Procurement International at American Express.
Prior to this, Gerry held a number of senior appointments at Tambrands, Monarch Aluminium and the Ford Motor Company.
He is currently Vice President of the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply.
