02 RHM Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Listening to our consumers RHM knows that the tastes and Ready to Bake pastries allow consumers preferences of consumers are constantly to experience the enjoyment of baking evolving, and we make sure that our at home with the minimum of effort.
products are constantly evolving too.
This year work has continued, across our When our research revealed the fact that divisions, on removing artificial colours 35 per cent of mothers remove the crusts and flavours, preservatives and other from their childrens sandwiches, we additives as well as reducing salt levels.
launched Hovis Invisible Crust, the worlds We have been adding extra goodness too, first bread to be baked without a crust!
for example our Healthiest Ever Hovis Consumer insight has been central to the range now contains an increased amount development of other innovative new of wholewheat.
Mr Kiplings Delightful Better to eat range of lower calorie cakes were designed More convenient for those who want a healthier version of Healthier their favourite treat, Sharwoods Noodle More enjoyable Boxes suit busy lifestyles and McDougalls 03 RHM Annual Report and Accounts 2006 04 RHM Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Building our brands Developing sustainable, category leading Sharwoods Go East, Mr Kiplings brands is fundamental to success in the Gossip and Hovis 120 years are other ever more competitive UK grocery market.
high profile and successful marketing RHM has some of the longest established campaigns with which RHM brands and most popular consumer brands in the have been strengthened this year.
industry and, as part of our continuing Brand management expertise transformation, we have brought in Targeted advertising and promotion new personnel, with a wealth of brand Innovative PR management experience, to strengthen Selective brand extension further our expertise in this area.
Night campaign, to get families back around the dinner table, is raising the profile of the brand and putting Bisto at the heart of an increasing number of meal occasions.
Complementary brand extension has also contributed to Bistos performance.
05 RHM Annual Report and Accounts 2006 06 RHM Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07 RHM Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Strengthening our customer relationships We constantly strive to develop business The success of our Customer Partnerships relationships with our customers that go division reflects the efforts we make far beyond basic service levels.
In our in developing and maintaining strong industry-leading development kitchens, business relationships with customers, but for example, we develop and showcase right across our business, customers of all innovative and exciting new products sizes tell us they value our commitment to: that are made to appeal to consumers Understanding consumers and generate value for our customers.
Continually innovating Providing outstanding levels of service 08 RHM Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Driving down costs RHM has been progressively simplifying, The transformation of RHMs procurement restructuring and re-engineering its function over the past couple of years business to reduce cost and improve was recognised in November 2005 when flexibility.
Our centralised procurement RHM won the CIPS Award for the and logistics team is playing a key role Most Improved Purchasing Operation.
in ensuring that RHM reaps the full More recently, RHM has become one benefit from this increasingly co-ordinated, of the few companies to undertake the Group-wide approach to business.
CIPS Gold Certification for Strategic Procurement Capability.
A major project to rationalise and restructure our cake production came to Reducing cost fruition this year, on time and on budget.
Reducing risk As well as contributing significantly to Increasing flexibility RHMs cost saving performance in 2006, Realising operational benefits our new cake production profile has also delivered quality improvement, operational efficiencies and environmental benefits.
09 RHM Annual Report and Accounts 2006
