16 Ashtead Group plc Annual report and accounts for the year ended 30 April 2006 International equipment rental Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 1.
Cliff Miller Non-executive Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer, Sunbelt Aged 74, Cob Stenham has been non-executive Chairman, Chairman Aged 43, Cliff Miller was appointed President and Chief Executive Officer of the Nomination Committee and a member of the Finance and of Sunbelt and as one of our directors in July 2004.
Cliff Miller has more Administration Committee since January 2004 and a director since than 20 years of experience in the rental industry and joined the Group 27 October 2003.
Mr Stenham is also Deputy Chairman of NTL in 1996 with the acquisition of McLean Rentals.
From that time until 2003 Incorporated, Chairman of Telewest Communications plc and a he was Vice President responsible for Sunbelts North-Eastern division.
non-executive director of Whatsonwhen non-executive Chairman, Subsequently, he was one of two Executive Vice Presidents responsible Management Consulting Group plc, Cambridge Place Investment for all of Sunbelts front line operations.
Management and Ifonline Group plc non-executive Chairman.
George Burnett, MA, LLB, CA Chief Executive Officer, A-Plant Chief Executive Aged 37, Sat Dhaiwal has been Chief Executive Officer of A-Plant and Aged 59, George Burnett has been Chief Executive since February one of our directors since March 2002.
Mr Dhaiwal was Managing 2000 and one of our directors since May 1984.
Prior to February 2000, Director of A-Plant East, one of A-Plants four operational regions, from Mr Burnett was Managing Director for 16 years.
Mr Burnett is also May 1998 to March 2002.
He was an A-Plant trading director from Chairman of Henderson Strata Investments plc and is Chair of the 1995 until his appointment as Managing Director of A-Plant East and, Governors of University College for the Creative Arts at Canterbury, prior to 1995, he managed one of A-Plants profit centres.
Mr Dhaiwal Epsom, Farnham, Maidstone and Rochester formerly The Surrey has some 20 years experience in the equipment rental industry.
Institute of Art & Design, University College.
Overall, Mr Burnett has over 28 years experience in the equipment rental business.
George Burnett is Chairman of the Finance and Administration Committee and a member of the Nomination Committee.
Ian Robson, BSc, FCA Finance Director Aged 47, Ian Robson has been Finance Director since June 2000.
Prior to June 2000, Mr Robson held a series of senior financial positions at Reuters Group plc for four years.
Prior to joining Reuters Group plc, Mr Robson was a partner at Price Waterhouse now  LLP.
Ian Robson is a member of the Finance and Administration Committee.
17 Ashtead Group plc Annual report and accounts for the year ended 30 April 2006 www.
Gary Iceton Senior independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Aged 59, Chris Cole has been a director and a member of the Audit, Aged 56, Gary Iceton was appointed as a non-executive director Nomination and Remuneration Committees since January 2002.
He was and a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees effective appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in September 2003 from 1 September 2004.
Until 2000 he was a director of St Ives plc and became the senior independent non-executive director from the and Chairman and Chief Executive of the Books Division.
Mr Cole is Chief Executive of WSP Group plc.
recently, he was Chairman of Jarrold Limited and, prior to that, CEO of Amertrans.
Hugh Etheridge, FCA, MCT Independent non-executive director 10.
Geoffrey Drabble, BSc, FCA Aged 56, Hugh Etheridge has been a director, Chairman of the Audit Currently a non-executive director and Chief Executive designate Committee and a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Aged 46, Geoffrey Drabble was appointed as a non-executive director Committees since January 2004.
He also became Chairman of the and a member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees in Audit Committee in January 2004.
Mr Etheridge is Chief Financial April 2005.
He is currently an executive director of The Laird Group PLC Officer of the Waste and Resources Action Programme WRAP, where he is responsible for its Building Products division which has a non-profit organisation established by the UK Government to extensive US and UK operations.
Prior to joining Laird Group, Mr Drabble promote sustainable waste management.
Before joining WRAP, held a number of senior management positions at Black & Decker.
Mr Etheridge was finance director of Waste Recycling Group plc He will join the Group as Chief Executive designate on 2 October 2006. and, prior to that, of Matthew Clark plc.
Details of the directors contracts, emoluments and share interests can 8.
Philip Lovegrove, OBE, LLM be found in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Non-executive director Aged 68, Philip Lovegrove has been a director since 1984 and is a member of the Nomination Committee.
Mr Lovegrove is Chairman of Stanelco plc.
