08 Ashtead Group plc Annual report and accounts for the year ended 30 April 2006 International equipment rental Investing for growth Regular re-investment in our rental fleet sits at the heart of A-Plant is targeting a more mature market in the UK and the Ashteads business philosophy as does investing for growth challenge here is to strengthen and consolidate the brand.
A-Plant is well established in the market and within the industry its reputation continues to improve.
Internal re-structuring has In the US, Sunbelt is growing as new sites are established helped drive 22% profit growth in 2005 6 and positioned it for and smaller businesses are acquired.
$257.9m invested in Sunbelts fleet and six new greenfield stores opened.
The year also saw the acquisition of a further Ashtead Technology maintains a substantial position within its 16 new general equipment rental stores representing an specialist market.
The significant rise in its 2005 6 operating investment of $100m.
profit reflects both the increase in offshore activity around the world and growth in its environmental business, demonstrating its ability to take advantage of market strengths.
A-Plants accommodation business offers a wide range of accommodation units.
09 Ashtead Group plc Annual report and accounts for the year ended 30 April 2006 www.
com Maintaining our rental fleet The quality of the operational fleet is the key to successful investment has been high, ensuring we are able to offer our rental operations.
In all three divisions and in all markets customers a highly competitive standard and age of equipment.
Ashtead is committed to offering the customer high Also, by reducing fleet age significantly this year, the Company standards of equipment.
has the option to be flexible in the future.
Fleet age at 30 April 2006 was 37 months for the Group, 38 months for Sunbelt Ashteads strong growth over the last two years, taken in and 36 months for A-Plant.
These figures compare to the tandem with the Companys financial re-structuring, allows average depreciable life of the equipment in our fleet of 96 for a significant level of discretion in fleet investment decisions.
months indicating the flexibility available to us.
The volume and pattern of replacement within the fleet can be used, at the directors discretion, to manage the Groups free cash flow.
With record results this year the level of replacement Sunbelt Rentals provides forklifts for all types of construction and industrial lifting applications.
10 Ashtead Group plc Annual report and accounts for the year ended 30 April 2006 International equipment rental Growth opportunities Sunbelt continues to open greenfield stores but during the the market.
The enhanced sales operation which secures year returned to acquisitions to consolidate and expand its and services our larger customers was strengthened and clusters in key metropolitan areas.
Stores acquired from HSS consolidated into a single national structure.
This has been RentX consolidated the Miami cluster and the Northridge instrumental in driving our national accounts business with and Brookstone acquisitions increased Sunbelts presence the top 150 customers accounting for 39% of A-Plants in the attractive Southern California market.
They have revenue in the year.
been integrated within Sunbelts operations, exceeding our expectations post acquisition.
Sunbelt intends to continue Over the past year the market profile of Ashtead Technology to develop further clusters in key markets.
was raised further as it successfully pursued growth in its offshore and onshore markets.
Ashtead Technology now has In the UK an estimated 70%80% of equipment is rented a strong position within this exciting and dynamic sector and rather than owned.
Early in 2005 6 A-Plant re-structured its intends to use that advantage to grow as its markets expand.
sales operation to streamline and increase its penetration of Ashtead Technology Rentals offers a wide range of remote visual inspection equipment to meet many inspection requirements.
11 Ashtead Group plc Annual report and accounts for the year ended 30 April 2006 www.
com The trend to rent Sunbelt is riding the national trend in the US away from ownership Sunbelt also plays a crucial part in clearing and reconstruction and towards rental.
Ashtead originally identified this shift within operations following meteorological occurrences such as the marketplace ten years or more ago, and Sunbelt is perfectly tornadoes, hurricanes and flooding.
These naturally occurring placed to take advantage of the changing patterns of utilisation.
events are a weighty challenge for the regional authorities and contractors charged with implementing both emergency and At the moment, an estimated 38% of construction equipment long-term repair and restoration.
It makes no sense for these is rented by contractors but this is expected by Dan Kaplan bodies to own the essential equipment outright, so they turn to Associates to grow to 50% by 2010.
This gives Sunbelt rental companies for a fast, efficient and professional service.
enormous scope for growth as the companys customers make Sunbelt is proud of its record in providing its equipment as the strategic decision to move away from outright ownership rapidly as possible to help assist the recovery from such and towards rental.
Sunbelts objective is to continue its natural disasters.
expansion in this vigorous and buoyant marketplace in the coming year.
Sunbelt Rentals crews respond day or night for emergency equipment needs.
12 Ashtead Group plc Annual report and accounts for the year ended 30 April 2006 International equipment rental Focus on Health and Safety In all markets there is an ever greater awareness of health With its national presence and established IT systems, A-Plant and safety, with our customers demanding increasing levels is one of only a few national providers able to consistently meet of support.
its customers health and safety requirements and to report on its success in doing so.
A-Plant launched a health and safety In the US, Sunbelt offers an extensive online library of safety awareness programme amongst its customers during the advice, and has also initiated a monthly safety message quiz, year entitled Making your Safety our Priority and distributed with prizes for both customers and members of the Sunbelt over 100,000 copies throughout the UK.
The company also offers training to customers the Hire Association Europes Excellence in Training Award employees with qualified trainers available.
There is also an earlier this year.
in-house national training centre in Charlotte, North Carolina which provides Sunbelts employees with training of the highest standard.
A-Plants Rail division offers a wide range of lighting products.
13 Ashtead Group plc Annual report and accounts for the year ended 30 April 2006 www.
com Rewarding our employees The strength of our business and its culture is the level of to control costs, optimise pricing and promote efficient fleet responsibility delegated to the rental store level.
The rental store management, while building motivated cohesive teams focused manager has a high degree of autonomy to manage his on profitability at a local level.
Profit share payments totalled business in the light of local market conditions.
This is reflected 16.2m in 2005 6, representing 7.7% of employee remuneration.
in the monthly profit share programme in which every member of the store staff is entitled to participate and is based on In addition to rewarding our employees financially, the the stores month to month performance.
The profit share development of their careers is a priority and, we believe, an programme motivates employees to maximise returns on important way of maintaining employee morale and loyalty.
investment and encourages them to build and reinforce Sunbelt and A-Plant maintain in-house training teams which, relationships with our customers.
It contributes to the during 2005 6, organised over 2,200 courses for a significant performance of the business through acting as an incentive number of employees.
Sunbelts diesel-driven generators provide emergency power for diverse needs.
14 Ashtead Group plc Annual report and accounts for the year ended 30 April 2006 International equipment rental Clustered operations Ashtead is committed to continuing Sunbelts strategy of Sunbelt also actively looks for acquisitions in pursuit of this clustering its stores in key markets across the country.
For the most part these will be smaller, traditionally Sunbelts 209 outlets are concentrated in major metropolitan family-run operations in key locations although, as and when areas ranging from Washington, DC and Baltimore on the the opportunities arise, the company may pursue larger Atlantic Coast through Miami, Tampa and Orlando in Florida acquisitions of operators who fit Sunbelts profile.
to Seattle on the west coast.
The US economy performed well in the past year and Sunbelt Sunbelt concentrates on expanding and improving both its is servicing one of the most solid sectors of that economy, profile and the service it offers to its customers within these non-residential construction.
This market is in excellent shape large metropolitan markets.
In so doing, Sunbelt aims to with its growth rate forecast by McGraw-Hill Construction to offer its customers a complete, one-stop service for all their significantly outstrip the growth rate of the national economy rental requirements.
Sunbelt green the dominant brand on the job site.
15 Ashtead Group plc Annual report and accounts for the year ended 30 April 2006 www.
com Maximising utilisation The Companys distinctive and attractive green livery means that Time utilisation of our fleet has improved significantly in the past its equipment is easily identified, and its quality is appreciated two years at both Sunbelt and A-Plant and now approaches wherever it is found.
However, equipment which is sitting in a yard or a showroom Both A-Plant and Sunbelt work hard to assist and inform their unused is not earning its keep.
A key objective is to maximise customers, and thereby ensure that they hire the most the use of all items of equipment.
This objective is supported by appropriate equipment for the job in hand.
To this end both both our strategic national purchasing policy in each of the US have public internet websites, which are easily navigated and UK and by the local knowledge of customer requirements and provide technical information on the equipment in the and preferences amongst our regional, district and profit field.
There are provisions on both sites for customers to put centre managers.
A-Plant offers a wide range of lighting towers.
