18 Ashtead Group plc Annual report and accounts for the year ended 30 April 2006 International equipment rental Directors report The directors present their report and the audited accounts for the Employees financial year ended 30 April 2006.
The total number of employees worldwide of the Group at 30 April 2006 was 6,465.
Principal activities The principal activity of the Company is that of an investment holding The Group makes every reasonable effort to give disabled applicants, and management company.
The principal activity of the Group is the and existing employees becoming disabled, opportunities for work, rental of equipment to industrial and commercial users mainly in the training and career development in keeping with their aptitudes and non-residential construction sectors in the US and the UK.
The Group is an equal opportunities employer.
Trading results and dividends The Group has taken action consistently through the year to maintain The Groups consolidated profit before taxation for the year was and develop arrangements aimed at involving employees in its affairs.
A review of the Groups performance and future For example, monthly meetings are held at profit centres to discuss development, including the principal risks and uncertainties facing the the previous months performance.
The Group has a positive approach Group, is given in the Business and Financial Review on pages 33 to 44. to health and safety at work and to compliance with the law and the These disclosures form part of this report.
The Group paid an interim requirements of the regulatory bodies in both the UK and the US.
A dividend of 0.5p per ordinary share in February and the directors copy of the relevant formal statement of the Groups policy on health recommend the payment of a final dividend of 1p per ordinary share, to and safety is on display at profit centres in the UK and the US.
be paid on 28 September 2006 to those shareholders on the register at the close of business on 28 July 2006, making a total dividend for the The Group encourages UK employees to become shareholders through year of 1.5p 2005: nil.
the SAYE share option scheme.
Share capital and major shareholders Directors and directors insurance Details of the Companys share capital are given in note 18 to the financial Details of the directors of the Company are given on pages 16 and 17. statements.
So far as the Company is aware, the only holdings of 3% Each of the directors as at the date of approval of this report confirms, or more of the issued share capital of the Company as at 23 June 2006 as required by Section 234 of the Companies Act 1985, that to the best the latest practicable date before approval of the financial statements of their knowledge and belief: are as follows: 1 there is no significant information known to the director relevant to the audit of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and At 23 June 2 each director has taken reasonable steps to make himself aware of % such information and to establish that the Companys auditors are The Goldman Sachs Group Inc 5.9 aware of it.
Aviva plc 5.0 Barclays Bank plc 3.6 The Company has maintained insurance throughout the year to cover all Legal & General 3.5 directors against liabilities in relation to the Company and its subsidiary GB Burnett 3.2 undertakings.
Details of directors interests in the Companys ordinary share capital Policy on payment of suppliers and in options over that share capital are given in the Directors Suppliers are paid in accordance with the individual payment terms Remuneration Report on pages 24 to 32.
Details of all shares subject agreed with each of them.
The number of Group creditor days at to option are given in note 20 to the financial statements.
30 April 2006 was 57 days 30 April 2005: 74 days which reflects the terms agreed with individual suppliers.
There were no trade creditors in the Companys balance sheet at any time during the past two years.
19 Ashtead Group plc Annual report and accounts for the year ended 30 April 2006 www.
com Political and charitable donations Annual General Meeting Charitable donations in the year amounted to 29,914 in total 2005: The Annual General Meeting will be held at 2.30pm on Tuesday 22,650.
No political donations were made in either year.
Notice of the meeting is set out in the document accompanying this Report and Accounts.
In addition to the adoption Environmental report of the 2005 6 Report and Accounts, the declaration of a final dividend, The Group, through its equipment purchasing policies, maintenance resolutions dealing with the appointment and re-election of directors and programmes and environmental monitoring practices, endeavours to the resolution dealing with the approval of the Directors Remuneration ensure that its trading activities have as little adverse impact on the Report, there are four other matters which will be considered at the environment as it is possible to achieve.
Accordingly, the Group has Annual General Meeting.
These relate to the reappointment of Deloitte & developed environmental management processes which are designed Touche LLP as auditors, the ability for the directors to unconditionally allot to ensure: shares up to approximately one third of the Companys share capital, the compliance with relevant legislation: disapplication of pre-emption rights in relation to the previous resolution removal of potential causes of environmental damage where and empowering the Company to buy back up to 5% of its issued share practicable: and capital.
These resolutions update for a further year similar resolutions continuous reduction in environmental impact through monitoring approved by shareholders in previous years.
By order of the Board The Groups continued investment in its rental fleet, along with its maintenance programmes, minimises both pollution to the atmosphere Eric Watkins and accidental contamination.
The facilities the Group maintains Company Secretary throughout its profit centre network are designed to enable waste to be 27 June 2006 disposed of correctly, bulk fuels to be stored safely and fleet cleaning and maintenance to be carried out efficiently.
Group companies have documented procedures at profit centre level for fleet maintenance, removal of waste from customers sites back to company premises for safe disposal as well as contractual arrangements for the disposal of all major waste products.
The Groups internal operational audit teams measure and monitor environmental performance and control measures at profit centres as part of their rolling audit programme and report their findings to senior operational management.
Auditors Deloitte & Touche LLP has indicated its willingness to continue in office and in accordance with section 385 of the Companies Act 1985, a resolution concerning its re-appointment and authorising the directors to fix its remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
