RIGHTMOVE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 DIRECTORS REPORT development of an on-line HIP platform and disposed of its The directors submit their report together with the audited financial statements for Rightmove plc the Company and its 25% stake in TM to the other shareholders for 3.25m, before subsidiary companies the Group for year ended 31 December costs, as the Companys requirement for local authority 2006.
The Company is domiciled in England registered searches was eliminated.
number 3997679 and re-registered as a public limited Further details on the sale and disposal of TM can be company on 14 February 2006 changing its name from found in Note 24 to the Financial Statements.
co. uk Ltd to Rightmove plc and entered the Trading results Ofcial List of the London Stock Exchange on 15 March 2006.
The Groups consolidated profit before tax from continuing The Company operates in the UK residential property industry connecting people to properties.
Its principal operations and before otation costs and share-based business is the operation of the Rightmove.
co. uk website, payments expense for the financial year was 17,530,000 which is the UKs largest residential property portal.
Further information on the results for the customers estate agents, letting rental agents, new home Group is set out in the Consolidated Income Statement on developers and overseas homes agents pay fees for the page 40 and the supporting notes and the Business and right to display properties on the Rightmove website, which Financial Review on pages 6 to 15. provides home hunters with property details to search.
Capital reconstruction Further information on the Groups activities during the year At the time of the otation the Board communicated its under review and of its prospects are contained in the Business and Financial Review on pages 6 to 15. intention to adopt a progressive dividend policy.
The expectation was that the Company would make significant The following sections form part of this report: investment through to June 2007 in the HIP business.
Business and Financial Review pages 6 to 15 Following the governments U-turn and the Boards decision Current directors biographical details pages 16 to 17 to withdraw its investment in the HIP platform, the Company Corporate Governance pages 22 to 28 found itself with a robust cash position, corporation tax Directors Remuneration pages 29 to 37 credits, receipts from the sale of the shareholding in TM and no major cash outows relating to the HIP business.
Acquisitions and disposals Therefore, the Board stood by its commitment to pay In January 2006 the Company invested 3.25m to acquire a dividends when Rightmoves cash position was rmly 25% stake in TMG Holdings Limited TM, a provider of established and announced its intention to pay an interim searches from local authorities and other bodies.
The dividend of 1.5p per ordinary share.
investment supported the Companys strategy to take Due to technical issues concerning the level of the advantage of the new requirement for sellers of residential Companys distributable reserves at 30 June 2006 which property in England and Wales to provide potential buyers with impacted on the ability to pay dividends, the Board applied a HIP.
The TM shareholder agreement explicitly made provision to the High Court to cancel the share premium account for circumstances in which the Company might be unable to which had the effect of converting the account into retained order substantial volumes of searches.
The government earnings, thereby permitting the payment of dividends.
This announced the withdrawal of the compulsory requirement process was approved by shareholders on 30 October 2006 for a HIP in July 2006.
Therefore the Board decided to stop and by the High Court on 14 November 2006.
18 RIGHTMOVE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Dividend An explanation of these and other resolutions being An interim dividend of 1.5p per share was paid on proposed at the 2007 Annual General Meeting will be provided in the Notice of Annual General Meeting which 21 December 2006 to shareholders on the register of will be sent to shareholders in March 2007. members at the close of business on 24 November 2006.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 3p Shares held in trust per ordinary share be paid in respect of the year ended As at 31 December 2006, 8,603,700 ordinary shares of 31 December 2006, which together with the interim the Company were held in the Rightmove benefit Trust dividend of 1.5p makes a total for the year of for the benefit of Company employees.
Subject to shareholders had a nominal value of 86,037 and a market value approval at the Annual General Meeting on of 33,984,615.
The employee share plans for which 2 May 2007, the final dividend will be paid on 9 May 2007 these shares may be utilised are the Rightmove to shareholders on the register of members at the close Approved Executive Share Option Plan, the Rightmove of business on 13 April 2007.
Unapproved Executive Share Option Plan and the The final dividend payment has not been included in Rightmove Sharesave Plan.
creditors as it was not approved before the year end.
The terms of the Rightmove Employee Trust provide The interim dividend of 1.5p per ordinary share was paid that dividends payable on the shares held within the trust in respect of the period ended 30 June 2006. are waived.
Share capital The issued share capital at the year-end consisted of Substantial shareholdings As at date of this report, the following beneficial interests in 132,658,018 ordinary shares of 1p each 1,326,580.
3% or more of the Companys issued ordinary share capital Movements in the Companys share capital in the year on behalf of the organisations shown in the table below had are shown in Note 19 to the accounts.
been notied to the Company: Information on the Groups share option schemes is set out in Note 22 to the accounts.
No of shares % Details of the share option schemes for directors are Countrywide Estate Agents plc 28,500,000 21.48% set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 31 and 36.
Resolutions will be proposed at the 2007 Annual General Connells Limited 27,545,175 20.76% Meeting to renew for a further year the limited authority of Halifax Estate Agencies Limited 27,545,175 20.76% the directors to allot the unissued share capital of the Company and to issue shares for cash other than to existing The Rightmove Employee Trust 8,603,700 6.49% shareholders.
A resolution will also be proposed to renew Fidelity International Limited FMR Corp. 8,123,916 6.12% the directors authority to purchase a proportion of the Capital Group Companies Inc 6,592,900 4.97% Companys own shares either to be cancelled or to be held in treasury, all within specified limits.
Of the 10% authority RSA E-Holdings Limited 6,245,175 4.71% given on 13 February 2006, no such purchases were made in the year to 31 December 2006.
19 RIGHTMOVE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Directors Rightmove.
co. uk until at least March 2009.
Further details The directors of the Company at the date of this report are are disclosed in the section dealing with Related Party named on pages 16 and 17 together with their proles.
Disclosures in Note 23 to the financial statements on page 63.
On 17 January 2006, Graham Zacharias was appointed Group Finance Director and on 16 January 2006, Jonathan Charitable and political donations Agnew, Nigel Cooper and Judy Vezmar were appointed to The Company made no charitable contributions during the the Board as Independent Non-executive Directors.
The Company made no political donations Scott Marshall and Miles Shipside resigned from the during the year 2005: nil.
Board on 14 February 2006, Jeremy Riley resigned from the Board on 21 February 2006 and Harry Hill resigned from the Creditors payment Board on 12 December 2006.
The Companys policy concerning creditors is to agree In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, payment terms with its suppliers, ensure the relevant terms Ed Williams Group Managing Director, Nick McKittrick of payment are included in contracts and to abide by those Executive Director and Stephen Shipperley Non-executive terms when it is satisfied that goods or services have been Director will retire by rotation at the forthcoming Annual provided in accordance with the contracts.
For the year to General Meeting and each will offer themselves for 31 December 2006, trade creditors represented 25 days re-election.
Jane Pridgeon will retire from the Board at 2005: 66 days of average daily purchases.
The Company the close of the Annual General Meeting.
had 0.9 million of trade creditors at the year end 2005: The Board is satisfied that the directors retiring by rotation 1.2 million.
are qualied for re-appointment by virtue of their skills, experience and contribution to the Board.
Ed Williams and Research and development Nick McKittrick have service agreements with the Company Pure research is not a core element of the business of which can be terminated on 12 months notice.
However for the period under review, the Shipperley is appointed to the Board as a Non-executive Company undertook some research for the HIP platform, Director pursuant to the Relationship Agreement described which has since been discontinued.
in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 24 and 25.
Employment policy The interests of the directors in the share capital of the The Group is rmly committed to the continuation and Company at 31 December 2006 and the directors total remuneration for the year and details of their service strengthening of communication lines with all its employees.
contracts and letters of appointment are set out in the The Company is committed to equality of opportunity Remuneration Report on pages 29 to 37.
At 31 December in all employment practices, policies and procedures.
2006 each of the executive directors was deemed to have No employee or potential employee will therefore receive a non-beneficial interest in 8,603,700 ordinary shares held less favourable treatment due to their race, creed, by the Trustees of the Rightmove benefit Trust.
nationality, colour, ethnic origin, age, religion or similar belief, connections with a national minority, gender, gender Directors interests in contracts reassignment, sexual orientation, marital status, membership During the year the Company entered into agreements with or non-membership of a trade union or disability.
This policy Countrywide plc, Connells Limited and Halifax Estate Agencies includes employees who become disabled whilst employed Limited to list all their respective estate agency properties on by the Group.
20 RIGHTMOVE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Environment Advisers Rightmove plcs policy on the environment is to act in a The Board announced the appointment of Numis as joint responsible and sustainable manner, ensuring we consider broker on 1 March 2007.
UBS remains joint broker to the the wider implications of our actions.
to increase the awareness of all staff to the negative and Auditors positive impacts of our business activities, pursuing efficient KPMG LLP have confirmed willingness to continue in ofce working processes and utilising latest technology plant and equipment wherever possible.
The Company works to as auditors of the Company and separate resolutions for minimise our true waste quantities through close partnerships their re-appointment and for the Audit Committee to with all our suppliers.
determine their remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Health and safety The Company considers the effective management of health Audit information So far as the directors in ofce at the date of signing of the and safety to be an integral part of managing its business.
The Companys policy on health and safety is to provide report are aware, there is no relevant audit information of adequate control of the health and safety risks arising from which the auditors are unaware and each such director has work activities, through consultation with and training of taken all reasonable steps to make themselves aware of any employees, the provision and maintenance of plant and relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors equipment, safe handling and use of all substances and are aware of that information.
the prevention of accidents and causes of ill health.
The Company will maintain safe and healthy working conditions By order of the Board for employees, visitors and contractors, and keep the policy on health and safety up-to-date with regular reviews and Elizabeth Taylor necessary alterations to the policy as required.
Company Secretary Annual General Meeting 2 March 2007 The Annual General Meeting will be held at the ofces of Pinsent Masons, Citypoint, One Ropemaker Street, London EC2Y 9AH on Wednesday 2 May 2007 at 12 noon.
Following implementation in January 2007 of the electronic communication provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Company intends to propose resolutions at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to allow electronic communications with shareholders.
This together with details of the other resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting are contained in the Notice of Meeting and letter from the chairman accompanying this report.
