RIGHTMOVE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Scott Forbes property and travel during his tenure at Ed Williams Rightmove and led the and the transition to Chairman services worldwide.
Cendant and held similar Group Managing Director day-to-day operational being a public company.
Scott Forbes was Scott established the roles for other industry Ed Williams joined management of the His prior experience is in appointed Chairman of international headquarters sector businesses Rightmove as Managing website advertising business strategy and Rightmove in June in London in 1999 and including National Car Director at the time that business until 2004.
He has 25 years led this division as Parks and Green Flag.
the original joint venture Since 2005 Ed has McKinsey & Co, experience in operations, Group Managing Prior to Cendant, Scott was established in 2000. been focused on the Accenture and finance and mergers & Director until he joined was a certied public Ed formed the senior opportunities to broaden JPMorgan.
He was accountant from 1980 management team that the business, building 19 December 2000. the last 15 years at Chairman or Chief to 1989.
Appointed continues to run external relationships Cendant Corporation, Executive of various 13 July 2005. formerly the largest residential property and provider of residential travel industry businesses become the second a subsidiary of HBOS financial reporting Stephen Shipperley Jane Pridgeon Nigel Cooper largest estate agency plc.
From 2000 to 2004, practices, internal Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director group in the UK with she held the role of control environment Stephen Shipperley Jane Pridgeon joined the Nigel is a recently retired interests in residential Managing Director of and compliance with joined the Board on its Board in June 2003.
She senior partner at KPMG, estate agency, surveying, Halifax Estate Agencies.
various listed company formation in 2000. has over 30 years of one of the top four financial services, Jane is a fellow of the regulations.
Nigel is Stephen has over 27 experience in the estate independent accounting relocations and Royal Institution of also a member of years of experience in agency, banking and rms worldwide.
Chartered Surveyors and the Remuneration the real estate industry.
financial services 33 year career in the Appointed 30 June a fellow of the National Committee.
Nigel was He is Group Chief industries.
Jane has held accounting profession, 2000.
Association of Estate previously Lead Audit Executive of Connells, a variety of roles within he joined Rightmove in Agents.
Appointed 6 and Advisory Partner which has grown to the HBOS Group and is January 2006 and was June 2003. for KPMGs Information, currently Chairman of appointed as a NonCommunications and Halifax Estate Agencies, executive Director.
He is Entertainment Group Chairman of the Audit based in London.
Committee, where he Appointed 16 January provides oversight of the 2006.
16 RIGHTMOVE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Graham Zacharias FCA working in Spain for BTRs Aerospace Group.
Nick McKittrick overseas and lettings technology consulting Group Finance Director several years before Recently, Graham held Managing Director of businesses and took division and was a Graham Zacharias was joining Schlumberger the post of Group Rightmove.
co. uk over the operational technical architect in appointed Group Finance where he held a number Finance Director for over Nick McKittrick joined responsibilities for the the government and Director of Rightmove in of finance roles in Dubai nine years at Spectris Rightmove in 2000 to property website telecoms sectors before January 2006.
He then plc, a process and focus on its technology advertising business advancing into the 33 years of experience in moved to Singapore as control and and operations.
Before management of largea range of operational Managing Director of a instrumentation the development of the joining the Company he scale projects across and financial roles.
He small, publicly-quoted company in the FTSE Companys original worked in Accentures various industry qualied as a chartered company before 250.
Appointed 17 website and technology management sectors.
Appointed accountant with returning to the UK as January 2006. platform, built the new consultancy team for 5 March 2004.
Coopers and Lybrand, Finance Director of homes business, eight years in the research services to business, and of The 20 years company Judy Vezmar Jonathan Agnew Liz Taylor customers as the Cayenne Trust, a listed secretarial experience Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Company Secretary industry continues to investment trust.
across a variety of public Judy is the Chief Jonathan joined the Liz Taylor was appointed shift away from off-line Jonathan was an companies.
Prior to Executive officer of Board in January 2006 Company Secretary of hard copy research investment banker for joining Rightmove, she Lexis Nexis ECLA, as Senior Independent Rightmove on 4 July publications.
Judy is over 25 years, including was Company Secretary headquartered in Director and Chairman of 2006.
She is a Fellow of a member of the being a Managing of The Berkeley Group London and a subsidiary the Remuneration the Institute of Chartered Nomination, Audit Director of Morgan Holdings plc.
He is Secretaries and and Remuneration Stanley and chief is responsible for Chairman of the Administrators and has committees.
Appointed executive of Kleinwort expanding the reach and Nationwide Building 16 January 2006.
He has been range of Lexis Nexis Society, one of the UK's Chairman of several successful on-line legal largest providers of other listed financial mortgages and retail companies and served savings accounts, of on the Council of Lloyd's Beazley Group, a listed from 1995 to 1999. insurance underwriting Appointed 16 January business, of LMS 2006.
Capital, an Aim listed private equity investment 17
