RIGHTMOVE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED All directors have access to the advice and services During the initial public offering process, the chairman, group of the company secretary and independent professional managing director and group finance director presented the advisers, at the Companys expense, where specic Company to prospective shareholders in a series of one-toexpertise is required in the course of their duties.
one meetings in London, Frankfurt and Paris.
The Company has also arranged directors and ofcers Following Listing and within the terms of the regulatory insurance cover in respect of legal action against the directors.
framework, the Company has maintained its commitment to Following Listing, the Company set out written policies active dialogue with shareholders through on-going meetings in compliance with a code of securities dealings in relation with institutional investors and research rms to discuss to the shares and equivalent to the Model Code published strategy, operating performance and financial performance.
The code applies to all directors, Contact has been principally with the group managing other persons discharging managerial responsibility and director and group finance director although the chairman relevant employees.
has participated in several meetings besides conducting one-on-one meetings with shareholders.
The chairman has Board evaluation made shareholders aware of the availability of Jonathan Because the Company has been listed for part of the year Agnew, the Senior Independent Director, if they wish to under review, the Board believes that a meaningful evaluation supplement communication or if contact through the normal could only take place once the new Board had had a channels is inappropriate.
reasonable time to work together.
The Board therefore Shareholders are also kept up to date with the agreed a process for a performance evaluation programme Companys activities through the Annual and Interim reports during 2006 and commenced formal board evaluation in and the Company has developed the investor relations early 2007.
The Board evaluation exercise was led by the section of its website to provide details of all the directors, chairman, assisted by the company secretary.
latest news, including financial results and Stock Exchange All directors completed a comprehensive questionnaire announcements.
covering the collective performance of the Board and its The Board is kept informed of the views and opinions of Committees, knowledge of strategy and priorities in the first those with an interest in the Company through reports from year of operation together and the roles and skills of the the group managing director and group finance director as individual directors.
The non-executive directors, led by the well as reports from the Companys broker UBS.
All directors Senior Independent Director, Jonathan Agnew, also conducted receive notication of any changes in the status of substantial an evaluation of the chairman.
shareholders and at each Board meeting an update is given The Board evaluation results will be considered at the by the executive directors on the movements in major March 2007 Board Meeting to coincide with the Companys shareholdings and on the views and opinions of those first anniversary as a listed company.
A meeting has been with an interest in the Company.
scheduled to review the performance of the chairman Stephen Shipperley and Jane Pridgeon are Non-executive which will be chaired by Jonathan Agnew, Senior Directors of the Company.
They are also employed by Independent Director.
Connells Limited and Halifax Estate Agencies Limited respectively and are appointed to the Board as representatives Relations with shareholders of these principal shareholders.
For so long as each principal The Board is accountable to shareholders for the performance shareholder maintains an interest of 15% or more in the and activities of the Company and the chairman ensures Companys ordinary share capital, they shall be entitled to that effective communication with shareholders takes place.
appoint a representative to the Board.
The Board is aware 24 RIGHTMOVE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 that situations may arise where interests of the principal electronic voting for shareholders who hold their shares shareholders and or their director representatives may conict through the Crest system and will also introduce with Company interests.
In order to mitigate against potential personalised proxy cards for its first Annual General Meeting conicts of interest, the terms of appointment of the to ensure that all votes are clearly identied and counted.
representative directors, which are set out in a Relationship Agreement, provide that the representative directors cannot Board committees be members of any committee of the Board, they may not The Board has established three principal committees, receive information relating to any matter where a conict of the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and interest may arise and they may not participate in any Board the Nomination Committee, each of which operates within meeting or discussions of the Board where the matter being written terms of reference approved by the Board.
considered presents a conict of interest between the No person other than a Committee member is entitled interests of the Company and the principal shareholder they to attend the meetings of these Committees, except by represent whether as shareholder, customer or supplier.
invitation of the chairman of that Committee.
The chairman of the Board is responsible for determining, in cases of doubt, whether a conict exists.
Information Remuneration Committee provided to a representative director may not be passed on The Remuneration Committee consists of the three by that director to the relevant principal shareholder without Independent Non-executive Directors, Jonathan Agnew the approval of the rest of the Board.
Each of the directors Chairman, Judy Vezmar and Nigel Cooper.
The quorum for including the representatives of principal shareholders owes meetings of the Remuneration Committee is two members.
duciary duties to the Company.
The Remuneration Committee will meet at such times as may be necessary but will normally meet at least twice a year.
Annual General Meeting The purpose of the Remuneration Committee is to ensure All shareholders are invited to participate in the Companys that the Companys executive directors and senior executives Annual General Meeting on 2 May 2007 where all directors are properly incentivised and fairly rewarded for their including the chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and individual contributions to the Companys overall performance Nomination Committees will be available to answer questions having due regard to the interests of the shareholders and and will also be available for discussions with shareholders to the financial and commercial health of the Company.
prior to and after the meeting.
The Remuneration Committees terms of reference are In line with the Combined Code, the Company will arrange available on the Companys website, www.
co. uk, for the Annual Report and Accounts and related papers to or by request to the company secretary.
be posted to shareholders so as to allow at least 20 working The company secretary acts as secretary to the days for consideration before the Annual General Meeting.
Committee and the Chairman, Scott Forbes, is normally All proxy votes will be counted and the level of proxy invited to attend the meetings.
The chairman of the votes including abstentions lodged for each resolution will be Remuneration Committee reports to the Board on the reported after each resolution at the Annual General Meeting Remuneration Committees behalf after each meeting and and published on the Companys website.
copies of the minutes of the meetings are circulated to the The Company also complies with the Combined Code Board as a whole unless a conict of interest exists.
with the separation of all resolutions put to the vote of Since Listing, the Committee met and agreed shareholders.
The Company proactively encourages amendments to the terms of reference for the Committee, shareholders to vote at general meetings by providing agreed the granting of share options to certain senior 25 RIGHTMOVE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED managers, approved the bonus payments for the financial Group Finance Director and that Jonathan Agnew, Judy year 2006 and set the remuneration for the executive Vezmar and Nigel Cooper be invited to join the Board as directors and senior managers for 2007.
The three independent A detailed report on the Companys remuneration policy non-executive directors were appointed on 16 January 2006. and the work of the Remuneration Committee is available in Graham Zacharias was appointed on 17 January 2006. the Remuneration Report on pages 29 to 37.
There have been no further vacancies for the Nomination Committee to consider during the period under review.
Nomination Committee Since Listing, the Committee appointed the company The Nomination Committee consists of Scott Forbes secretary as secretary to the Committee, approved terms Chairman, Jonathan Agnew and Judy Vezmar as Independent of reference for the Committee, agreed the methodology Non-executive Directors.
The quorum for meetings of the and questionnaire for the 2006 year-end Board evaluation Nomination Committee is two members.
The chairman of the process, reviewed the organisation structure after the closure Company will not chair the Nomination Committee in of the HIP division to ensure that the management team had connection with any discussion about the appointment of his the right skills and experience to compete in the marketplace successor to the chairmanship of the Company, when the and approved the plans for the succession of the executive senior independent director would take the chair.
Appointments directors and the senior management team.
are for a period of up to three years, extendable by no more than two additional three-year periods, so long as members Audit Committee continue to be independent.
The Audit Committee consists of the three Independent The Nomination Committee meets at such times as may Non-executive Directors, Nigel Cooper Chairman, Judy be necessary but will normally meet at least twice a year.
Nigel Cooper is Chairman of The purpose of the Nomination Committee is to consider, the Committee and is a retired senior partner from KPMG and make recommendations to the Board about, the LLP with a 33 year career including 21 years as a partner in composition of the Board, including proposed appointees, Milan and London and therefore has relevant financial skills and whether to ll any vacancies that arise or to change the and experience for the role.
The quorum for meetings of the Audit Committee is two The Nomination Committees terms of reference are members.
Appointments to the Committee are for a period available on the Companys website, www.
co. uk, of up to three years, extendable by no more than two or by request to the company secretary.
additional three-year periods, so long as members continue Prior to Listing, the chairman, with the assistance of to be independent.
external advisers, Korn Ferry International Board Services, The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year prepared a programme to recruit independent non-executive and more often if necessary.
Two of its meetings are prior to directors to join the Companys Board to best serve the the announcement of the interim and annual results of the Companys needs as a listed company.
Company when the external auditor is in attendance.
The A detailed job description was prepared that reected company secretary acts as secretary to the Committee and the the skills and experience required.
Korn Ferry prepared a group finance director is normally invited to attend the meetings.
list of candidates meeting the job specication requirements The chairman of the Audit Committee reports to the and created an interview schedule between the director Board on the Audit Committees behalf after each meeting candidates and the chairman, group managing director and copies of the minutes of the meetings are circulated to and existing non-executive directors.
Ultimately, it was the Board as a whole.
recommended that Graham Zacharias be appointed as 26 RIGHTMOVE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 The Audit Committee assists the Board in the discharge of reviewed the interim and preliminary results announcements its duties concerning the announcement of results, the and the Interim and Annual reports.
The external auditors Annual Report and Accounts and the maintenance of internal also presented the results of their review of the interim controls.
It reviews the scope and planning of the audit and results as well as their audit plan to the Audit Committee.
the auditors findings and considers Group accounting The Committee has drawn up a policy and procedure for policies and the compliance with those policies with staff to report any concerns that they may have independent applicable legal and accounting standards.
of management about suspected misconduct without fear The Audit Committee has authority to investigate any of retaliation.
areas of concern as to financial impropriety that arise and to obtain outside legal or other independent professional Internal controls advice in connection therewith.
The Audit Committees The Board of directors is responsible for the Groups system principal duties and terms of reference are available on the of internal controls and has established a framework of Companys website, www.
co. uk, or by request financial and other controls which is periodically reviewed in to the company secretary.
accordance with the Turnbull guidance for its effectiveness.
During the period since Listing the Committee has, The Board has taken, and will continue to take, appropriate amongst other matters, agreed its terms of reference, measures to ensure that the chances of financial irregularities approved the appointment of the external auditors, xed occurring are reduced as far as reasonably possible by their remuneration and reviewed the effectiveness of the improving the quality of information at all levels in the Group, external audit process.
fostering an open environment and ensuring that the financial The Committee has also considered the need for an analysis is rigorously applied.
Any system of internal controls internal audit function.
Given the simplicity of the organisation can, however, only provide reasonable but not absolute, structure, the open and accountable culture with clear assurance against material misstatement or loss.
authority limits, the straightforward financial model and systems and the fact that the management team and The major elements of the system of internal control are: Board conduct regular financial reviews, the Committee Major commercial, strategic and financial risks are formally recommended to the Board that an internal audit function identied, quantied and assessed, discussed with the was not currently appropriate for the business.
This decision executive directors, after which they are considered by is kept under regular review.
the Board The Committee also discussed its responsibilities to There is a comprehensive system of planning, budgeting safeguard the audit objectivity and independence as well as and monitoring Group results.
This includes monthly the needs of the business and agreed that it was practical management reporting and monitoring of performance in many cases for the auditors to be assigned to other and forecasts non-audit project work due to their knowledge and expertise There is an organisational structure with clearly dened of the business.
This would usually relate to corporate lines of responsibility and delegation of authority transaction advice and tax compliance.
A process of The Group is in the process of developing a manual of approval and agreed parameters of non-audit work was internal operating and financial procedures.
The system of agreed by the Committee.
The Committee regularly reviews internal controls has been reviewed by KPMG and some the independence of the external auditors.
suggestions for improvements have been made.
These In addition to receiving reports from the external auditors, have been considered by the Board and a number have members met with the external auditors without the been implemented presence of the executive directors.
The Committee 27 RIGHTMOVE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED There are whistleblower procedures of which all In preparing the financial statements, the directors are employees are made aware, to enable concerns to be required to: raised either with line management or, if appropriate, Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them condentially outside the line management.
consistently Make judgments and estimates that are reasonable The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of and prudent internal controls during the year ended 31 December 2006 State whether they have been prepared in accordance and intends to review controls annually, having ensured that with IFRSs as adopted by the EU appropriate control mechanisms and review processes Prepare the financial statements on the going concern are in place.
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
Going concern After making prior enquiries, the directors have a reasonable The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting expectation that the Group has adequate resources to records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
the financial position of the Company and enable them to For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern ensure that its financial statements comply with the basis in preparing the financial statements.
They have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to Statement of directors responsibilities safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect The directors are responsible for preparing the Directors fraud and other irregularities.
Report and the financial statements in accordance with The directors are responsible for the maintenance and applicable law and regulations.
integrity of the corporate and financial information included Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing Parent financial statements for each financial year.
Under that the preparation and dissemination of financial statements law the directors have elected to prepare both the Group may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
and the Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
The financial statements are required by law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position of the Group and Company and the performance for that period: the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
