To qualify for the 15 per cent maximum income tax rate on Under the UK Estate Tax Treaty, a US holder, who is domiciled in the US dividends the stock of the QFC must be held for more than 60 days and is not a national of the UK, will not be subject to UK inheritance tax during the 121 day period beginning on the date which is 60 days upon the holders death or on a transfer during the holders lifetime before the ex-dividend date.
unless the ADSs and shares form part of the business property of a permanent establishment in the UK or pertain to a fixed base situated in EXCHANGE CONTROLS the UK used in the performance of independent personal services.
In Rio Tinto plc the exceptional case where ADSs or shares are subject both to UK There are no UK foreign exchange controls or other restrictions on the inheritance tax and to US Federal gift or estate tax, the UK Estate Tax import or export of capital or on the payment of dividends to non Treaty generally provides for tax payments to be relieved in accordance resident holders of Rio Tinto plc shares or that affect the conduct of with the priority rules set out in the Treaty.
The Bank of England, however, administers financial sanctions against specified targets related to certain regimes.
Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax There are no restrictions under Rio Tinto plcs memorandum and Transfers of Rio Tinto plc ADSs will not be subject to UK stamp duty articles of association or under UK law that limit the right of non resident provided that the transfer instrument is not executed in, and at all times owners to hold or vote Rio Tinto plc shares.
Purchases of Rio Tinto plc shares are subject either to stamp duty Rio Tinto Limited at a rate of 50 pence per 100 or to stamp duty reserve tax SDRT at a Under current Australian legislation, the Reserve Bank of Australia does rate of 0.5 per cent.
Conversions of Rio Tinto plc shares into Rio Tinto not restrict the import and export of funds and no permission is required plc ADSs will be subject to additional SDRT at a rate of 1.5 per cent on for the movement of funds into or out of Australia, except that all transfers to the Depositary or its nominee.
restrictions apply to certain financial transactions relating to specified individuals and entities associated with certain regimes.
Australian taxation of shareholdings in Rio Tinto Limited The Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade has responsibility for Taxation of dividends the administration of restrictions relating to terrorists and their sponsors, US holders are not normally liable to Australian withholding tax on and the former Iraqi regime.
dividends paid by Rio Tinto Limited because such dividends are Rio Tinto Limited may be required to deduct withholding tax from normally fully franked under the Australian dividend imputation system, foreign remittances of dividends, to the extent that they are unfranked, meaning that they are paid out of income that has borne Australian and from payments of interest.
Any unfranked dividends would suffer Australian withholding There are no restrictions under the constitution of Rio Tinto Limited tax which under the Australian income tax convention is limited to that limit the right of non residents to hold or vote Rio Tinto Limited 15 per cent of the gross dividend.
However acquisitions of interests in shares in Australian companies Capital gains by foreign interests are subject to review and approval by the Treasurer US holders are not normally subject to any Australian tax on the of the Commonwealth of Australia under the Foreign Acquisitions and disposal of Rio Tinto Limited ADSs or shares unless they have been Takeovers Act 1975 the Takeovers Act.
The Takeovers Act applies to used in carrying on a trade or business wholly or partly through a any acquisition of 15 per cent or more of the outstanding shares of an permanent establishment in Australia, or the gain is in the nature of Australian company or to any transaction that results in one non income sourced in Australia.
resident, or a group of associated non residents, controlling 15 per cent or more of an Australian company.
The Takeovers Act also applies to Gift, estate and inheritance tax any transaction which results in a group of non associated non residents Australia does not impose any gift, estate or inheritance taxes in relation controlling 40 per cent or more of an Australian company.
Persons who to gifts of shares or upon the death of a shareholder.
are proposing such acquisitions or transactions are required to notify the Treasurer of their intention.
The Treasurer has the power to order Stamp duty divestment in cases where such acquisitions or transactions have An issue or transfer of Rio Tinto Limited shares does not require the already occurred.
The Takeovers Act does not affect the rights of payment of Australian stamp duty.
owners whose interests are held in compliance with the legislation.
US Federal income tax DUAL LISTED COMPANIES STRUCTURE United States Internal Revenue Service Circular 230 Notice In 1995, Rio Tinto shareholders approved the terms of the dual listed To ensure compliance with Internal Revenue Service Circular 230, companies merger the DLC merger which was designed to place the holders are hereby notified that, any discussion of US federal tax issues shareholders of both Companies in substantially the same position as if contained or referred to in this report or any document referred to herein they held shares in a single enterprise owning all of the assets of both is not intended or written to be used, and cannot be used by holders for Companies.
As a condition of its approval of the DLC merger, the the purpose of avoiding penalties that may be imposed on them under Australian Government required Rio Tinto plc to reduce its shareholding the United States Internal Revenue Code, such discussion is written for in Rio Tinto Limited to 39 per cent by the end of 2005.
Consistent with use in connection with the matters addressed herein, and holders the commitments made to the Australian Government in 1995, the should seek advice based on their particular circumstances from an Rio Tinto plc shareholding in Rio Tinto Limited has been reduced over independent tax adviser.
time and it now stands at approximately 37.5 per cent.
Following the approval of the DLC merger, both Companies entered Dividends into a DLC Merger Sharing Agreement the Sharing Agreement through Dividends on the Groups ADSs and shares will generally be treated as which each Company agreed to ensure that the businesses of Rio Tinto dividend income for purposes of US Federal income tax.
In the case of plc and Rio Tinto Limited are managed on a unified basis, to ensure that Rio Tinto Limited, the income will be the net dividend plus, in the event the boards of directors of each Company is the same, and to give effect of a dividend being subject to withholding tax, the withholding tax.
to certain arrangements designed to provide shareholders of each Dividend income will not be eligible for the dividends received Company with a common economic interest in the combined deduction allowed to US corporations.
Dividends paid by Qualified Foreign Corporations QFCs are subject In order to achieve this third objective, the Sharing Agreement to a maximum rate of income tax of 15 per cent.
This maximum rate provided for the ratio of dividend, voting and capital distribution rights applies to taxable years beginning before 1 January 2009.
Both attached to each Rio Tinto plc share and to each Rio Tinto Limited Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited expect to be QFCs throughout this share to be fixed in an Equalisation Ratio which has remained Rio Tinto 2006 Annual report and financial statements 91 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 2006 846725 pp088 pp094 24 2 07 9:56 am Page 92 Shareholder information continued unchanged at 1:1.
The Sharing Agreement has provided for this ratio to example, fundamental elements of the DLC merger cannot be changed be revised in special circumstances where, for example, certain unless approved by shareholders under the Class Rights Action modifications are made to the share capital of one Company, such as approval procedure.
rights issues, bonus issues, share splits and share consolidations, but Exceptions to these principles can arise in situations such as where not to the share capital of the other.
Outside these specified legislation requires the separate approval of a decision by the circumstances, the Equalisation Ratio can only be altered with the appropriate majority of shareholders in one Company and where approval of shareholders under the Class Rights Action approval approval of the matter by shareholders of the other Company is not procedure described under Voting rights.
In addition, any adjustments required.
are required to be confirmed by the auditors.
Where a matter has been expressly categorised as either a Joint One consequence of the DLC merger is that Rio Tinto is subject to Decision or a Class Rights Action, the directors do not have the power a wide range of laws, rules and regulatory review across multiple to change that categorisation.
If a matter falls within both categories, it is jurisdictions.
Where these rules differ Rio Tinto, as a Group, aims to treated as a Class Rights Action.
In addition, the directors can comply with the strictest applicable level.
determine that matters not expressly listed in either category should be Consistent with the creation of a single combined enterprise under put to shareholders for their approval under either procedure.
the DLC merger, directors of each Company act in the best interests of To facilitate the joint voting arrangements each Company has Rio Tinto as a whole.
When matters may involve a conflict of interests entered into shareholder voting agreements.
Each Company has issued between the shareholders of each Company they must be approved a Special Voting Share to a special purpose company held in trust by a under the Class Rights Action approval procedure.
To ensure that the boards of both Companies are identical, Rio Tinto plc has issued its Special Voting Share RTP Special Voting resolutions to appoint or remove directors must be put to shareholders Share to RTL Shareholder SVC and Rio Tinto Limited has issued its of both as a joint electorate as Joint Decisions as described under Special Voting Share RTL Special Voting Share to RTP Shareholder Voting rights, and it is a requirement that a person can only be a director SVC.
The total number of votes cast on Joint Decisions by the public of one Company if that person is also a director of the other Company.
shareholders of one Company are voted at the parallel meeting of the So, for example, if a person was removed as a director of Rio Tinto plc, other Company.
The role of these special purpose companies in he or she would also cease to be a director of Rio Tinto Limited.
achieving this is described below.
In exceptional circumstances, certain public shareholders of the Dividend rights Companies can be excluded from voting at the respective Companys The Sharing Agreement provides for dividends paid on Rio Tinto plc and general meetings because they have acquired shares in one Company Rio Tinto Limited shares to be equalised on a net cash basis, that is in excess of a given threshold without making an offer for all the shares without taking into account any associated tax credits.
Dividends are in the other Company.
If this should occur, the votes cast by these determined in US dollars and are then, except for ADR holders, excluded shareholders will be disregarded.
translated and paid in sterling and Australian dollars.
The Companies are Following the Companies general meetings the overall results of the also required to announce and pay their dividends and other voting on Joint Decisions and the results of voting on separate decisions distributions as close in time to each other as possible.
will be announced to the stock exchanges, published on the Rio Tinto In the unlikely event that one Company did not have sufficient website and advertised in the Financial Times and The Australian distributable reserves to pay the equalised dividend or the equalised newspapers.
The results of the 2007 annual general meetings may also capital distribution, it would be entitled to receive a top up payment from be obtained on the appropriate shareholder helpline Rio Tinto plc: the other Company.
The top up payment could be made as a dividend Freephone 0800 435021: and Rio Tinto Limited: toll free 1800 813 292. on the DLC Dividend Share, or by way of a contractual payment.
If the payment of an equalised dividend would contravene the law Rio Tinto plc applicable to one of the Companies, then they may depart from the At a Rio Tinto plc shareholders meeting at which a Joint Decision will Equalisation Ratio.
However, should such a departure occur, then the be considered, each Rio Tinto plc share will carry one vote and the relevant Company will put aside reserves to be held for payment on the holder of its Special Voting Share will have one vote for each vote cast relevant shares at a later date.
by the public shareholders of Rio Tinto Limited.
The holder of the Rio Tinto shareholders have no direct rights to enforce the dividend Special Voting Share is required to vote strictly and only in accordance equalisation provisions of the Sharing Agreement.
with the votes cast by public shareholders for and against the equivalent The DLC Dividend Share can also be utilised to provide the Group resolution at the parallel Rio Tinto Limited shareholders meeting.
with flexibility for internal funds management by allowing dividends to be The holders of Rio Tinto Limited ordinary shares do not actually hold paid between the two parts of the Group.
Such dividend payments are any voting shares in Rio Tinto plc by virtue of their holding in Rio Tinto of no economic significance to the shareholders of either Company, as Limited and cannot enforce the voting arrangements relating to the they will have no effect on the Groups overall resources.
Voting rights Rio Tinto Limited In principle, the Sharing Agreement provides for the public shareholders At a Rio Tinto Limited shareholders meeting at which a Joint Decision of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited to vote as a joint electorate on all will be considered, each Rio Tinto Limited share will carry one vote and, matters which affect shareholders of both Companies in similar ways.
together with the Rio Tinto Limited ordinary shares held by Tinto These are referred to as Joint Decisions.
Such Joint Decisions include Holdings Australia, the holder of its Special Voting Share will carry one the creation of new classes of share capital, the appointment or removal vote for each vote cast by the public shareholders of Rio Tinto plc in of directors and auditors and the receiving of annual financial their parallel meeting.
Tinto Holdings Australia and the holder of the statements.
Joint Decisions are voted on a poll.
Special Voting Share are required to vote strictly, and only, in The Sharing Agreement also provides for the protection of the public accordance with the votes cast for and against the equivalent resolution shareholders of each Company by treating the shares issued by each at the parallel Rio Tinto plc shareholders meeting.
Company as if they were separate classes of shares issued by a single The holders of Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares do not actually hold any company.
So decisions that do not affect the shareholders of both voting shares in Rio Tinto Limited by virtue of their holding in Rio Tinto Companies equally require the separate approval of the shareholders of plc and cannot enforce the voting arrangements relating to the Special both Companies.
Matters requiring this approval procedure are referred Voting Share.
to as Class Rights Actions and are voted on a poll.
Thus, the interests of the shareholders of each Company are Capital distribution rights protected against decisions which affect them and the shareholders in If either of the Companies goes into liquidation, the Sharing Agreement the other Company differently, by requiring their separate approval.
For provides for a valuation to be made of the surplus assets of both 92 Rio Tinto 2006 Annual report and financial statements SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 2006
