Of these holders, 246 had registered addresses in the US Rio Tinto Limited shares.
Of these holders, 251 had registered and held a total of 151,602 Rio Tinto plc shares, representing 0.014 per addresses in the US, representing approximately 0.072 per cent of the cent of the total number of Rio Tinto plc shares issued and outstanding total number of Rio Tinto Limited shares issued and outstanding as of as at such date.
In addition, 104 million Rio Tinto plc shares were such date.
In addition, nominee accounts of record with registered registered in the name of a custodian account in London which addresses other than in the US may hold Rio Tinto Limited shares, in represented 10.2 per cent of the publicly held Rio Tinto plc shares whole or in part, beneficially for US persons.
These shares were represented by 25.96 million Rio Tinto plc ADSs held of record by 382 ADR holders.
In ADR holders addition, certain accounts of record with registered addresses other ADR holders may instruct JPMorgan as to how the shares represented than in the US hold shares, in whole or in part, beneficially for US by their ADRs should be voted.
Registered holders of ADRs will have the Annual review and interim reports mailed to them at their record address.
ADR holders will receive Rio Tinto Limited the Annual review and interim reports on request.
Rio Tinto Limited shares are listed on the Australian Securities Exchange Rio Tinto is subject to the US Securities and Exchange Commission ASX and the New Zealand Securities Exchange.
The ASX is the SEC reporting requirements for foreign companies.
A Form 20-F, which principal trading market for Rio Tinto Limited shares.
The ASX is a corresponds with the Form 10-K in US public companies, will be filed national stock exchange operating in the capital city of each Australian with the SEC.
Rio Tintos Form 20-F and other filings can be viewed on State with an automated trading system.
Although not listed, Rio Tinto the Rio Tinto website as well as the SEC web site at www.
gov Limited shares are also traded in London.
Closing ASX share prices are published in most Australian Investment warning newspapers and are also available during the day on the Rio Tinto and Past performance of shares is not necessarily a guide to future other websites.
The value of shares and investments and the income Rio Tinto Limited had an ADR facility with JPMorgan Chase Bank derived from them can go down as well as up, and investors may not NA under a Deposit Agreement, dated 6 June 1989, as amended on get back the amount they invested.
1 August 1989, as further amended and restated on 2 June 1992 and as further amended and restated on 7 July 2005 when JPMorgan TAXATION became Rio Tinto Limiteds depository.
UK resident individuals shareholdings in Rio Tinto plc Rio Tinto Limited had established a separate ADR programme Taxation of dividends before the DLC merger in 1995 but the Group did not believe that there Dividends carry a tax credit equal to one ninth of the dividend.
was any benefit in continuing to maintain two separate ADR Individuals who are not liable to income tax at the higher rate will have programmes and in 2006 decided that, due to the relative size of the no further tax to pay.
Higher rate tax payers are liable to tax on UK Rio Tinto Limited ADR programme, it should be terminated.
In February dividends at 32.5 per cent which, after taking account of the tax credit, 2006 formal notice of termination of the Deposit Agreement was given produces a further tax liability of 25 per cent of the dividend received.
to JPMorgan and it was terminated on 10 April 2006, immediately after the payment of the final dividend to the ADR holders.
Any questions Dividend reinvestment plan DRP concerning holdings of Rio Tinto Limited ADRs should be directed to The taxation effect of participation in the DRP will depend on individual the JPMorgan Service Center on 800 990 1135. circumstances.
Shareholders will generally be liable for tax on dividends The following table sets out for the periods indicated the high and reinvested in the DRP on the same basis as if they had received the low closing sale prices of Rio Tinto Limited shares based upon cash and arranged the investment.
The dividend should, therefore, be information provided by the ASX.
There is no established trading market included in the annual tax return in the normal way.
in the US for Rio Tinto Limiteds shares.
Rio Tinto 2006 Annual report and financial statements 89 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 2006 846725 pp088 pp094 27 2 07 1:56 pm Page 90 Shareholder information continued The shares acquired should be added to shareholdings at the date and when the proceeds on sale are less than the cost base or reduced cost at the net cost shown on the share purchase advice.
Where a capital gain arises on shares held for at least 12 months, the shares, for Rio Tinto plc shareholders including the stamp individual, trust and superannuation fund shareholders may be eligible duty stamp duty reserve tax, will form the base cost for capital gains tax for a capital gains tax discount.
Shareholders are advised to seek the advice of an independent taxation consultant on any possible capital gains tax exposure.
Capital gains tax Shareholders who have any queries on capital gains tax issues are US resident individuals advised to consult their financial adviser.
The following is a summary of the principal UK tax, Australian tax and Details of relevant events since 31 March 1982 and adjusted values US Federal income tax consequences of the ownership of Rio Tinto plc for Rio Tinto plc securities as at that date are available from the ADSs, Rio Tinto plc shares and Rio Tinto Limited shares the Groups company secretary.
ADSs and shares by a US holder as defined below.
It is not intended to be a comprehensive description of all the tax considerations that are Australian resident individuals shareholdings in Rio Tinto Limited relevant to all classes of taxpayer.
Future changes in legislation may Taxation of dividends affect the tax consequences of the ownership of the Groups ADSs and The basis of the Australian dividend imputation system is that when shares.
Australian resident shareholders receive dividends from Rio Tinto It is based in part on representations by the Groups depositary bank Limited, they may be entitled to a credit for the Australian tax paid by as Depositary for the ADRs evidencing the ADSs and assumes that the Group in respect of that income, depending on the tax status of the each obligation in the deposit agreements will be performed in shareholder.
The application of the system results in the Australian tax paid by You are a US holder if you are a beneficial owner of the Groups the Group being allocated to shareholders by way of franking credits ADSs and shares and you are: a citizen or resident of the United States, attaching to the dividends they receive.
Such dividends are known as a domestic corporation, an estate whose income is subject to United franked dividends.
A dividend may be partly or fully franked.
The current States federal income tax regardless of its source, or a trust if a United Rio Tinto Limited dividend is fully franked and the franking credits States court can exercise primary supervision over the trusts attached to the dividend are shown in the distribution statement administration and one or more United States persons are authorized to provided to shareholders.
control all substantial decisions of the trust.
The extent to which a company can frank a dividend depends on This section applies to US holders only if shares or ADSs are held as the credit balance in its franking account.
Credits to this account can capital assets for tax purposes.
This section does not apply to arise in a number of ways, including when a company pays company shareholders who are members of a special class of holders subject to tax or receives a franked dividend from another company.
The dividend special rules, including a dealer in securities, a trader in securities who is required to be included in a resident individual shareholders elects to use a mark-to-market method of accounting for securities assessable income.
In addition, an amount equal to the franking credit holdings, a tax-exempt organization, a life insurance company, a person attached to the franked dividend is also included in the assessable liable for alternative minimum tax, a person that actually or constructively income of the resident individual, who may then be entitled to a rebate owns ten per cent or more of Rio Tintos voting stock, a person that of tax equal to the franking credit amount included in their income.
holds shares or ADSs as part of a straddle or a hedging or conversion Should the franking credits exceed the tax due, the excess is refunded transaction, or a US holder whose functional currency is not the to the resident individual.
The effect of the dividend imputation system on non resident This section is based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as shareholders is that, to the extent that the dividend is franked, no amended, its legislative history, existing and proposed regulations, Australian tax will be payable and there is an exemption from dividend published rulings and court decisions, and on the convention between withholding tax.
the United States of America and United Kingdom, and the convention A withholding tax is normally levied at the rate of 15 per cent when between the United States of America and Australia which may affect unfranked dividends are paid to residents of countries with which the tax consequences of the ownership of the Groups ADSs and Australia has a taxation treaty.
Most Western countries have a taxation shares.
These laws and conventions are subject to change, possibly on treaty with Australia.
A rate of 30 per cent applies to countries where a retroactive basis.
there is no taxation treaty.
US holders should consult their own tax adviser regarding the Since 1988, all dividends paid by Rio Tinto Limited have been fully United States federal, state and local and foreign and other tax franked.
It is the Groups policy to pay fully franked dividends whenever consequences of owning and disposing of shares and ADSs in their possible.
For the purposes of the Conventions and of the US Internal Dividend reinvestment plan DRP Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, the Code US holders of ADSs Shareholders will generally be liable for tax on dividends reinvested in are treated as the owners of the underlying shares.
the DRP on the same basis as if they had received the cash and The summary describes the treatment applicable under the arranged the investment.
The dividend should therefore be included in Conventions in force at the date of this report.
the annual tax return as assessable income.
The shares acquired should be added to the shareholding at the UK taxation of shareholdings in Rio Tinto plc date of acquisition at the actual cost of the shares, which is the amount Taxation of dividends of the dividend applied by the shareholder to acquire shares and any US holders do not suffer deductions of UK withholding tax on dividends incidental costs associated with the acquisition, including stamp duty, paid by Rio Tinto plc.
Dividends carry a tax credit equal to one ninth of will form part of the cost base or reduced cost base of the shares for the net dividend, or ten per cent of the net dividend plus the tax credit.
The tax credit is not repayable to US holders.
Capital gains tax Capital gains The Australian capital gains tax legislation is complex.
If shareholders A US holder will not normally be liable to UK tax on capital gains realised have acquired shares after 19 September 1985 they may be subject to on the disposition of Rio Tinto plc ADSs or shares unless the holder capital gains tax on the disposal of those shares.
carries on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a permanent Generally, disposal of shares held on capital account would give rise establishment in the UK and the ADSs or shares have been used for the to a capital gain or loss.
A capital gain arises when the proceeds on purposes of the trade, profession or vocation or are acquired, held or disposal are greater than the cost base of shares.
A capital loss arises used for the purposes of such a permanent establishment.
90 Rio Tinto 2006 Annual report and financial statements SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 2006
