846725 pp006 pp008 24 2 07 10:13 am Page 8 Rio Tinto Rio Tinto is a leading international mining group whose business is The tables on pages 43 to 53 show production for 2004, 2005 and finding, mining and processing the earths mineral resources.
The 2006 and include estimates of proved and probable ore reserves and Groups interests are diverse both in geography and product.
Words and phrases, often technical, have been used activities span the world but we are strongly represented in Australia which have particular meanings: definitions of these terms are in the and North America and we have significant businesses in South Glossary on pages 165 to 167.
The weights and measures used are America, Asia, Europe and southern Africa.
Those businesses include mainly metric units: conversions into other units are shown on open pit and underground mines, mills, refineries and smelters as well page 168. as a number of research and service facilities.
The Group combines Rio Tinto plc, a London listed public company History headquartered in the UK, and Rio Tinto Limited, which is listed on the Rio Tintos predecessor companies were formed in 1873 and 1905.
Australian Securities Exchange and has executive offices in Melbourne.
The Rio Tinto Company was formed by investors in 1873 to mine The Group consists of wholly and partly owned subsidiaries, jointly ancient copper workings at Rio Tinto, near Seville in southern Spain.
controlled assets, jointly controlled entities and associated companies, The Consolidated Zinc Corporation was incorporated in 1905 to treat the principal ones being listed in notes 35 to 38 of the 2006 Financial zinc bearing mine waste at Broken Hill, New South Wales, Australia.
The RTZ Corporation formerly The Rio Tinto-Zinc Corporation was On 31 December 2006, Rio Tinto plc had a market capitalisation of formed in 1962 by the merger of The Rio Tinto Company and The 27.8 billion US$54.5 billion and Rio Tinto Limited had a market Consolidated Zinc Corporation.
capitalisation of A$21.2 billion US$16.8 billion.
The combined Groups CRA Limited formerly Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Limited was market capitalisation in publicly held shares at the end of 2006 was formed at the same time by a merger of the Australian interests of The US$71.3 billion.
Consolidated Zinc Corporation and The Rio Tinto Company.
Between 1962 and 1995, both RTZ and CRA discovered important Objective, strategy and management structure mineral deposits, developed major mining projects and also grew Our fundamental objective is to maximise the overall long term value and through acquisition.
We do this by operating responsibly and RTZ and CRA were unified in 1995 through a dual listed companies sustainably in areas of proven expertise such as exploration, project structure.
This means the Group, with its common board of directors, is evaluation and mining, where the Group has a competitive advantage.
designed to place the shareholders of both Companies in substantially Our strategy is to maximise net present value by investing in large, the same position as if they held shares in a single enterprise owning all long life, cost competitive mines.
Investments are driven by the quality of of the assets of both Companies.
each opportunity, not by the choice of commodity.
In 1997, The RTZ Corporation became Rio Tinto plc and CRA Rio Tintos management structure is designed to facilitate a clear Limited became Rio Tinto Limited, together known as the Rio Tinto focus on the Groups objective.
This structure, reflected in this report, is Group.
Since the 1995 merger, the Group has continued to invest in based on the following principal product and global support groups: developments and acquisitions in keeping with its strategy.
Iron Ore Contact details Energy Rio Tintos contact details are shown on page 96 of this report and Industrial Minerals for purposes of service, its agent in the US is Shannon Crompton, Aluminium secretary of Rio Tintos US holding companies, who may be Copper contacted at Rio Tinto Services Inc. 80 State Street, Albany, Diamonds New York, 12207-2543.
Exploration Operational and Technical Excellence OTX.
The chief executive of each product group reports to the chief executive of Rio Tinto.
Nomenclature and financial data Rio Tinto Limited and Rio Tinto plc operate as one business organisation, referred to in this report as Rio Tinto, the Rio Tinto Group or, more simply, the Group.
These collective expressions are used for convenience only, since both Companies, and the individual companies in which they directly or indirectly own investments, are separate and distinct legal entities.
Limited, plc, Pty, Inc, Limitada, or SA have generally been omitted from Group company names, except to distinguish between Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
Financial data in United States dollars US$ is derived from, and should be read in conjunction with, the 2006 Financial statements which are in US$.
In general, financial data in pounds sterling and Australian dollars A$ have been translated from the consolidated financial statements and have been provided solely for convenience: exceptions arise where data, such as directors remuneration, can be extracted directly from source records.
Certain key information has been provided in all three currencies on page 162.
Rio Tinto Group sales revenue, profit before tax and net earnings and operating assets for 2005 and 2006 attributable to the product groups and geographical areas are shown in notes 30 and 31 to the 2006 Financial statements on pages 125 to 128.
In the Operating and financial review OFR, operating assets and sales revenue for 2005 and 2006 are consistent with the financial information by business unit on pages 157 and 158.
8 Rio Tinto 2006 Annual report and financial statements RIO TINTO 2006
