Governance Report of the directors The directors present their report and the audited financial statements of Directors Rolls-Royce Group plc the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as The  details, including their other significant commitments, the Group for the year ended December 31, 2006. are set out on page 41.
During the year there were a number of Board changes: Colin Green retired as an executive director on April 4, 2006: Hon Amy Bondurant and Business review Carl-Peter Forster retired as non-executive directors on September 14, 2006.
A review of the business can be found on pages 12 to 40.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, one third of the directors are subject to re-election every year, with each director also being subject to re-election Corporate governance at intervals of not more than three years.
Any director appointed during the year is The directorsreport on corporate governance and the  report separately required to retire and seek election by the shareholders at the next AGM.
are on pages 44 to 47 and pages 48 to 57 respectively.
The Board also requires any non-executive director who has served on the Board for more than nine years to be subject to annual re-election at the AGM.
The B Shares directors retiring at this years AGM are Peter Byrom, Iain Conn, James Guyette, At the Annual General Meeting AGM on May 2, 2007, the directors will recommend Simon Robertson and Andrew Shilston.
They all offer themselves for re-election.
an issue of 59.2 B Shares with a total nominal value of 5.92p for each ordinary share.
The Company has entered into separate Deeds of Indemnity in favour of its Together with the interim issue on January 2, 2007 of 36.7 B Shares for each ordinary directors.
The deeds provide substantially the same protection as that already share with a total nominal value of 3.67p, this is the equivalent of a total annual provided to directors under the indemnity in Article 170 of the Companys Articles of payment to ordinary shareholders of 9.59p for each ordinary share.
The Company has also arranged appropriate insurance cover for any Shareholders are given the opportunity to redeem their B Shares for cash or to legal action taken against its directors.
convert them into additional ordinary shares in the Company.
For those shareholders who have not elected to redeem or convert their B Shares, a B Share dividend at a Share capital rate of 75 per cent of the London Interbank Offered Rate LIBOR is payable half yearly At February 7, 2007, the following companies had disclosed an interest in the issued in arrears.
ordinary share capital of the Company in accordance with the requirements of The Board believes that there continues to be a significant benefit to be gained Sections 198-208 of the Companies Act 1985: from the issue of B Shares.
Payments to shareholders will, therefore, continue to be % of issued ordinary share capital made through further issues of B Shares, generally in January and July each year.
FMR Corp. and Fidelity International Limited 7.90 Going concern Franklin Resources Inc. 4.09 After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Barclays PLC 4.07 Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the Legal & General Group Plc 3.14 foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Political donations By order of the Board In line with its established policy, the Group made no political donations during 2006.
Authority to purchase own shares At the AGM in 2006 the Company was authorised by shareholders to purchase up to 176,956,928 of its own ordinary shares representing ten per cent of its issued ordinary Charles Blundell Company Secretary share capital as at February 8, 2006.
The Company did not make use of this authority February 7, 2007 during 2006.
The authority for the Company to purchase its own shares expires at the conclusion of the AGM in 2007 and a resolution to renew it will be proposed at that meeting.
All Employee ShareSave Plans Resolutions seeking approval from shareholders for the introduction of a new ShareSave plan for UK employees and an International ShareSave plan for overseas employees will be proposed at the AGM.
Auditors A resolution to reappoint the auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration, will also be proposed at the AGM.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2006 43
