Over the past year, we increased the size of our research Engineering and network of University Technology Centres UTCs by opening two new centres in Germany, taking the total Technology number of UTCs to 27.
In Dresden, we opened a UTC which specialises in lightweight structures and materials and in Darmstadt, our latest UTC was opened to research 2006 highlights turbine and combustion aerothermal interactions.
The Environmentally Friendly Engine, a new 95 million Building upon our research successes of previous demonstrator programme, was launched.
years, we led a record 330 patent applications in 2006.
The high efficiency solid oxide fuel cell programme A record 330 patent applications were submitted.
for the energy business has continued to make significant The first Trent 1000 engine went to test in February.
progress with the successful demonstration of a 60kW power system.
We powered a successful test programme of the TM In 2006, our advanced technology development Sea Jet demonstrator with AWJ21 waterjets.
TM centre in North America, known as LibertyWorks, We completed the demonstration of a 60kW fuel cell continued to make progress with Lockheed Martin power system.
on the US Navys RATTLRS Revolutionary Approach To Time-Critical Long Range Strike programme.
Two new University Technology Centres were opened.
In the defence sector, we completed the initial Flight Clearance Review of the LiftFan, for use in the Joint Strike Fighter.
The multi-partner TP400 engine, for the Airbus A400M, successfully completed the first engine and propeller test.
We also gained a key role on the recently launched Taranis UCAV Unmanned Combat Aerial Vehicle demonstrator programme.
The Trent 1000 engine, which will power the Boeing 787, followed the successful trend of previous engine projects in achieving, on schedule, the planned milestone of the first engine run.
The Trent 900 for the The market continues to drive the need for robust, Airbus A380 has continued to gain maturity through cost-effective and world-class technology.
engine and aircraft test activity.
In 2006, Rolls-Royce invested a total of 747 million The US Navy accepted delivery of the Sea Jet in research and development, of which 395 million demonstrator vessel, powered by lower noise, was funded from Group resources.
The net charge to underwater AWJ21 waterjets.
The successful test the income statement was 370 million.
programme was completed and reported to the Ofce We are addressing the environmental challenge, of Naval Research ONR and led to the contract award for building upon our achievements of previous years as a high power density waterjet development programme.
we continue to improve the performance of our The first Type 45 class destroyer, HMS Daring, was products.
In addition to our existing demonstrator launched, powered by the advanced WR21 engine, engine programmes, we launched a new 95 million which achieved the major milestone of first engine light technology demonstrator programme, the in December.
Rolls-Royce delivered the first gas-fuelled Environmentally Friendly Engine EFE, which will reciprocating engines for a passenger ferry application, deliver further improvements in turbine efficiency in the form of Bergen K-type engines, which received and combustion emissions.
EFE involves a range classication society approval in December.
of industrial and university partners and will validate technologies for pull-through from 2008 into all of our gas turbine products.
Colin Smith Rolls-Royce is a lead partner in the development Director Engineering and Technology of the EuropeanClean SkyJoint Technology Initiative.
Alongside our industrial partners, we hope to gain European Commission approval to launch this seven-year programme in mid 2007.
In combining this programme with the EFE programme, we will continue with our progress towards achieving the Advisory Council for Aeronautics Research in Europe ACARE goals for environmental improvements by 2020.
Through the UK Energy Technologies Institute ETI and other mechanisms we will be increasing our research and technology programmes on low carbon energy systems.
This will include such topics as the potential for the use of bio-derived fuels in gas turbines, high performance and distributed generation electrical power systems, renewable energy sources such as tidal power and carbon sequestration.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2006 28
