Rolls-Royce is a world leader in the provision of marine Marine propulsion systems, offering a unique set of products and services for both naval and commercial sectors.
All of our marine business segments, offshore, merchant, naval and submarines, are performing well.
Across the business the order book stands at over 2006 highlights 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2 billion and factories are operating at capacity.
Revenue m 1,300 1,097 963 1,003 984 The success of the marine business depends increasingly on delivering integrated power and Underlying profit propulsion systems for customers.
Over the past year, before nancing the business has made good progress towards its goal costs m 101 89 78 78 82 of being a complete system supplier.
Net assets m 619 674 651 577 550 We are well positioned on US naval gas turbine programmes.
The first Lockheed Martin-designed Littoral Order book bn 2.4 1.7 1.4 1.2 1.3 Combat Ship LCS, Freedom, was launched, powered Employees 7,600 7,200 7,100 7,300 6,500 by the MT30 engine.
In the UK, we continued to make 2003 and earlier figures are as reported under UK GAAP.
good progress with the next generation of Royal Navy Type 45 destroyer, powered by the WR21 engine.
The first Lockheed Martin-designed Littoral Combat We have a long history of supplying complete Ship LCS, Freedom, was launched, powered by the systems to customers through our UT Design and MT30 engine.
Today, we are reaping the benefits of the expertise we have gained in this area.
Buoyed by We secured our largest ever contract for a single high oil prices, the demand for service and support offshore vessel, for ship design and equipment systems, ships has been matched by similar growth in exploration worth nearly 20 million.
We secured our largest ever offshore marine systems Our UT Design is one of the most successful ship order in a deal worth over 60 million with Farstad designs in commercial shipbuilding.
We design true Shipping for four anchor handling vessels.
systemships, powered, equipped and controlled by us and usually incorporating Rolls-Royce power, propulsion, The merchant business secured 35 million in system deck machinery and motion control equipment.
This can orders in 2006. range from propellers, thrusters and diesel engines to We delivered the first three gas turbines to provide the increasingly sophisticated technology such as dynamic main electrical power for the Republic of Korea Navys positioning and automation and control systems.
The concept of selling systems to our offshore customers is well embedded and we are now successfully extending this area of our expertise for the benefit of our merchant customers.
Our merchant business is centred in Shanghai, in the middle of the North-East Asian triangle made up of Korea, Japan and China, which accounts for over 85 per cent of the worlds commercial shipbuilding.
This location gives Rolls-Royce a strong position in the region to supply our customers with individual components and systems.
A number of shipbuilders in the Far East are new entrants to the market and we sell complete design, power and propulsion packages, thereby giving them a technological advantage in a very competitive marketplace.
Dr Saul Lanyado To support sales of Rolls-Royce propulsion systems, President Marine we will be opening a new diesels factory in Asia.
This is a significant investment in capability to meet increasing customer demand.
Automation and control systems form an increasing part of these systems, endorsing the Groups investment in high-value electronic equipment.
Note: John Paterson succeeded Dr Saul Lanyado as President Marine on February 1, 2007.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2006 24 Business review We are continuing to develop new customer relationships.
The Flotilla Reactor Plant Support FRPS will transform the relationship between the submarines business and our customer bringing increased propulsion system availability at lower cost.
This new approach similar in style to TotalCare together with opportunities in support of future submarine programmes, submarine rescue systems and emerging civil nuclear programmes, enables us to build and develop the full potential of our people and skill base in our submarine business.
Many of our programmes are based upon propulsion systems.
In addition to the prime mover, the gas turbine, Rolls-Royce is supplying waterjets and smaller, secondary gas turbines that provide ships with auxiliary power.
We are also applying this approach to the power and propulsion systems for CVF the future LCS Freedom British aircraft carrier and its French PA2 equivalent.
MT30 gas turbines power Freedom, the first LCS, launched in 2006.
The MT30 forms the basis of our proposals for the propulsion system for each of these ships.
We have already introduced TotalCare type support packages for some of our naval customers, based on the successful model developed in our aerospace businesses.
About 40 per cent of our turnover is involved in aftermarket service support across our full MT30 The powerful and efficient MT30 range of products and we are expanding our capabilities marine gas turbine.
at service centres around the world.
UT Design vessel The UT Design is extremely successful in the commercial marine market.
Type 45 Destroyer The first Type 45 Destroyer, HMS Daring, was launched in 2006.
Stabilisers Rolls-Royce manufactures the broadest range of xed and retractable n stabilisers on the market.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2006 25
