Governance Board of directors At February 7, 2007 Simon Robertson Ian C Strachan Non-executive Chairman since 2005, Chairman of the nominations committee Non-executive director, a member of the audit and nominations committees Appointed to the Board in 2004.
He is the founder member of Simon Robertson Appointed to the Board in 2003.
He is a non-executive director of Reuters Group plc, Associates LLP and a non-executive director of HSBC Holdings plc, Berry Bros & Johnson Matthey plc, Xstrata plc and Transocean Inc.
He is the former Chief Executive Rudd Ltd, and The Economist Newspaper Limited.
He is Chairman of the Royal of BTR plc, former Deputy Chief Executive 1991 to 1995 and Chief Financial Officer Academy Trust, a director of The Royal Opera House Covent Garden Limited and a 1987 to 1991 of Rio Tinto plc, former non-executive Chairman of Instinet Group Inc Trustee of The Eden Project and the Royal Opera House Endowment Fund.
He is the and former non-executive director of Commercial Union.
Age 63. former President of Goldman Sachs Europe Limited.
Carl G Symon BSc, MSc Sir John Rose Non-executive director, Chairman of the remuneration committee and a Chief Executive since 1996, a member of the nominations committee member of the nominations committee Appointed to the Board in 1992 having joined Rolls-Royce in 1984.
He is a Trustee of Appointed to the Board in 1999.
He is Chairman of HMV Group plc, the BT Group The Eden Project.
Equality of Access Board and Clearswift Systems Ltd.
He is also a non-executive director of BT Group plc, Senior Independent Director of Rexam plc and an Advisory Peter J Byrom BSc, FCA Board member of Cross Atlantic Capital Partners.
He was previously Chairman and Non-executive director, Senior Independent Director, Chief Executive Officer, IBM UK and held numerous executive positions with IBM Chairman of the audit committee, member of the remuneration and Corp. in Canada, USA, Latin America, Asia and Europe during a 32 year international nominations committees career.
Appointed to the Board in 1997.
He is Chairman of Domino Printing Sciences plc and Molins PLC, and a non-executive director of both Wilson Bowden plc and AMEC plc.
Prof Sir John Taylor OBE, FRS, FREng He is a Fellow of the Royal Aeronautical Society.
He was a director of N M Rothschild & Non-executive director, a member of the remuneration and Sons Limited from 1977 to 1996.
Age 62. nomination committees Appointed to the Board in 2004.
He is currently Chairman of Roke Manor Research John P Cheffins BSc, Ing, FREng, FRAeS Ltd, and a member of Council of the Royal Academy of Engineering, an honorary Chief Operating Officer fellow of Emmanuel College, Cambridge and a visiting professor at Oxford University.
Appointed to the Board in 2001 having joined Rolls-Royce in 1967.
He has held a He is the former Director General of Research Councils and the former director of number of senior positions including President and Chief Executive Officer of Hewlett Packard Laboratories Bristol.
He was chair of the South West RDAs Shadow Rolls-Royce Industries Canada Inc. in 1991, Director, Civil Engine Business in 1993 and Science and Industry Council and director of the UK Foresight project on Cognitive President Civil Aerospace in 1998.
He is a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Systems.
He previously served as President of the Institution of Electrical Engineers Engineering and of the Royal Aeronautical Society.
He is a member of the Institution and as Chairman of the UK Technology Foresight Panel in IT Electronics and of Electrical Engineers and of the Order of Engineers of Quebec.
Iain Conn Charles E Blundell MA Non-executive director, a member of the audit and nominations committees Company Secretary since 1995 Appointed to the Board in 2005.
He is an executive director of BP p. l. c. having held a He joined Rolls-Royce in 1993.
Age 55. range of executive positions within the BP Group worldwide.
He is Chairman of the Advisory Board of The Imperial College London Tanaka Business School.
James M Guyette BSc President and Chief Executive Officer of Rolls-Royce North America Inc.
Appointed to the Board in 1998 having joined Rolls-Royce in 1997.
He is a director of the Private Bank and Trust Company of Chicago, Illinois and of priceline.
com Inc. Until 1995 he was Executive Vice President, Marketing and Planning of United Airlines.
Andrew B Shilston MA, ACA, MCT Finance Director Appointed to the Board in 2003 having joined Rolls-Royce in 2002.
He is a non-executive director of Cairn Energy PLC and he was Finance Director of Enterprise Oil plc from 1993 until 2002.
Colin P Smith BSc Hons, FREng, FRAeS, FIMechE Director Engineering and Technology Appointed to the Board in 2005 having joined Rolls-Royce in 1974.
He has held a variety of key positions within Engineering, including Director Research and Technology and Director of Engineering and Technology Civil Aerospace.
He is a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering, the Royal Aeronautical Society and the Institution of Mechanical Engineers.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2006 41 Board of directors continued The Group Executive International Advisory Board The Group Executive is responsible for the management of the Group within the In 2006 Rolls-Royce formed a new International Advisory Board IAB to advise strategy determined by the Board.
It is chaired by Sir John Rose, Chief Executive, the Group on emerging political, business and economic trends.
Membership of and its other members are: the IAB is as follows: Axel Arendt President Defence Aerospace Lord Powell of Bayswater Chairman of IAB, former Foreign Aairs and Defence Adviser to Prime Ministers Margaret Thatcher and Brian Baker Commercial Director and General Counsel John Major Charles Blundell Company Secretary and Bernard Duc Senior Partner HMI Ltd Hong Kong, Director of Government Relations Deputy Chairman of the Rolls-Royce South East Asia John Cheffins Chief Operating Officer Advisory Board, former Deputy Chairman of the Rolls-Royce European Advisory Board Miles Cowdry President Services Sir Rod Eddington Non-executive Chairman, Australia & New Zealand Tom Curley President Energy JPMorgan Chase Bank NA and former Chief Executive, James Guyette President and Chief Executive Officer of British Airways Plc Rolls-Royce North America Inc. Boris Federov Member of Gazprom Board, former Minister of Dr Michael Haidinger Chairman of Rolls-Royce Deutschland Ltd & Co KG Finance of the Russian Federation Dr Mike Lloyd President Gas Turbine Operations Dr Fan Gang Professor at Chinas Academy of Social Sciences and Head of National Economic Research Institute Dr Mike Orris Chief Procurement Officer Carla Hills Chair and CEO, Hills & Company, International John Paterson President Marine Consultants, former US Trade Representative, John Rivers Director Human Resources former Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, former Assistant Attorney General Andrew Shilston Finance Director General Sir Mike Jackson Former Chief of the General Sta, Colin Smith Director Engineering and Technology UK Ministry of Defence Mike Terrett President Civil Aerospace Mustafa Ko Chairman of Ko Holding Taizo Nishimuro President and CEO of the Tokyo Stock Exchange and former Chairman of Toshiba Corporation John Paterson succeeded Dr Saul Lanyado as President Marine Lubna Olayan CEO of the Olayan Financing Company on February 1, 2007 Eduardo Serra Former Spanish Defence Minister Ratan Tata Chairman of Tata Sons Ltd Matthias Wissmann Former Minister for Transport and Research in Germany.
Partner WilmerHale Lee Hsien Yang Group CEO, Singapore Telecommunications Ltd Ernesto Zedillo Former President of Mexico: Director, Yale Center for the Study of Globalization Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2006 42
