Common characteristics One technology Rolls-Royce is a highly focused power systems business.
The Groups core technology and capability is centred on the gas turbine.
serves each of our markets All four of our markets are global and have strong growth trends.
1 4 3 2 Contribution to Revenues Group revenues 20-27 1 Civil aerospace 3,775m 53% Read more on our divisional 2 Defence aerospace 1,569m 22% performance 3 Marine 1,300m 18% 4 Energy 512m 7% Total 7,156m through five core strategic drivers Our business strategy has been consistent over many years and is built around five key objectives: 18 Address four global markets Read more on our strategy Invest in technology, capability and infrastructure Develop a competitive portfolio of products and services Grow market share and installed product base Add value for our customers through the provision of product-related services Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2006 02 O Ov five er rv vi ie ew w Our four businesses are focused on power systems.
We invest in technology and capabilities that can be applied to products and services in each of the global markets we serve.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2006 03 Responsible power: Rolls-Royce and the environment Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2006 04 O Ov five er rv vi ie ew w Trent 1000 efficiency The Trent 1000 engine, being developed to power the new Boeing 787 airliner, will be signicantly more fuel efficient than previous Trent engines.
This improved performance has been achieved through a number of advances in component and materials technology.
K-type gas engines Gas engine Rolls-Royce has developed a range of Bergen gas-fuelled reciprocating engines, which are well proven in landbased power generation markets, for use in the marine market.
The Bergen K-type has already been sold to power new ferries operating in Norwegian waters.
Emissions from engines running on natural gas contain typically 80 per cent fewer oxides of nitrogen and 20 per cent less carbon dioxide than emissions from traditional diesel engines of the same power output.
Environmentally Friendly Engine Programme EFE Research The Advisory Council for Aeronautics Research in Programme Europe ACARE has set a range of challenging environmental improvement goals to be achieved by 2020.
The Environmentally Friendly Engine EFE is the latest demonstrator programme to be launched by Rolls-Royce to enable us to meet these targets.
The technology and improved efficiencies that EFE is planned to deliver will lead to reduced fuel consumption, while lowering emissions and engine noise.
Opportunities in the energy market Fuel cells The Group is developing megawatt-scale solid oxide fuel cell systems that have the potential to be clean, quiet, cost effective and highly fuel efficient.
The technology yields significant reductions in carbon dioxide emissions relative to existing fossil fuel power generation technology and negligible nitrous oxide emissions.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2006 05 The importance of operational performance Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2006 06 O Ov five er rv vi ie ew w The Group is investing 400 million in new modern Modern facilities facilities across the United Kingdom.
These are helping improve the efficiency and productivity of our operations.
We have started the construction of a new joint venture repair and overhaul centre in Germany: opened a Fuel Cells facility in the US: begun work on our new outdoor engine test facility in the US: and initiated the process of considering options for a new manufacturing and production centre.
Eight US States are being evaluated but other locations around the world are also being asked to compete.
Rolls-Royce manages a global supply chain in which Supply chain we invest nearly 2 billion per annum with suppliers.
streamlining The Group has 400 key product suppliers.
By simplifying and globalising the supply chain the Group believes it will reduce supplier interfaces by 80 per cent, which should benefit both suppliers and Rolls-Royce.
We purchase 70 per cent by value of a gas turbine, with the Group concentrating its manufacturing activities on high value-added components.
The Groups core gas turbine technology serves four Integrated gas global markets: civil aerospace, defence aerospace, turbine operations marine and energy.
We provide power systems based on our gas turbine technology which can be developed in one business and transferred to others.
The Group does not have separate gas turbine factories for each business.
For example, our high pressure turbine blade facility makes blades for a range of aero, marine and industrial engines they are the same components whether for original equipment or spare parts.
The Group is focusing hard on operational performance.
Process We are in a highly competitive market and our improvements improvement programmes will give us the resilience to remain competitive in the face of uctuating exchange rates, commodity cost ination, pricing pressure and any programme slippages.
Our Process Excellence programme continues to drive culture change within the organisation and eliminate waste.
We also initiated Functional Excellence in 2006, which focuses on specic areas of activity across the Group with a view to identifying further efficiency improvements and cost savings.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2006 07 The growth of services Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2006 08 O Ov five er rv vi ie ew w Singapore Airlines became the first operator to select Civil four Trent engine variants when it chose the Trent 700 aerospace to power a new fleet of Airbus A330s.
These engines, along with the airlines Trent 800s for its Boeing 777 fleet, will be managed through TotalCare.
These TotalCare service agreements are tailored to meet the requirements of individual customers and include a range of support services, from fleet management to repair and overhaul.
Rolls-Royce takes full responsibility for the care of the engine fleet.
The defence aerospace Operations Centre in Bristol, Defence which is the focal point of our rapidly expanding military aerospace engine aftermarket business, passed a major milestone when it moved to 24 7 operations in 2006.
Since its opening, the centre has provided operational support across a range of military programmes, giving advice and guidance to our customers worldwide as well as to Rolls-Royce personnel deployed in customer operations.
The centre has established itself as a key enabler for the growth of the defence aftermarket business, increasing engine operational availability and producing significant benets for Rolls-Royce customers.
A contract worth AUS$50 million was signed with the Marine Australian Navy by a Rolls-Royce and Kellogg Brown & Root team, to reduce ship costs for the Australian Department of Defence.
The services include improved logistics management and total ship maintenance, faster response on day-to-day engineering issues and the management of equipment obsolescence.
As part of the BP North Sea initiative, Rolls-Royce Energy is providing support from its Aberdeen service centre under a five year long-term service agreement.
Working collaboratively with BP, we aim to deliver excellent reliability and optimised availability for 16 gas turbine packages.
The denition and execution of maintenance strategies, each tailored to different platform requirements, is already achieving results with multimillion pound production benets delivered to BP in 2006.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2006 09
