Our business Order book firm and announced bn 26.1 24.4 26.1bn 21.3 18.7 17.1 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Sales bn 7.2 7.2bn 6.6 5 5.9 5.8 5.6 2003 2004 2006 2002 2005 Underlying profit before financing costs m 748 748m 679 417 3 375 362 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Underlying earnings per ordinary share pence 29.8 29.8p 24.5 15.6 1 12.2 11.1 2003 2004 2006 2002 2005 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2006 16 Business review Defence aerospace Market outlook The Group forecasts that demand for military engines The Group operates in four long-term, global markets will be worth US$180 billion over the next 20 years.
civil and defence aerospace, marine and energy.
The largest single market is expected to be the US, These markets present, in aggregate, an opportunity followed by Europe and the Far East.
Within the Far East of some two trillion US dollars over the next 20 years demand will be dominated by Japan, South Korea and and have common characteristics.
Trends are driven by the scale of defence budgets have very high entry barriers and: and geopolitical developments around the world.
As in the Groups other business sectors, programme offer the opportunity for organic growth: lives are long and there is a significant opportunity to feature extraordinarily long programme support equipment with aftermarket services.
Customers lives, usually measured in decades: budget constraints and their need to increase the value of their assets have accelerated the move in this direction.
can only be addressed through significant investments The Group estimates the value of services revenues over in technology, infrastructure and capability: and the next 20 years to be US$250 billion.
create a significant opportunity for extended customer relationships, with revenues from aftermarket services Marine similar in size to original equipment revenues.
The Group forecasts demand for marine propulsion systems of US$180 billion over the next 20 years.
The size of these markets is generally related to world Demand will be greatest in the commercial sector, Gross Domestic Product GDP growth, or, in the case where the merchant market represents 45 per cent of the defence markets, global security and the scale of the total and the offshore market, 34 per cent.
Commercial shipping plays a crucial role in the world economy.
The need to transport raw material, Civil aerospace nished goods, people, and oil and gas requires a The Group publishes a 20 year global market outlook, large fleet which has to be renewed progressively.
which covers passenger and cargo jets, corporate and The expansion of trade and technical advances mean regional aircraft.
Over the next 20 years, 114,000 engines, more ship construction for growth and for replacement worth over US$600 billion, are predicted to be required, as older designs become obsolete.
powering 51,000 commercial aircraft and business jets.
Finding and extracting oil and gas offshore requires The forecast predicts faster growth rates for longa large number of oating drilling and production units haul markets and those markets to from and within Asia.
which, in turn, are supported by a variety of service craft.
These markets continue to benefit from more liberal air Merchant and offshore markets are rarely at the same service agreements, which boost demand.
stage of the business cycle, which helps to reduce Factors affecting the demand for aircraft and overall volatility.
engines include: GDP growth, aircraft productivity, In naval markets, the Group expects surface vessels operating costs, environmental issues and the number to represent 15 per cent of the total demand and of retirements of old aircraft.
Whilst the market can be submarines, six per cent.
temporarily disrupted by external events, such as war Naval markets are driven by different considerations, or acts of terrorism, it has, in the past, always returned with customers looking to get more for their budgets, to its long-term growth trend.
leading to increasing demand for integrated systems In addition to the demand for engines, the Group and through-life servicing arrangements.
forecasts a market opportunity worth US$500 billion As in the Groups other markets, marine aftermarket for the provision of product related aftermarket services.
services are expected to generate significant demand, forecast at US$100 billion over the next 20 years.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2006 17 Our business continued Energy Principal risks and uncertainties The US Department of Energy has forecast that, over the The Group is exposed to a number of risks and has an next 20 years, the worldwide demand for oil will grow established, structured approach to risk management.
by 40 per cent, for gas by more than 50 per cent and for The risk committee has accountability for the system of power generation by nearly 60 per cent.
risk management and regularly reports to the Board the To satisfy this demand, there will be a growing key risks facing the business and the mitigating actions requirement for aero-derived gas turbines.
The Groups the Group has put in place to deal with them.
20 year forecast values the total aero-derivative gas turbine sales in the oil and gas and power generation Risks are analysed under four broad headings: sectors at US$70 billion.
Over this period, demand for associated aftermarket services is expected to be around Business environment risks US$50 billion.
Corporate responsibility While the oil and gas market is large and growing, The Group recognises the benefit that is derived demand for aero derivatives in the power generation from conducting business in an ethically and socially segment is four times that of oil and gas, driven largely responsible manner.
This approach extends to the by mid merit and peaking applications.
supply of raw materials and components, the provision of a safe and healthy place of work and investment Strategy in technologies to reduce the environmental impact of the Groups products and operations.
A failure in any We have followed a consistent strategy for many years, of these areas could damage the Groups reputation based on five key elements: and disrupt its business.
The Group is committed to high ethical standards Address four global markets and a new Global Code of Business Ethics will be We are a leading power systems company operating in the launched in 2007.
An employee engagement civil and defence aerospace, marine and energy markets.
programme will be undertaken in 2007 to strengthen employee awareness of the Groups values.
The Group Invest in technology, capability and infrastructure communicates its standards to its first tier supply base Over the past five years, we have invested more than through a supplier code of conduct.
3 billion in research and development.
We invest approximately 30 million annually on training and External events which might affect demand for air travel some 250 million a year on capital projects.
Civil aerospace is an important contributor to Group revenues and profits.
The willingness of passengers Develop a competitive portfolio of products to travel by air is influenced by a range of factors, and services including economic, health and security issues.
We have more than 50 current product programmes For example, following the tragic events of September 11, and we are involved in many of the major future 2001, the Groups civil aerospace profits more than halved projects in the markets we serve.
These key projects as a result of a short-term reduction in the demand for will define the power systems market for many years.
The impact of this risk is mitigated by the Groups Grow market share and installed product base business strategy, which has enabled it to develop a Across the Group, the installed base of engines in broader business base, with the defence, marine and service is expected throughout their long product energy businesses being less susceptible to this type of lives to generate attractive returns over several decades.
In addition, the developing civil aerospace business model, with its emphasis on increasing aftermarket Add value for our customers through the provision services revenues, has proved to be resilient, providing of product-related services a high degree of protection against any shortfall in We seek to add value for our customers with aftermarket demand.
The Group has also demonstrated its ability services that will enhance the performance and reliability to respond rapidly to changes in demand through the of our products.
adjustment of its cost base.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2006 18 Business review Strategic risks Operational risks Aftermarket Performance of supply chain Aftermarket revenues contribute over half of the The Group manufactures approximately 30 per cent Groups annual sales and are an essential element by value of its gas turbine products and some 70 per of the returns the Group expects to make from its cent is provided through supply chains external to investments.
Any threat to the security of aftermarket the Group.
Any failure of the supply chain would revenues through, for example, a failure to provide an present a risk to the Groups ability to meet customer operational service which meets , requirements and to achieve its financial goals.
would threaten the Groups level of profitability.
The Groups strategy is to simplify the external The Group is focused on providing a high standard supply chain, forging deeper, strategic relationships of service to all its customers, investing in capabilities with fewer but stronger suppliers, including the allocation such as its recently established Operations Centres, of a significant portion of new civil programmes to risk which monitor engine operations in real time, and revenue sharing partners.
co-ordinating and integrating data to enable Rolls-Royce The Group is also investing in its manufacturing to provide better predictive information and operational facilities, replacing old factories with modern facilities, advice to its customers.
Increasingly, customers are which will enable it to improve productivity and reduce selecting a broader range of services through long-term costs by developing world-class manufacturing facilities service agreements, under which the Group assumes and processes.
In addition, the Group has a business a higher level of responsibility for the maintenance continuity programme, to manage the risk of a loss and availability of its engines over periods which average of a major capability or facility.
12 years in return for a usage-based fee.
The Group IT security deploys customer satisfaction surveys to monitor its Increased globalisation of the business and advances in service level.
technology have resulted in more data being transmitted Competitive forces across global communication links, posing an increased The markets in which Rolls-Royce operates are highly security risk.
The majority of its programmes are long Security systems have been upgraded with the term in nature and access to the key platforms is critical latest technology and Rolls-Royce maintains effective to the success of the business.
This requires sustained communications with other industrial companies investment in technology, capability and infrastructure, and the appropriate government agencies to share which presents a high barrier to entry.
However, information on potential threats.
these factors alone do not protect the Group from Programme risk competition, such that price competition and technical The Group manages complex product programmes advances made by competitors could adversely affect with demanding technical requirements against stringent the Groups results.
This requires the co-ordination The Group has developed a balanced business of the external supply chain, manufacturing operations, portfolio and maintained a steady improvement in partners and engineering functions.
Failure to achieve operational performance, which together with the programme goals would have significant financial establishment of long-term customer relationships implications for the Group.
and sustained investment in technology acquisition, The Group employs project management controls allows the Group to respond to competitive pressure.
All major programmes are subject to Board approval and are regularly reviewed by the Board Financial risks with a particular focus on any emerging risks.
These are risks that arise as a result of movements in financial markets.
Principal risks are: movements in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, commodity prices and counterparty credit risk.
A description of these risks and details of the Groups risk mitigation actions in this area are provided in the Finance Directors review on pages 35 to 37.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2006 19
