Our services strategy remains unchanged with a Services continued focus on providing the right equipment availability at the right price for all of our customers in each of our business sectors.
Frequently, this will entail long-term xed price contracts in which we apply our skills to managing our customersassets and we are 2006 highlights proud of our record of delivering our availability We announced the expansion of our joint venture commitments.
We are building a record of repeat repair and overhaul facility in Hong Kong and began business and contract renewals, often involving increases construction in Germany of the N3 joint venture, in scope.
This demonstrates customer confidence in our a Trent engine overhaul facility.
approach and ability to deliver and gives us confidence in the sustainability of our model.
A 100 million contract was secured from two leading In the civil aerospace market, we continued to leisure airlines for the overhaul of their RB211-535 make progress, with 48 per cent of the fleet by value now engines over the next five years.
Often these contracts will involve The US Navy extended its services contract for the F405 the maintenance and associated logistics of accessories engines which power its T-45 Goshawk trainer aircraft.
in addition to the engines and, consequently, we .
Thirty seven such contracts We are part of a team providing services and logistics have now been implemented.
The business jet market management for four amphibious and afloat support has been particularly strong and 165 CorporateCare ships of the Australian Navy.
contracts were signed in 2006, exceeding the previous years record of 103.
The defence business had a strong year.
Highlights included the Hercules Integrated Operational Support Contract covering 244 AE 2100 and T56 engines and the extension of the Spey engine contract and the inclusion of accessories in its scope.
A series of contract wins in the US over the past two years, including the third renewal of the F405 contract, have resulted in more than 1,000 engines now being subject to Performance Based Logistics contracts for the US Department of Defense.
The successful execution of these service contracts requires a well co-ordinated approach, from pricing and monitoring and building the appropriate supply chains to day-to-day management of service delivery.
As we invest to support our service business, two themes recur: closeness and responsiveness to the customer and partnership and integration across the supply chain.
Our operations rooms exemplify this commitment to responsiveness and integration by collecting, analysing, sharing and acting upon customer data to deliver the performance our customers demand.
They are the focal point for our service delivery, assessing the condition of the eets and instructing logistics and eld maintenance activity accordingly.
Miles Cowdry President Services Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2006 30 Business review To complement the operations rooms and our remote diagnostic capability, we are building up the local service infrastructure in each of our sectors.
In the civil market we have On-Wing Care centres in Hong Kong, London and Newark in the US, with additional centres opening in 2007.
In the energy and marine sectors, we have embarked upon a multi-year plan to expand our global service network in the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Asia to provide engineering and logistics support closer to the point of demand.
In defence markets, we have teamed with Kellogg Brown & Root to win a support contract for the Australian Navy and have entered into agreements with Serco and Goodrich to support the delivery of extended scope contracts.
Comprehensive global repair networks are central to our strategy.
Our new facility in Derby opened and N3 facility ceremony the joint venture with Lufthansa Technik, N3, in Germany German Chancellor, Angela Merkel, attended a ceremony at the start will commence operations in 2007.
In the defence sector, of construction of our joint venture we continue to support the UK Ministry of Defences repair and overhaul centre, N3, Combat Aero Engine Support Alignment Study and our in Germany.
Ansty facility has a key role to play in the support of the RAFs requirements.
TotalCare Under TotalCare contracts, Rolls-Royce takes reponsibility for managing the engine eets on behalf of our customers.
T45 and F405 2006 saw the third renewal of the contract to support F405 engines in service with the US Navy.
Customer support We are expanding our service network around the world.
C-130J A number of support contracts were secured in 2006, including those covering AE 2100 engines for the C-130J.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2006 31
