Rotork Annual Report & Accounts 2006 ROTORK MARKETING Since Rotork was founded in 1957 it has had a strong international The points of contact during the life of the project are, in Rotork Marketing bias and has always looked beyond its original UK base for business chronological order, the end-user, the engineering consultant, the development.
Over the past fifty years, Rotork has created a powerful construction and procurement contractor and the subcontracting global marketing and selling organisation, with growth built on a equipment suppliers.
Sometimes the end-user leaves the decision symbiotic relationship with the international valve industry.
making on the design of the plant to the consultant although often the consultant will be directed by the preferences of the end-user.
Marketing valve actuators is complex, and internationally it can be a If the end-user for example is an international oil company, then challenge.
Not only are there multiple areas of influence in the there may be logic for standardisation of equipment in their plants selection of valve actuators, but also the locations of influencing throughout the world.
For this reason it is essential that Rotorks parties span the globe.
Rotork successfully coordinates its approach sales and marketing efforts be geared to providing clear and to international projects and an important part of the business is comprehensive information to all of the parties involved in the made up of new plant construction.
Occasionally projects can design, procurement and installation process to ensure the users represent thousands of valve actuators, so an understanding of preferences are satisfied.
the mechanisms of influence and procurement is essential to the successful pursuit of this business.
One of the main functions of the Rotork sales and marketing organisation is to provide our end-user customers with up to date Because of the size and complexity of many capital projects, the information on the latest capabilities of our products.
This could time spent working on these by Rotork sales personnel often spans include the ability to communicate with control computers more months or years.
From the initial announcement of a project, the efficiently, the capacity of our actuators to withstand hostile Chris Warnett Rotork sales organisation must work with the end-user, engineering environments more effectively or diagnostic capabilities that consultants and subcontractors throughout the design, specification, enhance the operational reliability of the automated valve.
procurement and installation of the capital equipment.
Chris Warnett is Vice President of After Sales Similar information is communicated to consultant engineers whose It is fundamental in a product such as Rotorks, with advanced reputation is dependant on specifying sound and reliable equipment.
He has 30 years of technology, that the benefits of this technology are fully understood The construction and procurement contractor is driven by the desire service with Rotork.
Starting as a Design by customers.
For that reason, marketing and selling communication to build the plant on time, under budget and in compliance with the Engineer in the UK, he moved to the US in is critically important throughout the gestation period of a project, specification.
For that reason they will issue requests for bid to find not just during the final flurry of purchasing activity.
We need to show the lowest cost and fastest delivery of equipment that satisfies the 1980 as a product manager then VP of Sales the significant cost benefit to an end-user of the Rotork actuator, requirements of the specification.
They may also consider the ease and Marketing.
explaining how the Rotork product requires less maintenance during with which equipment can be installed and commissioned.
With its life and is easier to install and commission than that of its multiple sub vendors, equipment that is easy to work with has a competitors.
End-users need to comprehend the capabilities of our benefit.
non-intrusive smart actuators so that they can interface predictive maintenance and asset management systems.
These yield significant In the global marketplace bidding for contracts can be fierce, and the benefits in reducing down time and improving reliability in plant valve industry, despite consolidation over the last decade, is still very operations.
ROTORK MARKETING Rotork Annual Report & Accounts 2006 19.
Rotorks business philosophy has been to maintain our independence communication system, Pakscan, as well as other systems such as To accomplish these communication tasks, a significant amount of and therefore our neutrality in the valve industry.
Should Rotork become Foundation Field bus, Profibus and others, this aspect of our coordination is needed within our sales and marketing organisation.
associated with or part of one of the many valve conglomerates, then technical dialogue with the consultant takes on significant weight.
We need to deliver detailed information and specialised documentation barriers to working with the other valve entities would become a packages to the appropriate people at the right time.
Rotork was the significant impediment to future business through loss of that The electrical engineer who designs the power distribution for first actuator manufacturer to introduce a global project coordination position of independence.
electric actuators or the fluid power distribution for fluid system system from the inception of our international marketing efforts actuators is another important interface.
The power demands of our and over the years this coordination system has developed and The interface with the consultant engineer is also critical to our actuator products need to be communicated to design engineers so grown, particularly after the adoption of PC based tracking systems success.
Within the consultant engineering organisation the Rotork that the correct power distribution capacity can be accommodated.
sales force has to communicate on several levels with multiple disciplines.
This is one of the fascinating aspects of our product line The piping and process engineers will specify the type of valve required The development of this customer focused approach to business has and the one that necessitates a high degree of technical expertise for a specific application and often by inference the type of actuator and been fundamental to our business philosophy, instrumental in the from our sales force.
This could range from a standard electric actuator to growth of Rotork over the last 50 years, and takes on increasing a failsafe electro hydraulic or pneumatic actuator or to one of the many importance as we rise to the challenge of developing the business These interfaces include instrument and control engineers who variations of product that Rotork can supply.
The physical size and further over the next 50 years.
work with the automated control of the plant and the systems and weight of the actuator needs to be known so that pipeline supports and communication equipment that is associated with sending commands surrounding walkways can be designed appropriately.
In order to do this from the control room to the field element in our case the actuator some estimate of the size of the actuator has to be done in advance and or actuated valve.
With the extensive use of Rotorks data for this, the torque demand of the valve is a prerequisite.
Marketing valve actuators is complex, and internationally it can be a challenge.
Not only are there multiple areas of influence in the selection of valve actuators, but also the locations of influencing parties span the globe.
