Rotork Annual Report & Accounts 2006 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Board of Directors WH Whiteley, Chief Executive Bill 58 joined Rotork in 1974 and was President of Rotorks North American operations from 1979 until he became Managing Director of Rotork Actuation in 1988.
He has been a member of the Rotork p. l. c. Board since 1984 and was appointed Group Chief Executive in 1996.
He is a member of the Nomination RC Lockwood, Chairman above RH Arnold above PI France above A Walker above Committee.
Bill is a nonRoger 61 has been a nonBob 55, who became a member Peter 38 joined Rotork in 1989.
Alex 60 joined the Board as a executive director of Dialight plc executive director of Rotork of the Rotork p. l. c. Board in 2001, In 2001 he was appointed non-executive director in January and Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc.
since joining the Board in 1988 is a graduate engineer.
Previously Managing Director of Rotork Fluid 2001.
He retired as Chief and became non-executive with Westinghouse in the USA, he System.
Prior to that appointment Executive of Yule Catto & Co. plc Chairman in November 1998.
He joined Rotork Controls Inc. as Peter has had roles within Rotork in 2006.
He is a member of the is Chairman of the Nomination Engineering Manager as a Director of Rotorks Audit, Remuneration and Committee.
He is Chairman subsequently becoming Vice Singapore company with Nomination Committees.
of Colston Manufacturing President, Engineering and since responsibility for South East Asia Engineering Co Ltd and Hydro 1988 President of Rotork Controls and in International Sales.
IG King below International plc and has Inc. Bob has responsibility for all Ian 50 joined the Board in previously held CEO roles in Rotorks interests in the Americas.
JW Matthews below February 2005 as a non-executive automotive and engineering John 62 has been a nondirector.
He is an executive businesses.
GM Ogden below executive director of Rotork since director of BAe Systems plc and Graham 50 holds a Phd and 1st joining the Board in November its Chief Operating Officer UK and RE Slater below class honours degree in electronic 1998.
He is Chairman of Crest Rest of World.
Ian has previously Bob 55 joined Rotork in 1989 as engineering from Bristol Nicholson plc and Regus plc.
held senior financial and general Finance Director of the Actuation University and has been with He has previously held senior management positions at Division, and was appointed to the Rotork since 1985.
Since joining positions in banking and industrial Marconi.
He is a member of the Board of Rotork p. l. c. as Group Graham has been closely involved companies.
He is Chairman of the Audit, Remuneration and Finance Director in 1998.
He has in product development including Audit and Remuneration Nomination Committees.
previously held finance positions our award winning IQ series.
Committees and a member of in mining, building controls and He was appointed to the Actuation the Nomination Committee, and the engineering industry.
division operating board in 1997 is the senior independent nonas Research & Development executive director.
Director and joined the Board of Rotork p. l. c. in January 2005.
