REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Rotork Annual Report & Accounts 2006 21.
Failure to respond to the competitive landscape and setting product 2007.
This represents 11.65p per ordinary share 2005: 9.9p which with Report of the Directors and marketing initiatives in place to maintain our world leading the interim dividend of 6.5p 2005: 5.9p paid on 28 September 2006 and position has been identified as the major risk area by management.
the additional interim dividends of 5.8p paid on 27 July 2006 and 5.8p Our approach to this has always been to continue to differentiate paid on 21 December 2006 will produce a total dividend per ordinary our products through design innovation while continuing to seek share of 29.75p 2005: 15.8p.
improved and cost effective supply sources for components.
In addition, our development of products specifically focused at Shares issued or purchased particular markets, such as the AWT actuator, will continue to Details of the ordinary shares issued during 2006 are given in note 16. position our product range at the forefront of our markets.
Political instability in a key market could lead to financial and Substantial shareholdings market loss.
This is a difficult area to mitigate in full, but we remain As at the date of this Report the Company had been formally notified alert to potential areas of loss.
In increasing our geographic and under the Companies Act 1985 since the publication of the 2005 Annual sectoral spread of product penetration the overall risk to the Group Report and Accounts that Capital Group had a non-material interest of The directors submit their report and the audited accounts for the year this becomes diluted.
4.97% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company being ended 31 December 2006 as set out on pages 36 to 79.
Failure to maintain Rotorks reputation for product quality and 4,281,401 ordinary shares.
The Company has been notified in customer support.
Our emphasis on product quality and the accordance with the relevant Disclosure and Transparency Rules Principal activities continuous development of quality control procedures is a sourcebook pursuant to the Transparency Obligations Directive that Rotork p. l. c. is a holding Company.
The principal activities of the Rotork fundamental part of our business management systems.
Prudential plc group of companies had a notifiable interest in the total Group are the design, manufacture and support of actuators, systems Improvements through design, and our vendor assessment voting rights of the Company of 5.56% of the issued ordinary share and related products worldwide.
programme, ensure regular and incremental development of capital of the Company being 4,805,362 ordinary shares.
product quality across our product ranges.
Rotork Group provides a range of products, systems and services for The possibility of loss of our market leadership position in actuator Research and development the motorisation and manual operation of and adaption to industrial control systems is a risk to the business.
We now have the ability to Total Group expenditure on research and development in the year was valves and dampers for isolation duty and process control applications.
connect to all leading open systems in current use, and have 2,759,000 2005: 2,666,000 further details of which are contained in It does this through its Electric Actuator, Gears and Fluid System developed new products, such as Pakscan 3, to ensure that the the Business Review on pages 4 to 14. operations.
Actuated valves are major control elements in refineries, latest available functionality is available to our customers.
Through pipelines, power stations, water distribution systems and effluent constant design reviews and product improvement in Charitable donations treatment plants and in all industries in which liquids or gases are communications technology we aim to position Rotork products as During the year the Group made charitable donations of 44,000 transported through pipes.
the solution of choice in enabling the end user customer to control 2005: 44,000. his processes.
The Business Review of the Group is set out here and on pages 4 to 14.
As an international business, adverse movements in world currency There were no political donations made in the year or the prior year.
It provides a balanced and comprehensive analysis of the development markets can impact Rotork at a transaction and translation level.
and performance of the business during the year under review and the Long term this is a structural issue that businesses have to adapt to Directors position at the end of the year, including future development of the and we handle this through developing our supply chain around the The names of the directors in office at the year end and their business and research and development activities.
To enable a full world enabling us to create some natural hedging matching supply biographical and other details including the other significant understanding of the analysis of the Groups business, financial and with sales exposures.
Current trading exposures are hedged commitments of the Chairman are as shown on page 20.
On other key performance indicators are included in the Business Review.
through the forward currency markets.
Much of our currency 26 June 2006, PI France was appointed an executive director.
The The Business Review includes the acquisition in January 2006 of the exposure is triggered through sales between our own companies.
interests of the directors in office at the end of the financial year in business and assets of the Italian gears business, Omag Snc, now Therefore we have visibility of the income streams underpinning the the shares of the Company are as shown in the Remuneration Report contained within Rotork Gears Srl.
forward contracts, which reduces the overall risk.
The Business Review also outlines the principal risks and uncertainties Dividends WH Whiteley, RE Slater, RH Arnold, GM Ogden and PI France have facing the Group.
These are identified below together with the Groups The directors recommend a final dividend of 10,019,000 for the year, service agreements and details of these are contained in the approach to mitigating the risks: payable on 11 May 2007 to shareholders on the register on 20 April Remuneration Report on pages 28 to 34.
Rotork Annual Report & Accounts 2006 REPORT OF DIRECTORS CONTINUED The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRSs as Creditor payment policy Report of Directors adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and While there is no formal code or standard, it is Company and Group performance of the Group: the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation policy to settle terms of payment with creditors when agreeing the continued to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of that terms of each transaction and to abide by creditors terms of payment Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to provided that the supplier is also complying with all relevant terms and their achieving a fair presentation.
There are no creditors subject to special arrangements outside suppliers terms and conditions.
The Company does not have The Company financial statements are required by law to give a true any trade suppliers so that a creditor day payment period is not and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company.
In preparing each of the Group and Company financial statements, the Directors and officers indemnity insurance directors are required to: Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts the Companys Articles At the Annual General Meeting AGM, in accordance with the Articles of Association provide for the directors and officers of the Company to Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them of Association, A Walker and RH Arnold will retire by rotation and, being be appropriately indemnified.
The Company purchases and maintains consistently: eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
PI France will offer insurance for the directors and officers of the Company, in undertaking Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: himself for election it being his first opportunity since appointment.
their duties, in accordance with section 309 A of the Companies Act For the Group financial statements, state whether they have been 1985. prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: Financial instruments For the Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK An explanation of the Group policies on the use of financial instruments Disclosure of information to auditors Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material and financial risk management objectives are contained in note 22 of The directors who held office at the date of approval of this directors departures disclosed and explained in the Company financial these financial statements.
report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant statements: and audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless Statement of directors responsibility for preparing the financial each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company will statements director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to continue in business.
The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
auditors Statement of Auditors Responsibilities, included in the audit The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records report, is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the Auditors that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position respective responsibilities of the directors and of the auditors in relation Resolutions to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors and to authorise of the Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements to the financial statements.
the directors to determine their remuneration are to be proposed at the comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Annual assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other Report and Accounts Annual General Meeting irregularities.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with applicable Companys offices at Rotork House, Brassmill Lane, Bath BA1 3JQ on Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible law and regulations.
A separate circular containing the for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Notice of the Meeting is sent to shareholders with this Annual Report.
Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and Company regulations.
financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are On behalf of the Board required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to corporate and financial information included in the Companys website.
prepare the Company financial statements in accordance with UK Stephen Rhys Jones Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted Secretary financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
