Rotork Annual Report & Accounts 2006 GEOGRAPHICAL REVIEW Europe North America South America Rotork has a well established presence in the European market with With two assembly plants and eight customer support locations we Supported mainly through our North American operations, eight assembly locations in Italy, Germany, The Netherlands and the have significant investment in this large and complex market.
There the various regions of South America have sophisticated local UK, and a further six customer support centres elsewhere.
Europe has been significant infrastructure development connected with infrastructures developing hydrocarbon assets within the has a strong valvemaker culture supplying hi-tech solutions to potable and waste water activities in recent years, which we are well region.
All three of Rotorks divisional businesses are active complex customer requirements.
Europe is often the centre for major positioned to support.
project design across the globe.
a pleasure to deal with Il primo nei servizi first for service... Premier pour le service... the best products available Travailler avec eux est un plaisir Los primeros en servicios El mejor trato GEOGRAPHICAL REVIEW Rotork Annual Report & Accounts 2006 17.
Africa Asia Australasia This large and diverse market is supported by local offices and Rotork has historically been strong throughout Asia, and now counts This large geographic area includes remote but often quite agents, and has seen some considerable investment in power mainland China as the biggest market for Rotork Electric valve sophisticated facilities covering all of Rotorks traditional end user utilities as well as oil and gas industries in recent years.
In addition we have a well established position in India areas.
These are served by two customer support centres, one with two assembly units and a further three sales offices.
A wide dedicated to Fluid System.
Australia has a well developed coverage of local companies throughout the Asia region enables us to hydrocarbons market, a strong local power industry, and complex support all customers even in quite remote locations.
We have four water and irrigation systems across its landmass.
assembly plants in Asia in total, including the new Shanghai facility.
El mejor trato Esokuqala emsebenzini I migliori prodotti disponibiliI Bester Kundenservice... Bester Kundenservice...
Die besten verfgbaren Antriebe... Il primo nei servizi
