Directors report The directors have pleasure in submitting their report to In January 2006, the group announced that it had entered into shareholders, together with the audited financial statements a new arrangement with Vietnam Dairy Products Joint Stock for the year ended 31 March 2006.
Company Vinamilk to establish a brewing business in Vietnam, one of the worlds fastest-growing beer markets.
Initially, the new Acquisitions, disposals, significant financing transactions business will focus on developing one or two mainstream In May 2005, the groups Chinese associate, China Resources Vietnamese brands and on the introduction of the groups premium Snow Breweries Ltd CR Snow acquired the assets of Fuyang City international brands into the market.
The groups initial investment Snowland Brewery Company in Chinas Anhui province for a cash will be US$22.5 million.
Since assuming full management In February 2006, CR Snow acquired 85% in Quanzhou control of the business, CR Snow has made further investments to Qingyuan Brewery Ltd for approximately US$8.9 million.
The expand the capacity of Snowland Brewery to 2.3 million hectolitres acquisition strengthens the groups presence in the Chinese market per annum.
by supporting the fast-growing Snow brand and providing a sound In the same month, the group announced that it had agreed platform for further expansion in Southern China.
to acquire Topvar a. s. Topvar, the Slovakian brewer, subject to a In September and December 2005, the group entered into two number of conditions.
These conditions were satisfied in March separate facility agreements with its bankers, entitling the group to 2006, at which time the group acquired 48.4% of Topvars voting borrow up to US$4,400 million, in aggregate.
The purpose of these share capital.
Contractual arrangements are in place which entitle facilities was to repay existing borrowings, to fund group capital the group to increase its stake to 99.8% within 18 months of those requirements and to fund the acquisition of shares held by minority conditions being satisfied.
From 22 March 2006, the group was able shareholders in Bavaria.
to exercise full control over Topvar.
In May 2006, the group announced that CR Snow would invest Also in May 2005, the group announced that its Indian subsidiary, US$35.3 million in the construction of a new brewery in Harbin City MBL Investments Mysore, had acquired the Shaw Wallace Groups in Chinas Heilongjiang province.
The construction work is expected interest in the groups brewing operations in India.
Mysore now to be completed within 18 months and the new plant will have an owns 99% of those brewing operations, Indias second largest.
initial production capacity of 2.3 million hectolitres per annum.
The remaining shares are held by a number of minority shareholders.
In July 2005, the group announced that it had agreed terms, Share capital subject to a number of conditions, to obtain a controlling interest During the year, the issued ordinary share capital increased from of 71.77% in Bavaria S. A. Bavaria effective interest: 71.42%, 1,101,759,844 shares of 10 US cents each to 1,497,844,458 in consideration for the issue of 225 million ordinary shares in shares of 10 US cents each.
SABMiller plc which, immediately following their issue, accounted for In accordance with its rights under the Relationship Agreement approximately 15.02% of the issued share capital of SABMiller.
The made with the company, Altria Group, Inc. exercised its right to transaction, the largest by value in the groups history, was approved convert 167,411,024 convertible participating shares into the same by the groups shareholders at an extraordinary general meeting held number of the companys ordinary shares of 10 US cents each, in October 2005, with the remaining conditions satisfied shortly which reduced the number of convertible participating shares in thereafter.
Following completion, the group launched a series of issue to zero.
offers to purchase shares held by minority shareholders in Bavaria 3,673,590 new ordinary shares were issued to satisfy the and its Peruvian subsidiary, Unin fide Cerveceras Peruanas Backus exercise of options in the SABMiller plc Mirror Executive Share and Johnston S. A.
Purchase Scheme, the SABMiller plc Approved Executive Share In October 2005, the group made an offer to purchase the Option Scheme and the SABMiller plc Executive Share Option outstanding Class A voting shares in Backus, of which it already No.
owned 79.7%, following the Bavaria transaction.
As a result of 225,000,000 ordinary shares were issued in consideration for this offer, the groups interest in the A voting shares in Backus obtaining a controlling interest in Bavaria S. A. as described above.
The total consideration was paid in cash and In addition, the company has 77,368,338 non-voting convertible amounted to approximately US$473 million.
participating shares of 10 US cents each and 50,000 deferred In the same month, the group announced an offer to purchase shares of 1 each in issue.
No further non-voting convertible the outstanding shares in Bavaria.
Pursuant to this offer, which participating shares, convertible participating shares or deferred closed in December 2005, and subsequent purchases, the group shares were issued during the year.
increased its interest in Bavaria to 97.21%, for a total cash consideration of approximately US$1,243 million.
Purchase of own shares In March 2006 the group announced an offer to acquire 100% At the last annual general meeting, shareholder authority was of the non-voting investment shares of Backus, for a total cash obtained for the company to purchase its own shares up to a consideration of approximately US$400 million.
The group acquired maximum of 10% of the number of ordinary shares in issue on 493 million of the investment shares during the offer at a cost of 18 May 2005.
This authority is due to expire at the earlier of the approximately US$365 million.
As a result, the group owns 91% next annual general meeting or 29 October 2006 and remains of the investment shares and its effective economic interest in exercisable provided that certain conditions relating to the Backus increased to approximately 93.4% as at 31 March 2006, purchase are met.
which by the close of the offer on 5 April 2006 had further increased The notice of annual general meeting, enclosed with this to approximately 94%.
report, proposes that shareholders approve a resolution updating In November 2005, the groups wholly-owned subsidiary Pilsner and renewing the authority allowing the company to purchase its Urquell Investments B. V. PUI acquired the outstanding 3.1% own shares.
interest held by minority shareholders in the groups Czech operating Shares in the company were purchased under the conditions v company, Plzensky Prazdr oj, a. s..
The value of the gross assets of the Employee Benefit Trust, details of which are provided in the acquired by PUI was US$18 million.
In the same month, the group announced that it had acquired The company did not repurchase any of its shares during the the outstanding 41.8% minority interest in its subsidiary Bevco year for the purpose of cancellation, holding in treasury or for any Limited, the leading brewer and soft drinks bottler in Honduras other purpose.
The value of the gross assets acquired was US$464 million.
The group now operates on five continents and it is essential to An interim dividend of 13 US cents per share was paid to develop and retain a global management capability.
Failure to shareholders on 19 December 2005, in respect of the year ended maintain this capability at a high level or maintain our effective 31 March 2006.
Details of the final dividend proposed by the board organisational leadership process which can capture shared for the year ended 31 March 2006, are set out below: learnings and leverage global synergies and expertise, could jeopardise our growth potential.
Amount of final dividend 31 US cents per share 4.
In many countries, regulatory constraints and restrictions on proposed by the board: alcohol products, including sales and marketing activities, continue to be under the spotlight, and management interacts Total proposed dividend 44 US cents per share with the relevant authorities wherever appropriate.
An increase for the year ended 31 March 2006: in such impositions or in excise duties can have an adverse impact on our business, in those countries where such actions The approval of the final dividend will be sought from may take place.
shareholders at the companys annual general meeting scheduled for 28 July 2006.
If approved, the final dividend will be payable in The board is responsible for identifying and addressing the principal the following way: risks facing the group.
The process for identifying these risks is set out on page 40 of the corporate governance report.
Details of how Dividend payable on: 4 August 2006 the group is addressing these risks are set out in the Chief Currency of payment: South African rand Executives review, business review and sustainable development to shareholders on the SA report sections of this report.
section of the register, Annual general meeting US dollars to shareholders The companys annual general meeting will be held at The Four shown as having an address Seasons Hotel, Hamilton Place, Hyde Park Corner, London W1A 1AZ, in the USA and recorded on the England at 11.00 am on Friday 28 July 2006.
Notice of this meeting UK section of the register accompanies this report and may also be obtained from the unless mandated otherwise, companys website.
Pounds sterling to all other shareholders on the UK section Donations of the register.
During the year under review the company made charitable donations To shareholders on either section in the sum of US$98,723 in the United Kingdom, consisting of: of the register at record date : 7 July 2006 US$8,777 to the environmental and educational charity Green Light Trust: US$5,489 to Nicro UK Trust, which promotes citizenship and Ex-dividend dates: 3 July 2006 for shares public involvement in reducing crime: US$43,610 to the Prince of traded on the London Stock Wales International Business Leaders Forum IBLF : US$3,576 to Exchange LSE, the Eden Project: US$540 to the National Organisation for Fetal 5 July for shares traded Alcohol Syndrome UK: and US$36,731 to charities supporting on the JSE Limited, victims of the Asian Tsunami.
In addition, the group contributed South Africa.
US$18.48 million across its worldwide operations through its corporate social investment programmes.
Dates on which the rate of Whilst it remains the groups policy that political donations are exchange for conversion from only made by exception and in accordance with local laws, after US dollars will be calculated careful consideration, the following political donations were made with the dates of publication during the year.
on the RNS of the LSE and Miller Brewing Company made contributions to individual the SENS of the JSE Limited candidates for political office and to party committees in the USA, in brackets : where permitted by applicable campaign finance laws.
Political South African rand: 22 June 2006 23 June 2006 donations in the USA are an accepted part of the local sociopolitical environment.
These contributions amounted to UK pounds sterling: 10 July 2006 11 July 2006 US$323,580, in aggregate.
The groups subsidiaries in Central America made donations Principal risks to political parties of US$260,194 in aggregate.
In both countries, The principal risks facing the group, which have been considered by donations were made to a number of registered political parties, the board, are: in order to support the democratic process.
The global brewing industry is expected to continue to The groups subsidiary in Colombia made donations to political consolidate.
Should the group not participate in attractive parties of US$1,957,900 in connection with congressional elections value-adding transactions, this may inhibit its ability to leverage held during the year under review.
The donations were made to a additional scale benefits.
Whilst participation in global number of candidates and parties who expressed support for the consolidation provides opportunities to access scale benefits, multi-party democratic process.
enter growth markets and achieve benefits from the groups best The board has reaffirmed the groups policy not to make operating practices, there is the risk that expected benefits may donations to political organisations in the European Union.
not be captured or may be inadequate, such that an appropriate return on capital is not achieved over time.
The continued development of our marketing skills and growth The aim of the group is to be the employer of choice in each of our international premium brand portfolio positions us well to country in which it operates.
In order to achieve this, each operating benefit from changing consumer preferences in both developed company designs employment policies which attract, retain and and developing markets.
However, markets continue to evolve motivate the highest quality of staff.
and competitor activity is increasing, and should the group fail to The group is committed to an active equal opportunities policy ensure the relevance and attractiveness of its brands, and the from recruitment and selection, through training and development, enhancement of brand marketing, there is the risk that appraisal and promotion to retirement.
Within the constraints of local significant growth opportunities may not be realised.
46 law, it is our policy to ensure that everyone is treated equally, Other information regardless of gender, colour, national origin, race, disability, marital In accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and the listing rules of status, sexual orientation, religion or trade union affiliation.
the Financial Services Authority, the directors are required to bring certain additional information to the attention of shareholders in the Research and development directors report.
Where this information is described elsewhere in The group continues to invest in new products and processes, as this report, a cross reference appears in the table below: well as new technologies to improve overall operational effectiveness.
The groups scientific research continues to yield solid progress in Item Location in this Annual Report brewing, raw materials, new products and brands, packaging, Business review and risk factors Chairmans statement marketing techniques and proprietary technologies.
During the year Chief Executives review under review, the aggregate amount spent by the group on research Business review and development was US$8 million 2005: US$7 million.
Environmental matters and Sustainable development review Payment of suppliers key performance indicators The groups policy and practice is to pay invoices in accordance Employee matters and Sustainable development review with the terms of payment agreed in advance.
At the year-end, key performance indicators the amount owed by the group to trade creditors was equivalent to 49.1 days 2005: 48.3 days of purchases from suppliers.
Names of directors Board of directors section Directors interests in shares Remuneration report Overseas branches and or options The company does not have any branches registered overseas.
Disclosure of dividends waived Note 9 to the consolidated Auditors financial statements  LLP has expressed its willingness to Financial instruments Note 21 to the consolidated continue in office and resolutions proposing its re-appointment and and market risk financial statements authorising the board to set its remuneration will be submitted to the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Statement of directors Pages 58 and 134 responsibilities Directors indemnity Combined Code compliance Corporate governance report As permitted by changes to the Companies Act 1985 that occurred statement Remuneration report during the course of the year under review and by the company's articles of association, the company has granted rolling indemnities to the directors, uncapped in amount, in relation to certain losses and liabilities which they may incur in the course of acting as directors of the company or of one or more of its subsidiaries.
The Company Secretary and Deputy Company Secretary have also been granted indemnities, on similar terms, covering their roles as Company Secretary and Deputy Company Secretary respectively of the company and as company secretary or directors of one or more of the company's subsidiaries.
The board believes that it is in Andrew Tonkinson the best interests of the group to attract and retain the services of Company Secretary the most able and experienced directors and officers by offering For and on behalf of the board of competitive terms of engagement, including the granting of SABMiller plc indemnities on terms consistent with the amended legislation.
The indemnity is categorised as a qualifying third-party 5 June 2006 indemnity for the purposes of the Companies Act and will continue in force for the benefit of directors on an ongoing basis.
Notifiable Interests Notifiable interests representing 3% or more of the issued ordinary share capital of the company are disclosed on page 146 of this report.
