Business review marketing and route-to-market we are excise tax increase in 2005 with the EUROPE customising a channel marketing approach consequent price increases leading to a using the best methodologies sourced from contraction in the Salvadoran beer market.
Key focus areas around the group.
The regions strategic In addition, a competitor entered the market Build full brand portfolios commodity requirements have been in 2005 and whilst initially gaining a market Refresh core mainstream brands incorporated into the groups global share of some 14%, this has fallen to 6% Building premium brands procurement arrangements to access in the final quarter.
Carbonated soft drink Innovation of products, packaging and scale benefits.
volumes grew by 11% driven by a decrease point of sale Although we believe Bavaria to have in market pricing levels.
Marketing to consumers and retailers, been well-managed and profitable, and winning at the point of purchase significant opportunities exist in the South EUROPE Achieving operational scale efficiencies America operations to create further value by leveraging SABMiller expertise in In Europe we will continue to invest in category leadership, brand portfolio our brand portfolios, including our core development, channel marketing, pricing mainstream brands that have sizeable management and the introduction of best in double digit domestic market shares and class operating practices.
We have reviewed our local and international premium brands current operations in each of the countries in this fast growing segment.
Working with and are refining our earlier broad estimates our retailers, our trade marketing efforts will of cost productivity and performance allow us to better support our brands from improvement opportunities.
We are production to consumption.
structuring our findings into a prioritised integration programme, which will be rolled 2006 2005 % out in the coming year, and remain confident Revenue US$m 3,258 2,909 12 that the value benefit estimates for 2010 EBITA US$m 569 482 18 indicated at the time of the transaction will EBITA margin % 17.5 16.6 be met.
Total number of lager In Central America, performance in both breweries 19 18 El Salvador and Honduras was impacted by Lager brewing hurricanes.
Total volumes for the year were capacity hl 000 41,952 38,945 4% above prior year with carbonated soft Total volumes rose 6% 5% on an organic Sales volumes drink volumes for the year at 6% above prior basis with strong volume growth in Poland, hl 000 : year, offsetting the decline in lager volumes Russia and Romania.
The business again Lager 35,664 33,669 6 which were 5% below prior year.
produced excellent profit growth, with EBITA Lager organic 35,519 33,669 5 Volume grew in Honduras despite the up 18% 14% in organic constant currency.
Average number impact of heavy rains and Hurricane Gamma Margin growth benefited from improved of employees 11,622 11,424 during November 2005.
Lager volume grew sales mix, as worthmore volumes rose by by 1% and a number of price increases 12%, and increased productivity.
Major brands were successfully implemented across the In Poland, volumes were up 11% Arany szok, Dorada, Debowe Mocne, portfolio.
Barena was launched to a compared to market growth of 5% and our Dreher, Gambrinus, Lech, Miller Genuine contemporary target consumer segment market share improved to an estimated Draft, Peroni, Peroni Nastro Azzurro, Pilsner v and Port Royal was relaunched with a new 37.5% for the year ended 31 March 2006. v Urquell, Redds, Radegast, Saris, Smadny bottle.
Carbonated soft drink volumes grew Several novel fridge and rack designs with Mnich, Timisoreana, Tri Bogatyra, Tropical, by 3%, however overall CSD revenue improved trade service levels, plus targeted Tyskie, Ursus, Velckopopovicky Kozel, fell due to mix issues in response to above-the-line advertising executions and Zolotaya Bochka, Zubr continuing competitor activity.
Marketing enhanced point of sale material assisted investment grew significantly in support of this performance.
In the upper mainstream Figures correct at 5 June 2006 for operations and capacity.
All other figures are for the year ended 31 March 2006.
Coca-Cola brands and increased market segment, Lechs momentum continued with activation in beer.
volume up 17%, and the first non-alcoholic The trading environment in El Salvador variant of a major domestic brand, Lech continues to be difficult, with continued Free, was launched in March 2006.
At the economic slowdown, severe flooding and premium end Redds was up 12%, and two diminishing purchasing power.
Lager new flavoured variants, Redds Red and volumes declined by 11%, following the Redds Sun, were introduced.
All previous years are UK GAAP.
