As a company, we recognise that our success is dependent on our ability to market and manage our brands in an effective and responsible manner.
By enhancing peoples experience of our company, we enhance the value of our brands and of our business.
The following pages show how we do this in practice, using examples from different parts of the company.
Taste life Club Colombia is Colombias leading premium beer.
10 Left to right Graham Mackay, Chief Executive, SABMiller and Julio Mario Santo Domingo, Chairman of Bavaria S. A. signing the merger agreement between the two companies.
Our move into South America represents a unique opportunity in a fast growing, strategically important region.
Lager volumes are already growing strongly and we believe that we can add significant value through developing brand portfolios and building relationships with local distributors and retailers.
We have a unique global developing markets where footprint were in over 60 consumption is increasing.
countries spread over five Typical of our strategy is our continents and our size investment in Bavaria S. A. and reach brings growth in Latin America some opportunities unavailable to 90 million consumers in most others.
We focus on one of the worlds fastest two broad sources of revenue growing regions, providing growth consumers trading significant growth potential.
up into premium beers, and 11 Growing globally Taste life The introduction of Redds to the Polish market has enabled us to attract new customers women, who like its lighter, apple-based taste.
Its been so successful weve also added Redds Red and Redds Sun a great example of how we use innovation to build complete brand portfolios that meet the full spectrum of consumer preferences.
Brands are the key to our and Lech, have been carefully we bought and rejuvenated success.
Our ability to nurture positioned.
Redds, Pilsner Urquell and grow brands that and traditional is the number and Miller Genuine Draft are consumers want is one of one beer in Poland, and Lech well-positioned in their premium our most important business relaunched two years ago niche.
We strive to build for a modern and outgoing, brands with growth potential, complete brand portfolios younger drinker is now by developing new brands, and that meet all consumer tastes.
Polands number five beer by introducing international Our Polish operation is a and rising.
We also identified a brands into local markets, we great example.
The two local need for a beer brand catering ensure our brands are the first mainstream brands, Tyskie for the lower mainstream, so choice for consumers.
12 First choice brands In Poland, Tyskie is the number one beer brand.
13 Taste life Ellen Karey-Francis taking a consumer through the Miller Lite Taste Challenge in the USA.
The Miller Lite Taste Challenge aims to capture consumers hearts and minds at the moment they are making their purchasing decisions: engaging consumers both emotionally and functionally, highlighting that Miller Lite has more taste, fewer carbs and more colour than its main competitor.
Where Miller and its distributor partners have conducted the Miller Lite Taste Challenge in bars, using their specialised marketing teams, sales were up 7.4%, or more than twice the growth rate of the brand overall.
In bars and restaurants, Miller Relying on traditional is actively pursuing the Miller advertising and marketing Lite Taste Challenge, inviting channels is no longer enough.
people of legal drinking age Direct consumer interaction to choose between Miller Lite is more than ever a crucial and its main competitor on element in developing and the basis of colour, aroma maintaining brands.
It works the and supermarkets this has brand continues to grow meant a focus on innovation while increasing pricing faster and new ideas at point of sale than the main competing and ensuring that the right brand.
Around the world product is available, at the were winning by winning right time, in the right format.
15 Connecting with the customer Taste life Our business is more than costs to consumers and just producing and marketing helping protect the great brands, our success environment.
For example is strongly linked to the ZBL helps local entrepreneurs communities in which we through assistance with operate.
We create wealth financing kiosks called through direct or indirect Ntembas for the sale of employment and provide beverages such as Cocalong-term investment vital Cola, Fanta and Sprite.
On in establishing strong a social level, ZBL supports infrastructures and economic programmes to manage stability.
Typical is the work and increase awareness of our subsidiary, Zambian of HIV AIDs and is leading Breweries Ltd ZBL, one of initiatives to curb the Zambias largest taxpayers irresponsible consumption of and employers.
As a leading global local supply and distribution company, our responsibility is chains, ZBL is strengthening to create sustainable ways to infrastructure, as well as do business.
It is in our best pioneering programmes that interests as a company, and provide local jobs, reducing as citizens.
To produce a more affordable, high quality clear beer Eagle Lager we partnered with the Zambia National Farmers Union, Care International, and the Zambian Government.
Eagle is now growing fast and our need for locally produced sorghum is rising, bringing benefits for consumers, communities and ZBL alike.
16 Working responsibly Jonas Mbewe, outside his Ntemba in Lusaka.
ZBL helps entrepreneurs like Jonas to buy their own Ntembas by providing affordable loans.
17 Taste life We believe that the quality Sandy Kruger is typical of the of our people is a singular new breed of Master Brewer managing not just the quality of business advantage.
We our beer, but the quality of our understand the importance teams.
As a modern manager, of training and development, her skills are transferable to any and of creating a culture of our breweries on any one of five continents a great of communication and example of how our training and collaboration.
As a global development programmes are organisation, transferability of planned for our global needs.
skills is important to us, and we look to build strong teams of smart, educated, motivated people at every level who are capable of working throughout the company, throughout the world.
Its about knowledge sharing the passing of learning from one area of the business to another and its about a shared approach a can-do attitude that comes from a real passion for what we do.
18 Sharing knowledge and skills Moopelo Kungwane, Packaging Line Manager and Sandy Kruger checking production quality on a bottling line at Newlands Brewery, Cape Town.
19 Taste life Were more, much more, than the sum of our parts.
At SABMiller, we work together to create shareholder value by enhancing consumer satisfaction, and by doing business in a smart, engaged, responsible and human way.
