Business review REVIEW OF OPERATIONS including new graphics, packaging, NORTH AMERICA advertising, point-of-sale targeting and NORTH AMERICA promotional activities.
Key focus areas Miller has commenced a significant Deepen management strength programme in support of the marketing and Continue to improve Miller system selling of its international worthmore brands.
sales execution Peroni Nastro Azzurro recorded impressive Sustain Miller Lites momentum results in its launch year while Pilsner Restore Miller Genuine Draft to growth Urquells growth has continued.
Stabilise Miller High Life and Total revenue grew by 0.4% to Milwaukees Best US$4,912 million, while US domestic Build a significant, focused worthmore revenue excluding contract brewing segment presence led by Peroni Nastro increased by 1.0%.
These increases were Azzurro and Pilsner Urquell driven by front-line pricing, partially offset by higher price promotions.
Favourable brand Competition in the US beer market remains mix resulting from the improvement in intense, with recent mainstream price Miller Lite sales was partially offset by reductions by the industry leader being unfavourable pack and geographic mix.
accompanied by faster growth in imported Contract brewing revenues increased as a beers, wines and spirits, and unprecedented result of favourable mix impacts and despite increases in commodity and energy costs.
Millers progress in building the strength of Miller continued to extract operational its brands and its organisation continues, Miller has successfully completed its initial efficiencies in its breweries and realise cost however, and is creating a platform for three-year turnaround programme, savings on brewing materials, waste sustained future growth.
continued growth in its flagship Miller Lite reduction and procurement.
These gains brand and established a platform for were more than offset by significantly higher 2006 2005 % sustained future growth.
aluminium, fuel and energy costs, resulting Revenue US$m 4,912 4,892 Despite headwinds earlier in the year and in an increase in domestic costs of goods EBITA US$m 454 487 7 market share gains by the spirits and wine sold per hectolitre slightly below the US EBITA margin % 9.3 10.0 industries in the total alcoholic beverage Consumer Price Index.
Efforts to improve Total number of market, the US beer industry improved late the management of health care and breweries 8 8 in the fiscal year to finish with domestic retirement costs began to produce positive Lager brewing shipments to wholesalers STWs up 1.2% results in the reporting period.
capacity hl 000 66,801 61,776 and sales to retailers STRs up some 1% for In the face of these challenges, Miller Sales volumes the full year.
STRs for the major domestic continued to invest in the organisational hl 000 : brewers were up by 0.2%.
However, Millers capabilities necessary to drive future growth.
Lager excluding primary competitor eliminated its long-held The acquisition of new marketing talent, contract brewing 47,059 47,380 1 price premiums in a number of market development of specialised sales forces, Contract brewing 10,246 10,583 3 segments, driving pricing down across the and increased promotional and alliance CSDs 74 75 1 industry.
In this context, as Miller maintained marketing programmes resulted in an STRs 43,964 44,380 1 firmer year-on-year pricing than its domestic increase in marketing costs despite Average number competitors, Millers STRs decreased by continued marketing efficiency savings.
of employees: 5,887 5,760 1.0% in the reporting period, while Millers EBITA for the year of US$454 million domestic STWs declined by 0.1%.
Export was 7% lower than in the prior year, Major brands sales continued to be depressed by difficult driven by the highly competitive pricing Miller Lite, Miller Genuine Draft, Ice House, trading conditions in key markets, and environment and higher commodity, fuel and Miller High Life, Milwaukees Best, Pilsner contract brewing volumes decreased by energy costs.
EBITA margin decreased to Urquell, Peroni Nastro Azzurro, Fosters 3.2% compared to the prior year.
Miller is entering a new phase of its Lager.
Although cycling strong prior year business strategy with an emphasis on volume growth and facing aggressive stepping up its organisational and Figures correct at 5 June 2006 for operations and capacity.
All other figures are for the year ended 31 March 2006. competitor discounting, Miller Lite continued management capabilities and creating a its 30 month resurgence, posting low strong and highly differentiated portfolio single-digit growth for the fiscal year and of brands capable of capturing consumer demonstrating sustained consumer equity.
Marketing for Miller Lite, which emphasises its intrinsic strengths, together with significant investment in on-premise Miller Lite activities, has been successful in maintaining continuing momentum for the brand.
Increased marketing investment to continued its revitalise the Miller High Life and Milwaukees Best Light franchises mitigated the impact of price pressure on its key economy segment brands, such that the decline of these was limited to low single- 30 month digit rates.
Miller Genuine Draft MGD was re-launched late in the fourth quarter with a new positioning targeted at mainstream resurgence sophisticate consumers seeking to trade up to affordable luxury.
A comprehensive new marketing campaign has been deployed 26
