Global footprint SABMiller has brewing interests or major distribution agreements in over 60 countries spread across five continents.
Our markets range from developed economies in Europe and North America, to fast growing developing markets such as China and India.
Our brands include international premium beers such as Peroni Nastro Azzurro, Pilsner Urquell, Miller Genuine Draft and Castle Lager, as well as popular local brands such as Miller Lite, Aguila, Tyskie and Snow.
EUROPE NORTH AMERICA ASIA AFRICA LATIN AMERICA SOUTH AFRICA Countries in which SABMiller has brewing interests SABMillers brewing operations North America Europe Africa and Asia We acquired the Miller Brewing Company, the Our development into mainland Europe began in We have brewing or beverage interests in 29 USAs second largest brewer, in 2002, and have 1995 with the acquisition of Dreher in Hungary.
In 11 of these countries: Angola recently completed a three-year turnaround plan, We are now one of the regions leading brewers soft drinks only, Botswana, Ghana, Lesotho, establishing a platform for future growth.
with operations in eight countries: Canary Islands Malawi, Mozambique, Swaziland, Tanzania, Spain, Czech Republic, Hungary, Italy, Poland, Uganda, Zambia and Zimbabwe, we have Romania, Russia and Slovakia.
We have brewing interests Latin America in 18 countries through our strategic alliance We initially invested in El Salvador and Honduras with Castel and we have a minority shareholding in 2001, gaining full ownership in 2005.
Also in South Africa in Kenya.
2005, we completed a merger with Grupo The South African Breweries Ltd is our original In Asia we have major interests in China Empresarial Bavaria, the second largest brewer in brewing company.
Founded in 1895, SAB Ltd and India, and we have recently agreed to South America.
This has extended our operations has since become one of South Africas leading enter Vietnam.
in the region to Bolivia, Colombia, Costa Rica, companies as well as Africas largest brewer.
The soft drinks division of SAB Ltd is South Africas largest producer of products for The Coca-Cola Company.
