stabilising at 4.9 million hectolitres, with a 9% growth respectively.
A managed exit In the United Kingdom, investment is 17% share of the total market.
Growth was strategy from private label saw our volumes being made behind Miller Brands UK strong in the lower mainstream segment in this segment decline 41%.
The net result Limited which was launched in 2005 to and our Zubr brand grew by 48%.
Further is a far better portfolio with revenues per market, sell and distribute our international capacity has been installed in Poland hectolitre up 9% and a significant premium beer brands.
Peroni Nastro bringing total production capability to improvement in gross margins.
Azzurro, Miller Genuine Draft, Castle Lager 12.5 million hectolitres.
Notwithstanding the overall weakness and Pilsner Urquell have all been Improving product visibility and cold of the Italian economy and the pressure on successfully transitioned from their previous availability, expanding on-trade share and FMCG pricing, Birra Peroni has been able arrangements to the Miller Brands business key account presence, and further to exploit limited pricing opportunities and and further investment is planned for the development of premium brand successfully implemented increases of up to current financial year.
organisational capabilities continue as major 3%.
We increased investment in marketing focus areas.
Pricing remains constrained in behind our trademark brands, introduced AFRICA AND ASIA the industry and on average declined 3% a new approach towards independent in real terms, with Kompania Piwowarska distributors, focused on driving channel achieving selective price increases.
share in selected local markets and In the Czech Republic, volumes grew established a new sales organisation.
2% assisted by strong March volumes while Ursus Breweries in Romania produced the industry was level, and as a result our an improved performance with EBITA domestic market share increased slightly.
margin expanding significantly driven by The Pilsner Urquell brand grew 2% production efficiencies and an estimated domestically and 4% overall, while Germany market value share increase to 23%.
Our and the USA were strong export markets.
organic volume growth was constrained to Gambrinus remains the market leader with a 5%, compared to the industrys 8%, due to 26% share.
A complete packaging redesign, capacity limits specifically for PET.
Production including bottles, labels and crates, was capacity is now being expanded to 3.9 launched for the Gambrinus brand at the million hectolitres.
We continued to focus on end of the year.
the Ursus Premium brand which grew 9%.
Industry pricing remains muted with a Timisoreana Lux was the fastest growing v 1% real decrease during the year.
Plzensky brand in the market, up 48% as distribution Prazdroj PP on-trade volume grew 9% reach expanded.
Distribution and trade and continues to be a key value enhancing development of the imported Peroni Nastro segment, with its overall value share Azzurro brand will be extended in the Africa estimated to be 4-5 percentage points coming year, while recently launched Stejar Reported lager volumes grew 3% overall, ahead of its market volume share.
During Strong will be rolled out selectively.
driven by strong underlying growth in the year, productivity was improved, Our Canary Islands operations benefited Mozambique 9%, Tanzania 5% and particularly through regional procurement from the prior years restructuring.
Although Uganda 39%, where we benefited from activities, boosting margins.
Capital projects both the industry and our volumes were good economic fundamentals combined currently under way will increase PPs down, EBITA was well ahead.
In Slovakia, with an operational focus on improved production capacity to 9.8 million hectolitres.
volumes were down 3% but productivity product availability.
Volumes declined in In October 2005, the remaining 3.1% boosted margins, and profits were up.
The Zimbabwe and Botswana, both of which interest in PP held by minority shareholders Pilsner Urquell brand continued its strong were impacted by poor economic was acquired.
growth performance of recent years.
In performance and currency devaluation.
In Russia, second half volumes March 2006 the Slovakian anti-monopoly In Tanzania, new packaging was accelerated bringing the full years volume office approved our acquisition of an initial introduced during the year for Castle Lager, growth to 14% against the industrys investment in Topvar with rights to acquire Redds, Kilimanjaro and Pilsener Lager estimated 7%.
We continue to focus on the up to at least 67% by September 2006. which accelerated the growth of the brand premium segment and, with a market share The Dreher brewery in Hungary delivered portfolio.
Efficiency improvements in of 5%, we have an estimated 15% share improved financial results in difficult market distribution were gained through introducing of the national profit pool.
The combined conditions reflecting continued productivity direct deliveries in the Kilimanjaro region growth of Miller Genuine Draft and Redds improvements.
Volume was marginally to improve rural market penetration, exceeded 7%.
Kozel grew by 55%, making ahead in a market down 4%.
Overall market outsourcing secondary distribution in other it the largest licensed brand in Russia share was up 1% to 28%.
regions, and opening additional warehouses according to AC Nielsen.
Zolotaya Botchka, and a new depot.
our local premium brand, grew 11%.
In Mozambique, the key driver of volume Margins were assisted by increased growth was improved sales and distribution procurement from local sources.
An increase execution on the back of an extended of 20% in our sales force and the extended company depot network, as well as Poland volumes cooler programme have improved our focus improved on-premise trade service through on selected geographies as well as the provision of additional refrigeration and up on-trade.
Additional canning capacity has draught dispensing units.
The upgrade in been installed and planning for Kalugas the Maputo brewery packaging facilities expansion to six million hectolitres is during the year led to a significant change 11%, in progress.
improvement in quality and production In Italy, Birra Peronis performance was efficiencies.
creditable given the effective 27% increase estimated 37.5% In Uganda, volume growth was driven in excise on lager per hectolitre, which by Eagle and Eagle Extra, our clear sorghum followed a similar increase in the previous market share beers, which were developed with the year.
Total branded volumes grew by 1% participation of local cereal farmers, together with the trademark brands, Peroni and with strong demand for value brands in an Nastro Azzurro, performing well with 2% and expanding market.
