Executive committee The executive committee excom is appointed by the Chief Executive.
It comprises the Chief Financial Officer, divisional managing directors and directors of group functions.
Its purpose is to support the Chief Executive in carrying out the duties delegated to him by the board.
In that context, excom co-ordinates brand and operational execution and delivers strategic plans and budgets for the boards consideration.
It also ensures that regular financial reports are presented to the board, that effective internal controls are in place and functioning, and that there is an effective risk management process in operation throughout the group.
Norman Adami 51 Alan Clark 46 Sue Clark 42 Tony van Kralingen 48 Johann Nel 49 BBusSc hons, MBA MA, DLitt et Phil BSc hons, MBA BA hons BA hons President and Chief Managing Director, Corporate Affairs Director Managing Director, Human Resources Director Executive Officer, Miller SABMiller Europe Sue Clark joined SABMiller plc The South African Johann Nel became Director Brewing Company Alan Clark has served as in 2003, when she was Breweries Limited of Human Resources for the Norman Adami was appointed Managing Director of SABMiller appointed Corporate Affairs Tony van Kralingen was group in 2002.
He joined President and Chief Executive Europe since 2003.
Prior to this, she held appointed Managing Director SABMillers subsidiary, The Officer of Miller Brewing SABMiller plcs subsidiary, a number of senior roles in UK of The South African South African Breweries Ltd Company in 2003.
Before this The South African Breweries companies, including Director Breweries Ltd SAB Ltd in SAB Ltd in 1997, being appointment, he spent nine Ltd SAB Ltd, in 1990 as a of Corporate Affairs for February 2003.
Mr van appointed Human Resources years as Managing Director of Training and Development Railtrack Group PLC and Kralingen joined SABMiller in Director in 1998.
The South African Breweries Manager.
He has since held a Director of Corporate Affairs 1982 and subsequently held a Mr Nel previously owned a Ltd SAB Ltd and from 2000 number of senior posts in the for Scottish Power plc.
number of senior posts within consulting organisation, and to 2003 held the positions group, including Marketing the group.
These include had worked with SAB Ltd v of Managing Director and Director of SAB Ltd, Managing Managing Director of Plzensky on various major strategy, Chairman.
Director of Amalgamated Prazdroj A. S. Marketing organisational development Mr Adami began his career Beverage Industries Ltd and Director for SAB Ltd and and human resources projects with the group in 1979 and Chairman of Appletiser South Operations Director Northern since 1988.
He has coheld a number of senior Africa Pty Ltd.
Regions for SAB Ltd. authored a book on managing positions within SAB Ltd, Before joining SABMiller, productive change in including Regional and Dr Clark practised as a clinical organisations and was involved Operations Director, before psychologist and lectured in in initiatives to encourage his appointment to Managing psychology at Vista University business involvement in the Director in 1994. in South Africa.
democratisation of South Africa in the 1980s and 1990s.
Andr Parker 55 Andrew Tonkinson 61 Mark Sherrington 50 Barry Smith 55 B Econ hons BA, B Juris BSc hons BSc, MBA Managing Director, Group Company Secretary Marketing Director President, SABMiller SABMiller Africa and Asia Andrew Tonkinson became Mark Sherrington was South America Andr Parker was appointed Group Company Secretary of appointed Marketing Director Barry Smith joined the group in to his current position in 1994.
The South African Breweries in 2002.
He joined SABMiller 1984 and held senior positions Mr Parker joined the group in Ltd in 1992 after 16 years plc from the leading within The South African 1975, and has held a number service at The Lion Match international marketing Breweries Ltd in South Africa, of senior positions in Company, then a group organisation, The Added Value including Marketing Director.
He became Group, which he co-founded In 1997, he assumed management within its African Group Company Secretary of in 1988.
Mr Sherrington has responsibility for the groups operations.
These have SABMiller plc then known as also written and published a investments in Poland, included General Manager, South African Breweries plc book on growing brands using becoming Managing Director upon the groups relisting on The South African Breweries the marketing approaches for Kompania Piwowarska.
the London Stock Exchange in Central Region, and Managing and techniques which he Before his appointment to 1999.
Prior to joining Director, South African developed during his time in President of SABMiller South SABMiller plc, Mr Tonkinson Breweries International Africa.
Previously, he America in November 2005, worked for Syfrets Trust Ltd in worked at Unilever for 11 he held the position of Senior South Africa for eight years.
years, holding a number of Vice President Market senior marketing positions in Development and Strategy for Europe and internationally.
