The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 p13 Operating and Financial Review continued ADJUSTED EARNINGS PER 01 Operating and Key Performance Indicators Financial Highlights SHARE GROWTH 03 Chairmans Introduction Our progress on our strategic objectives Adjusted earnings per share represents 07 Overview of our Business is monitored by the Board of Directors by income for the financial year, prior to the 11 Long-term Strategy and Business Objectives reference to the key performance indicators amortisation of intangible assets, divided 13 Key Performance Indicators KPIs applied on a Group-wide basis.
Our by the weighted average number of ordinary 14 Results for 2006 regional businesses also set individual KPIs shares in issue during the year.
This is our fifth Financial Year tailored to their local business operations.
consecutive year of double-digit EPS growth.
16 Future Outlook 16 Risks and Uncertainties 17 Resources The Board has debated which KPIs provide ORGANIC REVENUE GROWTH 18 Corporate Social the most accurate view of our business, Organic revenues are derived from our core Responsibility 21 Financial Review taking into account Sages decentralised business operations, excluding the contribution organisational structure.
The KPIs selected from acquisitions made in the current and prior are regularly reviewed to ensure that they year, along with non-core products.
Current provide a true picture of our business year revenue is compared to the prior financial performance.
KPIs relating to the environment year translated on consistent exchange rates are kept under review, but are not considered to eliminate distortions due to fluctuations in relevant as our businesses have limited exchange rates.
Organic revenue growth environmental impact.
In any event, risks strengthened compared to the prior year, arising from environmental issues are kept increasing 1% to 7% for the full year.
under review as part of our internal control environment as referred to on page 16 under EBITA MARGIN the heading Risks and Uncertainties.
Our EBITA is defined as earnings before interest, performance against our KPIs is discussed in tax and amortisation.
This measure excludes more detail in the section on Long-term the effects of amortisation of acquired Strategy and Business Objectives on pages intangible assets and the net amortisation or 11 and 12. capitalisation of software development expenditure.
The EBITA margin represents Performance in 2006 is set out in the table EBITA divided by revenue for the year.
EBITA below, together with the prior years margins remained constant relative to the performance data.
No changes have been prior year.
made to the source of the data or calculation methods used in the year.
In both years the CASH GENERATION FROM OPERATIONS results are calculated on an IFRS basis.
Operating cash flows divided by EBITA provide a measure of the ability of the Group 2006 2005 to yield cash from its on-going business to Adjusted earnings 20% 13% reinvest and fund liabilities.
The Group aims to per share growth maintain positive cash generation from Organic revenue growth 7% 6% operations.
EBITA margin 27% 27% Cash generation 107% 119% RENEWAL RATES ON MAINTENANCE from operations AND SUPPORT CONTRACTS Renewal rates on maintenance 80% 78% Customer retention is an important measure and support contracts of competitiveness in the market.
Renewal rates are calculated as the number of maintenance and support contracts which were renewed in the period divided by the number of contracts which were potentially renewable in the period.
Renewal rates on the Groups maintenance and support contracts reached a historic high level of 80% this year.
