The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 p29 Directors Report For the year ended 30 September 2006 The directors present their report and the audited financial CHARITABLE CONTRIBUTIONS AND POLITICAL statements for the year ended 30 September 2006.
DONATIONS During the year, within the UK, charitable contributions PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES totalling 103,000 were made, which included 50,000 to The Groups principal activities during the year continued The Tyne and Wear Community Foundation, 15,000 to to be the development, distribution and support of The Community Foundation for Greater Manchester, business management software and related products and 15,000 to The Berkshire Community Foundation, 15,000 services for medium-sized and smaller businesses.
to the NSPCC, 4,500 for childrens charity Christmas presents and a total of 3,500 smaller contributions to BUSINESS REVIEW numerous charities.
The rest of the Group made charitable The Group achieved a profit on ordinary activities before contributions totalling 97,100.
No political donations were taxation of 221.2m on revenue of 935.6m.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the DIRECTORS AND THEIR INTERESTS Business Review including Key Performance Indicators A list of directors, their interests in the ordinary share can be found in the Operating and Financial Review capital of the Company and details of their options over on pages 7 to 24 which is incorporated in this report the ordinary share capital of the Company are given in by reference.
the Remuneration Report on pages 39 to 50.
No director had a material interest in any significant contract, other The purpose of this Annual Report is to provide than a service contract or contract for services, with information to the members of the Company.
The Annual the Company or any of its subsidiaries at any time during Report contains certain forward-looking statements with the year.
respect to the operations, performance and financial condition of the Group.
By their nature, these statements As at the date of this report, indemnities are in place under involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances which the Company has agreed to indemnify the directors, can cause results and developments to differ materially to the extent permitted by law and by the Companys from those anticipated.
The forward-looking statements articles of association, in respect of all liabilities incurred reflect knowledge and information available at the date of in connection with the performance of their duties as a preparation of this Annual Report and the Company director of the Company or its subsidiaries.
Copies of undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking these indemnities are available for review at the registered statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be office of the Company.
EMPLOYMENT POLICY RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS The Group continues to give full and fair consideration to The trading results for the year, dividends paid and applications for employment made by disabled persons, proposed and the amount transferred to reserves are set having regard to their respective aptitudes and abilities.
The Board proposes a final dividend of The policy includes, where practicable, the continued 2.51 pence per share 2005: 1.953 pence per share taking employment of those who may become disabled during their the proposed full year dividend to 3.59 pence per share employment and the provision of training and career 2005: 2.875 pence per share.
development and promotion, where appropriate.
The Group has continued its policy of employee involvement by making RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT information available to employees on matters of concern During the year, the Group invested 94.8m in research to them.
Many employees are stakeholders in the business and development 2005: 80.5m.
This has resulted in a through participation in share option schemes.
Further details number of new products and features as referred to in the of employment policies are given on pages 18 and 19.
Operating and Financial Review on pages 7 to 24.
The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 p30 CREDITOR PAYMENT POLICY The Resolutions to be put at the Annual General Meeting Given the international nature of its operations, the Group are in the notice of Annual General Meeting set out on does not operate a standard code in respect of payments pages 115 to 118. to suppliers.
Subsidiary operating companies are responsible for agreeing the terms and conditions under Resolution 1 is to receive and consider the audited which business transactions with their suppliers are accounts for the year ended 30 September 2006 together conducted, including the terms of payment.
It is the Groups with the reports of the directors and auditors.
The policy that payments to suppliers are made promptly in directors are required to present to the meeting the accordance with these terms.
Creditor days for the Group accounts together with these reports which are contained have been calculated at 40 days 2005: 37 days.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS Resolution 2 recommends a final dividend of 2.51 pence At 18 January 2007, the Company had been notified, in per ordinary share be declared.
The final dividend declared accordance with sections 198 to 208 of the Companies cannot exceed the amount recommended by the directors.
Act 1985, of the following interests in the ordinary share The proposed final dividend, which will be payable on 9 capital of the Company: March 2007 to holders of ordinary shares registered at the close of business on 9 February 2007, will bring the total Zurich Assurance Ltd 5.07% dividend for the year to 3.59 pence per share.
Last year the FMR Corp 4.96% total dividend was 2.875 pence per share.
The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 3.97% Scottish Widows Investment Partnership Ltd 3.23% Resolutions 3 to 7 relate to the re-appointment of certain Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 3.00% directors to the Board.
FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS In accordance with the Companys articles of association, The Groups future developments are described in the Sir Julian Horn-Smith, Ms R Markland, Mr P A Walker, Operating and Financial Review on pages 7 to 24.
Mr P S Harrison and Mr P L Stobart will be retiring at the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, will offer ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING themselves for re-election.
Messrs Walker, Harrison and Notice of the nineteenth Annual General Meeting of The Stobart have service contracts with the Company, Sage Group plc to be held on Tuesday 6 March 2007 is set terminable on twelve months notice by the Company.
A form of proxy is enclosed for members who wish to use one.
It should be returned so Sir Julian Horn-Smith has a contract for services with the as to be with the Companys registrars no later than Company for a fixed period of three years from 3 March 10.00am on 4 March 2007.
Shareholders with internet 2006, terminable within that period by 12 months notice access may register their voting instructions online for the from the Company or from him.
They may register their vote electronically by going to www.
Ms R Markland has a contract for services with the Company They will be required to key in the three security numbers for a fixed term of three years from 13 September 2006, printed on the form of proxy to access the voting site.
terminable within that period by six months notice from the CREST members may appoint their proxy or proxies Company and one months notice from her.
electronically via Lloyds TSB Registrars ID 7RA01.
The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 p31 Directors Report continued Resolution 3 relates to the re-appointment Resolution 9 is to approve the Remuneration Report on of Sir Julian Horn-Smith.
Sir Julian joined the Board in pages 39 to 50.
The Directors Remuneration Report March 2006 becoming Chairman on 1 August that year.
Regulations 2002 the Regulations require that a report, He is also a non-executive director of Lloyds TSB prepared in accordance with the Regulations, is put to a vote and from 1984 to 2006 he was a senior executive of of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Vodafone Group plc becoming its Deputy Chief Executive Officer in 2005.
Resolutions 10 and 11 will be proposed to enable the directors to renew their existing power to allot unissued Resolution 4 relates to the re-appointment shares in the capital of the Company up to an aggregate of Ms R Markland.
Ms Markland joined the Board on nominal amount of 4,314,200 representing 33.2% of the 13 September 2006.
She is a non-executive director nominal value of the Companys issued share capital on of Standard Chartered plc and has extensive experience 18 January 2007, the latest practicable date prior to the of business in the Far East from her time as Managing printing of this document and to allot equity securities Partner, Asia of the international law firm Freshfields for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of 647,140 Bruckhaus Deringer.
representing 4.98% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company on 18 January 2007, the latest practicable Resolution 5 relates to the re-election of Mr P A Walker.
date prior to the printing of this document.
These Mr Walker joined the Company in 1984, becoming Finance authorities will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual Director in 1987 and Chief Executive in 1994.
General Meeting of the Company.
The directors do not have any present intention of exercising these authorities Resolution 6 relates to the re-election of Mr P S Harrison.
other than in connection with the Groups employee share Mr Harrison joined the Group as Financial Controller in schemes and do not intend to issue more than 7.5% 1997, becoming Group Finance Director in 2000. of the issued share capital of the Company under the authority to allot equity securities for cash in any three Resolution 7 relates to the re-election of Mr P L Stobart.
year period without prior consultation with the relevant Mr Stobart joined the Group in 1996, becoming Managing investor groups.
The Company currently holds no shares Director of UK and Ireland in June 2003. in treasury.
Further biographical details of Messrs. Horn-Smith, Resolution 12 set out in the Notice of Meeting will be Walker, Harrison, Stobart and Ms Markland are set out on proposed to continue to enable the Company to purchase pages 27 and 28. its own shares in accordance with section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 on such terms and in such manner The Nomination Committee, which is the Committee as the directors determine, subject to the following: of the Board which considers the balance of the Board and the mix of skills, knowledge and experience of its The price which may be paid for each ordinary share members, has considered and approved the rewill not be less than the nominal value of the share and appointment of Ms Markland and of Messrs. Horn-Smith, will not exceed the higher of 5% above the average of Walker, Harrison and Stobart.
Messrs. Horn-Smith, the mid-market price of the ordinary shares of the Walker, Harrison and Stobart have been subject to a Company as derived from the London Stock formal evaluation procedure in the last twelve months.
Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days Following that procedure the Chairman confirms the before the purchase is made and that amount continuing commitment and contribution of Messrs stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buy-back and Walker, Harrison and Stobart to their roles.
Mr D H Stabilisation Regulation 2003, in each case exclusive of Clayton, the Senior Independent Director, also confirms any expenses payable by the Company: the continuing commitment and contribution to his role The maximum aggregate number of shares that may be of Sir Julian Horn-Smith.
Having joined the Board in purchased pursuant to this authority shall be limited to September 2006 Ms Markland has not yet been subject 129,428,000 shares which is equivalent to to such a procedure.
approximately 10% of the Companys issued share capital as at 30 September 2006: Resolution 8 relates to the re-appointment of the auditors.
 LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in office.
The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 p32 The authority will remain in force until the conclusion of The Companys articles of association are reviewed the next Annual General Meeting of the Company but annually.
As a result of this review, the Company proposes will terminate on 31 March 2008 if the Annual General to change its articles of association to reflect recent Meeting has not been held by that date.
The Companies Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise Act 2004 changed the The Company may agree before the authority terminates provisions of section 310 of the Companies Act 1985 to to purchase ordinary shares where the purchase will or give companies the power to extend indemnities to may be executed after the authority terminates either in directors to cover liability to third parties and to provide whole or in part.
The Company may complete such a funding for directors defence costs as they are incurred.
purchase even though the authority has ended.
The Company proposes to amend its articles of association to give the Company the opportunity to take The Company has no present intention to exercise this advantage of these new provisions and to allow a director authority, nor were any shares repurchased in the year to vote in relation to a resolution concerning directors' to 30 September 2006 under previous authorities.
In any indemnification by the Company.
event, the power given by the resolution will only be exercised if the directors are satisfied that any purchase Companies listed on the London Stock Exchange are now will increase the earnings per share of the ordinary required to produce their group accounts in accordance share capital in issue after the purchase and, accordingly, with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
that the purchase is in the interests of shareholders.
The Company proposes to make certain amendments to The directors will also give careful consideration to Article 85 power to borrow money to update the gearing levels of the Company and its general financial terminology used in Article 85 to the new terminology used position.
The purchase price would be paid out of by IFRS and appearing on consolidated balance sheets distributable profits.
The Companys borrowing limit is currently an amount equal to two times adjusted capital A listed company may hold shares in treasury, as an and reserves after adding back any amounts attributable alternative to cancelling them, following a purchase of own to goodwill which have been written-off.
In order to shares by the Company in accordance with the preserve the Companys borrowing power and ability to Companies Act 1985.
Shares held in treasury in this make acquisitions in the future, the Company proposes that manner will be available for resale by the Company or may this figure be increased to two and a half times adjusted be transferred for the purpose of or pursuant to an total equity without any addition for goodwill written-off.
Accordingly, if the directors exercise the authority conferred by Resolution 12, the Resolution 13 will effect these changes if passed.
Company will have the option of holding those shares in treasury, rather than cancelling them.
Your Board will Resolution 14 set out in the Notice of Meeting will be have regard to any guidelines published by any of the proposed to enable the Company to take advantage of investor groups in force at the time of any such purchase, the new rules in the Companies Act 2006 on implied holding or re-sale of treasury shares.
consent to website usage and, as a listed company, to benefit from the rules on electronic and website The total number of options to subscribe for ordinary communications in the Disclosure and Transparency Rules shares and awards to be satisfied by newly issued which recently came into force.
ordinary shares under other long-term incentive plans of the Group that were outstanding at 18 January 2007 being the latest practicable date prior to the printing of this report was 48,355,605.
The proportion of issued share capital that they represented at that time was 3.72 per cent and the proportion of issued share capital that By Order of the Board they will represent if the full authority to purchase shares existing and being sought is used is 4.14 per cent.
