The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 p17 Operating and Financial Review continued To mitigate this risk, we work to build strong FOREIGN EXCHANGE AND TREASURY 01 Operating and Financial Highlights customer relationships and expand and Although a substantial proportion of the 03 Chairmans Introduction develop our product offering, both organically Groups revenue and profit is earned outside 07 Overview of our Business and through acquisitions.
the UK, subsidiaries generally only trade in 11 Long-term Strategy and Business Objectives their own currency.
The Group is therefore not 13 Key Performance Indicators COMMERCIAL RELATIONSHIPS subject to any significant foreign exchange 14 Results for 2006 Some of our products utilise software transactional exposure.
The Groups principal Financial Year licensed to us by independent, third-party exposure to foreign currency, therefore, lies in 16 Future Outlook 16 Risks and Uncertainties software developers.
We also depend on the translation of overseas profits into sterling.
17 Resources third parties to enhance their current This exposure is hedged to the extent that 18 Corporate Social products, to develop new products on a these profits are offset by interest charges in Responsibility 21 Financial Review timely and cost-effective basis and to respond the same currency arising from the financing to rapid technological change.
Any absence of the investment cost of overseas or failure of key third-party products could acquisitions by borrowings in the same have a material effect on our business.
In light of this limited exposure to foreign exchange risk, the Group does not To mitigate this risk, we keep under review all hold any sophisticated financial instruments key commercial relationships and developments such as derivatives.
in technology in our marketplace.
We also work with a diversity of partners to mitigate the risk The Group has some exposure to interest rate inherent in working with a single partner.
volatility and seeks to fix interest rates on a proportion of its debt when market conditions OPERATIONS make this desirable.
At 30 September 2006, The Groups facilities could be disrupted by all outstanding debt was held at variable events beyond the Groups control such as interest rates.
fire, workforce actions or other issues.
The Group prepares recovery plans for most Resources foreseeable situations so that our business operations would continue should these The Group has the following key resources situations occur.
which assist in its pursuit of its key objectives: Well-established and respected brands: Strong distribution channels and established working relationships with business partners: Quality products and services with strong market positions: Extensive knowledge of our local markets: Strong financial resources and cash generation: Employees who have extensive knowledge of the key markets and therefore can assist in the development of new products: Strong corporate reputation for quality products: Highly qualified, stable employee base.
