The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 p11 Operating and Financial Review continued Integrity: Relationships with customers, 01 Operating and Long-term Strategy and Financial Highlights suppliers, shareholders and employees are Business Objectives 03 Chairmans Introduction the foundations of our business.
They must 07 Overview of our Business be built on credibility and mutual respect.
We 11 Long-term Strategy and Business Objectives BUSINESS PHILOSOPHY expect our people to act with integrity in their 13 Key Performance Indicators Our business philosophy is based on five dealings with all of our stakeholders and to 14 Results for 2006 principles that guide our commercial strategy: challenge business practice or behaviours Financial Year that might threaten our corporate reputation.
16 Future Outlook 16 Risks and Uncertainties Simplicity: We believe in finding simple, 17 Resources high quality, innovative solutions to help our Trust: We are consistent in delivering our 18 Corporate Social customers manage their business processes.
promises to our customers, employees, Responsibility 21 Financial Review We aim to make it easier for our customers business partners and shareholders.
to do business with us and easier for them to use our products.
We aim to differentiate ourselves from our competition by building closer relationships Agility: We are flexible in our approach with our customers and improving the ease to the changing needs of our customers of using our products and services.
We believe and the markets in which we operate.
Our that we offer outstanding customer service decentralised approach means we are able to and our approach is designed to engender challenge ourselves constantly over how we customer loyalty.
Support service is an can do business in a more agile way.
essential component of our product offering and is critical to developing an enduring Innovation: We are committed to exceeding relationship with our customers.
It allows our customers evolving needs.
We aim to be first customers to benefit fully from their software to market with creative solutions to our solutions as well as giving us direct insight customers challenges and take an equally into market and product developments.
innovative approach across all other aspects of our business model.
MAKING IT EASIER FOR OUR CUSTOMERS TO MANAGE THEIR BUSINESS PROCESSES Support services Local focus Global strength and insight Core principles Trusted brands Targeted Choice and acquisitions breadth Accounting and financials Strong business Local expertise partner network SME A solution for expertise every business Great Admired employer people Industry-specific solutions s l e M l c i R o v r r C e y s a g n p i s s d e c n o r a p t n R e m H y a P The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 p12 We want our customers to recommend We manage our acquisition programme through our products to others, demonstrating our rigorous analysis of the strategic opportunity, understanding of the needs of our target cultural fit with our corporate vision and strong customer base.
A key indicator of our success financial discipline.
Valuations are initially in building strong customer relationships is the derived from discounted cash flow modelling, level of renewal rates on our maintenance and based on conservative assumptions for growth support contracts.
Satisfied customers actively prospects, terminal value and discount rates.
choose to stay with Sage products and our There then follows a quantitative and qualitative renewal rates are at a historic high.
evaluation of the targets value, depending on what we believe the target could contribute PRODUCT AND SERVICE DEVELOPMENT to our core business.
Our business philosophy is underpinned by our commitment to creating value for our Acquisition opportunities are identified both customers, our business partners and our centrally and by our regional businesses with shareholders.
We continue to innovate and supervision and approval from the central develop our products to offer our customers team.
Successfully completed acquisitions the range and depth to meet their needs.
are generally integrated into the organisational We reinvest on average 30% of our software structure of our regional businesses.
revenues into research and development.
Through continued innovation in our products CREATION OF VALUE and services, we strive to meet our We are firmly committed to delivering customers needs more effectively than our enhanced value to our shareholders through competitors, driving our future growth.
growth in both earnings and dividends.
Continued strength in our core businesses is Our successful record in creating shareholder an essential measure of our success in value is based on our focus on organic growth, meeting the challenge of product innovation, our core skills in understanding the needs which is shown by our consistently strong of SMEs and our proven acquisition strategy.
rate of organic revenue growth, excluding Creating shareholder value continues to be contribution from recent acquisitions.
We measure our success in creating value for our shareholders through ACQUISITION STRATEGY the growth in our adjusted earnings per share We also seek to innovate and grow through a EPS, which we have delivered consistently carefully managed and disciplined acquisition over the past five years.
strategy, supporting our existing businesses.
We acquire companies in order to bring new FINANCIAL STRENGTH products or knowledge to our portfolio, which Maintaining the financial health and stability of has strengthened Sage and has brought our business operations is our primary strategic greater depth and expertise.
We are committed goal, allowing us to reinvest in our core to expanding the Group through acquisition into businesses and pursue appropriate acquisition new regions throughout the world and providing opportunities.
We measure our financial complementary products in our existing markets.
performance through the EBITA margin and cash generation from operations.
EBITA We seek acquisitions which enhance our range margin monitors our costs and expenses of products and services and which support our against revenues and has been maintained strategy of meeting the broader needs of SMEs.
at a high level for the past several years.
We focus on opportunities to expand our business into new geographic areas, to Our business model continues to be strongly broaden our core product and service offerings cash generative which provides necessary through related products and to develop our funds for reinvestment and development of industry-specific applications.
In the past year, our business operations.
In the last five years, we completed seven significant acquisitions cash generation from operations has that met these criteria, complementing and consistently exceeded profit as a result of our extending our businesses around the world.
Our high level of recurring revenues and naturally successful acquisition strategy has contributed low working capital requirements.
to the continuing growth of our business.
