The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 p7 Operating and Financial Review 01 Operating and Overview of our Business Financial Highlights 03 Chairmans Introduction KEY FACTS 07 Overview of our Business 11 Long-term Strategy and Business Objectives 23,000 13 Key Performance Indicators business partners 14 Results for 2006 Financial Year 40,000 16 Future Outlook certified consultants 16 Risks and Uncertainties 5.2m promoting Sage 17 Resources products 18 Corporate Social customers Responsibility 21 Financial Review 1.5m 13,000 customers advised 30,000 through support employees customer calls contracts per day BUSINESS PHILOSOPHY AND To allow us to leverage the power of our local MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE expertise, we operate a deliberately devolved Sage is one of the leading suppliers of organisational strategy, based on four regional business management software to 5.2 million businesses: United Kingdom & Ireland, small and medium-sized enterprises SMEs Mainland Europe & Asia, North America and worldwide.
Our goal is to help our customers South Africa & Australia.
The regional manage their business processes more businesses report to the Group but have effectively through software applications and substantial independence in determining support services.
business strategy and product development for their particular regions.
They are therefore Our business philosophy is founded on our represented on our Executive Committee belief that SMEs want locally designed which also comprises senior members of our solutions that meet the requirements of their central team.
The Executive Committee particular markets.
Our local focus allows us structure which supports this organisational to develop compelling products tailored to strategy is shown opposite.
specific market requirements, but with the backing of a global brand.
This focus on local PRODUCT AND SERVICE STRATEGY markets differentiates us from our competition Our decentralised organisational model, local and has contributed to the steady growth in product strategy and industry specialisms our customer base year on year.
give us a unique insight into our customers businesses.
Through innovation, we translate this into an offering that fits the specialised needs of SME customers.
This is one of our competitive advantages and it has allowed us to become market leader in many of our operating regions.
It is also the cornerstone of our product strategy and is discussed further on page 12.
The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 p8 MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE Paul Walker Group Chief Executive Paul Harrison Paul Stobart Guy Berruyer Ron Verni Ivan Epstein Michael Robinson Klaus-Michael Karen Geary Group Finance Managing Managing Managing Managing Company Vogelberg Director of Human Director Director Director Director Director Secretary & Chief Resources UK & Ireland Mainland North America South Africa Group Legal Technology & Corporate Europe & Asia & Australia Director Officer Communications Our products include traditional back office Increasingly, we incorporate common applications for accounting, payroll and technology platforms across different product human resources functions as well as lines to benefit from global synergies.
front office applications including customer In October 2006, we announced a global relationship management and payment agreement to work with MySQL AB, using a processing services.
common database platform in our entry-level products.
From our customers perspective this We also provide software and service is a significant development as it reduces the applications customised to the requirements overall cost of ownership.
In the mid-market, of specific industries.
choice of operating systems and databases is important to many of our customers.
We Sage industry-specific applications Region therefore remain committed to working with Health care North America a range of operating systems and databases.
Food distribution Mainland Europe Transport Mainland Europe Packaged combinations of software upgrades Manufacturing All regions and support services contracts are a growing Real estate Mainland Europe part of our business as customers continue North America to streamline management of their business Construction North America processes.
We expect that these combined Accountancy practices All regions software support contracts will constitute an Not-for-profit organisations Mainland Europe increasing portion of services revenues going charities, hospitals, schools North America forward and will strengthen the recurring Retail United Kingdom revenues derived from traditional software Mainland Europe revenues.
Overall, these specialist solutions and North America enhanced services are higher margin business lines and enjoy strong customer loyalty.
Our products and services integrate and complement each other so we are able to support very small businesses through to complex multi-divisional organisations in the mid-market.
They are deployed in traditional PC server based format and increasingly, over the internet.
Typically we serve businesses with up to 500 employees, although our industry-specific applications often serve larger businesses.
The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 p9 Operating and Financial Review continued 2006 REVENUE CONTRIBUTION The software and support services we offer 01 Operating and Financial Highlights BY PRODUCT LINE include some of the following applications: 03 Chairmans Introduction 07 Overview of our Business Accounting and financials 11 Long-term Strategy and Business Objectives We recognise that accounting software is core 13 Key Performance Indicators 16% to our offering and are continuing to invest in 3% 7% 14 Results for 2006 this area, both in developing new and existing Financial Year products in our existing markets and in exploring 16 Future Outlook 14% 16 Risks and Uncertainties the potential of completely new markets.
17 Resources Our products are unique to each country 18 Corporate Social and designed to satisfy the legal and fiscal Responsibility 21 Financial Review requirements of our customers in that country.
Accounting 60 60% % Payroll HR HR and payroll Payment As with our accounting products, we have processing services a broad range of payroll products designed Industry-specific with the particular requirements of a specific CRM country in mind.
Within a given country there are payroll solutions to suit the needs of most OUR BRANDS sizes of business, from those with only a The Sage brand is admired and trusted in key handful of employees to those that have SME markets around the world.
In addition, thousands of employees.
We are continuing to we have acquired some of the most develop these payroll products.
Recently, our respected products and business brands North American business introduced a service which we continue to leverage.
Through a that allows a customer to outsource their combination of greater brand trust, superior payroll processing to Sage, further reducing product and service offering and strong their administrative and legislative burden.
customer relationships, we continue to build our market position.
Sage offers a complete solution for SMEs giving them insight and control over all aspects of their business - this is illustrated in our 2007 marketing campaign in North America.
The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 p10 CRM DISTRIBUTION STRENGTH CRM products are the only area where we The diversity of our distribution channels believe it is appropriate to approach the is one of our key business strengths.
SME market with global products, since Each business works closely with an businesses around the world face similar influential referral group, usually challenges in managing their customer accountants and business advisers, who act relationships.
We recently re-organised our as advocates for our products in the market.
CRM business along global lines to reflect Worldwide, we have over 40,000 advisers this.
Sage has three CRM products, each recommending Sage products to their clients.
designed to satisfy a different set of We are also developing new referral networks, customer requirements and, as the market such as the partnership we initiated with for CRM develops, we expect to offer our Barclays Bank in the UK, who sell Sage CRM solutions in more countries.
business management products to their small business customers.
Industry-specific solutions SMEs are increasingly demanding software In addition, we have over 23,000 business that is tailored to the requirements of the partners and certified consultants promoting particular industry in which they operate.
In our products to the market.
Most of these response to this, we are investing in business partners are long-term Sage developing a range of tailored business partners with in-depth specialist knowledge solutions, from add-ons to our core accounting of Sage products.
They keep us in touch packages with specific industry features to with market dynamics and help us develop complete suites of products.
These solutions products tailored to local needs, particularly are designed to allow SMEs to optimise their in the mid-market sector where customers existing business processes rather than often have unique requirements.
adapting them to conform to standard software.
REVENUE BREAKDOWN: Payment processing services SOFTWARE SERVICES Our newest service facilitates payment processing for SME customers with retail-, 2006 Softwar Software e 323m 323 35% 35% telephoneor internet-based payment Services Services 613m 613 65% 65% requirements.
Customer research shows that the ability to accept payment remotely T Total otal 936m 936 is increasingly important for SME businesses in a wide range of industries, particularly when this service is tightly integrated with 2005 Softwar Software e 289m 289 38% 38% back-office accounting and management Services Services 477m 477 62% 62% information applications.
We now offer payment processing applications in the T Total otal 766m 766 United States and the United Kingdom and will be developing this service offering further.
Foreign currency results for the year ended 30 September 2005 have been retranslated based on the average exchange rates for the year ended 30 September 2006 of $1.80 1 and 1.46 1 to facilitate the comparison of results.
Results for 2005 have been restated in accordance with IFRS.
EPS figures stated prior to amortisation of intangible assets.
