The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 p14 UK & IRELAND Results for 2006 Financial Year UK & Ireland revenues totalled 205.2m OVERVIEW 2005: 192.6m with strong organic growth We are pleased once again to report strong of 7%.
Line 50, our core UK product, had growth during 2006, with our existing another strong year, with revenue growing businesses performing well.
We also introduced several new programme has this year moved us into new products and continued our successful product lines and new geographic areas.
strategy of combining software and services contracts.
Payroll, CRM and industry-specific Our customer base and business partners products also performed well.
continue to provide the cornerstone of our strong market positions and underpin our This year Sage UK began a review of its organic growth.
Over the year, we added product lines to improve integration of 553,000 new businesses 283,000 resulting different applications into a broad suite of from acquisitions made this year, increasing business management software solutions.
our customer base to 5.2 million 2005: 4.7 Extensive customer research showed that million.
Our strategy of developing local customers increasingly want business products and services for local markets has management software solutions rather than helped make us one of the largest global individual products.
We are initiating a new vendors of business management software phase in our product development to meet solutions to SMEs.
that need by strengthening integration of different product lines and building on 2006 REGIONAL REVENUE CONTRIBUTION common database technology for entry-level products, where possible.
In November 2006, after the close of the 299.8m 299.8 financial year, we announced the acquisition of Protx Group Ltd Protx, a provider of payment processing services.
This was our second acquisition in the rapidly growing 361.5m 361.5 payment processing services sector.
Protx complements our acquisition of Verus 69.1m Financial Management, Inc. Verus in February 2006, which provides a similar, less specialised range of payment processing UK & Ireland services in the US.
The acquisition of Protx Mainland Europe in the UK represented a further step in North America developing our offering in this exciting market.
Rest of World Foreign currency results for the year ended 30 September 2005 have been retranslated based on the average exchange rates for the year ended 30 September 2006 of $1.80 1 and 1.46 1 to facilitate the comparison of results.
Results for 2005 have been restated in accordance with IFRS.
EPS figures stated prior to amortisation of intangible assets.
The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 p15 Operating and Financial Review continued MAINLAND EUROPE The Small Business Division grew organically 01 Operating and Financial Highlights Total revenues in Mainland Europe were by 10%, with strong performances from 03 Chairmans Introduction 299.8m 2005: 203.8m with organic all products, particularly ACT!, Simply 07 Overview of our Business growth of 5%.
Spain recorded another year Accounting and Peachtree.
The Mid-Market 11 Long-term Strategy and Business Objectives of strong organic growth of 10%, with Division recovered from the slowdown in 13 Key Performance Indicators excellent progress in developing the support the first half of the year and recorded an 14 Results for 2006 offering for entry-level products.
A strong annual organic growth rate of 4%, boosted Financial Year performance in the Mid-Market Division by good performances in MAS 500 and 16 Future Outlook 16 Risks and Uncertainties contributed to Frances organic growth rate ACCPAC products.
Switzerland showed good organic 18 Corporate Social growth, with strength in both entry-level and The EBITA margin improved 1% to 25% Responsibility 21 Financial Review mid-market licences.
Challenging market 2005: 24% including a profit on disposal conditions in Germany kept combined organic of 2.7m relating to a small business unit growth in Germany Switzerland to 2%.
Polands Symfonia, acquired in 2005, showed good growth in entry-level licences, with overall We made three significant acquisitions in revenues rising 15% on a like-for-like basis.
North America over the year: Verus, Emdeon Practice Services, Inc. Emdeon and Master The EBITA margin was maintained at 22% Builder Contractor Anywhere.
Verus was our first acquisition in the rapidly Several acquisitions were completed in growing area of payment processing services, Mainland Europe over the year, including a strategically important market for our Adonix S. A. Adonix, Burer GmbH business.
Verus brought a new customer base Burer and Elit Group Elit, which of 100,000 businesses concentrated in the significantly expanded our industry-specific SME segment, where we have great potential solutions into new industries.
These high to integrate our back office solutions with growth, high margin businesses offer great payment processing.
Verus has performed potential in developing our mid-market, ahead of our expectations at acquisition and industry-specific products in Europe.
Adonix has grown by 24% on a like-for-like basis complements our existing Line 1000 product since acquisition.
in France and brings new offerings for the real estate and manufacturing sectors.
Emdeon, now renamed Sage Healthcare Burer strengthens our mid-market position Division, establishes for Sage a significant in Germany, bringing a suite of advanced presence in the doctors practices market business management solutions including in the US.
Doctors practices in the US are industry-specific software for manufacturing.
classic SMEs, often resource-constrained, yet Elit, also in France, offers industry-specific with significant administrative and back office applications tailored to the food distribution challenges.
This industry is currently facing and transport sectors.
substantial legislative change, which in the past has been a catalyst for increased demand for NORTH AMERICA our products and services.
We completed the Total revenues in North America were Emdeon acquisition on 14 September 2006 361.5m 2005: 311.6m with organic and are confident about the opportunities for growth of 6%, reflecting a recovery of this business with its established customer organic growth in the second half to 7%.
Accounting products, including Peachtree, Simply Accounting and MAS 500, all posted significant growth, as did CRM products.
