INTERNATIONAL The sale of the Champigneulles Brewery was Operating Comparable completed in December and all brewing has been m 2006 2005 % change transferred to Obernai without any disruption to Review Revenue 1,567 1,548 1.2 the business.
As a result we are on track to achieve International pre-announced cost savings.
Operating profit 178 180 -1.1 We have made significant strides in creating a Adjusted for corporate activity in India, the Fosters acquisition more competitive business in France and we believe and for the FY06 average exchange rates on Euro and US dollar that the recent appointment of Yves Couette as translation.
Managing Director will assure the continued focus on returning the business to growth and on extending Unadjusted m 2006 2005 % change our leadership in the French market.
Revenue 1,567 1,551 1.0 PORTUGAL Operating profit 178 179 -0.6 Net sales grew by 9.2% and Central fide Cervejas, Portugals number two brewer, achieved estimated beer market share of 43%.
Own branded volumes and net sales up 2.9% Domestic branded beer net sales increased by and 4.8% respectively 5.1% in a beer market up c2% in volume terms, driven Strong growth from premium brands up 9% by the off-trade.
Central fide Cervejas gained market Overall good share performance from key share in both the onand the off-trade in the period.
brands in all markets Our main beer brand Sagres grew volumes by Underlying profit growth of 4.4%, adjusting for 5.8% and net sales by 6.5%, demonstrating positive 10m disruption cost in French wholesaling price and mix despite a tough competitive environment.
Continued double-digit growth in India and China 4.8% Water was up 0.8% in volume terms, but has Own branded volumes and grown net sales by 6.5% driven by Lusos premium S&Ns International division includes the Groups strong net sales up 2.9% and 4.8% brand extensions.
and established market positions in Continental Europe respectively and exports to more than 60 countries, including the BELGIUM USA, and joint ventures in India and China.
Alken-Maes, the number two brewer in Belgium, The international business has shown progress in maintained market share of 11.9% in a market down priority areas, with overall branded volumes up 2.9%.
However we estimate that the loss of wholesaling Branded net sales were up 1.4%.
In the on-trade 9.0% revenues in France, which was disrupted by the we have seen further signs of improvements due to reorganisation of our on-trade sales operations, Strong growth from premium the roll-out of Maes Super-Chilled, which has reached has impacted operating profits by around 10m yearbrands up 9% 1,400 outlets and has improved throughput in the on-year.
Rising input costs reduced profits by 2m.
outlets in question by around 10%.
There are plans Split of turnover by market to extend the roll-out to other brands.
FRANCE In the premium segment, Grimbergen continues Brasseries Kronenbourg BK is the market leader France 48 5 to show double-digit growth, adding positive mix to in France with a 35% market share.
In a soft economy, beer market volumes declined Finland 14 by -1.4%, reflecting a decline in the on-trade and FINLAND stability in the much larger off-trade.
There has Portugal 12 Hartwall is one of the leading beverages companies been particularly strong growth in the hyperand USA 4 in Finland, with beer market share of 36%.
Its leading supermarkets sector with volumes up by around 2%.
brands include Lapin Kulta and Karjala in beer, as well Others 13 This, combined with positive beer pricing, follows as Hartwall Jaffa soft drinks, the water Hartwall the recent changes introduced by the Loi Dutreil.
The strategy we have adopted, namely to focus Split of branded beer The total branded business showed strong net sales on three brands Kronenbourg Red & White R&W & cider volumes by market growth of 6.0%.
This was helped by beer price mix up in the mainstream, and in the premium segment 1664 France 38 6.0% as we focus our efforts on managing pricing and Grimbergen is working.
These three brands across the market.
In addition, in the cider, soft drinks represent over 80% of BKs branded beer volumes.
Belgium 6 and water categories Hartwall gained volume market This strong performance has been achieved through Finland 9 share combined with strong price mix improvements.
refocused A&P spend and innovation, for example Portugal 16 Water and soft drinks have grown net sales by 8.5% with the roll-out of Super-Chilled for R&W and the and 5.7% respectively.
We believe this, together USA 3 Total branded volumes declined by 1.0% due with new initiatives, will continue to drive brand Others 28 to branded beer volumes being down in the period.
In the off-trade the three main brands gained 6 GREECE 110bps market share.
Following the introduction of Beer volume market share Mythos Breweries of which we now own 100% and key brands by market the Loi Dutreil, which has allowed retailers to price 7 is the number two brewer in Greece with a 9.7% promote consumer goods, the beer category and France 35 market share led by Mythos, the leading Greek R&W in particular has seen an increase in display Kronenbourg, Kronenbourg 1664, national lager brand.
Domestic branded beer net sales space.
We regard this as a very encouraging Grimbergen in Greece are up 15.1% driven by the Mythos brand.
We are currently undertaking the Belgium 12 latest round of negotiations with retailers and have Maes Pils, Grimbergen, Cristal USA already secured contracts that represent over 80% Finland 36 Newcastle Brown Ale NBA achieved continued of our off-trade volume.
We believe that the overall Lapin Kulta, Karjala, Jaffa, Novelle growth with volumes up 7.4% and net sales up 14.4% positive trends of 2006 will continue in 2007. in the US market.
The import market is a growing In the on-trade, BK has stabilised its market share Portugal 43 segment in the US and NBA remains a leading import Sagres, Luso with the three key brands gaining 50bps.
We have beer brand in this high-value segment.
established a national contact centre for the French on-trade which is improving BKs performance in the 5 VENTURE MARKETS In the past our beer market share on-trade.
Whilst the restructuring of the on-trade beer included our private label volumes.
The In Venture markets European markets with no business has had a positive impact on branded beer, it market share now stated includes only production facility volumes increased by 2% in the has caused some disruption in the wholesale business, S&N owned branded volumes versus twelve months to December and pricing has been strong.
Given its high fixed cost the total market as reported by the this has reduced profits by 10m.
A recovery plan is Association of French Brewers ABF.
Last years share would have been 36%.
6 AC Nielsen data covering hyperand supermarkets.
7 Greece market share restated for FY05 to 9.1%.
Report of the Directors Scottish & Newcastle plc 2006 07 ASIA CHINA Operating The Asian beer market has seen strong growth in Chongqing Brewery Company Ltd, our Chinese joint 2006.
We continue to believe the market has great venture with Chongqing Beer Group is a public listed Review potential based on rising consumer incomes and company and does not announce its full-year results International current low per capita consumption.
Performance in the nine months to September INDIA was very encouraging with volumes of 7.9mhl, Volumes for our United Breweries Ltd business grew sales growth of 20.4% and operating profits growth by 23.8% in 2006 with net underlying sales growth of of 64%.
It continues to hold nearly half of the market As announced in December 2006, Chongqing and in Kingfisher Lager and Kingfisher Strong has Beer Group plans to inject all of its brewery assets the leading brands in both the Mild and Strong beer into Chongqing Brewery Co. S&N currently has a segments respectively.
Top line sales growth, with 17.46% stake In Chongqing Brewery, which had been rigorous focus on cost reduction, has resulted in diluted from 19.51% through the share flotation improved margins.
It is S&Ns intention to rebuild With continuing high levels of economic growth its stake in Chongqing Brewery to the initial 19.51%.
and rapid development in consumer spending habits, growth in the Indian beer market has accelerated.
In addition to strong underlying growth, recent government liberalisation in respect of retail licensing and distribution in certain Northern states has delivered a step change in the demand for beer.
In conditions of such rapid growth, S&N has been working closely with the UBL management to deliver a substantial increase in capacity.
This includes improvements in processes and efficiency to better utilise existing capacity.
We believe that the potential for growth in the Indian beer market is high and UBL is uniquely placed to exploit this.
08 Report of the Directors Scottish & Newcastle plc 2006
