Board of Directors Sir Brian Stewart 61 Tony Froggatt 58 Ian McHoul 47 John Nicolson 53 Chairman Chief Executive Group Finance Director Chairman, Greater Europe USA Appointed to the Board in 1988.
Appointed Chief Executive in May Joined the Board in 2001.
Qualified Appointed to the Board in 2000 as Currently Chairman of Standard 2003.
Currently Vice President of the as a Chartered Accountant with Chairman, International Beer.
Took Life Assurance Company and Vice Brewers of Europe.
Joined S&N in 1998 as up his current position in June 2004, President of the British Beer and Pub was President Europe, Middle East the Finance Director for Scottish with responsibility for our businesses Association.
Qualified as a Chartered and Africa for Seagram Spirits & Courage.
Appointed to his current in Belgium, Portugal, Finland and Accountant.
Is also a Non-Executive post in 2001.
Is also a NonGreece as well as our venture working in a variety of finance and Director of Brambles Industries plc.
Executive Director of Premier markets, the USA and BBH.
Joined management positions, becoming Foods plc.
Courage in 1993 as Managing Finance Director in 1988 and Chief Started his career with Gillette Director, Off Trade.
Company and held a wide range of Previously held a number of acquisition of Courage in 1995, sales, marketing and management finance and strategy posts in the he became Marketing Director Brings a wealth of boardroom and positions in many countries with beer industry, first with Fosters of Scottish Courage, then Group brewing industry experience, both major consumer goods companies Brewing Group and its subsidiary, Corporate Development Director.
in the UK and internationally.
Courage, and then with Inntrepreneur Pub Company.
Prior to that he held posts in sales and marketing at ICI and Unilever.
Philip Bowman 54 Erik Hartwall 65 Dr Neville Bain 66 Sir Angus Grossart 69 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Joined the Board in January 2006.
Joined the Group Board in May Joined the Board in 1997.
Currently Joined the Board in May 1998.
Currently a member of the Audit 2002 following the Hartwall merger.
Chairman of the Institute of Currently Chairman of Noble Committee, Chief Executive of Worked with Hartwall since 1971, Directors.
Qualified as a Chartered Grossart Limited, the Scottish Scottish Power plc and Senior both in Finland and internationally, Accountant in New Zealand.
merchant bank, Chairman of Independent Director of Burberry rising to become Managing Director Formerly Chief Executive of Coates National Museums of Scotland and Group plc.
Previously Chief Executive and now Chairman.
Various roles at Cadbury Director of Trinity Mirror plc.
He is a of Allied Domecq plc for seven years, Schweppes in New Zealand, Chartered Accountant and practised Director of Bass plc now Mitchells His extensive experience in the Australia, South Africa and the UK at the Scottish Bar.
Former roles and Butler plc and Intercontinental brewing and beverage industry, before becoming Group Deputy include Vice Chairman of Royal Bank Hotel Group plc for five years, both in Finland and internationally, Chief Executive.
Held other positions of Scotland, Chairman of National working as Chief Financial Officer and is a major asset to the Board.
as a Finance Director and in sales Galleries of Scotland and Deputy then Chief Executive of Bass Taverns.
Chairman of the National Heritage Also held roles as a Director of British Memorial Fund.
Sky Broadcasting Group plc, Chairman Dr Bains wide financial and business of Liberty plc and Chairman of Coral background enables him to make an Sir Angus brings extensive strategic Eurobet plc.
important contribution to the Board, and financial experience to the particularly in his role as Chairman Board, having acted as a strategic He brings a wealth of international of the Audit Committee.
and financial advisor to, and served finance and business experience as a member of, the boards of many with an intimate knowledge public and private companies and of the alcoholic beverages organisations.
14 Report of the Directors Scottish & Newcastle plc 2006 www.
com Committee Members Nominations Committee Sir Brian Stewart Chairman, Sir Angus Grossart, Erik Hartwall, Ian McAllister, Sir Ian Robinson Remuneration Committee Ian McAllister Chairman, Dr Neville Bain, Sir Angus Grossart Audit Committee Dr Neville Bain Chairman, Ian McAllister, Sir Ian Robinson, Philip Bowman, Brian Wallace John Dunsmore 48 Peter Kennerley 50 Ian McAllister 63 Treasury Committee Sir Angus Grossart Chairman, Chairman and Managing Director, Company Secretary Non-Executive Director Ian McHoul, Dr Neville Bain, S&N UK and General Counsel Appointed to the Board in 1996.
Alan Dick, John Jackson Appointed to the Board in 2002.
Joined the Group as Company Senior Non-Executive Director and Currently a Non-Executive Director Secretary in May 1999.
Two years Chairman of the Remuneration of United Breweries of India, our as Secretary to the Takeover Panel.
Committee, Chairman of Network Indian joint venture, Chairman of Qualified as a solicitor with the Rail and member of the Carbon the British Beer & Pub Association, London law firm Simmons & Trust.
Held previous positions a Board member of the UK Simmons.
Worked as a partner as Deputy Chairman of the Drinkaware Trust and a trustee advising international businesses Qualifications and Curriculum of the Portman Group and of the in corporate finance, mergers Authority and membership of the Scottish Community Foundation.
Advisory Committee on Business He began his career at S&N as and the Environment.
Worked for a graduate trainee in sales and Peter brings great legal experience the Ford Motor Company, holding marketing, re-joining in 1996 as and knowledge in the area of various positions in Germany, Director of Corporate Development, international business, mergers Britain and the USA, finally as becoming Head of UK, On Trade and acquisitions to the Board.
Chairman and Managing Director in 1997, moving to his current of Ford Britain.
He brings wide international Worked for 13 years in the City industrial experience to the Board, as a drinks analyst, subsequently adding a further social perspective rising to Head of UK Equities at through his current and past Natwest Securities.
Henrik Therman 69 Sir Ian Robinson 64 Brian Wallace 52 Bridget Macaskill 58 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Joined the Group Board in May Joined the Board in September Joined the Board in December 2006.
Proposed to join the Board in 2002 following the Hartwall merger.
Currently Chairman of Currently a member of the Audit April 2007.
Currently also a NonThe driving force behind the Ladbrokes plc, formerly Hilton Committee, Senior Independent Executive Director of Prudential plc, inception and development of BBH, Group, Non-Executive Director of Non-Executive Director at Hays plc.
and of the Federal National leading the business successfully Compass Group plc, Director of Previous roles include Group Mortgage Association Fannie Mae, between 1993 and 2004 as Chief Siemens Holdings plc and a member Finance Director and Deputy Group she was recently a Non-Executive Executive, Deputy Chairman and of the Takeover Panel.
Qualified as a Chief Executive of Hilton Group plc, Director of Sainsbury plc.
With a degree in Chemical Engineer.
30-year career Group Finance Director of Geest plc chemical engineering he has held in the global engineering and and Group Financial Controller of Previous roles include Chairman various managerial posts within the construction industry, including APV plc.
and Chief Executive officer of Hartwall Group since 1964. posts as Chief Executive of John OppenheimerFunds Inc, a major Brown and Chairman of Davy Brian has a breadth of experience New York based investment Henrik brings to the Board major Group, both parts of Trafalgar in both commercial and financial management company.
Before that, insight and knowledge of the House Group.
Also Chief Executive terms along with excellent her mainstream career was in FMCG businesses and markets of Eastern of Scottish Power plc for six years knowledge of the hospitality marketing and management at Europe and Russia, now a major and held a number of non-executive sector.
He brings a wealth of Unigate.
She is also on the advisory part of our Group.
and advisory appointments international and financial board of the University of Edinburgh.
Bridget brings to the Board He brings to the Board a deep broad international corporate knowledge of building and and investment management developing international businesses.
knowledge with additional experience of retail and consumer marketing in Britain.
Report of the Directors Scottish & Newcastle plc 2006 15
