Board of Directors and Executive Team NOLAN KARRAS 61 joined the Board in November 1999.
He is Chairman President of The Karras Company, Inc. and a Registered CHARLES MILLER SMITH 66 joined the Board as Deputy Principal for Raymond James Financial Services.
He is Chief Chairman in August 1999 and was appointed Chairman in April Executive Officer of Western Hay Company, Inc. and a non- 2000.
Following a career with Unilever for some 30 years, during executive director of Beneficial Life Insurance Company.
He the last five of which he was Director of Finance and latterly of continues as a non-executive director of PacifiCorp.
He is the Food Executive, he was appointed Chief Executive of ICI in Chairman of the Utah State Higher Education Board of Regents 1995 and then served as Chairman from 1999 to 2001.
He is a and a member of the board of Ogden-Weber Applied Technology member of the board of the Indian company, ICICI One Source College.
He also served as a member of the Utah House of plc, and of the Ministry of Defence Management Board.
Representatives from 1981 to 1990, and as Speaker of the Utah Chairman of the Economics Committee of the Confederation of House of Representatives from 1989 to 1990.
He will retire from British Industry and a Companion of the Institute of the Board after the AGM in 2006.
He is also a Senior Advisor to Warburg Pincus International, LLC.
NICK ROSE 48 joined the Board in February 2003: he is Chairman of the Audit Committee and is the Committees Non-Executive Directors designated financial expert.
He is Chief Financial Officer of VICKY BAILEY 54 joined the Board in June 2004.
Based in Diageo plc, having been appointed to this position in July 1999.
Washington DC, she is a former Assistant Secretary for Policy Previously he held senior finance positions with GrandMet and and International Affairs at the US Department of Energy and was latterly Finance Director of International Distillers & ex-member of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Vintners in 1996 and then of United Distillers & Vintners in FERC.
She has also served as an Indiana state regulator, 1997.
He is also a director of Mot Hennessy.
Following his reand was President of PSI Energy, Inc. Indianas largest appointment for a further three-year term, his current term of electricity supplier, from June 2000 to July 2001.
She was office, subject to his re-election in 2006, will expire at the AGM appointed to the board of Battelle, a global research and in 2009. development organisation, in August 2005: and is currently President of her own public and legislative affairs consultancy, NANCY WILGENBUSCH 58 joined the Board in June 2004.
She Anderson Stratton International, LLC.
She will retire from the is a distinguished community administrator and President of Board after the AGM in 2006.
Marylhurst University in Portland, Oregon.
She is a former chair of the Portland Branch of the San Francisco Federal Reserve, EUAN BAIRD 68 joined the Board in January 2001.
He served and a director of West Coast Bank.
She was also formerly a nonas Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Schlumberger executive director of PacifiCorp.
Her current term of office will Limited from 1986 to 2003, and non-executive Chairman of expire at the AGM in 2007.
He is a trustee of Tocqueville Alexis Trust and Carnegie Institution of Washington, and a Executive Directors member of the Advisory Committee of Banque fide France.
His PHILIP BOWMAN 53 is Chief Executive, having been appointed current term of office will expire at the AGM in 2007. to this position on 16 January 2006.
He is the senior independent director of Burberry Group plc and a non-executive DONALD BRYDON 60 joined the Board in May 2003 and is the director of Scottish & Newcastle plc.
Prior to joining Scottish senior independent director.
He had an executive career in Power plc, he was Chief Executive of Allied Domecq from 1999 investment management and investment banking with the to 2005.
His career includes five years as a director of Bass plc Barclays and AXA groups for 36 years.
He is Chairman of now Mitchells & Butler plc and Intercontinental Hotel Group Smiths Group plc, Taylor Nelson Sofres plc, and the London plc where he held the roles of Chief Financial Officer and Metal Exchange.
He is Chairman of the Code Committee of the subsequently Chief Executive of Bass Taverns.
In addition he has Panel on Takeovers and Mergers.
Following his re-appointment been a director of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc, for a further three-year term, his current term of office will Chairman of Liberty plc and Chairman of Coral Eurobet plc.
48 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2005 06 SIMON LOWTH 44 is Finance Director, having been appointed STEPHEN DUNN 46 was appointed Director, Human Resources to this position in May 2006.
In this capacity, he is responsible and Communications in September 2005 and is responsible for for the groups financial performance and reporting, the Human Resources and Communications across the company.
development and delivery of the groups financing strategy, risk He has been with ScottishPower for over 25 years, working management and key institutional and shareholder within both line and corporate human resources functions in relationships.
Since joining ScottishPower in September 2003 he various parts of the business.
Since privatisation he has held a has held the positions of Director, Corporate Strategy and number of corporate roles and has been involved in all the subsequently Executive Director, Finance and Strategy.
He was groups acquisitions and disposals.
He is a board member of formerly a Director with McKinsey and Company, leading its ScottishPower Learning, a council member of the CBI Scotland UK industrial practice, serving clients in the energy and utilities, and a trustee of the ScottishPower and Manweb Pension Schemes.
He holds an MA in He was until recently a director of Hibernian Football Club, a Engineering from Cambridge University and an MBA from professional soccer club in the Premier League in Scotland.
TERRY HUDGENS 51 was appointed Chief Executive Officer of Executive Team ScottishPowers competitive US energy business, PPM Energy, The Executive Team is constituted as a committee of the Board in May 2001 and joined the Executive Team in December 2001. and includes not only the Executive Directors of the Board but He joined PacifiCorp as Senior Vice President of Power Supply also the following key Executives and Officers from the group.
in April 2000, having previously spent 25 years with Texaco, Inc. For US reporting purposes the members of the Executive Team He was formerly President of Texaco Natural Gas and served as are regarded as officers of the company.
Texacos senior representative and elected officer in the Natural Gas Supply Association.
He is a member of the Board of Trustees JOHN CAMPBELL 40 is Director, Energy Wholesale, having of The Nature Conservancy in Oregon.
He has a bachelors been appointed to this position in September 2005.
He joined degree in civil engineering from the University of Houston.
ScottishPower as a Graduate Trainee in 1988 in the Operational Research Department.
He was previously Managing Director of WILLIE MACDIARMID 45 is Director, Energy Retail, having Energy Management for four years.
His other past appointments been appointed to this position in September 2005.
He joined have included Trading and Metering Director and Commercial ScottishPower in 1989.
His previous roles have included Managing Director for Customer Sales and Services.
He is a graduate of the Director of Customer Sales and Services, Sales and Marketing University of Strathclyde with a joint honours degree in Director of Energy Supply where he led ScottishPowers Operational Research and Economics.
strategy to maximise customer growth in the deregulating energy market and Managing Director of ScottishPowers former chain KEITH COCHRANE 41 was appointed Group Director of of electrical retail shops and superstores.
Finance in May 2005, and joined the Executive Team in October 2005.
He is responsible for the Financial Reporting, SUSAN REILLY 45 is Commercial Director, having been Performance Management and Control, Tax and Treasury appointed to this position in May 2006.
She has responsibility functions, and for developing and delivering the groups for group strategy and various business support functions, integrated financing strategy.
He joined ScottishPower in June including Information Technology.
She was previously Executive 2003 and is a former Chief Executive and Finance Director of Vice President, PacifiCorp Holdings, Inc. where she had Stagecoach.
He is a Chartered Accountant and has a First Class responsibility for the successful conclusion of the sale of Honours degree in Accountancy from the University of PacifiCorp to MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company.
He will leave the company in June 2006. that, as Managing Director, Strategic Transactions, she led the development of ScottishPowers UK windfarm portfolio and the SHEELAGH DUFFIELD 39 was appointed Company Secretary acquisition of the combined cycle gas turbine fleet.
Her responsibilities include the provision of all the Executive Team in October 2005.
Prior to joining board and executive team services and the maintenance of the ScottishPower in 1995, she qualified as an accountant with governance framework within the group, as well as shareholder  and spent ten years with various services and compliance.
Since joining ScottishPower in 1996 organisations in M&A activity.
as Deputy Secretary she has served in various corporate strategy and legal roles.
A qualified lawyer she was formerly DAVID RUTHERFORD 42 is Director, Energy Networks, having Company Secretary and Head of Legal at Scottish Television been appointed to this position in September 2005.
He was previously Managing Director of SP PowerSystems.
He holds a BSc in Electrical and Electronic Engineering from the University of Strathclyde and an MBA from Heriot Watt University.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2005 06 49 Board of Directors and Executive Team BOARD AND EXECUTIVE TEAM CHANGES MEMBERS OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE Philip Carroll retired from the Board following the conclusion of Charles Miller Smith, Chairman last years AGM on 22 July 2005.
Charles Berry and David Nish Donald Brydon retired from the Board on 6 September 2005.
Dominic Fry and Nolan Karras Michael Pittman retired from the Executive Team on 6 Philip Bowman September 2005.
Ian Russell retired from the Board on 16 Nancy Wilgenbusch February 2006.
Judi Johansen retired from the Board following the sale of PacifiCorp on 21 March 2006.
Ronnie Mercer and MEMBERS OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE James Stanley retired from the Executive Team on 31 March Nolan Karras, Chairman 2006 and 3 May 2006 respectively.
Euan Baird Donald Brydon John Campbell, Stephen Dunn, Willie MacDiarmid and David Nick Rose Rutherford were appointed to the Executive Team on 5 Nancy Wilgenbusch September 2005.
Keith Cochrane and Susan Reilly were appointed to the Executive Team on 21 October 2005.
Philip MEMBERS OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Bowman was appointed to the Board on 16 January 2006.
Nick Rose, Chairman Sheelagh Duffield was appointed to the Executive Team on 1 Vicky Bailey May 2006.
Donald Brydon Nolan Karras In accordance with the Articles of Association, Philip Bowman will retire from office at the AGM and, being eligible, offer himself for election.
In addition, Charles Miller Smith, Vicky Bailey and Nick Rose will retire by rotation at the AGM.
Charles Miller Smith and Nick Rose, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Vicky Bailey will retire from the Board and accordingly does not seek re-election.
Nolan Karras will also retire from the Board at the AGM.
Details of Philip Bowmans service contract are set out in the Remuneration Report of the Directors.
Charles Miller Smith and Nick Rose do not have service contracts with the company.
