OurBusiness CivilGovernment Sercos work in civil government encompasses home affairs, education, health, local government and consulting and some of the most pressing challenges faced by governments around the world.
Security, the threat of terrorism and the increasing cost of crime are key drivers in our home affairs market.
In education, clients are focused on increasing the life chances of our children.
Ageing populations and the rising cost of care are driving more opportunities in the health market and in both our local government and consulting markets we are responding to clients who need to transform services and structures in the face of rising consumer demand and relentless technological developments.
Our home affairs work includes managing prisons, electronically monitoring offenders, developing systems for law enforcement agencies, controlling immigration and improving civil resilience.
We run two local education authorities and are agrowing supplier of school management software.
Our rapidly expanding health business supports hospitals and provides out-ofhours doctor services to more than one million people.
In local government, we arealeading supplier of information technology IT and IT-enabled services.
We also deliver environmental, streetscene and other direct services to councils.
And our consulting capability raises awareness of Serco and enhances our reputation with potential and existing customers, by providing high-value advisory services.
Transport Congestion and falling transport costs are forcing governments and travellers to radically reconsider how to get from AtoBquickly, safely and affordably with the least environmental impact.
Asaresult we are experiencing the smarter use of trafc data, greater use of congestion charging and increasing focus on integrating public transport systems.
Serco is amajor provider of transport services.
With our partner, NedRailways, we run Merseyrail one of the UKs best performing franchises and Northern Rail, which is the UKs largest network.
In Australia, Serco owns and operates the Great Southern Railway, including its two trans-continental services, The Ghan and Indian Pacic.
Our urban transportation business operates the award-winning Docklands Light Railway and isaUKmarket leader in trafc management systems, including the National Trafc Control Centre for England.
In air, weare one of the worlds largest private sector providers of air trafc control services, with operations in the UK, Middle East and the United States.
4Annual Review and Accounts 2006 OurBusiness Defence As the nature of threats to national and international security change, so the requirements increase for armed forces to operate in more integrated and efficient ways.
Serco is atop two provider of support services to the UK Ministry of Defence MoD, with more than 100 contracts ranging from supporting secure military communications to managing training colleges and providing marine services to the Royal Navy.
Weare committed to the partnering values in the MoDs Defence Industrial Strategy and work with equipment manufacturers to deliver through-life service to the MoD.
We are gaining critical mass in the key North American market, with particular strength in providing IT, engineering, logistics and human resources services to the military.
In Australia, we arealeading service supplier to the armed forces, withagrowing portfolio of contracts, and we also have an established position in the German defence market.
Science The ability to enable innovation, increase skills and manage enormous environmental challenges is leading governments to renew their focus and investment in science.
The pursuit of better solutions to nuclear decommissioning, improving the competitiveness of business and identifying how future energy demands can be met are some of the challenges that face us all.
Serco has builtasector leading position in the science market.
We run the National Physical Laboratory, which is the UKs national standards laboratory and one of the worlds major scientific establishments.
With our partners, we operate the Atomic Weapons Establishment, responsible for the stewardship of the UKs nuclear deterrent.
We also have asignicant position in the civil nuclear market, providing independent safety, risk management and engineering services.
We are alsoamajor provider of support services to the European Space Agency and CERN, the worlds largest particle physics laboratory.
