From left to right: Mark Duckworth Acting Company Secretary 2006 Christopher Hyman ChiefExecutive DeAnne Julius, CBE Senior Independent Director David Richardson  Andrew Jenner Finance Director Leonard V. Broese van Groenou  Margaret, Baroness Ford of Cunninghame  Kevin Beeston Executive Chairman 56 Annual Review and Accounts 2006 DirectorsProfiles DirectorsProfiles KevinBeestonFCMA 44 ChristopherHymanCA SA 43 Executive Chairman Chief Executive Chair of the Nomination and Training and Development 3, 4 Committees Christopher was appointed Chief Executive of Serco Group plc in 2002.
He is also Non-Executive Director of United Business Kevin was appointed Executive Chairman of Serco Group plc in Media plc, the Prince of Wales charity In Kind Direct, Habitat May 2002, having previously served as the Groups Finance for Humanity and the Borneo Tropical Rainforest Foundation.
He has announced his intention He is also amember of the UK Governments Honours to move to Non-Executive Chairman of Serco in September Advisory Committee for Economy.
Aqualified accountant, Kevin joined Serco in 1985.
He is Natal University in Durban, South Africa and qualified as a amember of the CBI Presidents Committee and Chairman of chartered accountant, serving with Arthur Andersen and the CBIs Public Services Strategy Board, which promotes the Ernst &Young before joining Serco in 1994 as the European role business has in transforming the UKs public services.
Hewas appointed Group Company Secretary In addition, he holds Non-Executive Director positions on the in 1996, Corporate Finance Director in 1997 and Group Finance boards of IMI plc and Ipswich Town Football Club plc.
He is responsible for setting the vision and strategy of the Group.
BroesevanGroenou 60 1, 2, 3, 4 Non-Executive Director AndrewJennerACA 38 Finance Director Leonard joined Serco as aNon-Executive Director in April 2006.
Leonard was previously vice-president Human Resources and Andrew joined Serco in 1996 as Group Financial Controller, member of the corporate executive committee of Pennsylvaniahaving previously worked for Unilever and Deloitte &Touche LLP.
based Air Products, aNew York listed company serving He became Corporate Finance Director with additional customers in technology, energy, healthcare and industrial responsibility for Treasury activities in 1999 and Group Finance markets worldwide where he served for nearly 30 years.
Andrew shares responsibility for our His career at Air Products spans numerous international roles relationship with shareholders and the City with the other including financial control, business planning, operational Executive Directors.
He is also responsible for the Group's PFI management and human resources.
Margaret,  49 DeAnneJuliusCBEPhD Econ 57 1, 2, 3, 4 Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director 1, 2, 3, 4 Chair of the Remuneration Committee DeAnne joined Serco as aNon-Executive Director in October Margaret joined Serco in October 2003 as aNon-Executive 2001.
She is Chairman of The Royal Institute of International Director.
She spent her early career in avariety of roles either in Affairs, was afounder member of the Bank of England the public sector or as an advisor to Government and is a Monetary Policy Committee 1997-2001 and also sat on the specialist in leadership development, culture change and public Court of the Bank of England until May 2004.
She has held sector reform.
From 1997 to 2000 she was the Chair of Lothian senior strategy positions with British Airways and Royal Dutch Health Board and from 2000 to 2003 was aNon-Executive Shell, and spent seven years with the World Bank developing Director of Ofgem.
From 2000 to 2005, Margaret was aDirector infrastructure projects in Asia and Africa.
She is aNonof Good Practice Limited, the publishing company that she Executive Director of BP PLC and Roche Holdings SA.
Margaret is the Chairman of English Partnerships, the national regeneration agency and in 2006 she was appointed  55 the Non-Executive Chairman of Pinnacle Staffing Group plc and Non-Executive Director 1, 2, 3, 4 of Irvine Bay Regeneration Company.
Margaret is also currently Chair of the Audit Committee aDirector of Scotlands Futures Forum Limited.
David joined Serco as aNon-Executive Director in June 2003.
He has previously held the position of Finance Director of Whitbread, where his roles in a20-year career have included eight years as Strategy Director.
David was instrumental in transforming Whitbread from abrewing and pubs company into amarket leader in hotels, restaurants and leisure clubs.
David is currently aNon-Executive Director of Dairy Crest Plc, Forth Ports Plc, The Restaurant Group plc and Tomkins plc.
1 Member of the Audit Committee 2 Member of Remuneration Committee 3 Member of the Nomination Committee 4 Member of the Training and Development Committee www.
