DirectorsReport DirectorsReport  The Directors have pleasure in presenting the Annual Review and Accounts of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2006.
Activities Serco Group plc is aholding Company which operates via its subsidiaries and joint ventures to improve services by managing people, processes, technology and assets more effectively.
Serco supports governments, agencies and companies by offering operational, management and consulting expertise in the aerospace, defence, education, health, home affairs, local government, science, technology, transport and commercial sectors.
The Chairmans statement on pages 6to9, and the Business Review on pages 10 to 44 report on the activities during the year, post balance sheet events and likely future developments.
The information in these reports which is required to fulfil the requirements of the Business Review is incorporated in this Directors Report by reference.
ShareCapital The authorised and issued share capital of the Company, together with the details of shares issued during the year are shown in note 29 to the financial statements.
Dividends An interim dividend of 1.05p 2005 0.91p per ordinary share was paid on 18 October 2006.
The Directors recommend afinal dividend of 2.55p 2005 2.06p per ordinary share which, if approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, will be paid on 16 May 2007 to those shareholders on the register at the close of business on 9March 2007.
 As at 28 February 2007, the Company had been notified, pursuant to the Companies Act 1985, of the following substantial interests representing over 3% of the issued share capital: No of shares Percentage of millions issued share capital % FMR Corp. and Fidelity International Limited 44.1 9.24 Aviva plc 26.1 5.47 HBOS plc 23.5 4.94 Resolution Investment Services Limited 20.1 4.22 AEGON UK plc Group of Companies 19.5 4.10 Legal &General Group plc 17.2 3.61 www.
com 53 Directors The Group gives full consideration to The current members of the Board together applications for employment, career with biographical detailsofeach Director development and promotion received from are set out on pages 56 to 57. the disabled and offers employment when suitable opportunities arise.
If employees On 24 February 2006, the Board approved become disabled during their service with the appointment of Leonard V. Broese van the Group, wherever practicable, Groenou as  and arrangements are made to continue their Ralph Hodge  employment and training.
Director at the 2006 Annual General Meeting on 5May 2006.
The Group remains proud of its record of managing employee relations and continues to believe that the structure of DirectorsInterests individual and collective consultation and With the exception of the Executive negotiation are best developed at alocal Directors service contracts and the Nonlevel.
Over the years the Group has Executive Directors letters of appointment, demonstrated that working with trade there are no contracts in which any Director unions and creating effective partnerships has an interest.
allows improvements to be delivered in business performance as well as terms Details of the Directors interests in the and conditions of employment.
Where ordinary shares and options over the employees choose not to belong to atrade ordinary shares of the Company are set union, employee communicationforums, out in the Remuneration Report on pages such as works councils, exist to ensure 59 to 71. involvement of staff within the business.
Participation by staff in the success of the AnnualGeneralMeeting Group is encouraged by the availability of The Annual General Meeting of the sharesave schemes and ashare option Company will be held at the Queen scheme for senior management, which Elizabeth II Conference Centre, London on effectively aligns their interests with those 4May 2007 at 11.00 am.
of shareholders by requiring that performance criteria are achieved prior to The Notice of the Meeting together with exercise.
explanatory notes is sent to shareholders with this Review.
 The Group has implemented policies on EmploymentPolicies environmental, health and safety matters The Board is committed to maintaininga and operates aCode of Corporate working environment where staff are Responsibility and Business Ethics.
Group companies and divisions operate within a Further information on environmental and framework of human resources policies, employee health and safety matters is practices and regulations appropriate to contained in the Corporate Responsibility their own market sector and country of report which is also available online at operation.
The Group is committed to ensuring equal opportunity, honouring the rights of the individual and fostering partnership and trust in every working relationship.
Policies and procedures for recruitment, training and career development promote equality of opportunity regardless of gender, sexual orientation, age, marital status, disability, race, religion or other beliefs and ethnic or national origin.
54 Annual Review and Accounts 2006 DirectorsReport  FinancialStatements The Group requires each of its business At the date of this report, as far as each units to negotiate and agree terms and Director is aware there is no relevant audit conditions for payment for the supply of information of which the Groups auditors capital and revenue items just as keenly as are unaware.
Each Director has taken all they negotiate prices and other commercial the steps that he she ought to have taken matters.
Suppliers are made aware of the as aDirector in order to make terms and the way in which disputes are to himself herself aware of any relevant audit be settled.
Payment is then made in information and to establish that the accordance with those terms.
Groupsauditors are aware of that information.
The Groups average creditor payment terms in 2006 were 26 days 2005: 26 days : Company 20 days 2005: 20 days.
Auditors Deloitte &Touche LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors Donations and aresolution to re-appoint them will be The Group continues to encourage all staff proposed at the forthcoming Annual to participate in their local communities General Meeting.
and has aprocess to capture community investment information on aworldwide Approved by the Board of Directors and basis.
This measureisbased upon the signed on its behalf by: Business in The Community BiTC reporting format.
The value of this investment at 942,340 2005: 1,017,129 represents 1% of the Groups pre tax profit excluding the gain on sale of PFI investments, and represents a7.4% decrease on investment made in 2005.
However, whilst the total for 2006 is less Joanne Roberts than 2005, the 2005 figure included a Secretary corporate one-off donation for the Tsunami fund.
When this is taken out, the like for like comparison shows a2.3% increase in Serco House investment in 2006 over the previous year.
16 Bartley Wood Business Park Bartley Way During the year neither the Company nor Hook the Group made political donations and Hampshire RG27 9UY this policy will continue.
