Performance review Review of operations Other Businesses Other Businesses turnover was down 31.2% to The group has 59.7 million 86.8 million.
They incurred a continued to rationalise loss before interest, tax and exceptional items of its other activities 3.5 million profit of 7.0 million.
There were no significant property transactions contributing to profit in 2005 06.
After exceptional restructuring costs of 3.1 million 3.8 million Other Businesses incurred a loss before interest and tax of 6.6 million profit of 3.2 million.
Systems The termination of external sales of the UK IT service business, which was announced in last years preliminary announcement, was completed and this business is now refocused entirely to provide solutions to internal group companies.
The groups remaining Systems businesses were sold to Logica in February 2006.
Property During the year, Severn Trent Property sold its interest in the Tournament Fields ofce scheme at Warwick and the remaining land at the Direct 2, Oldbury, West Midlands, both realising an acceptable profit.
At Daventry International Rail Freight Terminal, where planning permission has been granted for a further 2 million sq ft, work continues on infrastructure design and costing.
Marketing of the site will begin shortly, with the aim of securing substantial pre-lettings before construction work commences.
At Midpoint Park in Birmingham, a site of 90 acres owned by Severn Trent Water, a resolution to grant planning permission has been issued by Birmingham City Council.
Formal consent should be issued shortly and initial infrastructure works will then commence.
Following a strategic review it has been decided that Severn Trents Property business is a non-core business and a sale process has recently commenced.
Engineering Consultancy The groups Engineering Consultancy business has ceased taking on new external business but will complete existing contracts.
Its expertise has been transferred to Severn Trent Water to support that companys capital programme.
Insurance Derwent Insurance, Severn Trents captive insurer provides insurance cover to Severn Trent group companies.
22 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
