Governance Directors report The directors present their report, together with Directors and their interests the audited financial statements of the group for Details of changes to the board during the the year ended 31 March 2006. year and of the directors offering themselves for re-appointment at the Annual General Meeting Principal activities are set out on page 35.
The principal activities of the group are the supply of water and sewerage services, waste management Details of directors service contracts are set out and the provision of environmental services.
in the Directors remuneration report on page 46.
Details of the principal joint venture, associated The interests of the directors in the shares of the and subsidiary undertakings of the group at company are shown on page 50.
31 March 2006 appear in notes 17, 18 and 40 to the financial statements on pages 76, 77 and 96.
Biographies of the directors currently serving on the board are set out on page 30. Business review The Chairmans statement, the Group Chief Directors responsibilities statement Executives review, the Business focuses for The directors are responsible for preparing the the groups main businesses and the review financial statements.
The directors have chosen to of operations on pages 4 to 29 provide detailed prepare the financial statements for the group in information relating to the group and its strategy, accordance with International Financial Reporting the operation of its businesses, and the results and Standards IFRS and for the company in financial position for the year ended 31 March 2006. accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
Details of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the group are set out in the Corporate governance In the case of UK GAAP financial statements, report on page 39. the directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year that give a true Research and development and fair view of the state of affairs of the company Expenditure on research and development and of the profit or loss of the company for that including amounts capitalised as tangible xed period.
In preparing the financial statements, the assets related to research and development, directors are required to: select suitable accounting amounted to 5.4 million 2005: 5.3 million.
policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable Treasury management and prudent: state whether applicable accounting The disclosures required under the EU Fair standards have been followed, subject to any Value Directive in relation to the use of financial material departures disclosed and explained in instruments by the company are set out in the financial statements: and prepare the financial note 19 j to the accounts on page 81. statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group will Post balance sheet events continue in business.
On 4 April 2006 the company announced its intention to fide-merge Biffa, its UK integrated In the case of IFRS financial statements, waste management business.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that the financial statements present fairly for each On 7 April 2006 the company announced it was financial year the companys financial position, giving Ofwat an interim report into misreporting financial performance and cash ows.
Directors of customer relations data by Severn Trent Water.
are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including On 12 May 2006 the company announced it accounting policies, in a manner that provides had agreed to sell Biffa Belgium to Veolia for relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 45 million.
information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specic requirements in On 2 June 2006 the group signed heads of terms International Financial Reporting Standards is to sell its interest in Aquan NV to the Flemish insufficient to enable users to understand the Government for approximately 30 million.
impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys performance: Dividends and prepare the financial statements on a going An interim dividend of 19.16 pence per ordinary concern basis unless, having assessed the ability share was paid on 25 January 2006.
The directors of the company to continue as a going concern, recommend a final dividend of 31.97 pence per management either intends to liquidate the entity ordinary share to be paid on 2 August 2006 to or to cease trading, or have no realistic alternative shareholders on the register on 30 June 2006. but to do so.
This would bring the total dividend for 2005 06 to 51.13 pence per ordinary share 2005: 48.51p.
The payment of the final dividend is subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting.
32 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Governance The directors are responsible for ensuring that the Contributions for political and charitable purposes company keeps proper accounting records which Donations to charitable organisations during the disclose, with reasonable accuracy, at any time, the year amounted to 487,422 2005: 378,825.
The financial position of the company.
The directors are company focuses on the development of long term also responsible for: safeguarding the assets of the partnerships with charities close to its major sites company and the group: taking reasonable steps and which reect the companys value of for the prevention and detection of fraud and other environmental leadership.
The work focuses on irregularities: the preparation of the report of the environmental education, the preservation and directors and the directors remuneration report enhancement of the natural environment or which comply with the requirements of the addressing social exclusion issues in the built Companies Act 1985: and ensuring the environment.
The company is also committed to maintenance and integrity of the companys supporting WaterAid, the UKs only major charity corporate website.
dedicated to providing safe domestic water and sanitation to the worlds poorest people.
Directors indemnities The companys Articles of Association provide that The companys policy is not to make any donations directors of the company shall be indemnified by to political parties.
However, the Political Parties the company against any costs incurred by them Elections and Referendums Act 2000 the relevant in carrying out their duties including defending provisions of which are now contained in Part XA of any proceedings brought against them arising the Companies Act 1985 requires certain types of out of their positions as directors in which they expenditure on political events to be pre-approved are acquitted or judgement is given in their favour by shareholders.
At the 2005 Annual General or relief from any liability is granted to them by Meeting, shareholders gave the company authority the court.
Pursuant to that authority, during the year ended 31 March 2006 Supplier payment policy the group incurred costs of 6,000 2005: 2,500 Individual operating companies within the group as follows: are responsible for establishing appropriate policies with regard to the payment of their suppliers.
Biffa Waste Services Limited paid a subscription The companies agree terms and conditions under fee of 1,000 to the Socialist Environment and which business transactions with suppliers are Resources Association SERA, an organisation conducted.
It is group policy that provided a which aims to promote sustainable supplier is complying with the relevant terms and environmental policies within the Labour conditions, including the prompt and complete movement and Labour Party to ensure submission of all specified documentation, sustainable development is central to the work payment will be made in accordance with agreed of the government: and terms.
It is also group policy to ensure that Biffa Waste Services Limited paid a subscription suppliers know the terms on which payment will fee of 5,000 to the Fabian Society, a left of take place when business is agreed.
Details of centre think tank, which is afliated to the supplier payment policies can be obtained from Labour Party but is editorially and the individual companies at the addresses shown organisationally independent.
in note 40 to the financial statements on page 96.
As in previous years, resolutions to renew the Trade creditors for the group at the year-end are authority will be proposed at this years Annual estimated as representing no greater than 30 days General Meeting for the company and its principal purchases 2005: no greater than 30 days.
creditors for the company at the year-end are estimated as representing nil days purchases Substantial shareholdings 2005: 34 days.
As at 2 June 2006 the company had been notied of the following substantial shareholdings: Number of ordinary 5 shares of 65 19p each % Legal & General 11,259,833 3.26 Investment Management Limited Barclays plc 10,762,602 3.10 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 33 Governance Directors report continued Share capital Going concern The company was given authority at its Annual The Board has a reasonable expectation that General Meeting in 2005 to make market the group and the company have adequate purchases of ordinary shares up to a maximum resources to continue in operational existence for number of 34,749,599 shares.
Similar authority will the foreseeable future.
Accordingly the financial again be sought from shareholders at this years statements set out on pages 53 to 101 and 103 Annual General Meeting.
No market purchases to 114 have been prepared on the going concern were made by the company during the year ended basis.
Annual General Meeting Details of movements in share capital are shown in The Annual General Meeting of the company note 29 to the financial statements on page 88. will be held at the International Convention Centre, Broad Street, Birmingham B1 2EA at 11.00am Employees on Tuesday 25 July 2006.
The notice convening The average number of employees within the group the meeting, together with details of the business is shown in note 8 to the financial statements on to be considered and explanatory notes for each page 68. resolution, is distributed separately to shareholders.
It is also available on the companys website: Details of arrangements relating to employee www.
com involvement are described in the Corporate responsibility report on page 25.
By order of the Board Auditors In the case of each of the persons who are directors of the company at the date when this Fiona Smith report was approved: Group General Counsel and Company Secretary 5 June 2006 so far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information as dened in the Companies Act 1985 of which the companys auditors are unaware: and each of the directors has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information as dened and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
Deloitte & Touche LLP has indicated its willingness to continue as auditors, accordingly a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at this years Annual General Meeting.
The reappointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP has been approved by the Audit Committee, who will also be responsible for determining their audit fee on behalf of the directors.
Accounts of Severn Trent Water Limited Regulatory accounts for Severn Trent Water Limited are prepared and sent to the Director General of Water Services.
A copy of these accounts will be available from the website of Severn Trent Water Limited www.
co. uk or on written request to the Company Secretary at the address given on the back cover.
There is no charge for this publication.
34 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
