Performance review Review of operations Laboratories US markets Performance Whilst the general market picture in the US is 2006 2005 challenging, specic areas remain vibrant.
There m m % is strong activity in the air testing market, and, Turnover 167.0 162.6 2.7 within that, there are good opportunities in profit 11.1 15.2 27.0 vapour intrusion testing.
There are also good growth prospects in sediment testing related to harbour port clean-up and transportation Before interest and tax infrastructure.
In 2005 06 STL started work on a large $2.5 million sediment testing project on the New Orleans Harbour, and though work on this was Rachel Brydon Jannetta In 2005 06, market conditions in the US were interrupted by Hurricane Katrina, it is expected to President and CEO, STL very difficult for Severn Trent Laboratories STL.
Federal funding for environmental projects was impacted by the continued rise in the federal The New Orleans Harbour project was not the only significant progress on deficit as well as the diversion of funds to aspect of STL work affected by the severe hurricane laboratory IT systems military activities outside of the US, whilst the season of 2005.
STL has six laboratories within the standardisation worst hurricane season on record took STLs hurricane belt of the southern US, and all environmental consulting clients away from their experienced problems related to hurricane activity normal scope of work to engage in hurricane such as disruptions to power supply and reduced relief and repair efforts.
These factors led to serious sample collection and delivery activity.
However, price erosion which impacted profit margins.
following the experience of the previous year, STL had contingency plans in place, and these did help In the UK, market conditions were more favourable, to address the impact of the hurricanes on STL exemplied by the Landll Directive legislation business activities.
which created new business opportunities.
STL also decided to expand its base in New Around 81% of Severn Trent Laboratories turnover Orleans, by acquiring the business of derives from the US, so the 2005 06 results were Environmental Analytical Services Inc.
This facility affected by the challenging market conditions will enable STL to better support clients affected by described above.
Turnover in the US increased by last years hurricanes in the gulf coast region.
1.6% to 134.7 million, and profit before interest and tax was down 43.3% to 5.9 million.
In the UK market conditions were more favourable.
Turnover was up by 7.7% to 32.3 million and profit Market strategy before interest and tax was up 8.3% to 5.2 million.
In the US STL continues to pursue a long term The UK business is strongly focused on the testing strategy centred around service excellence.
Coupled of samples from UK water clients including Severn with tight cost controls and continued operating Trent Water but STL also saw strong demand for efficiency improvements, STL will work to rebuild contaminated soils testing, arising from the the margin shortfall.
A programme of cost provisions of the Landll Directive.
STL created a reductions took place in 2005 06 and this will dedicated Waste Acceptance Criteria laboratory at benefit performance in 2006 07 and beyond.
This helps waste producers comply with the UKs Waste Acceptance Criteria, STL continued to implement a new Information which also arise from the Landll Directive.
Management System in the US, which will bring all locations onto a single IT platform.
This will help Outlook exploit STLs unmatched scale in the US market, We do not expect any major increase in US federal further improve service by reducing project turnenvironmental budgets in 2006 07, nor do we around times, and improve the delivery of complex expect significant growth in sectors that are driven electronic data.
The system has been rolled out to by regulation.
However, we have positive more than half of the US laboratories.
expectations about continuing growth in certain segments of the market including air testing and In 2005 STL set up a new laboratory for a major vapour intrusion, as well as testing for sediments US client in Ecuador.
This facility will enable STL to and endocrine disrupters.
We also have positive address local testing needs, and also gives STL the expectations for continued growth in the sale of potential to expand activities in South America if groundwater sampling equipment and remediation suitable opportunities are identied.
pumps through STLs US subsidiary QED Environmental Systems and expect strong market conditions in the UK soils testing market to continue.
20 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
