Governance Board of directors Membership of board and operating Sir John Egan KBE MSc BEng 66 Martin Flower BA 59 committees is as detailed below: Sir John joined the board in October 2004 and became Martin joined the board in June 1996 and was appointed Chairman on 1 January 2005.
He is a director of Warwick Deputy Chairman in July 2004.
He is the senior Board committees Castle Park Trust Ltd and was, until recently, Chairman of independent non-executive director.
He is also Chairman Inchcape plc and Harrison Lovegrove & Co Ltd. Sir John of Croda International Plc and has been a director of Audit Committee worked in the motor industry until 1990 at General The Morgan Crucible Company Plc since December 2004.
J B Smith Chairman Motors, Massey Ferguson and British Leyland, rising to Martin retired as Chairman of Coats Ltd in May 2004, B Bulkin become Chairman and Chief Executive of Jaguar plc.
He where he had previously been Group Chief Executive.
M L Cassoni was Chief Executive of BAA plc from 1990 to 1999 and Martin retires from the board on 10 June 2006.
R H Davey Chairman of MEPC from 1998 to 2000.
He was also F B Smith Secretary President of the Confederation of British Industry from John Smith FCCA Hon.
Sir John was knighted in the Queens John joined the board in November 2003.
He is Chief Remuneration Committee Birthday Honours List in 1986 and is a deputy lieutenant Operating officer of the BBC and Chief Executive of its M C Flower of the County of Warwickshire.
He is also Vice President of Chairman until 10 June 2006 the Royal Television Society.
John has held a non-executive R H Davey Colin Matthews MA CEng MBA 50 directorship with Vickers Plc, was a member of the Chairman from 11 June 2006 M L Cassoni Colin joined the board in October 2003, becoming Group advisory board of Zurich Financial Services UK and M J Houston Chief Executive on 1 February 2005.
He is a Chartered served for three years on the Accounting Standards F B Smith Secretary Engineer and worked for the American General Electric Board until November 2004.
Company and then for British Airways, first as Director Nominations Committee of Engineering, then as Director of Technical Operations, Marisa Cassoni BSc ACA 54 Sir John Egan Chairman responsible for all aircraft maintenance, IT and procurement.
Marisa joined the board in September 2001.
Until recently B Bulkin c Colin was Group Managing Director of Transco from 2001 she was Group Finance Director of Royal Mail Group plc M L Cassoni to 2002 and CEO of Hays Plc from 2002 to 2004. and on 26 June 2006 will be appointed Finance Director R H Davey of the John Lewis Partnership.
She is a non-executive M C Flower c Michael McKeon MA CA 49 director of GFI Group Inc, a company listed on the M J Houston Michael joined the board on 13 December 2005 as Group NASDAQ, and WSP Group Plc.
Marisa is also a member of C S Matthews Finance Director.
Prior to that, he was Group Finance the CBI Economic Affairs Committee and a member of the J B Smith c Director of the buildings materials group Novar Plc.
He Financial Reporting Councils Accounting Standards Board.
F B Smith Secretary worked for Rolls Royce Plc from 1997 to 2000 in various She qualied as an accountant with Deloitte, Haskins & senior roles including Finance Director of the Aerospace Sells, rising to Corporate Finance Manager.
She moved to c Core Members Group.
Michael has extensive international business the Prudential Corporation and later became Group Corporate Responsibility Committee experience, having worked overseas for CarnaudMetalbox, Finance Director at Britannic Assurance plc.
C S Matthews Chairman Elf Atochem and Price Waterhouse.
He is a member of the M J Bettington Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
Martin Houston BSc MSc DIC 48 R S Brydon Jannetta Martin joined the board in September 2003.
He is B Bulkin Tony Wray BSc Hons 44 Executive Vice President and Managing Director of BG Sir John Egan Tony joined the board in March 2005.
He is Managing Groups North American, Caribbean and Global Liqueed P J Gavan Director of Severn Trent Water Ltd.
Prior to that, he was Natural Gas business and a member of the Group L F Graziano Director of Networks at Eircom, the Republic of Irelands Executive Committee.
He joined BG Group in 1983 and A P Smith telephone operator.
He joined British Gas in 1983 and held has held a number of technical and commercial roles with A P Wray various managerial positions before becoming Head of a predominantly international focus.
He is a fellow of the F B Smith Secretary Asset Management.
In 2000 Tony moved to Transco, first Geological Society of London.
as Director of Asset Management, then as National Operating committee Operations Director, before being appointed to implement Richard Davey 57 the merger integration of Lattice Transco and National Richard joined the board on 1 January 2006 and becomes Executive Committee Grid Group into National Grid Transco.
senior independent non-executive director on 11 June C S Matthews Chairman 2006.
He is a non-executive director of Yorkshire Building M J Bettington R S Brydon Jannetta Martin Bettington BSc MechEng MBA 53 Society and Amlin Plc.
He also served as a non-executive P J Gavan Martin joined the board in November 1994.
He is the director of Freeserve Plc from 1999 to 2001 and of L F Graziano Managing Director of Biffa Plc, Severn Trents waste Scottish Widows Fund and Life Assurance Society from M J E McKeon management business.
Martin was previously employed by 1996 to 2000.
The majority of Richards executive career A P Smith BET Plc, Biffas former holding company.
He holds an MBA was spent in investment banking at N M Rothschild & F B Smith and Secretary from Manchester Business School.
Sons where he served in various roles including Head of P K Tandon Investment Banking.
Prior to that, he worked at various J van den Arend Schmidt Rachel Brydon Jannetta FCCA 46 organisations including Merrill Lynch International Limited A P Wray Rachel joined the board in September 2004.
She is and Exco International Plc.
President and CEO of Severn Trents US and UK Senior independent non-executive laboratories businesses.
A Fellow of the Chartered Bernard Bulkin, BS PhD FRSC FRSA FIE 64 director Association of Certied Accountants, Rachel qualied as an Bernard joined the board on 1 January 2006.
He is M C Flower until 10 June 2006 accountant in 1984 with Gerber Landa and Gee, an Chairman of AEA Technology Plc and a non-executive R H Davey from 11 June 2006 accounting rm based in Glasgow.
She then spent eight director of Accelergy Corporation in California.
He is years in retail management, latterly with an Asda Plc group also a venture partner at Vantage Point, an international Group General Counsel and company, before joining Severn Trent in 1993 as Managing venture capital rm.
Bernard is a commissioner on the Company Secretary F B Smith Director of its UK laboratories operation.
She is also a UK Sustainable Development Commission and a board director of WaterAid America, the US arm of the WaterAid member of the UK Centre for Economic and Environmental charity.
He is also a member of the DTI Sustainable Energy Policy Advisory Board.
In 2003 he retired as Chief Scientist at BP Plc, where he had worked for eighteen years.
Non-executive director 30 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Governance Left to right Sir John Egan Colin Matthews Michael McKeon Tony Wray Martin Bettington Rachel Brydon Jannetta Martin Flower John Smith Marisa Cassoni Martin Houston Richard Davey Bernard Bulkin Non-executive director Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 31
