Performance review Review of operations Water and Sewerage profit before interest, tax and exceptional items Performance was up 30.2% to 400.4 million.
This was after 2006 2005 a provision for 10.6 million, the expected cost m m % relating to 2005 06 and prior years of the Turnover 1,150.9 1,015.1 13.4 agreement made with Ofwat to credit each profit 400.4 307.5 30.2 customer account during 2006 07, following the regulators interim report of 7 March 2006.
Before interest, tax and exceptional items see note 4 Improving the efficiency of the business In 2005 06 Severn Trent Water began the first year of the AMP4 contract, which covers the Tony Wray period 2005-10.
Health and safety Managing Director, Severn Trent Water Ofwat has set us exacting efficiency targets for 23% improvement in RIDDOR this period, and during the year we began to reportable injuries implement the organisational changes necessary to achieve them.
We reduced employee numbers: 2004 05 47 removed management layers in order to improve information ow: reviewed and consolidated ofce RIDDOR Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous accommodation in order to control overheads: and Occurrences Regulations began a programme to streamline our procurement processes.
The last of those measures involves establishing long term relationships with a reduced number of suppliers, incentivising them to make Water quality continuous improvements, and standardising designs where possible.
Overall compliance with We also carried out two major in-sourcing projects.
drinking water quality 99.96% At the end of 2004 05, Severn Trent Plc announced that the Haswell engineering consultancy business 2004 05 99.94% would cease bidding for external work, and engineers working on our AMP4 programme would be absorbed into Severn Trent Water.
In addition, some 270 staff from Aseriti transferred to Severn Severn Trent Water met its financial targets for Trent Water, bringing our IT systems activities inthe year 2005 06.
In both cases, the transitions progressed to 1,150.9 million.
The allowed increase in charges smoothly, and we are seeing benets from bringing for 2005 06, including ination, was 15.2%.
engineering and IT expertise back into the business.
In reviewing our prices, Ofwat takes account of: Working towards AMP4 targets Our contract for 2005-10 includes a capital The need to maintain existing standards investment programme of approximately of our products and services 2.6 billion.
This includes: Our levels of compliance with standards achieved over the last five years more than 400 million on maintaining The need to secure our water resources in water supplies the event of prolonged dry weather conditions 150 million on improving drinking Areas of concern identied by customers water quality as being of highest priority around 850 million on maintaining and All new legislation affecting drinking water improving river quality and environmental improvements more than 350 million improving sewers The need to provide a reasonable return and dealing with sewer ooding for our investors The affordability of our proposed plans Our focus in the first year was to implement the new procurement and supply chain processes that we will use in the programme, and to mobilise the 900 projects that we are due to manage.
Net capital expenditure, excluding spending on infrastructure maintenance, was 305 million for the year.
16 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Performance review The one area of the AMP4 contract where our In 2005 06 we continued to implement our new Severn Trent Water 2005 06 results were disappointing was leakage.
customer service technologies: the TARGET billing management have The dry summer of 2005 contributed to this system and ICE Improving Customer Experience.
focused on improving performance, causing higher than average levels of The roll-out of the systems coincided with the price quality of operations burst pipes.
Reported actual leakage has increased rises introduced at the start of the AMP4 period, by approximately 17 Megalitres per day, 3% and this increased the levels of customer contacts and strengthening and greater than 2004 05.
We have now increased the and complaints we received.
This proved streamlining internal resources dedicated to detection and reduction of challenging at times, but we did succeed in controls leakage, and we believe that, by the end of the transferring all our customers to the new system AMP4 period, we can reduce our leakage gures to and we are satisfied that it is serving them well.
below the target level set by Ofwat.
In March 2006, the Ofwat interim report into We own and operate over 1,000 sewage treatment allegations of false reporting found that we had works treating the wastewater from the equivalent overcharged our customers during 2004 05 and of over 10 million people.
The discharges from all had set prices too high for 2005-10.
Immediately except the very smallest of these works are the following the report, we apologised unreservedly to subject of stringent quality testing.
We have agreed with Ofwat a 99.86% of those works complied with the important mechanism for rebating them, and we had already regulatory sanitary standards.
This is, and has voluntarily proposed to raise prices by 7 million always been, at or close to the best level of less than allowed under the 2006 07 price limits.
Ofwat measures the service that we provide to Serving our customers customers by a series of indicators known as DG2 Customers views gathered in market research have to DG9.
These cover: water supply pressure, been used extensively in the development of our interruptions and restrictions: sewer ooding strategy.
This research has been in place for over a problems: speed of response to three types of decade and includes regular tracking of customers contact with customers: and the proportion of attitudes and opinions every six months.
metered customers who receive a bill based on an actual meter reading.
Further details, along with the Our customers tell us that their top priority is the levels of service for the water industry can be found safety and reliability of their drinking water.
In July in the Ofwat annual report on www.
2005, the Drinking Water Inspectorates DWI league table on water quality again showed that At the end of February 2006, we also began an Severn Trent Water is achieving a quality level above investigation into misreporting of customer the industry average.
This is the eighth successive relations data to Ofwat.
The data concerns the year that we have appeared in the top category.
handling of customer billing queries and telephone The DWI also praised the accessibility of water contacts over several years.
We have kept Ofwat quality information on Severn Trent Waters website.
fully informed on the progress of the investigation.
Despite a dry summer, we maintained water supply Corporate responsibility to our customers across the whole of our region, There is a strong focus on corporate responsibility and did not need to impose hosepipe bans.
Water CR in Severn Trent Water, and the tangible levels in our reservoirs were good at the year-end.
results of this in 2005 06 included energy We continued to promote water efficiency among management and generation programmes: domestic and business customers.
Since evidence support for community and education projects: suggests that dry years are likely to become more progress on our Biodiversity Action Plan: and frequent, our AMP4 programme includes measures improvements to our health and safety performance.
to improve security of water supply, and to make sure that we have sufficient water resources to More details on Severn Trent Waters CR programme meet customers future needs.
can be found in the corporate responsibility section of this report.
We also understand that customers feel that improvements to drainage, in order to prevent Outlook ooding of properties by our sewers, are important.
In 2005 06 Severn Trent Water made a good start Our commitment for the AMP4 period is to achieve to AMP4.
Although it is too early, after just one year a net reduction of 158 in the number of properties of the five year period, to forecast our eventual at risk of ooding from our sewers more than performance on the contract, we are confident once in ten years.
Our programme of works about our ability to control operating costs and to permanently reduce the risk of internal deliver our five year capital programme.
We believe and external ooding will benefit an estimated we are on track to deliver the AMP programme and 1,300 properties.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 17
