Audit, Compliance and Risk Committee report Membership set and apply a formal policy in relation to the provision of non-audit Shires Audit Committee was renamed the Audit, Compliance and Risk services by the external auditor with a view to preserving the external Committee on December 12, 2006 the ACR Committee and its terms auditors independence and objectivity: of reference were amended to cover the widened remit.
The members of the ACR Committee as at December 31, 2006 were Mr David Kappler monitor, review and approve the annual internal audit program, Chairman, Mr Barry Price, and Mr Patrick Langlois.
Mr Kappler, Dr Price consider the findings of internal audit reviews and managements and Mr Langlois served as members of the ACR Committee throughout response to them: 2006.
Mr Ronald Nordmann was a member of the ACR Committee throughout the year until his retirement on December 22, 2006.
Ms Kate review at least annually the design and effectiveness of the Groups Nealon was elected to the Committee on February 22, 2007. internal control and risk management systems: The members of the ACR Committee are chosen from amongst the review the Groups strategy for the management of the key corporate Non-Executive Directors of the Group and are selected on the basis and financial risks of the business and compliance thereon: of their knowledge and experience of financial reporting and risk, control and other financial matters.
Each of the members of the review procedures for the receipt, retention and treatment of ACR Committee has been determined by Shires Board to be an complaints received by the Group regarding accounting, internal Independent Non-Executive Director for the purposes of The UK accounting controls or auditing matters: Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code.
Each member also satisfies the NASDAQ rules regarding the review, with the Chief Compliance and Risk officer, arrangements for independence of members of the ACR Committee.
ACR Committee the condential, anonymous submission by employees of concerns members hold ofce for an initial period of two years, subject to regarding questionable matters which could have an impact on the continuing as a Director of the Group.
Thereafter they may hold Groups financial reporting, and to ensure these arrangements allow ofce for such duration as determined by the Board.
Details of the fees proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and paid to members of the ACR Committee are set out in the Directors appropriate follow up action: remuneration report on pages 41 to 52. review the major findings of internal investigations and Mr David Kappler chairs the ACR Committee.
The Board is satisfied managements response to material inquiries received from that Mr Kappler, in his capacity as Chairman of the ACR Committee, has regulators or governmental agencies: and recent and relevant financial experience.
The Board has determined that Mr Kappler is the ACR Committees financial expert for the purposes of oversee the Groups anti-fraud programs and controls and to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002.
Mr Kappler was Chief Financial officer of oversee the investigation and remediation of any alleged or Cadbury Schweppes group from 1995 until his retirement in April 2004. suspected fraud.
He is currently Non-Executive Chairman at Premier Foods plc and a Non-Executive Director of Intercontinental Hotels Group where he is also The ACR Committee reports to the Board on any matter on which it chairman of the Audit Committee.
Mr Kappler is a fellow of the Chartered considers that action is required and makes recommendations for Institute of Management Accountants.
The Terms of Reference of the ACR Committee give it authority to investigate any activity within its Terms of Reference Role of the ACR Committee and to be responsible for the resolution of disagreements between The Terms of Reference of the ACR Committee have been approved management and the auditor regarding the Groups financial reporting.
by the Board and are available for review on Shires website.
The key The ACR Committee is also authorized to seek any information it functions of the ACR Committee under its Terms of Reference are to: requires from any employee of the Group in order to perform its duties and to call any employee to be questioned at a meeting of the monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Group, ACR Committee.
including its annual and quarterly reports, preliminary results announcements and any other corporate announcement relating The ACR Committee met on five occasions in 2006.
Each meeting was to the Groups financial performance: attended by all members of the ACR Committee.
At the invitation of the Chairman, the Chief Financial officer and Group Financial Controller ensure clarity of disclosure in financial reporting and the presentation attended all of the ACR Committee meetings in 2006.
In addition, and of a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups also at the invitation of the Chairman, the Chief Executive officer, the financial position: Chief Risk officer, the Chief Internal Auditor and the lead partner from the Groups external auditors attended each of the meetings at which have the primary responsibility for making a recommendation to risk management systems and internal audit programs were reviewed.
be put to shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting in relation to the appointment, re-appointment, removal and In accordance with its Terms of Reference, the ACR Committee held remuneration of the external auditor and to assess, at least annually, a number of private meetings with the lead partner from the Groups the objectivity and independence of the external auditor: external auditors and the Groups Chief Internal Auditor during the course of the year without any executive member of the Board in review and discuss issues and recommendations arising from attendance.
The purpose of these meetings was to facilitate free and the external audit and any matters the external auditor may wish open discussions between the ACR Committee members and the Chief to discuss: Internal Auditor and the external lead audit partner separately from the main sessions of the ACR Committee which were attended by the Chief Financial officer and the Group Financial Controller.
Annual report and accounts for the 39 year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Audit, Compliance and Risk Committee report Approval of audit and non-audit services provided by auditor 2 Internal financial control and risk management systems The ACR Committee has adopted formal policies and procedures the Groups risk management strategy, its internal audit strategy, its in relation to the provision of audit and non-audit services by the plan and progress in complying with Section 404 of the Sarbanesexternal auditor, which were most recently revised in February 2006.
Oxley Act 2002 and the effectiveness of the Groups system of The principal purpose of these policies and procedures is to ensure internal control over financial reporting during the year: that the independence of the external auditor is not impaired.
revisions to the policy for the management of treasury were reviewed The Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 and accordingly the ACR Committees and recommended for approval to the Board: policy prohibits the provision of certain non-audit services to the Group by the external auditor, including: quarterly reports on treasury investments and compliance with treasury policy were discussed: bookkeeping or other services related to the accounting records or financial statements of the Group: quarterly reports on the results of the Groups internal audit program: design and implementation of financial information systems: semi-annual review of the Groups corporate risk schedules: appraisal or valuation services, fairness opinions or  of the insurance renewal program for 2006 7: kind reports: and approval and review of the program to buy shares into an employee actuarial or internal audit outsourcing services.
benefit trust for the purpose of satisfying future share awards and option exercises: and Other types of audit and non-audit services may be performed by the external auditor if the work is either specifically pre-approved by the monitoring of the Groups whistle-blowing and fraud policies.
ACR Committee or the work falls within the ACR Committees schedule of pre-approved services.
The ACR Committees pre-approval policy 3 External auditor covers three categories of work audit services, audit-related services The ACR Committee reviewed the performance of the external auditor and tax services.
If the proposed services to be provided by the external following the completion of the 2005 audit process, which resulted in auditor fall within a category of pre-approved services, they may be the ACR Committee resolving to recommend that the Group submit a provided by the auditor without being specifically approved by the resolution to the 2006 AGM to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as the ACR Committee, provided that management does not need to exercise Groups external auditor.
At forthcoming meetings in 2007, the ACR any discretion in determining whether a proposed service falls within Committee will conduct a formal review of the performance of the one of the pre-approved categories.
In all cases, the ACR Committee external auditor and the effectiveness of the audit process in is notied of any pre-approved service that is provided by the auditor.
connection with the 2006 financial year audit.
Any non-prohibited service proposed to be provided by the auditor Throughout the year, the ACR Committee has kept the objectivity and which is not a pre-approved service must be approved in advance by independence of the external auditor under review and has obtained the ACR Committee, which will consider whether the independence, reports from the Groups external auditor describing all relationships skills and experience of the auditor make it a suitable supplier of the between the auditor and the Group.
The ACR Committee has remained proposed service.
satisfied that neither the level of non-audit services nor the nature of the work performed by the external auditors has in any way impaired their ACR Committee activities objectivity and independence.
Details of the fees paid to the external During 2006, the business discussed by the ACR Committee included auditors are disclosed in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements.
the following: 1 Financial statements the financial disclosures contained in the Groups quarterly results announcements: various accounting matters, including the application of the Groups David Kappler critical accounting policies and accounting standards in the context Chairman of the Audit, Compliance and Risk Committee of the financial disclosures and the impact of new accounting standards on the reporting of share-based compensation: review of any enquiries by the Securities and Exchange Commission or the Financial Reporting Review Panel: quarterly reports from the external auditors were received by the ACR Committee and discussed.
The reports addressed the following key areas: auditor responsibility and independence: significant accounting estimates and judgements made by management: audit adjustments proposed and whether they were corrected by management: and significant accounting policies and unusual transactions.
40 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc
