Directors report The Directors present their report on the affairs of the Group together Corporate governance with the audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended The Directors are committed to business integrity and professionalism December 31, 2006. and as an essential part of this commitment the Board supports high standards of corporate governance.
Details concerning Shires Incorporation of Shire plc arrangements relating to corporate governance and its compliance with Shire plc the Company and its subsidiaries collectively referred to The Combined Code on Corporate Governance for the 2006 financial as the Group or Shire is a leading specialty pharmaceutical company year are given on pages 32 to 38 and the remuneration policy contained that focuses on meeting the needs of the specialist physician.
in the Directors remuneration report is detailed on pages 41 to 52.
Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc SPG was incorporated under the Authorized and called up share capital laws of England and Wales on January 1, 1994 and was a public limited Details of the authorized and called up share capital of the Company company until November 25, 2005.
Shire plc was incorporated under as at December 31, 2006 and the changes during the year are set out the laws of England and Wales on June 27, 2005 and is a public limited in Note 32 to the consolidated financial statements.
Following the implementation of a Scheme of Arrangement, on November 25, 2005, Shire plc replaced SPG as the holding Market purchases of Ordinary shares company for the Shire Group.
The Company was given authority at the 2006 Annual General Meeting AGM to make market purchases of up to 49,872,676 of Results and dividends its own Ordinary shares of 5 pence each at a maximum price per The consolidated profit from continuing operations before taxation share of 105% of the middle market price.
of Shire for the year ended December 31, 2006 was $129.6 million 2005: loss of $143.8 million.
The consolidated results for 2006 include Towers Perrin Share Plan Services Guernsey Ltd as trustee of Shire a $271.9 million impairment of the goodwill that arose on the acquisition plc Employee benefit Trust the Trust, operating under an irrevocable, of BioChem Pharma Inc. 2005: $527.0 million impairment recorded.
non-discretionary program, purchased a number of Ordinary shares of the Company shares for the benefit of the Trust during the year.
The consolidated net assets of Shire as at December 31, 2006 were On February 28, 2007 the number of shares in the Trust stood at $4,145.4 million 2005: $4,081.3 million.
5,544,713 Ordinary shares, together with 75,000 American Depositary Shares each equivalent to three Ordinary shares.
In respect of the six months to December 31, 2006 the Board resolved to pay a second interim dividend of 5.25 US per Ordinary share R&D 2005: 4.42 US per share.
Together with the first interim payment of Shire continues an active R&D program and as a result has incurred 1.93 US per Ordinary share, 2005: 1.82 US per share, this represents research and development costs of $302.2 million in the financial year total dividends for 2006 of 7.18 US per Ordinary share 2005: 6.24 US ended December 31, 2006 2005: $287.1 million.
These costs have per share.
been charged to the consolidated profit and loss account in accordance with Shires accounting policy.
Principal activity The principal activity of Shire is to develop and market products for Directors specialty physicians.
Shire focuses its business on Central Nervous The Directors who served during the year were as follows: System CNS, Gastro-Intestinal GI, Human Genetic Therapies HGT and general products.
Dr James Cavanaugh Chairman, Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Nomination Committee The subsidiaries and associated undertakings principally affecting the profits or net assets of Shire in the year are listed in Note 38 to the Mr Matthew Emmens Chief Executive officer financial statements, including the country of incorporation principal trading area.
Mr Angus Russell Chief Financial officer Business review Dr Barry Price Senior Non-Executive Director The Company is required to set out in this report a fair review of the and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee business of the Group during the financial year ended December 31, 2006 and of the position of the Group at the end of that financial year Mr Ronald Nordmann Non-Executive Director and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the resigned December 22, 2006 group known as a Business Review.
The information that fulls the requirements of the Business Review can be found in the Chairmans The Hon James Grant Non-Executive Director review on pages 2 to 3, the Chief Executive Ofcers review on pages 4 to 5 and the financial review on pages 6 to 25 which are incorporated Mr Robin Buchanan Non-Executive Director in this report by reference.
Mr David Kappler Non-Executive Director Details of significant events since the balance sheet date are contained and Chairman of the Audit Committee in Note 41 to the financial statements.
Mr Patrick Langlois Non-Executive Director Ms Kate Nealon Non-Executive Director appointed July 27, 2006 Dr Jeffrey Leiden was appointed a Non-Executive Director with effect from January 1, 2007.
Biographical details of Directors are stated on pages 26 and 27.
28 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Directors report Directors interests in shares Substantial shareholdings Details of the current Directors interests in the share capital of the The information disclosed to the Company pursuant to sections Company, as shown in the register maintained in accordance with 198 to 208 of the Companies Act 1985 regarding holdings in the Section 325 of the Companies Act 1985, together with details of Ordinary share capital of the Company exceeding 3% as at the share options granted to them, are disclosed in the Directors February 28, 2007 shows: remuneration report on pages 41 to 52.
Fidelity International Limited has a holding of 5.2%: Re-appointment of Directors Non-Executive Directors are appointed ordinarily for a term of two Franklin Resources, Inc. and its afliates, managed on behalf years, subject to shareholder approval.
Non-Executive Directors of its investment clients, have a holding of 3.9%: who have served on the Board for nine years or more are appointed for one year terms and, in accordance with the Combined Code Legal and General Plc has a holding of 3.3%: and on Corporate Governance, are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
Re-appointment of Non-Executive Directors following Prudential Assurance Company has a holding of 3.0 %.
the expiry of their term of appointment is subject to Board approval.
Dr James Cavanaugh, Dr Barry Price, Ms Kate Nealon, Mr David Political donations Kappler, Mr Patrick Langlois, Mr Matthew Emmens and Dr Jeffrey Shire was given authority at the 2006 AGM to make EU political Leiden are standing for re-appointment at the AGM in accordance donations as dened in Section 347A of the Companies Act 1985 with the Companys Articles of Association.
Further information, not exceeding 25,000 $46,043 equivalent in total and to incur EU including their biographies, will be included in the Notice of Meeting political expenditure as dened in Section 347A of the Companies to Shareholders.
Act 1985 not exceeding 25,000 $46,043 equivalent in total.
The authorities were sought on a precautionary basis to avoid inadvertent Directors interest in material contracts contravention of The Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act Other than the related party transactions disclosed below, none of the 2000.
Shire did not make any donations to EU political parties during Directors had a material interest in any contract of signicance to which the year ended December 31, 2006 2005: $nil.
During 2006, Shire set the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings was a party during up a Political Action Committee PAC in the US.
The PAC is registered the period under review.
with the Federal Election Committee and attracts voluntary donations from US citizen employees and certain US suppliers and vendors.
The Related party transactions PAC is run by a committee of employees which determines the political Shire incurred professional fees with Stikeman Elliott, a law rm in which campaigns or political candidates the PAC will support.
Contributions the Hon James Grant is a partner, totaling $0.6 million for the year to are held by the PAC in a separate and segregated fund and Shire does December 31, 2006 2005: $0.5 million.
not contribute nancially to this fund.
In April 2004, Shire contributed cash of $3.7 million CAD $5.0 million Charitable contributions and equipment and intellectual property to the start-up of a new During the year, charitable contributions amounting to $505,753 2005: Canadian-based pharmaceutical research and development company, $281,900 were made.
The contributions were primarily to charitable ViroChem Pharma Inc. ViroChem, in return for an equity interest and medical foundations.
For further information, please refer to Shires royalties on the sale of certain products subsequently launched by Corporate Responsibility Report for 2006 which can be found on the ViroChem.
Dr Bellini, a Non-Executive Director of Shire BioChem Inc. Companys website www.
and until May 10, 2003 a Non-Executive Director of the Company, had, at the time of the transaction, an indirect substantial interest Employee involvement in a company, which is a co-investor of ViroChem.
In April 2006 and As at December 31, 2006, Shire employed 2,868 personnel, of whom April 2005, Shire contributed cash of $8.0 million CAN$9 million and 2,025 71% were based in the US and 443 15% were based in the UK.
$4.1 million CAD $5.0 million respectively to ViroChem in return for an Shire places considerable value on the involvement of its employees additional equity interest.
Shire has undertaken to invest an additional and constantly seeks to develop employee involvement throughout the $5.0 million CAD $6.0 million in ViroChem.
To further this aim, Shire adopted an Employee Internal Communication Charter in 2004.
Pursuant to the Charter, employees In October 2005, Shire sub-leased its ofce premises in Newport, are kept informed of strategy, current business performance, product Kentucky to Xanodyne Pharmaceuticals Inc. Dr James Cavanaugh, developments, changes in Group policy and processes, employee the Non-Executive Chairman of the Company, was the Chairman benets including pensions and health and safety arrangements.
of the Board of Directors of Xanodyne Pharmaceuticals Inc. up Shire communicates with employees via regular internal publications to February 9, 2007 and remains a Board Director of Xanodyne Shire Dynamics and Shire Xpress, email, the Group intranet, regular Pharmaceuticals Inc. As a result of the transaction Shire will receive all-employee meetings, functional and departmental meetings, focus $7.8 million net of inducements in lease income over the sub-lease and consultation groups on specic topics, employee surveys and period from Xanodyne Pharmaceuticals Inc. notice boards.
Shire also encourages involvement of employees in the Groups performance through an annual individual objective Directors and Ofcers liability insurance setting process linked to Shires corporate objectives, and through In the year under review, the Company maintained an insurance policy the operation of various employee share schemes, details of which for its Directors and ofcers in respect of liabilities arising out of any act, are set out in the Directors remuneration report on pages 41 to 52 error or omission whilst acting in their capacity as Directors or ofcers.
and in Note 33 to the consolidated financial statements.
Shires employment polices are developed to reect local legal, cultural and employment requirements and to maintain high standards wherever Shire operates.
Employees at all levels within the Group are encouraged to make the best possible contribution to Shires overall success.
Annual report and accounts for the 29 year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Directors report Equal opportunities Annual General Meeting Shire operates an equal opportunities policy that aims to treat individuals The Notice convening the AGM to be held on June 20, 2007 can be fairly and not to discriminate on the basis of sex, race, ethnic origin, found in a separate notice accompanying the annual report.
disability or on any other prohibited basis.
Applications for employment are fully considered on their merits, and employees are given appropriate Auditors training and equal opportunities for career development and promotion.
Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this annual report confirms that: Disabled employees Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and relative to the requirements of the position being applied for.
In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken that their employment with Shire continues and that appropriate training as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant or accommodation is arranged.
It is the policy of Shire that the training, audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far aware of that information.
as possible, be identical to that of other employees and that reasonable accommodation is made wherever possible.
This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
Health, safety and welfare The Directors are committed to ensuring the health, safety and welfare A resolution proposing the re-appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as of Shires employees at work.
Accordingly, it is Shires policy to manage auditors to the Group will be put to the AGM in accordance with Section its activities so as to avoid causing any unnecessary or unacceptable 384 of the Companies Act 1985.
The Audit Committee reviews both the risk to employees and those who may be affected by the Groups level of the audit fee and the level and nature of non-audit fees as part of business.
In addition, Shire takes its corporate responsibilities seriously, its review of the adequacy and objectivity of the audit process.
and maintains an active corporate responsibility committee as well as a global environmental health and safety team devoted to promoting By order of the Board employee safety at and outside of work.
Payment of creditors It is Shires policy to agree payment terms with its suppliers, making sure the supplier is aware of those terms, and to abide by them.
As at December 31 the trade creditors days outstanding were: Tatjana May 2006 2005 Company Secretary Number Number March 22, 2007 Group 20 30 Financial instruments Details of Shires use of financial instruments can be found in the Financial review on pages 6 to 25.
30 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc
