6746 UK Report Section 2006. qxd 16 5 07 15:14 Page 26 Board of Directors Board of Directors 01 02 03 04 01 03 Dr James Cavanaugh 69 Angus Russell 51 Chairman Chief Financial officer and Executive Vice Dr Cavanaugh has been a member of the President of Global Finance Board since March 24, 1997 and Chairman Mr Russell has been Shires Chief Financial since May 11, 1999.
He is a General Partner officer and a member of the Board since of HealthCare Partners, a Managing Director December 13, 1999.
He also serves as a of HealthCare Ventures, a venture capital Non-Executive Director of the City of London fund devoted to healthcare, Non-Executive Investment Trust plc.
Between 1980 and 1999, Chairman of Diversa Corporation and Mr Russell held a number of positions of of Xanodyne Pharmaceuticals Inc. up to increasing responsibility at ICI, Zeneca and February 2007 after which he remained AstraZeneca plc, including Vice Presidenta Board member, and a Non-Executive Corporate Finance at AstraZeneca and Group Director of MedImmune Inc. and Advancis Treasurer at Zeneca.
Mr Russell is a chartered Pharmaceutical Corporation.
He is a former accountant, having qualied with Coopers & President of SmithKline & French Laboratories, Lybrand, and a fellow of the Association of SmithKline Beecham Corporations Corporate Treasurers.
He is also a member clinical laboratory business, and Allergan of the Shires Management Committee and International, and served as Deputy Assistant Senior Executive Team and is Chairman of to the US President on the White House Shires CR Committee.
Dr Cavanaugh is also Chairman of the Companys Nomination Committee.
04 Robin Buchanan 54 02 Non-Executive Director Matthew Emmens 55 Mr Buchanan has been a member of the Chief Executive officer Board since July 30, 2003.
He also serves Mr Emmens has been Shires Chief Executive as a Non-Executive Director of Liberty officer and a member of the Board since International plc.
Mr Buchanan is the Senior March 12, 2003.
He also serves as a NonPartner of the UK operations and Director of Executive Director of Vertex Pharmaceuticals the global business consultancy, Bain & Inc. and Incyte Corporation.
He has also recently been career in international pharmaceuticals with appointed Dean of the London Business Merck & Co, Inc. in 1974, where he held a wide School and will commence his appointment range of sales, marketing and administrative no later than 1 July 2007.
He is a member of positions.
In 1992, he helped to establish the Trilateral Commission.
He previously Astra Merck, a joint venture between worked for American Express International Merck and Astra AB of Sweden, becoming Banking Corporation in New York, McKinsey President and Chief Executive officer.
In & Company, and Deloitte & Touche, where he 1999, he joined Merck KGaA and established qualied as a chartered accountant FCA.
Mr EMD Pharmaceuticals, the companys US Buchanan holds an MBA with High Distinction prescription pharmaceutical business.
He Baker Scholar from Harvard Business was later promoted to President of Merck School.
He is also a member of Shires KGaAs global prescription business, based Remuneration Committee.
Mr Emmens holds a degree in Business Management from Fairleigh Dickinson University.
He is also Chairman of Shires Management Committee and Senior Executive Team.
C 69 Patrick Langlois 61 Kate Nealon 53 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Mr Grant has been a member of the Board Mr Langlois has been a member of the Board Ms Nealon was appointed to the Board since May 11, 2001 and previously served since November 11, 2005.
She also holds Non as a Director of BioChem Pharma Inc. since Executive Director of Coley Pharmaceuticals Executive Director positions with HBOS plc 1986.
He also sits on the boards of two Group, Inc. and Exonhit S. A.. Mr Langlois and Cable & Wireless plc.
She is also a Senior Canadian public corporations and the boards previously served as Vice Chairman of the Associate at the Judge Business School at of a number of other private corporations and Management Board of Aventis S. A. Cambridge University.
Ms Nealon was not-for-profit foundations and councils.
He Strasbourg, having been Group Executive previously Group Head of Legal & Compliance is a partner and Chair Emeritus with the law Vice President and Chief Financial officer for at Standard Chartered plc until 2004.
She is rm Stikeman Elliott in Montreal.
He also spent many years in a US qualied lawyer and spent several years holds degrees in Arts and Law from McGill senior financial roles with the Rhone-Poulenc in her early career practising law in New York.
He is also a member of Shires Group, including three years as a member of She is also a member of Shires Remuneration Nomination Committee.
the Executive Committee and Chief Financial Committee and Audit, Compliance and officer.
Mr Langlois holds a PhD in Economics Risk Committee.
06 and a diploma in banking studies.
He is also a David Kappler 59 member of Shires Audit, Compliance and Risk 10 Non-Executive Director Committee and Remuneration Committee.
Dr Barry Price 63 Mr Kappler has been a member of the Non-Executive Director Board since April 5, 2004.
He also serves 08 Dr Price has been a member of the Board as the Non-Executive Chairman of Premier Dr Jeffrey Leiden 51 since January 16, 1996 and is the Groups Foods plc and as a Non-Executive Director of Non-Executive Director Senior Non-Executive Director.
He also serves Intercontinental Hotels Group plc.
In addition, Dr Leiden was appointed to the Board on as Chairman of Antisoma plc, Biowisdom Ltd he was a Director of Camelot Group plc from January 1, 2007.
He served as President and and VASTox plc.
Dr Price worked for Glaxo for 19962002, and of HMV Group plc from Chief Operating officer, Pharmaceutical 28 years, where he held positions of increasing 20022006.
Mr Kappler retired from Cadbury Products Group and Chief scientific officer at responsibility with the companys research Schweppes plc in April 2004 after serving Abbott Laboratories from 20012006: during group.
Dr Price is also Chairman of Shires as Chief Financial officer since 1995.
He this time he was also a member of the Boards Remuneration Committee and a member worked for the Cadbury Schweppes group of Directors of Abbott and TAP Pharmaceutical of Shires Audit, Compliance and Risk between 1965 and 1984 and rejoined the Products, Inc.
Prior to joining Abbott, Dr Committee and Nomination Committee.
company in 1989 following its acquisition Leiden served as the Elkan R. Blout Professor of Trebor Group, where he was Financial of Biological Sciences, Harvard School of Ronald Nordmann 65 Director.
Mr Kappler is a fellow of the Public Health and Professor of Medicine, Non-Executive Director Chartered Institute of Management Harvard Medical School.
Prior to that, he Mr Nordmann was a member of the Board Accountants.
He is also Chairman of Shires was the Frederick H. Rawson Professor from December 23, 1999 until his retirement Audit, Compliance and Risk Committee of Medicine and Pathology and Chief of from the Board and its Committees on and a member of the Nomination Committee.
the Section of Cardiology at the University December 22, 2006 and he previously served of Chicago.
His extensive business and as a Non-Executive Director of Roberts consulting experience includes both the Pharmaceutical Corporation.
He is also a pharmaceutical and medical device areas.
Director of Par Pharmaceuticals Companies Dr Leiden was a founder of Cardiogene, Inc. Inc. Mr Nordmann is Co-President of Global a biotechnology company specializing in Health Associates.
He has been a financial cardiovascular gene therapy.
Dr Leiden earned analyst in healthcare equities since 1971, a bachelors degree in biological sciences, holding senior positions with Deereld a doctorate in virology and a medical degree, Management, PaineWebber, Oppenheimer & all from the University of Chicago.
He is a Co. F Eberstadt & Co. and Warner-Chilcott fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Laboratories.
He holds a bachelors degree Sciences and an elected member of the from Johns Hopkins University and an MBA Institute of Medicine of the National Academy from Fairleigh Dickinson University.
During of Sciences Dr Leiden is currently a Partner at 2006, Mr Nordmann was a member of Shires Clarus Ventures LLC.
Audit, Compliance and Risk, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Annual report and accounts for the 27 year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc
