REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The Directors present their Annual Report and the audited Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2006.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND BUSINESS REVIEW The principal activity of the Group is the supply of specialist products to construction and related markets.
The main products supplied are insulation, roofing, commercial interiors and specialist construction and safety products.
The Chairmans Statement and Business Review on pages 6 to 23 contain a review of these activities and comments on the future outlook.
The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Company are set out in the Business Review on pages 20 to 23.
As at the date of this Report, there have been no important events affecting the business of the Company, or any of its subsidiaries, which have occurred since the end of the financial year.
Details of the Groups policies in relation to employees including disabled employees and information on charitable and political donations are disclosed on pages 34 and 35.
Details of the Groups policies in relation to corporate governance are disclosed on pages 40 to 43.
GROUP RESULTS The Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31 December 2006 is shown on page 55.
The movement in the Group reserves during the year is shown in Note 23 on page 87.
Segmental information is set out in Note 1 on pages 64 to 66.
DIVIDENDS The Board is recommending a final dividend of 14.3p per share 2005: 11.5p which, together with the interim dividend of 6.2p 2005: 5.3p per share, makes a total for the year ended 31 December 2006 of 20.5p 2005: 16.8p per share.
Payment of the final dividend, if approved at the Annual General Meeting, will be made on 29 May 2007 to Shareholders registered at the close of business on 27 April 2007.
DIRECTORS The names of the Directors as at the date of this report together with biographical notes are set out on page 36.
They comprised the Board for the whole of the year, except that Mr. C. J. Davies was appointed as a Director on 12 February 2007.
All Directors are subject to election at the Annual General Meeting immediately following their appointment and to re-election every three years.
Any Director attaining the age of 70 would be subject to re-election annually.
Mr. C. J. Davies is therefore submitting himself for election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Mr. Davies has a service contract for a continuous term to retirement age, which provides for a rolling 12 months notice period in writing by either party.
The other Directors standing for re-election at the Annual General Meeting are Mr. M. J. C. Borlenghi, Mr. M. J. Chivers, and Mr. D. Williams.
Each Director being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
Full details of Directors remuneration, interests in the share capital of the Company and of their share options are set out on pages 44 to 51 in the Directors Remuneration Report.
ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS Details of acquisitions during the year are covered in Note 13 on pages 78 to 80.
Details of the disposal of the Groups USA business are covered in Note 28 on page 94.
SHARE CAPITAL Details of the share capital and allotments during the year, which arose solely from the exercise of options under Employee and Executive Share Schemes are set out in Note 22 on page 86.
Details of outstanding options under the Groups Employee and Executive Schemes are set out in Note 22 on page 86.
ACQUISITION BY THE COMPANY OF ITS OWN SHARES Shareholders authority for the purchase by the Company of 12,192,500 of its own shares existed at the end of the year.
The Company will seek to renew this authority at the 2007 Annual General Meeting.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS As at 13 March 2007, the Company had been notified of the following substantial interests of 3% or more in its ordinary issued share capital.
Ordinary % of shares issued of 10p share each capital FMR Corporation Fidelity International Limited 13,457,914 10.93 Schroder PLC 7,473,481 6.07 Prudential PLC 6,415,812 5.21 Barclays PLC 4,910,061 3.99 Legal & General Group PLC 4,423,743 3.59 38 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 8 SIG ar06 middle.
indd 7 05 04 2007 11:09:25 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PAYMENT TO SUPPLIERS The Group follows the CBIs prompt payment code and operates and abides by a clearly defined policy, which has been agreed with all major suppliers.
As at 31 December 2006 the Company had no trade creditors as it does not trade in its own right.
The Groups average number of days outstanding as at 31 December 2006 in respect of trade payables was 38 2005: 38.
FIXED ASSETS In the opinion of the Directors, the market value of the Groups properties is not materially different from the value included in the Group Accounts.
DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS LIABILITY INSURANCE The Company purchases liability insurance cover for Directors and Officers of the Company and its subsidiaries.
STATEMENT OF THE DIRECTORS ON THE DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that: so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Directors have chosen to prepare Accounts for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and for the Company in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
In the case of UK GAAP Accounts, the Directors are required to prepare Accounts for each financial year, which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these Accounts, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Accounts.
In the case of IFRS Accounts, IAS 1 requires that Accounts present fairly for each financial year the Groups financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the IAS Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRS.
Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a Directors Report and Directors Remuneration Report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
AUDITORS In accordance with Section 384 of the Companies Act 1985 a resolution re-appointing Deloitte & Touche LLP as Auditors of the Company for the ensuing year will be proposed at the Companys forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Notice convening the Annual General Meeting to be held at the Tankersley Manor Hotel, Church Lane, Tankersley, Sheffield S75 3DQ at noon on Wednesday 16 May 2007, together with explanatory notes on the resolutions to be proposed, is contained in a circular to be sent to Shareholders with this report.
By order of the Board RICHARD MONRO Company Secretary 13 March 2007 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 39 8 SIG ar06 middle.
