ROOFING SIG is the largest supplier of roong products in the UK and Ireland.
During 2006 the Group also entered the German and Polish markets through the acquisition of Melle Dachbaustoffe GmbH, bringing the total number of roong focused trading sites in the Group to over 250.
CASE STUDY: EXTENSION OF AN EXISTING GROUP ACTIVITY INTO A NEW GEOGRAPHY The Group has had a strong presence in Germany and Poland for a number of years however it has not been active in the roofing market within these countries.
During 2006, SIG acquired Melle Dachbaustoffe GmbH, a roofing materials distribution business with eleven branches in Germany and three branches in Poland.
26 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 8 SIG ar06 front.
indd 26 05 04 2007 11:06:58 REVIEW OF THE YEAR FOCUS, SPECIALISATION AND SERVICE The roof is the most critical part of any building.
It protects the integrity of the buildings structure and the buildings contents from the elements.
Repair and maintenance is often an urgent requirement and this requires suitable products to be readily available on demand.
Each trading site offers materials from the leading manufacturers of roofing materials and supplies products for pitched, flat, industrial and agricultural applications.
As the largest supplier of roofing materials in Europe, the Group is able to keep at the forefront of innovations and provide its customers with a level of technical know-how unrivalled in the market.
As well as specialist roofing materials, each location offers a range of accessories such as tools and fixings, safety products and insulation materials.
Many of these accessories are core product areas for other Group businesses and the Roofing business is able to draw on the experience and technical knowledge of its sister businesses as well as taking advantage of Group procurement.
SIG is also a leading supplier of reclaimed and pre-used roof tiles and slates which have two key advantages over newly manufactured products.
Firstly, they remove the need for high-energy consuming manufacture and secondly, their aged and worn character provides an aesthetically pleasing appearance that matches that of the local environment, something that is increasingly important to local communities and planning agencies.
The on-going need for repair or replacement of existing roofs, whether as the result of natural wear and tear or of storm damage, creates a resilient market for roofing materials.
The emergency nature of some repairs requires materials to be readily available from local stock and these demands dictate the nature of the market which is for a large number of depots holding a broad range of stock.
For new build applications, where consumers or designers require certain styles or finishes, SIG also provides Roof Libraries which offer a very wide selection of materials and facilitate the specification process.
During the last few years, SIG has also broadened its product offering to include roofline products such as rainwater and guttering, soffit, fascia and bargeboards and the Group has now established a network of over 100 trading sites focused on this particular niche area in the UK roofing market.
The Group is now able to share its know-how, skills and technical COUNTRIES OF OPERATION: knowledge across four countries which enables it to stay at the forefront United Kingdom of market developments and benchmark best practice.
The deepening Ireland of the Groups positions within these territories also provides economies Germany of scale and enhances our business presence.
Poland SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 27 8 SIG ar06 front.
