INSULATION SIG is the leading specialist supplier of insulation and related products in Europe.
CASE STUDY: DEVELOPMENT OF AN EXISTING BUSINESS As the leading supplier of insulation and related products in the UK, the Group continues to develop its customer offering and invests heavily in new locations, delivery capability and staff training.
24 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 8 SIG ar06 front.
indd 24 05 04 2007 11:06:07 REVIEW OF THE YEAR FOCUS, SPECIALISATION AND SERVICE Insulation materials are used across all areas of construction and industry.
Traditionally they have been used to resist the transfer of heat and fire but are also becoming important in the management of sound transmission within buildings.
The goal of reducing carbon emissions is placing increasing importance on the use of appropriate insulation materials and systems.
High energy costs and environmental concerns drive the use of insulation products across a wide range of construction and industrial applications.
In general, these applications fall into three categories of heat, fire and sound management, all of which are subject to in country Building Regulations.
The most widespread application is that of heat management where insulation is most commonly used to retain heat within a building or industrial process.
However, there are also applications, such as cold stores, where the requirement is to keep heat out.
Fire protection is another important application for insulation.
Good design, material specification and installation are vital in protecting buildings from the ravages of fire and ultimately helps save lives.
The third application of insulation is that of sound management.
Cities and towns are becoming increasingly dense and the ability to minimise the transmission of noise between dwellings is now an integral part of building design.
The technical capabilities for this application are developing apace and the Group has positioned itself as a leader within this area as well as the wider insulation market.
In all these areas of application, SIG works closely with leading manufacturers to bring a wide range of products to market and provide the technical expertise which only a specialist business is able to offer.
The Group has over 150 trading sites in Europe that are focused on the requirements of the insulation market and are able to provide expert advice, wide and available stock holding and rapid service and delivery.
In the UK, the Group is also engaged in insulation contracting, improving the efficiency of existing residential properties through a number of Government supported schemes and the provision of built-in insulation in new dwellings.
The Group has also developed its own fabrication facilities which have the skills to be able to provide bespoke solutions and thereby offer a service that differentiates itself from mainstream competition.
The new Leeds trading site was opened in 2006 and consolidated COUNTRIES OF OPERATION: two smaller operations in the area.
Both these operations continue United Kingdom to trade using different brand names and targeting differing customer Ireland groups but the new combined site has been designed to optimise layout Germany for operational efficiency.
The relocated staff have over 320 years France of experience in SIG and the business is now the focal point of insulation Poland expertise in West Yorkshire.
The Netherlands Belgium Austria SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 25 8 SIG ar06 front.
