Directors report for the year ended 16 September 2006 The directors submit to the members their seventy-first annual report Property, plant & equipment together with the audited financial statements of the Company for the The groups property, plant & equipment are included in the financial 52 weeks ended 16 September 2006. statements at depreciated historic cost.
The properties are employed in the business and many of them were acquired when market Principal activities and business review values were substantially lower than at present.
The directors The activities of the group principally concern the processing and consider that a surplus over book value exists, but are unable to manufacture of food worldwide and textile retailing in the UK and quantify the excess.
Comments on the development of the business during the period under review and on the future outlook are Substantial shareholding and controlling interest contained within the Chairmans statement, and the Operating review.
Details of a controlling interest in the shares of the Company are given in note 32 on page 97.
Associated British Foods plc the Company is the holding company for the Associated British Foods group the group.
Details of the Other than as noted above, so far as is known, no other person holds principal operating subsidiaries are set out on page 97. or is beneficially interested in a disclosable interest in the Company.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business Review Power to issue shares and which should be treated as forming part of this report is included At the last annual general meeting, held on 9 December 2005, in the Operating review on pages 6 to 21 which includes a review of authority was given to the directors to allot unissued relevant the external environment, key strategic aims, performance measures securities in the Company up to a maximum of an amount equivalent and the Companys policy on treatment of its employees.
Further to one third of the shares in issue at any time up to 8 December information is included in the Financial review on pages 22 and 23 2010.
No such shares have been issued.
The directors propose and in the Corporate citizenship report on pages 24 to 27. to renew this authority at the annual general meeting to be held on 8 December 2006 for a further period of five years.
The audited financial statements of the group and Company appear on pages 48 to 118.
A further special resolution passed at that meeting granted authority to the directors to allot equity securities in the Company for cash, Results and dividends without regard to the pre-emption provisions of the Companies Act The consolidated income statement is on page 48.
This authority expires on the date of the annual general financial year attributable to equity shareholders amounted to 301m.
meeting to be held on 8 December 2006 and the directors will The directors recommend a final dividend of 12.5p per ordinary seek to renew this authority for the following year.
share, to be paid, if approved, on 12 January 2007 which, together with the interim dividend of 6.25p per share paid in July, amounts to Disclosure of information to auditors 18.75p for the year.
Dividends are detailed on page 63.
The directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no Research and development relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are Innovative use of existing and emerging technologies will continue unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that he ought to to be crucial to the successful development of new products and have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit processes for the group.
information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
For these purposes, relevant audit information We have major technical centres in the UK at the Allied Technical means information needed by the Companys auditors in connection Centre and the animal feed Central Laboratories.
Facilities also exist with preparing their report on page 47. at ACH Food Companies in the US, Weston Technologies in Australia and AB Enzymes in Germany.
These centres support the technical Auditors resources of the trading divisions in the search for new technology and In accordance with Section 384 of the Companies Act 1985, a in monitoring and maintaining high standards of quality and food safety.
resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company is to be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Charitable and political donations Contributions to charitable organisations by the group during the year Directors totalled 0.4m 2005 0.3m.
Political donations were made during The names of the persons who were directors of the Company during the year by Food Investments Pty in Australia to the Liberal Party of the financial year and as at 7 November 2006 appear on pages 28 Australia of 12,273 2005 4,132.
Payments were made in 2005 and 29. to the Australian Labour Party of 1,446 and to the National Party of Australia of 207.
No such payments were made in 2006.
Lord Jay of Ewelme GCMG and Javier Ferrn were appointed as non-executive directors on 1 November 2006 and in accordance Payments to suppliers with the Articles of Association will be standing for election at the Associated British Foods plc has no trade creditors but the group AGM.
Also in accordance with the Articles of Association and the policy on payment of suppliers is detailed on page 27.
Combined Code on Corporate Governance, Galen Weston and 30 Directors report Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Lord MacGregor who have served for more than nine years, and Jeff Harris retire from the board and being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Four directors of operating subsidiaries benefited from qualifying third party indemnity provisions provided by ABF Investments plc during the financial year and at the date of this report.
Non-beneficial interests The directors of the Company at the end of the year had the following non-beneficial interests: Galen Weston and George Weston are trustees of a trust, in which they have no beneficial interests, which at 16 September 2006 held 683,073 ordinary shares of 50p 2005 683,073 in Wittington Investments Limited.
Subsequent changes The interests shown above remained the same at 7 November 2006.
By order of the Board Paul Lister, Company Secretary 7 November 2006 31 Directors report Annual Report & Accounts 2006
