SPECIALIST CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY PRODUCTS Customers demand quality products at competitive prices delivered when and where they choose: providing this service across a specialist product range is what SIG is about.
CASE STUDY: NEW BUSINESS ACTIVITY The Group has established this division through the acquisition of a series of businesses, many of which were relatively small in scale but provided excellent technical knowledge or enhanced the Groups geographic position.
30 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 8 SIG ar06 front.
indd 30 05 04 2007 11:08:15 REVIEW OF THE YEAR FOCUS, SPECIALISATION AND SERVICE Specialist Construction and Safety Products provides a range of materials and consumable items that are essential to the construction process.
Detailed product knowledge and a keen understanding of particular applications are vital elements of customer support.
The Specialist Construction division covers a wide portfolio of products such as concrete accessories, waterproofing systems, construction chemicals and admixtures, brickwork support systems, specialist fixings and tools.
Typically, products are supplied to large commercial or civil engineering projects.
Examples include tunnels and bridges, schools and hospitals, retail developments, hotels and office buildings.
The products supplied by SIG are often of critical importance to the whole building programme and must perform to specification and be available for use at the right time and right location.
Relationships with contractors, the capability to resolve problems with expert technical advice and the ability to offer rapid delivery times so as to maintain workflows on large projects is critical to the service of customers.
The division also includes SIGs Safety Products distribution business, which unlike other Group companies manages its resources from a single site, offering next day delivery throughout the UK mainland.
Specialist safety equipment, such as eye, hand and foot protection is supplied to a wide range of industries with particular emphasis on the construction sector.
The Safety business reaches a wide and growing range of customers by direct marketing and has a strong web presence www.
The growing requirement for customers to have their work and safety wear branded with their own logo is met by in-house print and embroidery capabilities.
By combining the businesses the Group has been able to achieve COUNTRIES OF OPERATION: back office savings and improve procurement by global sourcing.
United Kingdom The product service offering has also been raised as the best ideas Ireland and practices are shared across the division.
National supply agreements Poland with major contractors have also been possible as the development France Safety of the trading site network has been extended nationwide.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 31 8 SIG ar06 front.
