COMMERCIAL INTERIORS SIG holds a leading position in the commercial interiors market in Europe and supplies a wide portfolio of products to specialist contractors.
CASE STUDY: BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT IN POLAND SIG sells a wide range of products for the interior fit-out of buildings from a growing number of trading sites.
As part of the expansion programme a specialist distribution business with 34 trading sites was acquired in Poland adding to the 22 which the Group already owned.
This expansion of the Polish operations provides a platform for continued future growth.
28 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 8 SIG ar06 front.
indd 28 05 04 2007 11:07:30 REVIEW OF THE YEAR FOCUS, SPECIALISATION AND SERVICE The commercial interiors market place is demanding, sophisticated and fast moving.
Emphasis is on achieving a balance between efficient utilisation of often expensive space and the quality and comfort of the working environment.
There is also an added requirement of flexibility to meet the changing business requirements of todays world.
The core product areas for the Group are ceiling, partitioning, dry lining and specialist door systems used in non-residential buildings, together with a wide range of ancillary products supplied to support individual contracts.
All types of non-residential buildings such as schools, hospitals, hotels, offices and shops are supplied with products for either new build or refurbishment projects.
The Group supplies ceiling and dry lining products from leading suppliers and manufactures its own door and partitioning systems.
The Group has over 150 trading sites which blend the requirements of small, maintenance orientated projects which require ready access to materials with those of larger, specification-based contracts where specialist advice, service and support are required to secure orders.
Customer and client support may include technical design and development of visual appearance, together with logistics and delivery scheduling in order to meet the fit-out requirements.
Delivery service is an important element of the project planning as city locations can often have difficult access and minimal space for holding stock.
If materials are not available on time then contractors face lost downtime and potential time penalties.
COUNTRIES OF OPERATION: United Kingdom Ireland Germany France Poland The Netherlands Belgium Austria SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 29 8 SIG ar06 front.
