THE BUSINESS HISTORY AND DEVELOPMENT Group Strategy Smith & Nephew is a global business engaged in the development, manufacture and marketing of medical devices in the sectors of orthopaedic reconstruction, orthopaedic trauma and clinical therapies, endoscopy and advanced woundmanagement.
Group History The Group has a history dating back 151 years to the family enterprise of Thomas James Smith who opened a small pharmacy in Hull, England in 1856.
On his death in 1896, his nephew Horatio Nelson Smith took over the management of the business.
Smith & Nephew was incorporated and listed on the London Stock Exchange in 1937.
Today it is a public limited company incorporated in the UK registered in, and conducted under the laws of, England and Wales.
The corporate headquarters is in the UK.
Operations in countries other than the UK are under the laws of those countries.
In November 1999, the Group was listed onthe New YorkStock Exchange.
In 2001, Smith & Nephew became a constituent member of the FTSE 100 index in the UK.
This means that Smith & Nephew is included in the top 100 companies traded on the London Stock Exchange measured in terms of market capitalisation.
Recent Developments On 12 March 2007 the Group announced that it had agreed the purchase of Plus Orthopedics Holding AG Plus, a private Swiss orthopaedic company, for a total of CHF 1,086m $889m in cash, including assumed debt.
Completion of the agreement is conditional on receipt of competition clearances which are expected to take two to three months.
Plus reported revenues of CHF367m $300m in 2006 and profit before interest and tax of CHF44m $36m.
In February 2007 the Group commenced a share buy back programme of up to $1.5 billion over the next two years.
This followed an assessment of the medium term capital needs of the Group both internally and for acquisitions in which management determined that shareholder value and balance sheet efficiency would be enhancedby returningcapital to shareholders.
During the fourth quarter of 2006 the Group entered into discussions to acquire Biomet, Inc.
These discussions were terminated inDecember.
In July 2006 the Group acquired OsteoBiologics, Inc OBI for $73m in cash.
OBI markets bioabsorbable bone graft substitutes in Europe to repair cartilage defects in the knee and offers the TRUFIT BGS Plug in the US as a bone void filler.
OBI has been integrated withthe endoscopybusiness.
In June 2006, the United States Attorneys Office in Indianapolis, Indiana issued a federal grand jury subpoena to Smith & Nephews orthopaedic business at the request of the Department of Justice, Antitrust Division, asking for copies of documents regarding possible violations of federal criminal law, including possible violations of the antitrust laws, relating to the manufacture and sale of orthopaedic implant devices.
Four of the business major competitors received similar subpoenas.
Smith & Nephew is co-operating fully with the United States Attorney.
Theresults of this investigationmay not be knownfor several years.
In May 2006, the Group exited the tissue engineering operations of its advanced wound management business.
On 23 February 2006, Smith & Nephew, together with its partner Beiersdorf AG, sold its joint venture, BSN Medical, to Montagu Private Equity for an enterprise value of 1,030m the Groups share was cash proceeds of $562m resulting in a net profit to the Group of $351m.
The Groups share of the results of BSN Medical and the gainondisposal have been classified as  inaccordancewithIFRS.
At the beginning of 2006 the orthopaedics business was split into two separate business units, reconstruction and trauma and clinical therapies.
Each business has its own management and resources although certain administrative and logistics functions remain shared.
Management believes that this divisionalisation will improve focus onmarkets and customers.
4 In 2006 there were a number of changes to the Board.
John Buchanan, Deputy Chairman, was appointed Chairman, replacing Dudley Eustace who retired at the AGM.
David J. Illingworth was promoted to the newly created position of Chief Operating Officer and appointed to the Board in February and Adrian Hennah was appointed to the Board as Chief FinancialOfficer inJune, replacingPeter Hooleywhoretired.
In March 2005 the US Attorneys Office in Newark, New Jersey issued a subpoena to the Groups orthopaedic business asking for copies of its consulting, professional service and remuneration agreements with orthopaedic reconstructive surgeons.
Four of the divisions major competitors received similar subpoenas.
The Company is co-operatingfully with the US Attorney and providingcopies of the requested contracts and additional documents as requested.
In August 2003, Smith & Nephew withdrew from all markets the macrotextured version of its OXINIUM femoral knee component.
As at that date 2,971 components had been implanted of which approximately 2,471 were in the USA, 450 in Australia and 50 in Europe.
As at the end of February 2007 revision surgeries had been carried out on affected patients and settlements were agreed with patients in respect of 926 of these revisions.
As discussed more fully under Legal Proceedings, due to the denial of insurance coverage by certain of the Groups product liability insurers in respect of existing claims and future claims, a provision of $154m was recorded in 2004, representing unsettled insurance claims and an estimate of claims likely to arise in the future assuming that no further insurance cover is available.
After adjusting for costs charged against the provision $38m remains at the end of February 2007 to settle pending and future claims.
These estimates constitute forward looking statements that are subject to uncertainties.
Depending on the number and average cost of actual revisions, costs to Smith & Nephew may be greater or less than the amount of this provision.
See Legal Proceedingsand Risk Factors.
BUSINESS DESCRIPTION Organisation Smith & Nephew operates on a worldwide basis.
This has been achieved through a series of acquisitions, predominantly in the US but also in Europe, and through continued emphasis on the development and introductionof new products inthe Groups principalmarkets.
Smith & Nephew is organised currently into four global business units of reconstruction, trauma and clinical therapies, endoscopy and advanced wound management and a separate indirect market unit.
Each of the global business units manages its sales directly in twelve international markets the US, Canada, the UK, Germany, Japan, Australia, Belgium, France, Italy, the Netherlands, New Zealand and Ireland and takes responsibility for strategy, research and development R&D, manufacturing, marketing, sales and financial performance.
The remaining 19 markets in which the Group has operations are managed by country managers who are responsible onlyfor sales and distributionof the Groups productrange, and comprisethe indirectmarket unit.
A head office team in London, England directs the overall business and supports the business units, primarily in the areas of business development, company secretarial, finance, human resources and investor relations, with a legal department based in Memphis, Tennessee.
A central research facility in York, England is charged with the development of  materials scienceand biology, particularlycell biology.
Reconstruction Overview Reconstruction implants include hip, knee and shoulder joints as well as ancillary products such as bone cement and mixingsystems used incemented reconstructionjoint surgery.
The reconstruction business is managed worldwide from Memphis, Tennessee, which is also the site of its main manufacturing facility.
Implants are also manufactured at small facilities in Tuttlingen, Germany and in Warwick, UK.
The Groups knee product range is built on two major knee systems: GENESIS II, designed to facilitate the accuracy and efficiency of the operating procedure and provide improved long-term clinical results: and PROFIX, a reconstructive knee system featuring simpler instruments and surgical technique.
Both of these systems have a ten year clinical experience.
Two major new knee systems JOURNEY and LEGION, a revision system, were added to the productoffering in2006.
5 Group Description Within the hip line, the SPECTRON cemented hip system and the REFLECTION acetabular cup system have documented positive long-term clinical performance.
More recently, the success of SYNERGY, a tapered titanium stem system, ANTHOLOGY, a tapered flat stem and BIRMINGHAM HIP RESURFACING BHR, a hip resurfacing system approved for sale in Quarter 2 2006 in the US have established Smith & Nephew as a strong player in this product segment.
The EMPERION hip system was also launched in 2006 as a modular hip system for primary and .
The Group has developed and manufactures knee and hip implant components made from oxidised zirconium OXINIUM which is patent protected and which management believes possesses improved wear characteristics whichmay be of significant benefit to younger, moreactive patients.
TheOXINIUM  acquired in 2005 in Memphis, Tennessee has improved yields and created additional capacity with further expansion possibilities.
To compete effectively in the growing global reconstruction market, management believes that as well as having a leading edge product range it is important to have a skilled sales force that can build strong relationships with surgeons and to provide high levels of customer service.
At the end of 2006 the global sales force numbers 919 of whom569 serve the US market.
Strategy Smith & Nephews reconstruction strategy is to become the leading innovator of solutions for the active, informed patient.
Management believes that by focusing innovation on the needs of the growing demographic segment of younger, more active patients, that Smith & Nephew can become a leader in providing hip and knee implants to these segments.
As an example, in the US patients aged 64 and under represent 40% of the primary hip and knee replacement market and management believes this sector is growing at twice the market rate.
New  JOURNEY, LEGION and BHR inthe US support this strategy.
The reconstruction strategy also calls for investment in major orthopaedic markets around the world.
Smith & Nephew intends to further penetrate these markets by expanding its sales force and by introducingnew implants that offer a greater level of function for the active patient.
The reconstruction business is also investing in strategies to encourage patient demand through integrated information programs including direct-to-consumer, publicrelations and internet based initiatives.
During 2006 the Group completed the integration of the Leading Kabushiki Kaisah Leading Medical orthopaedic distributor in Japan which doubled the size of the Groups reconstruction sales force in Japan and created a strong sales channel with the objective of increasing market share in what management believes to be the second largest orthopaedicmarket inthe world.
New Products In 2006, the  had three major launches:JOURNEY, BHR inthe US and EMPERION.
Thelate 2005 launches of LEGION and ANTHOLOGY continued throughout 2006 as well, creating new opportunities for growth.
Products launched in 2006 accounted for 15% of sales and management believes that this willaccelerate in 2007.
JOURNEY, launched in Quarter 2 2006 is a knee replacement designed to offer the patient more natural motion.
The BHR launch in the US gave Smith & Nephew the only approved resurfacing product in the US market.
The launch program required Smith & Nephew to provide training to all surgeons using the device.
The US training efforts for BHR trained 336 surgeons in 2006.
This effort will continue into 2007, where the Group expects to see its first competitor enter the market in the second half.
In addition, the EMPERION hip modular system was launchedinQuarter 3 2006, expanding Smith & Nephews offering for primaryand revisionhips.
The reconstruction business continued to invest in medical education through cadaveric training centres, training meetings, and the use of the MOBILAB mobile training centre.
In 2006, the MOBILAB was used in over 40 US locationsto provide trainingto support 2006 productlaunchesand coreproductofferings.
Recent Regulatory Approvals In May 2006, the FDA approved the BHR system as the first hip resurfacing system approved for sale in the US, thus providing a unique opportunity for Smith and Nephew to strategically position and maintain itself as an innovativeplayer inthe orthopaedicmarket.
Competition Management estimates that the worldwide reconstruction market excluding the spine segment served by the Group grew by 8% in 2006 and is currently worth more than $9 billion per annum.
Management believes that Smith & Nephew holds a 9% share of this market by value.
6 Principal global competitors in the orthopaedic reconstruction market and their estimated 2006 global shares, are Zimmer 29%, Stryker 20%, DePuy Johnson& Johnson 22% and Biomet 11%.
Trauma and Clinical Therapies Overview Trauma and Clinical Therapies products comprise trauma products and associated clinical therapies.
Trauma products consist of internal and external fixation devices and orthobiological materials used in the stabilisation of severe fractures and deformity correction procedures.
Clinical therapies consist of products applied in an orthopaedic office or clinic setting and in 2006 comprised the areas of bone growth stimulation and joint fluid therapy.
The trauma and clinical therapies business is managed worldwide from Memphis, Tennessee, which is also the site of its main manufacturing facility.
Trauma fixation products are also manufactured at the facility in Tuttlingen, Germany and by third party manufacturers.
Within the trauma business, internal fixation products, such as the TRIGEN intramedullary nail system, the PERI-LOC locked plating system and the IMHS CP hip fracture device and external fixation systems such as JET-X and TAYLOR SPATIAL FRAME provide orthopaedic surgeons a comprehensive offering of products to address trauma and deformity correction procedures.
Orthobiologic products, including VIAGRAF demineralised bone matrix are also offered for use  trauma surgeries.
The EXOGEN line of ultrasonic bone healing stimulators and SUPARTZ hyaluronic acid joint fluid therapy are the main products in the clinical therapies sector.
EXOGEN is the only ultrasound technology approved to treat fractures that have failed to heal known as non-unions and the only bone stimulator approved to help specific fresh fractures heal faster.
In March 2006, the FDA approved a label amendment for SUPARTZ allowing physicians to choose as few as three weekly injections for their patients with osteoarthritis knee pain if the physician judges the patients would experience benefit.
Previously, the FDA approved a course of five weekly injections only.
SUPARTZ is manufactured by Seikagaku Corporation of Japan, a pioneer in the area of glycoscienceresearch and development.
At the end of Quarter 2 2006, the Group and a Swedish company, Q-MED AB Q-MED, formed a strategic alliance to develop and commercialise Q-MEDs proprietary technology for the production of stabilised , NASHA, for the management of orthopaedic conditionsand diseases.
Theimmediate impact of the alliance is a licensing and supply agreement that grants Smith & Nephew the global exclusive right to market, sell and distribute DUROLANE currently only approved in Europe and Canada, a single-injection hyaluronicacid therapy for the treatment of osteoarthritis of the hipand knee.
To compete effectively in the growing global orthopaedic trauma market, management believes that as well as having a leading edge product range it is important to have a skilled sales force that can build strong relationships with surgeons and to provide high levels of customer service.
At the end of 2006 the global sales force numbers 472 of whom255 serve the US market.
Strategy Smith & Nephews trauma and clinical therapies strategy is to deliver growth through innovative product development in its existing core business and expansion into fast-growing market areas including alternative therapies for pain management and fracture healing.
Management believes that the trauma and clinicaltherapies market will continue to grow for the foreseeable future.
This is largely attributable to a global population increasingly at risk from fractures due to age, osteoporosis, obesity and diabetes, continuous advancements in the surgicaltreatment of fractures, and the need to manage pain inyounger, moreactive patients.
Smith & Nephew also intends to further penetrate these markets by expanding its sales force and by introducing less invasive and alternative therapies.
The Group is also contributing to patient education and empowerment throughits websites and other .
Management believes customers of the Groups minimal intervention spinal products, including IDET IntraDiscal ElectroThermal Therapy and discography, are better served by the sales channels and increased resources available in the clinical therapies business and the responsibility for this product group transferred from the endoscopybusiness witheffect from January 2007.
7 Group Description New Products In 2005, the PERI-LOC Periarticular Locked Plating System was launched, this is a trauma plate and screw system used to treat bone fractures which allows the surgeon to save time in the operating room and perform less invasive surgeries.
The upper extremity system was launched in Quarter 3 2006.
Other key product launches in 2006 included two significant additions to the TRIGEN intramedullary nail system, the INTERTAN Intertrochanteric Antegrade Nail for the treatment of femoral fractures, the META Nail for fractures of the femur and tibia, as well as the EXOGEN 4000 BoneHealingSystem.
Recent Regulatory Approvals In 2006 US approvals were obtained for 6.5mm and 8.0mm Cannulated Screws April, CAPTION Disposable Platelet Concentrator May and PERI-LOC B Plates September.
Competition Management estimates that the worldwide orthopaedic fixation market increased by 11% in2006 and is currently worth more than $3 billion per annum.
Management believes that Smith & Nephew holds an 11% share of this market by value.
Principal global competitors in the orthopaedic fixation market and their estimated global shares, are Synthes 45%, Stryker 16%, DePuy Johnson& Johnson 8%, Zimmer 6% and Biomet 3%.
Endoscopy Overview Smith & Nephews endoscopy business, headquartered in Andover, Massachusetts, develops and commercialises endoscopic minimally invasive surgery techniques, educational programmes and value-added services for surgeons to treat and repair soft tissue, articulating joints and vascular structures.
The business focuses principally on the arthroscopy sector of the endoscopy market.
Arthroscopy is the minimally invasive surgery of joints, inparticularthe knee, shoulderand hip.
The endoscopy business offers surgeons endoscopic technologies for surgery, including: specialised devices, fixation systems and bioabsorbable materials to repair damaged tissue: fluid management and insufflation equipment for surgical access: digital cameras, digital image capture, central control, multimedia broadcasting, scopes, light sources and monitors to assist with visualisation: and radiofrequency wands, electromechanicaland mechanical blades, and hand instruments for resecting damaged tissue.
The business also designs, markets and provides service to its Digital Operating Room suites, which use computer and internet technology to put surgeons and other medical professionals infull controlof the operating roomenvironment.
Manufacturing facilities are located currently in Andover and Mansfield, Massachusetts, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma and San Antonio, Texas.
The Andover manufacturing facility will close in the first half of 2007.
Major service centres are located inthe US, the UK, Germany, Japan and Australia.
Theglobal sales force at the end of 2006 was 713 of which397 serve the US market.
Strategy Smith & Nephews strategic intent is to establish the business as the leading provider of endoscopic techniques for joint and ligament repair.
Management believes that the business capitalises on the growing acceptance of endoscopyas a preferred , patients and payors.
To sustain growth and enhance its market position, the endoscopy business supports its strategy with surgeon education programmes, financing solutions, global fellowship support initiatives, partnerships with professional associations and surgeonadvisory boards.
New Products In 2006, Smith & Nephew broadened its joint repair offerings with the launch of its CALAXO Osteoconductive Interference Screw, which is used to secure a graft in ACL reconstruction of the knee.
During the 12 months following a procedure the screw is resorbed by the body and compounds within the screw stimulate the natural process of bone formation.
8 The move towards advanced biomaterials was enhanced in July 2006 with the acquisition of OsteoBiologics Inc.
The company had developed bioabsorbable bone graft substitutes BGS, which are marketed in Europe and Canada as TRUFIT CB Plugs for the repair of cartilage defects in the knee.
In the US, the material is marketed as the TRUFIT BGS Plug, a bone void filler.
Smith & Nephew enhanced its position in the arthroscopic hip repair marketplace with the release of two products: the BIORAPTOR Hip Suture Anchor which is the first device introduced for repair of the hip labrum, the fibrous ring of cartilage which helps stabilise the joint: and the Hip Positioning System which enables a surgeon to access and treat the hip joint using arthroscopic techniques.
The device attaches to most standard operating tables, and is designed to gently separate the hipjoint, creatingspace for the surgeonto work.
The launch of the KINSA Suture Anchor provides surgeons with a fast, secure and consistent method of repairing instability of the shoulder.
This anchor encases a self-locking, sliding knot, which enables the surgeon to secure the repair withouttyingknots.
Recent additions to the Digital Operating Room Digital OR suite of products include the 660HD Image Management System and the CONDOR Control System.
The former can digitally capture, edit, export and print high-definition endoscopic surgical images.
These images can then be stored with patients electronic medical records.
The CONDOR Control System enables the medical staff to send commands to medical devices, digital cameras, image management systems and other operating room components using voice commands or a wireless touchpanel.
Recent Regulatory Approvals During 2006, the endoscopy business obtained regulatory clearances for the following products in most major markets, except Japan where the approval process is more lengthy: KINSA suture anchor for shoulder instability repair: expanded indications for BIORAPTOR and TWINFIX Ti to include repair of the hip labrum: Levelert and Remote Control accessories for the Dyonics 25 Fluid Management System, launched in 2005: 660HD Image Management System: SV420 Single Chip Camera system: and various other arthroscopy instruments and devices.
Competition Management estimates that the global arthroscopy market in which the business principally participates is worth approximately $2 billion a year and is growing at 9% annually, driven by increasing numbers of sports injuries, longer and more active lifestyles, patient desire for minimally invasive procedures, innovative technological developments and a need for cost effective procedures.
Following a reassessment of the global market sizes management believes that Smith & Nephew has a 23% share of the global arthroscopymarket.
Smith & Nephews main competitors and their estimated shares of the global arthroscopy market are: Arthrex 19%, Mitek Johnson& Johnson 17%, Stryker 11% Linvatec Conmed 9%, and Arthrocare 8%.
Advanced Wound Management Overview Smith & Nephews advanced wound management business is headquartered in Hull, England.
It offers a range of products from initial wound bed preparation through to full wound closure.
These products are targeted particularly at chronic wounds connected with the older population, such as pressure sores and venous leg ulcers, burns and complex surgicalwounds.
Advanced wound management products are manufactured in facilities in Hull and Gilberdyke, England: Largo, Florida and by certainthird party manufacturers.
Strategy The strategy for the advanced wound management business is to focus on the higher added value segments of woundbed preparation and moist and active healing.
The business has built its sales and marketing infrastructure in the worlds major markets, largely through investment in additional sales teams particularly in the key markets of the US, Japan and Europe.
At the end of 2006 the global sales force was 915 of whom172 were inthe US.
9 Group Description New Products Management believes that the market will continue the trend towards advanced products with their ability to accelerate healing rates, reduce hospital stay times and cut the cost of nursing and cliniciantime and aftercare in the home.
In 2006, the range of  was extended.
Management believes that the new version of ALLEVYN handles up to three times more fluid than the previous version, and that the Non Adhesive variant with sealed and shaped edges provides greater protection against leakage.
From a clinicians perspective, management believes that the improved ALLEVYN optimises the moist wound environment leading to promotion of faster healingof the woundand reduced riskof maceration.
Sales of ACTICOAT have been augmented by the launch in 2005 of ACTICOAT Moisture Control, an antimicrobial barrier dressing with foam and waterproof film layers.
The moisture control product provides an effective barrier to bacterial penetration and is designed to help maintain a moist wound environment in the presence of exudate.
The ACTICOAT range incorporates the smallest crystallised silver nanocrystalline silver used in the treatment of wounds or burns.
The silver reduces the risk of bacterial colonisation and acts to kill micro-organisms that can cause infectionand prevent orretard healing.
2006 was the second full year of VERSAJET, a fluid jet debridement system.
Growth in product revenues continue to exceed management expectations, particularlyinthe US where the producthas gained FDA approval for use in burns.
Recent Regulatory Approvals During 2006, the advanced wound management business secured over 155 medical device and 65 pharmaceutical registration approvals in various markets throughout the world.
Among the most significant approvals were those for ALLEVYN Adhesive Improved Fluid Handling CE mark, ALLEVYN Shaped & Sealed CE mark and ACTICOAT Moisture Control CE mark.
Both IODOSORB and VERSAJET burns indication received notification in the US and three notification approvals were received in Japan for IV3000, MELOLIN and PRIMAPORE Competition Management estimates that the sales value of the advanced wound management market worldwide was $4 billion in 2006, an increase of 9% in the year, and that Smith & Nephew has 17% market share.
Growth is driven by an ageing population and by a steady advance in technology and products that are more clinically efficient and cost effective than their conventional counterparts.
Management believes that, with approximately half of chronic wounds globally still treated with conventional dressings, there is strong growth potential for advanced technologyproducts.
Worldwide competitors in advanced wound management and their estimated market shares comprise Kinetic Concepts 26%, the Convatec division of Bristol-Myers Squibb 11%, Molnlycke 8%, 3M 7% and Johnson & Johnson 6%.
Joint Ventures and Discontinued Operations Joint ventures are those in which the Group holds an interest on a long-term basis and which are controlled by the Group and oneother entity undera contractualagreement.
Discontinued operations represent the share of results and gain on disposal of the Groups joint venture, BSN Medical.
Smith & Nephew owned 50% of the BSN Medical joint venture, which was jointly owned with Beiersdorf AG and was independently managed.
BSN Medical comprised traditional woundcare, fracture casting and bandaging and compression hosiery businesses.
Results were accounted for using the equity method up to 1 October 2005, whereby 50% of the profit after taxation was incorporated into Smith & Nephews income statement as a single line item.
Following the Groups announcement in August 2005 to dispose of BSN Medical, Smith & Nephew and Beiersdorf AG announced in December 2005 that they had signed an agreement to sell BSN Medical to Montagu Private Equity for an enterprise value of1,030m.
