LEGAL PROCEEDINGS The Company and its subsidiaries are parties to product liability and various legal proceedings, some of which include claims for substantial damages, which are considered to constitute ordinary and routine litigation incidental to the businesses conducted by the Group.
The outcome of such proceedings cannot readily be foreseen, but other than as detailed below management believes that they will not result in any material adverse effect onthe  of operations of the Group.
Product LiabilityClaims In August 2003 the Group withdrew voluntarily from all markets the macrotextured versions of its OXINIUM femoral knee components.
As at that date 2,971 components had been implanted of which approximately 2,471 were in the USA, 450 in Australia and 50 in Europe, the first component having been implanted in December 2001.
The product was withdrawn when management became aware of a higher than usual percentage of reports of early revisions revisions are implants which need to be replaced.
It appears that some patients do not achieve adequate initial fixation and other patients, who are able to achieve adequate initial fixation are not able to maintain it.
Smith & Nephew has extensively tested and investigated the cause of these early revisions.
An investigation by a group of medical and scientific experts retained and managed by the Groups defence lawyers concluded that the cause of the limited number of early revisions that have been reported is the textured surface of the implant that apposes bone.
In December 2004 the Group was notified that two insurance carriers who comprise 35% of the first and 80% of the second excess layers of the Groups global product liability programme had declined coverage for macrotextured claims due to differences in the interpretation of the policy wording.
In 2005 the remaining insurance carrier with a 20% participation in the second excess layer declined coverage.
In 2006 two other insurance carriers declined coverage.
Management is taking steps in order to enforce insurance coverage: the Group is preparing its breach of contract suit against certain of its product liability insurers for trial which has been scheduled by the Court for February 2008.
A charge of $154m representing the amount outstanding from insurers and an estimate of the cost associated with claims likely to arise in the future assuming that insurance cover continues to be unavailable from these and subsequent excess layer insurers was recorded in 2004.
There have been nosubsequent changes to the originalestimated liability.
The charge was calculated based on: 1 the amount outstanding at 31 December 2004 from the insurers who declined coverage: 2 an estimate of the average cost in respect of revisions where claims were unresolved at that date: and 3 an estimate of the number of settlements of future revisions based on the current trend and decaying to zero after five years and an estimation of the average future cost per settlement.
The amount of provision remaining at 31 December 2006 to cover pending claims and claims in respect of future revisions, assuming noinsurancecoveris available, was $42m, whichmanagement believes is adequate.
As at 31 December 2006, 999 implants had been revised and settlements agreed with patients in respect of 923 of these revisions.
The total amount paid out in settlements, legal costs and associated expenses was $172m of which $60m was recovered from the insurer that provides the primary layer and 65% of the first excess layer in the Groups global product liability programme.
The balance of $112m is due from insurers.
At the end of February 2007, 1,005 implants had been revised and settlements agreed with patients in respect of 926 of these revisions.
The Groups assessment of the impact of these revisions and related matters constitute forward looking statements that are subject to uncertainties, including uncertainties relating to the outcome of settlements as compared to the assumptions made in estimating claim amounts.
Smith & Nephew cannot provide assurance that these estimates will prove correct.
Depending on the number and average cost of future settlements, costs may be greater orless than the amountprovided see Risk Factors.
Equal Employment Opportunity CommissionCharges EEOC Charges In 2006, seven EEOC charges and one federal law suit have been filed in Memphis, Tennessee against the Groups orthopaedic business alleging that the Companys employee promotion practices are discriminatory.
An eighth EEOC charge, which was filed by the same lawyers involved in all of the other charges and the suit, alleges 46 that the Company did not provide the employee with necessary training.
Seven of the eight who have filed charges are the plaintiffs in the suit.
Both the charges and the suit seek certification as class actions.
Smith & Nephew believes that it has meritorious defences to the charges and the suit and it intends to defend these matters vigorously.
As at 15 March2007, the EEOC charges have been dismissed but the class actionsremain.
US Department of Justice Investigations In June 2006, the United States Attorneys Office in Indianapolis, Indiana issued a federal grand jury subpoena to Smith & Nephews orthopaedic business at the request of the US Department of Justice, Antitrust Division, asking for copies of documents regarding possible violations of federal criminal law, including possible violations of the antitrust laws, relating to the manufacture and sale of orthopaedic implant devices.
Four of the business major competitors received similar subpoenas.
Smith & Nephew is cooperating fully with the United States Attorney.
The results of this investigation may not be known for several years.
However, the scope of the investigation has currently been narrowed by the United States Attorney to a specific geographic region and specific product lines.
It is the Groups belief that the investigations of the other orthopaedic companies that received similar subpoenas have been similarly narrowed.
It is also the Groups belief that the investigation was prompted by an e-mail sent by an independent sales representative of Smith & Nephew that proposed a common pricing strategy in connection with a particular hospital.
This email was not authorised by the Group.
No action was taken by any competitor in response to the e-mail, and Smith & Nephew believes that no anticompetitive activity took place as a result of it.
Following the disclosure of the anti-trust investigations six complaints in class action law suits were filed against the Group and the other orthopaedic companies alleging violations of the Sherman Antitrust Act that received similar subpoenas seeking compensation for price fixing alleging to have occurred as a result of the matters under investigation.
Smith & Nephew believes that it has meritorious defences to the claims being asserted and intends to defend these suits vigorously.
In March 2005 the US Attorneys Office in Newark, New Jersey issued a subpoena to the Groups orthopaedic business asking for copies of its consulting, professional service and remuneration agreements with orthopaedic reconstructive surgeons.
Four of the divisions major competitors received similar subpoenas.
The Group is co-operating fully with the US Attorney, has provided copies of the requested contracts and is gathering additional documentswhichhave also been requested.
