OUTLOOK AND TREND INFORMATION The discussion below contains statements that express managements expectations about future events or results rather than historical facts.
These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause the Groups actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements.
Smith & Nephew cannot give assurance that such statements will prove correct.
These risks and uncertainties include factors related to: the medical devices industry in general, product liability claims and related insurance coverage, the geographical markets in which the Group operates, the nature and efficiency of the Groups products, the Groups ability to research, develop, manufacture and distribute its products, the translation of currencies and the values of international securities markets.
For additional information on factors that could cause the Groups actual results to differ from estimates reflected in these , youshouldread Risk Factors of this document.
As described in Financial Summary Change in Functional and Reporting Currency the Group commenced reporting its results in US Dollars instead of Pounds Sterling with effect from 1 January 2006.
The effect of this change on future trends will be to reduce the Groups exposure to translational exchange rate fluctuations and thereby reduce the volatility of its revenues and profits.
The markets on which the Group concentrates continue to demonstrate robust growth and are expected to benefit in 2007 and for the foreseeable future from an ageing population, obesity, more active lifestyles and technological developments including less invasive techniques in orthopaedic and endoscopic surgery.
In advanced wound management continuing innovation and the potential for further penetration of moist wound healing and wound bed preparation techniques should continue to stimulate expansion of this market.
Management continuesto seek acquisitionsthat add to shareholder value.
New products launched in 2006, together with further launches planned for 2007, are expected to enable the Group to exceed market growthin2007.
The Group has indicated its intention to increase its focus on margin enhancement through a review to identify areas for improvement across all businesses.
This Earnings Improvement Project is in the advanced planning stage and management expects to make a further announcementwithits 2007 Quarter One results.
Following the Groups  2007 of a share buy-backprogrammeof up to $1.5 billionover the next two years, the Groups interest cost will increase and the weighted average number of shares in issue will decrease depending on the actual number of shares purchased.
Overall this is expected to be broadly neutral to earningsper share and EPSA.
Management does not anticipate that the dispute with certain insurers over their declination of coverage of macrotextured product liability claims will be resolved during 2007.
Consequently, it is expected that settlements with patients will not be reimbursed by insurers and that this will continue to have an adverse impact on cash flow of approximately $25m during2007.
See Legal Proceedingsand Risk Factors.
