23 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Operating and financial review continued July 2006 Smiths delivers technology for Joint Strike Fighter Smiths Aerospace delivered hardware for the first flight of the Joint Strike Fighter F-35.
Our Aerospace systems on the F-35 JSF are valued at $6-7bn, while Smiths Interconnect has been selected to provide broadband cable assemblies.
are typically funded by local bank facilities.
In addition, Overseas earnings are translated at average currency rates Smiths has extensive local and cross-border cash pooling for the year, which smoothes the effect of currency volatility.
arrangements, and arms length inter-company lending The Companys strategy is to continue to take a risk-averse through financial centres, to optimise the global deployment approach to managing and controlling financial risks, be it of funds across its businesses in a tax-efficient manner.
hedging currency and interest rate risk, liquidity or management 2.
To manage the central funding demands and provide a low of refinancing risk.
The Companys funding requirements are largely driven by acquisition activity and met by centrally arranged Financial controls debt finance.
Smiths has net debt of 923m with average While the Companys decentralised organisation delegates maturity of five years and at an average effective interest rate day-to-day control to local management, Smiths has after interest and currency swaps of 5.6%.
Through the use comprehensive control systems in place with regular reporting of interest rate swaps, Smiths maintains a broadly even mix to the Board.
The Company has continuous formalised of fixed and floating rate debt.
business risk management processes operating at each business unit.
Credit ratings remain at A A3 with Standard & Poors and Moodys respectively, reflecting the Companys strong The internal audit department reviews all units over a rolling financial profile and business outlook.
The key financial three-year cycle, and its findings are reported to the Audit measures that the ratings agencies consider are interest Committee.
All acquisitions are reviewed within 12 months of cover, currently standing at 9.6 times headline operating acquisition, to verify compliance with Company procedures.
profit and the proportion of operating cash-flow to total debt, Further information regarding the Companys procedures which under IFRS stands at 40%.
to maintain strict controls over all aspects of risk, including 3.
To develop and maintain strong and stable banking financial risk, are set out in the Corporate governance report relationships and services.
Smiths has a core and stable on pages 36 to 39. group of eleven leading global banks and financial institutions that competitively tender for treasury business.
Credit exposures to any one bank are carefully controlled.
All Legal issues business transacted with the banks is on consistent terms and is fairly allocated.
Smiths is committed to operating within the law in all applicable jurisdictions, and seeks to benefit from the rights 4.
To provide reasonable protection from the effect of foreign and protections afforded by relevant laws.
Material cross-border sales or purchase aims to anticipate and meet the changing requirements of contracts in foreign currencies are hedged at their inception the markets it serves, as legal and regulatory reforms impact by appropriate derivative financial instruments, principally those markets.
forward foreign exchange contracts and swaps, with the Companys core banks as counterparties.
Whilst the trends Smiths faces different types of legal issues in different of foreign currency movements cannot be eliminated, this jurisdictions.
The high level of activity in the US, for example, hedging programme reduces volatility, protecting cash-flow exposes the Company to the likelihood of various types of and margins.
litigation commonplace in that country, such as mass tort and class action litigation, proceedings threatened and Smiths has adopted hedge accounting for the majority of the sometimes begun as an aid to negotiated settlement of Companys business at its larger sites, thereby mitigating the disputes, and legal challenges to the scope and validity of impact of transactional exposures in the profit and loss account.
An industry wide class action was settled during the Smiths protects its reserves from foreign currency fluctuations year in respect of a product made by Titeflex in the Specialty by ensuring that at least 75% of the total net overseas Engineering division see note 4 to the accounts.
operational assets are offset either by borrowings in the respective currency or by currency swaps.
This excludes goodwill which is only partly hedged.
