32 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Group directors report Principal activities Changes in the Company and its interests during the period The principal activities of the Company and its subsidiaries the On 1 August 2005 the Company transferred the issued share Group are the development, manufacture, sale and support of: capital of Smiths Heimann Biometrics GmbH to Cross Match Technologies, Inc. in exchange for 43% of the issued share aerospace systems, including integrated electronic and capital of Cross Match Technologies, Inc. mechanical systems and precision components, for commercial and military aircraft: Also on 1 August 2005 the Company acquired the business and assets of Farnam Custom Products, Inc. for 4m.
advanced security equipment, using trace detection and x-ray imaging to detect and identify explosives, chemical On 8 August 2005 the Company sold the issued share capital and biological agents, weapons and contraband: of EBTEC Corporation for a cash consideration of 2m.
medical devices aligned to specific therapies, principally On 22 September 2005 the Company sold the issued share airway, pain and temperature management, infusion, needle capital of pvb Critical Care GmbH for 6m.
protection, critical care monitoring and vascular access: and On 22 September 2005 the Company also acquired the issued mechanical seals used in industries ranging from share capital of Millitech, Inc. for a cash consideration of 19m.
petrochemical processing to aerospace: interconnect products On 28 October 2005 the Company acquired the issued share to connect and protect safety-critical electrical and electronic capital of Livewave, Inc. for a cash consideration of 10m.
equipment: marine navigation: ducting and hose assemblies.
On 30 December 2005 the Company acquired the minority The main manufacturing operations are in the UK, the shareholding in John Crane Tianjin Limited for 1.5m in cash.
On 4 January 2006 the Company acquired the issued share Business review capital of Lorch Microwave LLC for a cash consideration of 15m.
Our business review can be found, titled Operating and financial review on pages 12 to 29 of this Annual report.
This is a review of On 23 February 2006 the Company acquired the minority the development and performance of the business of the Group, shareholding in Smiths Detection Montreal Inc. for 2m in cash.
including the financial performance during the period ended On 5 May 2006 the Company sold the issued share capital of 5 August 2006, key performance indicators and a description Beagle Aircraft Limited for 3m.
of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
Post balance sheet events Results and dividends On 8 August 2006 the Company acquired all the issued share The results for the period to 5 August 2006 are set out in capital of Comet Costruzioni Metalliche S. r. l. for 4m in cash.
the Consolidated income statement on page 50.
Sales for the period amounted to 3,523m, against 3,005m in 2005.
On 15 August 2006 the Company completed the sale of the The profit for the period after taxation amounted to 24m bearing lubrication business of John Crane Safematic Oy 2005: 272m.
Note: The 2006 financial statements comply for 16m.
with International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted On 15 September 2006 the Company secured the commutation by the EU IFRS : the comparisons with the 2005 financial of certain insurance policies that relate to the John Crane, Inc. statements have been restated under IFRS.
litigation, as described on page 24 of the Operating and An interim dividend of 9.85p per ordinary share of 25p was financial review.
The directors recommend for payment Future developments on 24 November 2006 a final cash dividend on each ordinary The Company will pursue its existing international activities share of 21.5p, making a total dividend of 31.35p for the period.
and continue to seek business opportunities in both the UK The retained profit of 24m was transferred to Reserves.
Research and development Charitable and political donations 352m was spent on research and development during the During the period the Company made donations of 754,000 period, of which 193m was funded by the Company and the for charitable purposes including payments totalling 300,000 balance by customers.
Each business carries out research and for the Smiths Medical Chair of Anaesthesia and Critical Care development programmes to suit its own particular market and 11,000 to charities with selected medical objectives.
Interchange of technology and technical donations were made by the Companys businesses worldwide information between Smiths manufacturing businesses is to miscellaneous charities.
No political donations were made.
33 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Group directors report continued Directors Interests in shares Lord Robertson of Port Ellen resigned from the Board on As at 26 September 2006 the Company had been notified, 27 February 2006.
The directors at the end of the financial pursuant to the Companies Act 1985, of the following material year, with the exception of Mr R W OLeary, who sadly died or notifiable interests in its issued share capital: on 14 August 2006, and Mr A M Thomson, who retired on Percentage of issued 6 September 2006, are shown on page 30.
of shares share capital Kevin Tebbit, who was appointed as a non-executive director FMR Corp Fidelity International Limited 62.8m 11.1% on 14 June 2006, all these directors served throughout the Franklin Resources, Inc. 39.4m 6.9% financial year.
Mr J Langston assumed the role of Finance Legal & General Group plc 20.7m 3.6% Director on 6 September 2006.
Sir Julian Horn-Smith, who Barclays PLC 17.0m 3.0% has been a non-executive director since February 2000, will Percentage of share capital in issue on 26 September 2006. retire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 21 November 2006.
The Company has not acquired or disposed of any interests in its own shares.
Reappointment of directors Mr K O Butler-Wheelhouse and Dr J Ferrie have served more The interests of the directors, their families and any connected than 30 months since they were last reappointed as directors.
persons in the issued share capital of the Company are shown In accordance with Article 57 of the Companys Articles of on page 43.
Association, they will retire from office at the Annual General Corporate governance Meeting on 21 November 2006.
Sir Kevin Tebbit will also retire The report on corporate governance is on pages 36 to 39. from office at the Annual General Meeting, having been appointed  LLP has reviewed the Companys by the Board since the Annual General Meeting in 2005. statements as to compliance with the July 2003 issue of the The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of Sir Kevin as a Combined Code, to the extent required by the UK Listing non-executive director and has concluded that his wide ranging Authority Listing Rules.
The results of its review are set out experience is of great benefit to the Company.
Sir Kevin is a on page 49. member of the Audit Committee and the Nomination Committee.
Financial instruments All three directors are willing and eligible to stand for The financial risk management objectives and policies of the reappointment and resolutions will be proposed at the Annual Group: the policy for hedging each major type of forecasted General Meeting to reappoint them.
transaction for which hedge accounting is used: and the exposure of the Group to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk Directors remuneration report and cash-flow risk are outlined in note 20 of the Group The Directors remuneration report is on pages 40 to 47. financial statements.
An ordinary resolution to approve the report will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Going concern The Boards review of the accounts, budgets and forward Directors interests in contracts plans, together with the internal control system, lead the Details of the executive directors service contracts are as disclosed directors to believe that the Company has ample resources to in the service contracts section of the Directors remuneration continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
The accounts report on page 44.
Details of the interests of the executive are therefore prepared on a going concern basis.
directors in the Companys share option schemes and plans are shown in the Directors remuneration report on pages 45 to 47.
Policy on payment of creditors The Companys policy and practice is to pay creditors Qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined by section promptly in accordance with agreed terms of business.
The 309B of the Companies Act 1985 have remained in force for average time taken to pay an invoice was 35 days 2005: 35 the directors during the financial period ended 5 August 2006 for the parent Company and 48 days 2005: 48 for the Group and, at the date of this report, are in force for the benefit of as a whole calculated in compliance with the Companies the current directors in relation to certain losses and liabilities Act 1985 Directors Report Statement of Payment Practice which they may incur or have incurred to third parties in the Regulations 1997. course of their professional duties.
Corporate responsibility Apart from the exceptions referred to above, no director had an The Company has implemented across the Group policies on interest in any contract to which the Company or its subsidiaries environmental, health and safety matters and operates a Code was a party during the period.
34 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Group directors report continued of Corporate Responsibility and Business Ethics.
The Company the Investment Committees of the Association of British seeks to minimise, as far as is reasonably practicable, any Insurers and National Association of Pension Funds.
detrimental effects to the environment of its operations and During the 53 week period ended 5 August 2006, the products.
A senior corporate staff director has responsibility following ordinary shares in Smiths Group plc were issued: for environmental, health and safety matters.
3,173,737 shares pursuant to the terms of the Companys All matters concerning the environment, health and safety shareholder-approved share option schemes: and continue to be regulated by preventative, investigatory and consultative systems, overseen by the Group Environment, 593,061 shares pursuant to the terms of TI Group share Health and Safety Committee: issues relevant to the Company option schemes.
pension schemes are likewise covered by means of structured Authority to purchase shares committees, including representation from recognised trade At the Annual General Meeting the Company will seek to renew unions.
the authority, granted at the last Annual General Meeting to the Further information on environmental and employee health directors, to purchase the Companys shares in the market.
The and safety matters, including key performance indicators, authority will be limited to 10% of the share capital in issue on is contained in the Corporate responsibility summary in 26 September 2006 and will be renewed annually.
The price that the Operating and financial review, or the full Corporate may be paid for the shares will be not less than the nominal responsibility report, available online at www.
amount of 25p per share and not more than the higher of 5% above the average of the middle market quotations of the Authority to issue shares Companys shares, as derived from the London Stock Exchange At the Annual General Meeting shareholders will be asked to Daily Official List, for the five business days prior to any purchase renew the authority, given to the directors at the last Annual and the amount stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buy-back and General Meeting, to allot relevant securities for the purposes Stabilisation Regulation 2003.
On 29 September 2006 options of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985, so as to reflect the over approximately 20.2m shares were outstanding under the increase in the Companys issued share capital since the last Companys share option schemes, representing approximately Annual General Meeting.
In compliance with recently published 3.6% of the then issued share capital.
If the existing authority guidelines and market practice, the authority proposed will to purchase shares and the new authority being sought at expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Annual General Meeting were to be used in full, then the the Company or, if earlier, on 20 February 2008.
The amount of outstanding options would represent approximately 4.5% of relevant securities to which this authority relates 47,297,545 the reduced issued share capital.
nominal of share capital represents one third of the share capital in issue on 26 September 2006.
The ordinary resolution Under the Companies Act 1985, any shares purchased under is set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
this authority may be cancelled or held as treasury shares.
Treasury shares may be subsequently sold or used to satisfy Also in the Notice is the special resolution to renew the power applications under share schemes.
granted to directors under Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985.
The new authority sought will be on substantially similar No shares have ever been purchased or contracted for or are terms to those attaching to the existing authority and, in the subject of any option under the expiring or any prior authority.
compliance with current practice, will expire at the conclusion The directors will exercise the authority only if they are satisfied of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or, if that any purchase will increase the earnings per share of the earlier, on 20 February 2008.
It will permit the directors to ordinary share capital in issue and will be in the interests of allot equity securities for cash: the shareholders.
The directors will also give careful in connection with a rights issue pro rata to the rights of consideration to the gearing levels of the Company and its the existing shareholders: general financial position.
It is the Companys present intention that, in the event that any shares were to be purchased under pursuant to the terms of any share scheme or plan approved this authority, such shares would be cancelled.
The directors by the shareholders in General Meeting: and will, however, have regard to any guidelines issued by investor for any other purpose including the sale on a non pregroups which may be published at the time of any such emptive basis of any shares the Company may hold in purchase regarding the merits of the cancellation of such treasury for cash provided that the aggregate nominal value shares as against holding them as treasury shares.
of such allotments does not exceed 7,094,632 approximately Annual General Meeting 5% of the issued share capital on 26 September 2006.
The 2006 Annual General Meeting will be held at The Banqueting The directors intend seeking renewal of these authorities Suite, Lords Cricket Ground, Grace Gate, St Johns Wood annually.
Road, London NW8 8QN on Tuesday 21 November 2006 at 12.00 noon.
In addition to the items of business which The directors have no present intention of exercising these shareholders are usually asked to approve at the Annual authorities, except for allotments of shares pursuant to the General Meeting, there is a further proposal which requires Companys share option schemes, and would not seek to issue some explanation, as set out below.
more than 7.5% of the issued share capital in the Company in any rolling three-year period without prior consultation with 35 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Group directors report continued Articles of Association Electronic proxy voting A special resolution will be proposed at the Annual General The Company continues to provide electronic proxy voting Meeting to replace the Companys Articles of Association.
The for this years Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders who current Articles were adopted in 2002, before the implementation are not Crest members can appoint a proxy and vote online of IFRS accounting: the directors propose that new Articles be for or against or consciously not vote for the resolutions to be adopted to reflect the new reporting standards and to comply proposed at the Annual General Meeting by visiting the website with current best practice.
The principal change involves the www.
The onscreen instructions will give restatement of the Companys borrowing powers in a format details on how to complete the appointment and voting that is consistent with IFRS.
The proposed new borrowing process.
Crest members, Crest personal members and other power will increase the borrowing limit from 3.6 billion, Crest sponsored members should consult the Crest Manual based on the balance sheet at 31 July 2005 under UK GAAP, to or their sponsor or voting service provider for instructions on 4.0 billion, based on the same balance sheet re-stated under electronic proxy appointment and voting.
There is also a change to increase the aggregate limit treat as invalid a Crest proxy voting instruction in the on fees payable to non-executive directors from the current circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the maximum of 500,000 per annum, which was established in Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
2002, to 750,000 per annum, which is comparable with the Paper proxy cards have been distributed to all shareholders limits of other major listed companies.
In addition, the definition with the Notice of Annual General Meeting, as usual.
of treasury shares will be changed so as to suspend all rights attached thereto: an express provision for the appointment of Shareholders who will not be able to attend the Annual proxies by electronic means will be included: and, following General Meeting on 21 November 2006 in person are changes in legislation, the power to lend to directors the cost encouraged to vote their shares by appointing a proxy of defending claims against them will be incorporated.
and issuing voting instructions either electronically or by completing and returning their proxy cards.
Electronic and A summary of the principal differences between the existing paper proxy appointments and voting instructions must be Articles and the proposed new Articles is appended to the received by Lloyds TSB Registrars not later than 48 hours Notice of Annual General Meeting.
before the Annual General Meeting in order to be valid.
Copies of the current Articles of Association and the proposed www.
com new Articles of Association are available for inspection at the Electronic copies of the Annual Report and Accounts 2006, registered office of the Company and at the offices of Allen the Summary Financial Statement 2006 and the Notice of & Overy LLP, One Bishops Square, London E1 6AO during Annual General Meeting will be posted on the Companys normal business hours until the conclusion of the Annual website, www.
The Companys announcements General Meeting on 21 November 2006 and, on the day of the to the Stock Exchange and press releases are available online meeting, from 11.45 a. m. at the place of the Meeting until the through the website.
Shareholding details and practical help close of the Meeting.
on share transfers and changes of address can be found at Auditor www.
Resolutions will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting Important information to reappoint  LLP as auditor and If you are in any doubt as to what action you should take, you to authorise the directors to determine the auditors are recommended to consult your stockbroker, bank manager, remuneration.
solicitor, accountant or other independent professional adviser Disclosure of information to the auditor authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
As at the date of this report, as far as each director is aware, If you have recently sold or transferred all your shares in Smiths there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Group plc please pass this document and the accompanying auditor is unaware.
Each director has taken such steps as proxy form to the purchaser or transferee or to the agent he should have taken as a director in order to make himself through whom the sale or transfer was effected for aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Recommendation Summary Financial Statement Your directors believe that all the proposals to be considered The Company has produced the Summary Financial at the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Statement 2006.
Shareholders will be automatically sent Company and its shareholders and recommend shareholders Summary Financial Statements alone each year unless they to vote in favour of the resolutions.
The directors intend to vote elect in writing to receive the Statutory Reports and Accounts.
in favour of the resolutions in respect of their own shareholdings.
Shareholders who wish to receive the Statutory Reports and By Order of the Board Accounts free of charge in future years should write to Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex David P Lillycrop BN99 6DA, quoting Reference 0282.
The publication of Director and Secretary Summary Financial Statements results in significant savings 765 Finchley Road in the cost of producing the accounts each year.
