8 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Making the world safer With passenger security at the top of the political agenda, governments are seeking new ways to counter terrorist threats.
We have the most comprehensive range of detection technologies in the world.
Our systems screen passengers and cargo at over 3,500 airports.
Once passengers are on the plane, our advanced avionics help them fly safely.
Protecting passengers Making air travel safer Our equipment helps detect Our avionics help aircraft take explosives, narcotics, weapons, off, touch down and fly safely.
We are a market leader in landing This year our detectors were gear, flight control and engine purchased by the New York actuation systems.
Boeing Police Department to help protect selected us to supply the Thrust passengers on the subway.
They Reverser Actuation System, which were also involved in security provides emergency braking in an trials on the London Underground aborted take-off, on the Boeing and deployed at Heathrow and 747-8 after success on the 777.
9 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Making the world healthier Smiths helps doctors and nurses deliver medication, provide vital care and stay safe themselves.
Our devices help relieve pain, treat cancer and deliver insulin.
Our products manage airways during surgery, aid patients with breathing difficulties, maintain body temperature, monitor vital signs and assist reproduction through IVF.
Our safety devices help to prevent needlestick injuries and reduce cross infections.
Caring for patients Advancing medical devices Smiths Medical has extended Smiths Interconnect puts its its range of advanced airway advanced connector technology management devices to assist to work to improve life-saving anaesthetists in difficult airway medical devices.
Our new ambulatory connectors help MRI systems give infusion pump gives greater a better view of internal organs.
mobility to people with chronic They also help defibrillators revive illness by delivering drugs on heart attack victims, electronic the go, while the most recent catheters map the electrical innovation in our infusion technology impulses of the heart and patient helps prevent accidental overdoses.
monitors keep an eye on blood pressure or oxygen levels.
10 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Making the world more productive Smiths technology helps oil and gas pipelines deliver more energy and improves the reliability of global telecommunications.
Our aerospace systems are dedicated to enabling our customers to develop more efficient aircraft, and our medical devices not only assist doctors and nurses with their life-saving work, but also help hospitals run smoothly.
Delivering energy Improving aircraft John Crane was honoured for Our ground-breaking central its productivity this year with a nervous system on the new prestigious 2006 Queens Award Boeing 787 Dreamliner will for Enterprise both for its own consolidate into two cabinets the productivity in achieving significant hundreds of metres of wires and sales growth and for helping its dozens of stand-alone computers customers operate more efficiently.
This The oil and gas industry depends will make it thousands of pounds on John Cranes high-performance lighter helping to reach a 20% seals.
