THE ANNUAL REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS the directors present their annual report, along with the audited financial statements of the group for the year ended 31 december 2006. principaL actiVity and enhanced Business reView The Groups principal activity is oil and gas exploration and production.
The Group has its headquarters in London and has oil and gas interests in Vietnam, Yemen, Thailand, the Republic of Congo Brazzaville Cynthia Cagle Vice President and Company Secretary and the Democratic Republic of Congo Kinshasa.
The subsidiary undertakings principally affecting the profits or net assets of the Group are listed in Note 16 to the financial statements.
In compliance with requirements of the Companies Act, a fair review of the performance and development of the Groups business during the year, its position at the end of the year and its future prospects is contained in the Chairmans and Chief Executives Statement, the Review of Operations and the Financial Review on pages 2 to 19 and 24 to 27.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are set out in the Financial Review on pages 24 to 27 and, in respect of the principal financial risks, in Note 3 to the financial statements.
The key performance indicators KPIs used by management are set out on pages 9 and 24, and are summarised along with pertinent definitions in the 5 Year Summary on page 69.
As set out in the Corporate Responsibility report on page 20, SOCO is committed to high standards of corporate responsibility.
However, the size and scope of those projects which SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 30 31 2 the Company directly operates is small with a The Nominations Committee carefully considered commensurately small organisation.
While we closely its recommendations regarding the appointment monitor the health, safety and environmental matters of Chairman and the reappointment of retiring of the full portfolio, the primary measures are relevant Directors with regard to the policies and processes set to the performance of third party operators.
Additionally, out in more detail in the Corporate Governance Report at the current staff size, key personnel matters are on pages 33 to 40.
The independence of the retiring measured through qualitative rather than statistical Chairman and Non-Executive Directors has been measures.
KPIs will be developed in these areas at an considered including the relevance of tenure.
The appropriate time in the evolution of SOCOs operations.
Board has given full consideration to the balance of skills, knowledge and unique breadth of experience resuLts and diVidends on the Board and the manner in which each of the The audited financial statements for the year ended retiring Directors contributes to that balance.
These 31 December 2006 are set out on pages 50 to 68. factors have been weighed in consideration of The Directors intend to devote the Groups cash succession planning and the need to refresh Board resources to its exploration and development activities and Committee membership.
The Chairman, having and, accordingly, are not recommending the payment given consideration to the results of the Boards of a dividend 2005 nil.
formal evaluation process and other relevant factors, is satisfied that the retiring Non-Executive Directors directors continue to demonstrate a commitment level The Directors, who held office throughout the year appropriate to the effective fulfilment of the except as noted, and the dates of their current service responsibilities of the role.
contracts or letters of appointment, which are available for inspection, are listed in the table below.
SOCO has provided liability insurance for its Directors and officers.
The annual cost of the cover is not material Relevant details of the Directors, which include to the Group.
The Companys Articles of Association their Committee memberships, are set out on pages allow it to provide an indemnity for the benefit of its 28 and 29.
Details of Directors interests and Directors transactions are included in the Directors direCtors holding offiCe in 2006 Remuneration Report on pages 41 to 47.
Director Date of contract Rui C fide Sousa Chairman from 06.12.06 12.07.99 Mr Roger Cagle will retire by rotation at the forthcoming Patrick C J Maugein Chairman until 05.12.06 deceased 12.07.99 Annual General Meeting AGM.
Mr Peter Kingston, Mr Peter E Kingston Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director 14.05.97 John Norton and Mr John Snyder, having served on the Olivier M G Barbaroux 12.07.99 Board for more than nine years, are subject to annual Roger D Cagle 14.05.97 re-election and will also retire at the AGM.
The Board Robert M Cathery 19.06.01 appointed Mr Rui fide Sousa as Chairman on 6 Ettore P M Contini 11.12.01 December 2006 after considering all of the relevant John C Norton 14.05.97 factors, including his independence.
Since Mr fide Sousa Martin J D Roberts 06.09.04 was not independent on appointment, he will be John C Snyder 14.05.97 proposed for reappointment at the AGM.
Each of the Edward T Story 14.05.97 retiring Directors offers themselves for reappointment, Denotes those determined by the Board to be independent Non-Executive Directors being eligible and having been recommended for as described in the Corporate Governance Report on page 33. reappointment by the Nominations Committee.
DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED maximum aggregate nominal value of Directors which is a qualifying indemnity provision 4,849,974 representing one third of the 1 for the purpose of the Companies Act 1985.
Companys issued share capital, excluding treasury shares.
If approved, an additional suppLier payment poLicy resolution will seek authority under Section 95 SOCOs policy is to settle the terms of payment of the Act to allot equity securities for cash and with suppliers when agreeing the terms of each to sell treasury shares for cash without first transaction to ensure that suppliers are made offering them to existing shareholders on a pro aware of and abide by the terms of payment.
rata basis, either in connection with a rights As the Company is a holding company, it has issue or, for other purposes, up to a maximum no trade creditors and accordingly no disclosure aggregate nominal value of 727,496 can be made of the year end creditor days.
representing 5% of the Companys issued share capital, excluding treasury shares.
charitaBLe contriButions Information regarding the Companys charitable programmes, which are principally carried out in These authorities are intended to provide the countries where the Group has operations, is flexibility and would only be exercised if contained in the Corporate Responsibility Report considered to be in the best interests of the on pages 20 to 23.
Company generally and, for purchases of the Companys share capital, if expected to result sharehoLder communications in an increase in earnings per share upon Legislation was announced earlier this year cancellation or while held in treasury.
making it easier for companies to communicate with shareholders electronically using, for suBstantiaL sharehoLdings example, emails and the internet.
The Directors As at 13 March 2007, the Company had been believe there are significant benefits to notified, in accordance with Sections 198 to 208 shareholders from introducing electronic of the Act now replaced by the Transparency and communications consistent with this legislation, Disclosure Rules, of the interests in the issued for documents such as annual and interim share capital of the Company and warrants to reports, and circulars.
A resolution will be placed subscribe for ordinary shares of the Company before the AGM which will allow the Company to Warrants as set out in the table below.
take advantage of the new rules on electronic communications in the Companies Act 2006 on auditors implied website usage and, as a listed company, A resolution to reappoint Deloitte & Touche LLP to benefit from the rules on electronic and Deloitte as the Companys auditors will be website communications in the Disclosure proposed by the Directors at the forthcoming AGM.
and Transparency Rules which came into force Deloitte also provide non-audit services in January 2007. to the Group which are set out in Note 9 to the financial statements.
The Directors are currently share capitaL satisfied, and will continue to ensure, that this Details of changes to share capital in the period range of services is delivered in compliance with are set out in Note 24 to the financial statements.
the relevant ethical guidance of the accountancy Details regarding purchases during the year of profession and does not impair the judgement or 608,000 of the Companys own ordinary shares independence of the auditor.
into treasury can be found in Note 25 to the financial statements, along with details regarding Each of the Directors at the date of approval of this the utilisation of treasury shares to satisfy certain report confirms that, so far as he is aware, there is share options.
The shares were acquired to no relevant audit information, being information enhance earnings per share.
A special resolution needed by the auditors in connection with will be placed before the forthcoming AGM to preparing their report, of which the auditors are renew the Directors existing authority to make unaware.
Each Director has taken all steps that he market purchases of the Companys ordinary ought to have taken, having made such enquiries share capital, and to limit such authority to of his fellow Directors and the auditors and taken purchases of up to 7,274,000 shares such other steps as are required under his duty as representing up to 10% of the Companys a Director, to make himself aware of any relevant issued share capital, excluding treasury shares.
audit information and to establish that the auditors Shares purchased under this authority may are aware of that information.
This confirmation is either be cancelled or held as treasury shares.
given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s234ZA of the Act.
Two resolutions will be placed before the AGM to replace the Directors existing authorities to allot By order of the Board 14 March 2007 securities.
One resolution will seek authority under Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 Cynthia Cagle the Act to allot relevant securities up to a Company Secretary suBstantial shareholdings Issued Shares Warrants Name of Holder Number % Held Number Pontoil Intertrade Limited 14,733,313 20.25 487,823 Chemsa Ltd 5,921,435 8.14 325,215 Lansdowne Partners Limited Partnership 5,063,224 6.96 - Legal & General Investment Management Limited 2,542,771 3.50 - Banca Akros 2,415,254 3.32 - SOCO Employee Benefit Trust 2,273,300 3.12 -
