BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1 3 5 2 4 6 1. rui fide sousa 51 3. peter kingston 64 5. roger cagLe 59 Non-Executive Chairman Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and Executive Vice President, Deputy CEO A member of the Board of SOCO Senior Independent Director and Chief Financial Officer International since 1999 and Chairman A member of the Board of SOCO A member of the Board of SOCO of the Nominations Committee.
International since April 1997 and International since April 1997.
Chief Executive Officer of the Toro Chairman of the Remuneration and Over 30 years of experience in the oil Group for over a decade.
and gas industry including succeeding Currently, a director of Quantic Limited, A petroleum engineer who has worked positions of responsibility with Exxon a director of New Falcon Oil Limited in the oil and gas industry since 1965 Corporation and senior management and Chairman of Carbon Resource in various roles.
roles with Superior Oil Company.
Formerly, a founding director of Formerly, Chief Financial Officer of Enterprise Oil plc, going on to become Snyder Oil Corporations international 2. ed story 63 Managing Director Technical and a subsidiary and of Conquest President and Chief Executive Officer director of Elf Enterprise Petroleum Ltd. Exploration Company.
A member of the Board of SOCO Currently, Executive Chairman of Tower Currently, the non-executive International since April 1997 and Resources plc, a non-executive director Chairman of Dominion Petroleum plc a member of the Nominations Committee.
of Stratic Energy Corporation and a and a non-executive director of Vostok Formerly, President of Snyder Oil director of Plexus Energy Limited, a social Energy Limited.
Corporations international subsidiary, and environmental advisory network.
Vice Chairman of Conquest Exploration 6. martin roBerts 62 Company, Vice President and CFO of 4. ettore contini 32 Non-Executive Director Superior Oil Company and holder of Non-Executive Director A member of the Board of SOCO various positions with Exxon Corporation, A member of the Board of SOCO International since September 2004 including seven years resident in the International since December 2001. and a member of the Audit and Far East.
Currently, a director of EurowattRemuneration Committees.
Currently, a non-executive director of Commerce and a director of Italiana A Solicitor by profession and a partner Cairn Energy PLC.
of Slaughter and May, specialising in oil and gas and projects, until his retirement in 2002.
SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 28 2 7 9 8 10 7.
John norton 69 9. oLiVier BarBaroux 51 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director A member of the Board of SOCO A member of the Board of SOCO International since April 1997 and International since July 1999 and a member of the Audit and a member of the Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
A Chartered Accountant by profession Formerly, Managing Director of and a partner at Arthur Andersen, Compagnie Gnrale des Eaux, heading the oil and gas practice in President and Chief Operating Officer of Europe, the Middle East and Africa, Vivendi Water S. A.
Head of the Energy until his retirement in 1995.
Sector of Paribas and Chairman and A former member of the Oil Industry CEO of Coparex International.
Currently, Chairman and Chief Currently, a director of the Arab-British Executive Officer of Dalkia and a Chamber of Commerce.
member of the Executive Committee of Veolia Environnement.
John snyder 65 A member of the Board of SOCO Non-Executive Director International since June 2001.
A member of the Board of SOCO Over 40 years of City experience.
International since April 1997 and a Formerly, Managing Director and Head member of the Nominations Committee.
of Oil and Gas at Canaccord Capital Formerly, Chairman of the Board of Europe Limited, Head of Corporate Santa Fe Snyder Corporation and Sales at SG Securities London Ltd. founder of its predecessor company, Director of Vickers da Costa and Snyder Oil Corporation.
Currently, an advisory director for 4D Currently, a non-executive director of Global Energy Advisors and a director Vostok Energy Limited, Salamander of Texas Capital Bancshares.
Energy Ltd and Indigovision plc.
