Directors Report The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements for the 52-week period ended 1 October 2006.
Activities of the Group The Groups principal activities are the development and operation of care homes for the elderly and the provision of specialist services for people with physical and or learning disabilities.
A detailed review of the Groups activities, development of its business and future developments are provided in the Business Review.
Results and dividends The consolidated income statement, showing the results for the period, is set out on page 36.
A detailed review of the Groups results is provided in the Financial Review.
The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 1.1p 2005 Nil per ordinary share be paid on 9 February 2007 to those Shareholders on the register of members at the close of business on 12 January 2007.
No interim dividends have been paid.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS The consolidated financial statements included within this Annual Report are the first the Group has prepared under IFRS.
The impact, upon the Groups consolidated income statement and balance sheet, of translation from UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles to IFRS is included in note 37 to the consolidated financial statements.
The financial statements of the Company continue to be prepared under UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Directors The names and biographical details of the Directors who currently hold office are given on pages 22 and 23.
The beneficial interests of Directors in the shares of the Company, details of service contracts and remuneration are shown in the report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 30 to 33.
Acquisitions Details of acquisitions in the period are given in note 29 to the consolidated financial statements.
Issue of Shares Details of the changes to the ordinary share capital during the period are given in note 25 to the consolidated financial statements.
Employment The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons, with regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
Efforts are made to continue the employment of those who become disabled during their employment.
The Group seeks to recruit, develop and employ throughout the organisation, suitably qualified, capable and experienced people, irrespective of age, race, religion or sexual orientation.
Supplier Payment Policy It is Group policy to pay suppliers in accordance with agreed terms and conditions, provided that suppliers also comply with all relevant terms and conditions.
At 1 October 2006 the Groups supplier payment period was 45 days 2005 60 days.
The Company is a holding company and does not have trade suppliers.
Financial instruments Information on the Groups financial risk management objectives and policies and on the exposure of the Group to relevant risks in respect of financial instruments is set out in note 23 to the consolidated financial statements.
24 Southern Cross Healthcare Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Substantial Shareholdings At 16 November 2006 the Company had been notified of the following interests which exceed 3% of the Companys issued share capital: % Blackstone Capital Partners 43.12 Landsdowne Partners Limited 4.73 Legal and General Group plc 4.19 Charitable and Political Donations During the period the Group made donations to charities totalling 50,000 2005 57,000, no political donations were made.
Annual General Meeting The notice convening the Annual General Meeting of the Company together with explanatory resolutions is included in a separate document sent to shareholders.
The meeting will be held at 11am on 30 January 2007 at the offices of our advisers, UBS, 1 Finsbury Avenue, London EC2M 2PP.
Independent Auditors A resolution to reappoint  LLP as Auditors to the Company, and authorising the Directors to determine their remuneration, will made at the Annual General Meeting.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial period that give a true and fair view of the state of the affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial period and of the profit or loss of the Group for the financial period.
The Directors consider that in preparing the consolidated financial statements and the Company financial statements, the Group and Company have used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and that all applicable accounting standards have been followed.
Each person who is a Director at the date of approval of this report confirms that: l so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware: and l each Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 234 ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and Company and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Annual Report will also be published on the Companys website.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website, the work performed by the Auditors does not include consideration of these matters.
Accordingly the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the UK concerning the preparation and publication of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Southern Cross Healthcare Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 25
