We make every effort to increase the comfort level of every resident, assisting them with a variety of essential activities and are constantly looking at ways to improve their experience with us.
Specialist Care We will continue to develop our Active Care brand, mainly through organic development as commissioners continue to request modern, purpose-built, fully-equipped units that promote independent living.
Active Care Partnerships Personnel With 42 homes and 916 beds Active Care Partnerships provides Manpower availability and recruitment to the care sector has social and healthcare support services for clients with a range improved significantly over the last two years, given access to of learning disabilities.
All homes, whilst registered with the European labour markets.
We continue to maintain an active Commission for Social Care Inspection, tend to be much smaller foreign recruitment programme and we currently employ in than those homes within Elderly Care portfolios and discreetly excess of 2,000 staff from Eastern Europe and South-East Asia.
The care model is much Those personnel are deployed across the UK during an initial more socially focused with an emphasis on promoting and two-year contract period and generally a high number of those developing a range of skills to live as independently as possible.
staff re-sign for a second period.
Over the last year we have added two developments to the Active Our staff teams have worked diligently over the last year to portfolio, Moorpark Place and the Green Door Clinic, both located ensure that our reputation as a provider of high-quality services in Scotland.
These two units are modern, purpose built in design, is maintained.
We continue to recognise that hard work and providing the much needed space required by the respective client commitment via our care awards initiative, which is designed to groups.
reward staff members who have consistently provided a very high level of service in their chosen profession.
We are fortunate to have Average fees are 873 per week, reflecting the fact that pricing is many such staff and I would like to thank all of our employees for negotiated on a case by case basis after a careful assessment of their commitment to our resident group and loyalty to the Company.
need and costing of resource package required to meet that need.
Within the operational management structure, we continue to maintain a growth overhead, anticipating further acquisition and development activity.
That overhead ensures adequate planning is afforded to the integration of completed acquisitions, a process that commences immediately after transaction completion.
The integration process is a tried and tested model and a number of senior managers are allocated to effect the integration in the shortest possible timeframe.
Southern Cross Healthcare Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 11 Business Review We have a wide range of vehicles and equipment which assist in the day-to-day lives of our residents, and maintain frequent senior management meetings to discuss potential improvements in our services.
Service Standards In Scotland the regulator is the Scottish Care Commission that During the year we have again revised our policies and procedures operates in a similar manner to its English counterpart.
In Wales, to ensure that best practice guidelines as issued by the sector the agency is Care Standards Inspectorate Wales CSIW and in regulator and the Department of Health are fully implemented into Northern Ireland it is Registration and Inspection Units RIUs.
We continue to robustly monitor All of these regulatory agencies operate under the Care Standards our service on a weekly monthly basis to ensure consistency in Act legislation and the associated Care Home Regulations.
That the quality of service provided.
Results are collated centrally legislation gives the regulator very material powers including and circulated to Executive Directors for review and comment.
enforcement action which may be implemented against rogue A summary of those results is included within monthly Board providers.
Papers for all Board Directors to consider.
The results of the regulatory inspections are public documents and We have over the last 12 months appointed two new management therefore act as a continual benchmark of our service.
positions a Regulation and Compliance Manager and a Group Health and Safety Manager to ensure we have the in house As a result of these inspections and our own rigorous internal expertise to provide constant audit and review.
These new compliance review procedures, we are confident that our services managers provide Board Directors with data to support best continue to meet regulatory standards and that our policies and practice initiatives for both disciplines.
procedures fully comply with care home regulations.
Regulatory Environment From April 2007 we are likely to see the regulators introduction Given our national geographic presence, the Groups services are of a star rating system akin to that of the hotel sector.
We remain monitored by a number of regulatory bodies.
Care homes in hopeful that this initiative will in time lead to price differentiation England have up to three regulatory inspections a year, two of based on the quality of services provided.
Should that be the case, which are usually unannounced.
The Commission for Social Care clearly those providers gaining a higher star award can expect to Inspection CSCI is the regulator and their teams of inspectors are achieve higher fee rates.
Given the quality of our portfolio and high located throughout England.
We now benefit from having a Provide standard of service provided we anticipate our homes being star Relationship Manager, within CSCI, who acts as a central single rated at the top end of the awards range.
point of contact to discuss issues.
We welcome this initiative and are working closely with the regulator to ensure consistent John Murphy interpretation of the care standards across all of our homes.
Group Operations Director 12 Southern Cross Healthcare Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006
