Directors and Officers William Colvin, Non-Executive Director and Chairman Graham Sizer, Group Finance Director William Colvin was appointed Non-Executive Chairman of the Graham Sizer joined the Company as Group Finance Director Company in March 2005, when the Group acquired the Highfield in December 2002.
Having previously worked at Grant Thornton, Group.
He joined NHP PLC in 2000 and became chief executive Mr Sizer has ten years experience within the care homes sector, later that year.
Prior to 2000 he was group finance director of as group financial controller for Tamaris PLC as well as group British Borneo Oil & Gas PLC for seven years.
Mr Colvin currently financial director for Idun Health Care Limited.
Mr Sizer graduated holds non-executive directorship positions at, Scottish Care Limited, from Southampton University with a degree in accounting and Energy XXI PLC and Sondex PLC.
Mr Colvin is a business and statistics and qualified as a chartered accountant in 1995 at economics graduate from Edinburgh University and he qualified Morgan, Brown & Spofforth before joining Grant Thornton.
as a Scottish Chartered Accountant in 1982 at Ernst and Young.
John Murphy, Group Operations Director Philip Scott, Chief Executive John Murphy joined the Company as Group Operations Director Philip Scott was appointed Chief Executive Officer in February in March 2005.
Mr Murphy has more than 19 years experience 2002.
Mr Scott has more than 15 years experience in the in operational management in the care sector and his experience healthcare industry having previously worked in senior includes working as the group operations director for Tamaris PLC, management roles for a number of corporate healthcare managing director of Caledonian Nursing Homes, chief executive providers, including Crestacare PLC and Tamaris PLC, before joining of Idun Health Care Limited, chief executive of Highfield Care and the Group.
He is a trained nurse holding both RGN and RMN a member of the board of NHP PLC.
qualifications and holds a Diploma in Professional Nursing Development from the University of Ulster.
Committees Audit Committee: Nominations Committee: Remuneration Committee: Christopher Fisher Chairman William Colvin Chairman Ray Miles Chairman Ray Miles Ray Miles Joseph Baratta Baroness Morgan of Huyton Baroness Morgan of Huyton Christopher Fisher 22 Southern Cross Healthcare Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 From left: William Colvin Philip Scott Graham Sizer John Murphy Ray Miles Joseph Baratta Baroness Morgan of Huyton Christopher Fisher Ray Miles, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Baroness Morgan of Huyton, Non-Executive Director Ray Miles became a Non-Executive Director of the Company Baroness Morgan of Huyton became a Non-Executive Director in June 2006 and is the Senior Independent Director.
Mr Miles of the Company in June 2006.
A former teacher, Baroness Morgan has spent most of his career in the shipping and transport worked as a senior aide to the British Prime Minister from 1997 industry.
From 1988 until December 2005, Mr Miles was chief to 2005.
In 2001, she was made a peer and served as Minister executive officer of CP Ships Limited and was also the senior in the Cabinet Office.
From 2001 to 2005, she was Director independent director of Stelmar Shipping Limited from 2004 to of Government Relations, Downing Street, working closely with 2005.
He has been a non-executive director of Provident Financial the Prime Minister.
Baroness Morgan is now working as an PLC since 2003 and its senior independent director since October adviser to a childrens charity, serving on the board of the 2004.
He is chairman of the Devon Community Foundation and Olympic Delivery Authority and is a non-executive director joined the advisory board of Stena AB in 2006. of Carphone Warehouse PLC.
Joseph Baratta, Non-Executive Director Christopher Fisher, Non-Executive Director Joseph Baratta became a Non-Executive Director of the Company Christopher Fisher was appointed a Non-Executive Director in September 2004.
Mr Baratta is a senior managing director in of the Company in June 2006.
He has since become a partner the private equity group of The Blackstone Group, having joined in Penfida Partners, a new firm providing independent corporate the firm as an associate in 1998.
Mr Baratta has also worked in finance advice to pension fund trustees.
He is also a nonthe mergers and acquisitions department at Morgan Stanley.
executive director of Kelda Group and a trustee of the Imperial Mr Baratta currently also serves as a director of Merlin War Museum.
He has spent most of his career in investment Entertainments Group Ltd and Center Parcs.
Mr Baratta banking principally at Lazard, where he was a managing director graduated magna cum laude from Georgetown University.
until 2003, and subsequently at KPMG, where he served as vice chairman, corporate finance, until taking up his appointment with Penfida.
Company Secretary William McLeish, was appointed as Company Secretary on 25 May 2006 and is a chartered accountant.
Before joining the Group, William was the company secretary of Rozelle Healthcare Limited, an operator of care homes which was acquired by the Group in November 2005.
Southern Cross Healthcare Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 23
