SPECTRIS 13-23 15 3 07 22:50 Page 18 Corporate social responsibility statement Spectris subsidiary companies operate from 160 offices around  inks and coatings, replacing the world.
Their products are used to monitor and control conventional energy-intensive heat treatment of traditional processes and to enhance productivity in a wide range of materials which are either toxic or emit solvent vapour.
Spectris is committed to creating business growth instrumentation helps wind farm operators to keep their turbines through adding value for its customers whilst ensuring that its running by using remote predictive monitoring to detect and impact on the environment is minimised.
Our products can also help customers meet Spectris continues to be a member of the FTSE4Good UK environmental legislation.
For example, we supply index, which measures and benchmarks the performance of instrumentation which can measure low levels of materials such companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility as lead and cadmium to meet the new European directive on the standards, with particular emphasis on the environment and restriction of hazardous substances.
Further examples of the use human rights.
of Spectris products having a direct beneficial contribution to the The policies and information below relate to all Spectris environment are shown on our website.
Our environmental policy is published on our website at www.
Policy setting and monitoring Spectris aims to reduce the impact its products have on the Overall responsibility for developing corporate policies on environment by designing products which are energy-efficient environmental, social, ethical, and health and safety matters, and avoid the use of harmful substances.
The design processes and for reviewing their effectiveness, lies with the Spectris Board.
take into account the operational lifetime of every product and The individual operating units are then responsible for ensuring end-of-life removal or disposal.
Consideration is given to the these policies are communicated and applied within their recyclability of materials, energy consumption,  business, taking account of local legislation and friendly production, packaging and shipping.
All policies and procedures are reviewed periodically developed which meet the new European regulations on the and any updates are communicated to the operating companies.
Restriction of Hazardous Substances RoHS and Waste Electrical Spectris policies and procedures are communicated to all and Electronic Equipment WEEE.
For example, printed circuit business units via the Spectris Group Manual.
As an integral part boards used in instrumentation sold to customers in this region of the companys risk management and corporate governance no longer use the now banned lead-based solder in their processes, the Managing Directors and Finance Directors of each manufacture.
This legislation has not had a material impact operating company are required to certify, on an annual basis, on the companys operations and in fact has brought benefits compliance with these policies and procedures and report on, to businesses such as PANalytical which has developed X-ray where appropriate, all non-compliance events.
instrumentation specifically for customers to analyse their products to ensure that no traces of the prohibited substances Environment are present.
Many Spectris products have a positive environmental impact by providing customers with the ability to reduce energy Climate change consumption or wastage or to control emissions.
Our curing Spectris products do not require capital-intensive manufacturing lamps, for example, use ultraviolet light to cure or dry processes and hence their manufacture has a low overall Award-winning solutions In April, Malvern received the Queens In July, Particle Measuring Systems won Award for Enterprise, the UKs leading the Editors Choice Award for Best Product, business accolade.
The award, in the presented annually by Semiconductor category of International Trade, reflected International magazine, for its molecular the companys export sales, which have contamination monitoring system.
increased by 76% over the past six years.
18 Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2006 SPECTRIS 13-23 15 3 07 22:50 Page 19 environmental impact.
Nevertheless, we are committed to a medium-term remediation programme has been agreed with adopting environmentally responsible policies wherever our the Dutch authorities.
Due to the nature of the group, both in terms of geographical locations 6000 staff in 160 offices in more than Health and safety 28 countries around the world and the characteristics of our The Chief Executive has overall responsibility for environment business model autonomous companies, with only limited and health and safety matters.
Senior executives in each of the resources at the centre, it is impractical for Spectris to require business units are responsible for implementing the health and its operations to measure greenhouse gas emissions or the use safety policy at local level and ensuring compliance with local of other resources such as water and waste.
The low power legislation and regulations.
The companys health and safety consumption of our operations means that Spectris is not policy can be viewed on our website at required to participate in the European Emissions Trading www.
Nevertheless, all businesses are conscious of the need Spectris is committed to providing a working environment at to conserve energy and resources and local initiatives are in place all of its sites which, so far as is possible, is safe and without risk at many sites to reduce energy usage and minimise wastage.
Each operating company is responsible for ensuring the These include recycling of waste paper, cardboard, plastic cups, health and safety of its employees and also that of subaluminium cans, batteries, toner cartridges and mobile phones, contractors and suppliers.
reducing energy consumption through the use of timers and Any serious health and safety incidents are reported by the sensors to control hot water, air conditioning and lighting, Managing Director of the business in an accident report to the reducing water consumption and re-use of packaging and filling Company Secretary, who reports on this issue to the Board.
Spectris complies with the UK Producer Responsibility No serious injuries or deaths have been reported in the last ten Obligations Packaging Waste Regulations which set targets for years.
Although minor incidents are monitored locally, statistics the recovery and recycling of packaging waste.
are not compiled for the group as a whole.
Audits of health and Spectris businesses also encourage and work with their safety policies and procedures are undertaken at all major suppliers to reduce their impact on the environment and to locations by external assessors acting on behalf of the groups ensure that their products meet the relevant legislation.
insurers on an annual basis and recommendations are made for Supplier audits and surveys are regularly undertaken.
Environmental management systems Employees Operating companies representing over one-third of Spectris Spectris employees are key to the success of the company.
We business by turnover are certified to ISO14001.
Other companies employ highly-qualified people who work in a creative environment are working towards accreditation where this is deemed beneficial with scope for individual responsibility and achievement.
Compensation and benefits, which are in line with other leading During 2006 no significant environmental incidents were companies in the sector, are designed to reward the achievement recorded.
Investigative studies into a small area of contaminated of objectives.
Annual reviews provide feedback on employees land at Almelo in the Netherlands, resulting from activities prior performance, set objectives and identify training and development to ownership by PANalytical, have now been completed and opportunities to enable them to meet their full potential.
In August, PANalytical was awarded the In October, Microscan was awarded second In December, Red Lion Controls was 2006 Frost & Sullivan Award for product place out of 800 manufacturers in Quality selected as the number one choice in panel line strategy, presented to the company Magazines 2006 Quality Leadership 100 meters by the readers of Control Design that has demonstrated the most insight survey, ahead of Fortune 100 companies magazine.
Red Lion has won the panel into customer needs and product demands.
such as Honda, General Electric and Delphi.
meter category of the Readers Choice Award every year since 2001, the first year the award was given.
Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2006 19 SPECTRIS 13-23 15 3 07 22:50 Page 20 Corporate social responsibility statement continued Spectris operates mainly in Europe and the US, but with It is the responsibility of the managing directors in each a growing presence in Asia.
Although different social and operating company to ensure that all employees are fully aware employment conditions exist in different locations, Spectris of Spectris policies.
The group monitors compliance with the places high priority on compliance with legislative and ethical policy through various processes, including confirmation in requirements within all jurisdictions in which business is writing by each business unit annually, and consolidated Equal conducted, particularly with respect to employment practices, Employment Opportunities Commission returns which are labour rights and equal opportunities.
The Company Secretary produced in the US.
has overall responsibility for human rights, employment and ethics policies, but responsibility for implementation is delegated Training and development to individual business units, with operational policies tailored to Spectris commitment to training and personal development suit local needs.
The companys employment policy is available emphasises the importance of retaining staff throughout the at www.
Annual appraisals and performance reviews are carried Overall HR policies are set at the centre and implemented out to determine training and development needs for individual by each operating business, taking account of local conditions.
Malvern and Servomex, our two principal UK Spectris retains a diverse workforce, valuing the different businesses, have received the Investors in People award for their perspectives of its employees, and its policies provide for equal programmes of training, appraisal, employee development and treatment in terms of recruitment and employment of staff, skills recognition.
training and development, and promotion.
We strive to create Financial participation in the group is encouraged through a culture of honesty and professional excellence whilst the Savings Related Share Option Scheme, available to all UK maintaining a healthy balance between working and personal employees, and the groups Performance Share Plan.
lives, with initiatives such as part-time and job share opportunities providing family-friendly working conditions.
Values Staff turnover is dependent to a large extent upon local market Spectris has established a core set of behavioural values that conditions, but is generally low, particularly at senior apply throughout the group, which are as follows: management level and amongst technical R&D staff, where in-depth technical knowledge brings loyalty and commitment to Honesty the company.
Whilst data on employee turnover is not gathered Acting with absolute integrity in all that we do.
centrally, it is monitored by individual businesses.
Employee surveys are carried out in a number of companies to measure the views of employees on company issues.
Graduate recruitment programmes and student work placements exist in several companies, providing opportunities for young people to be introduced to the business environment.
Highly-qualified employees We employ highly-qualified employees, including applications engineers and scientists, who have an in-depth technical knowledge of the products and applications they are developing.
20 Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2006 SPECTRIS 13-23 15 3 07 22:50 Page 21 Empowerment Ethics Creating an environment of autonomy in our operating All employees are expected to behave with honesty and integrity companies where people are expected to take the initiative and and demonstrate appropriate business behaviour.
standards we expect each employee to meet are set out in our Ethics policy, which is communicated to all employees and can Ownership be viewed on our website.
This policy prohibits bribery and Taking personal ownership of the responsibility of our roles.
Donations to political parties or similar organisations are also prohibited.
Any allegations of Delivery misconduct are thoroughly investigated.
All operating companies Performing to the highest standards against the commitments are required to comply with export control regulations we make both internally and, especially, externally to our governing shipment of products and the appropriate compliance customers.
Spectris operates a confidential whistleblowing policy via Speed which employees may report to the businesss management team Ensuring that our business decisions are made and actions or any Board member, via a confidential email address, any executed with a sense of urgency.
concerns they may have over unethical business practices or conduct, dangers to health and safety, or breach of company These values define who we are and how we do business, both policies.
Any such disclosures are appropriately investigated.
as individuals and as a company.
In addition, Spectris is committed to protecting the career and reputation of employees who report wrongdoing in accordance Employee communications with established procedures, as long as their disclosures are The company has a policy of encouraging its operating delivered in good faith and seek to safeguard the best interests companies to provide information to their employees on a of the group.
This information includes matters relating to their companys performance, its prospects in the markets it serves Suppliers and the future outlook for its business.
Staff surveys are carried Spectris has no significant suppliers who are dependent upon out in many of the companies.
Outsourcing of products, particularly in Asia, is to quality-approved organisations only which are Human rights regularly inspected by the strategic sourcing team and local Spectris believes in the fundamental rights of people in all parts managements.
of the world and is committed to adopting internationally recognised human rights standards wherever it operates.
Community involvement The companys human rights policy, which can be viewed at Spectris operating companies worldwide support local charities www.
php, is consistent with and participate in a range of local community activities and the Principles of Human Rights, as set out in the International educational initiatives.
Charitable donations in 2006 totalled Labour Organizations Core Conventions, and includes policies 22,000 of which 9,500 were in the UK 2005: 73,300 of which on non-discrimination, harassment, pay and forced labour.
The General Manager of Asia is responsible for ensuring that the highest ethical standards are maintained in all of our Asia-based operations.
Spectris has a number of sales offices in China and also owns a factory which supplies high quality weighing components.
This comprises a modern facility located in a business park along with other western companies.
The factory employs skilled workers, adopts employment conditions consistent with best local practice, and pays wages that are higher than average for the area.
Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2006 21
