SPECTRIS 13-23 15 3 07 22:50 Page 22 Board of directors John Poulter John OHiggins Clive Watson Chairman Chief Executive Group finance director John Poulter, 64, joined Spectris in 1988 and was John OHiggins, 43, joined Spectris in January Clive Watson, 49, joined Spectris in October Chief Executive from 1992 until he became non- 2006.
He is a member of the Nomination 2006.
He was previously at Borealis, a leading executive Chairman in 2001.
He is chairman of Committee.
John was previously with Honeywell, provider of plastics solutions, where he was the Nomination Committee.
Johns earlier career most recently as President of Automation and chief financial officer and executive vice was with BTR plc and Cambridge Instruments.
Prior to this he president for business support.
Prior to this, he He has been a non-executive director of a was based in Brussels and Germany in a series was group finance director at Thorn Lighting Ltd number of public companies including RAC plc of management roles in the automation and and before that group finance director Europe at and Kidde plc.
He is non-executive chairman of controls division of the company.
Before joining The Black & Decker Corporation.
Clive holds Filtronic plc and a non-executive director of Honeywell, he worked with Daimler Benz in a Bachelors degree in Commerce & Accounting Smaller Companies Value Trust plc and several Stuttgart.
John has engineering degrees from from the University of Birmingham.
University College Dublin and Purdue University and an MBA from INSEAD.
Peter Chambr Non-executive director Peter Chambr, 51, was appointed to the Board in 2006.
He is a member of the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
Peter was until recently chief executive officer of Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc and prior to that was chief operating officer of Celera Genomics Group and chief executive of Bespak plc.
He is a non-executive director of BTG plc.
22 Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2006 SPECTRIS 13-23 15 3 07 22:50 Page 23 Stephen Harris Jim Webster Roger Stephens Business group director Business group director Head of commercial & company secretary Stephen Harris, 48, joined Spectris in 2003.
He is Jim Webster, 56, a metallurgy graduate, Roger Stephens, 46, is an economics responsible for the operational supervision of a joined Spectris in 1993.
He is responsible for graduate and chartered company secretary.
number of the groups trading companies.
Prior the operational supervision of a number of Prior to joining Spectris in 1997, he held to joining Spectris he was executive director at the groups trading companies.
He was commercial roles in the power and Powell Duffryn responsible for a number of previously general manager of the European construction sectors, specialising in contract subsidiaries and, before that, held several Wire and Cable Division of Raychem negotiation, claims resolution, IP positions within APV in North America.
He is a non-executive director exploitation and property development.
has a degree in engineering from Cambridge and of Raymarine plc.
an MBA from the University of Chicago.
He is a non-executive director of Brixton plc.
Andrew Given Anthony Reading MBE John Warren Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Andrew Given, 59, was appointed to the Board Anthony Reading, 63, was appointed to the Board John Warren, 53, was appointed to the Board in 2001.
He is a member of the Audit Committee, in 2004.
He is a member of the Audit Committee in 2006.
He is a member of the Audit Committee the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination and the Remuneration Committee chairman.
chairman and the Remuneration Committee.
Committee, and is the Senior Independent Anthony was a director of Tomkins plc and From 2000 to 2005 John was group finance Director.
From 1990 to 2002 Andrew was with chairman of Tomkins Corporation, USA, for director at WH Smith PLC.
Prior to that he was Logica plc, initially as group finance director and 11 years until he retired at the end of 2003.
Prior with United Biscuits Plc for 19 years, latterly as latterly as deputy chief executive.
Prior to that he to that he held senior positions with a number group finance director.
He has been a nonheld senior financial positions with Plessey of international companies including group executive director of Rexam Plc and RAC plc and Company plc and with Northern Telecom Limited, chief executive of the manufacturing and is currently a non-executive director of mainly in North America.
He is a non-executive engineering division of BTR plc.
He is a nonRank Group Plc, Arla Foods UK plc, Bovis director of VT Group plc.
executive director of The Laird Group PLC, Homes Group PLC and BPP Holdings plc.
George Wimpey Plc and e2v technologies plc.
com 23 Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2006 23
