SPECTRIS 24-76 15 3 07 22:57 Page 24 Directors report Legal & General Investment Management Limited The directors present their report and accounts for the year 4,088,072 shares 3.27% material interest ended 31 December 2006.
Zurich Financial Services Group Principal activities 3,793,606 shares 3.04% material interest Spectris is engaged in the development and marketing of precision instrumentation and controls.
For 2006 reporting Dividends purposes, the businesses were grouped into three sectors: Results for the group are set out in the consolidated income Electronic Controls, In-line Instrumentation and Process statement on page 37 and in the supporting notes.
Further details of the trading companies can be dividend of 12.5p per ordinary share is proposed for the year found in the Business Review page 3.
Developments in the to 31 December 2006 2005: 11.2p.
With the interim dividend, groups business activities are discussed in the Chairmans this makes a total for the year of 17.5p 2005: 15.8p.
The final statement page 2 and the Business Review.
dividend will be paid on 22 June 2007 to shareholders on the register on 1 June 2007.
Acquisitions The terms of the Spectris plc Employee Benefit Trust provide During the year a number of acquisitions were made.
Spectral that dividends payable on shares held within the Trust are Dimensions Inc. an infrared-based chemical imaging waived to 0.01p.
instrumentation business, was acquired by Malvern.
IPI LLC, a supplier of metering rods, rod beds and headbox sheets to Research and development the pulp and paper industry, was acquired by BTG.
PANalytical Expenditure committed to research and development is acquired its Mexican, Brazilian and Korean distributors.
The focused on new product development, applications engineering total consideration was 16.5 million, including acquisition and process integration.
Costs are expensed as incurred, except expenses, debt acquired and deferred or contingent where the expenditure meets certain strict criteria for consideration payable in future years.
In the year to 31 December 2006, amounts expensed totalled 44.7 million 2005: 44.9 million, and no Disposals expenditure met the criteria for capitalisation 2005: nil.
In April 2006, the company completed the sale of its Arcom Control Systems business to Eurotech S. p. A. for net proceeds Fixed assets after transaction costs of 13.3 million.
Whilst the market values of some properties differ from An agreement for the sale of the Spectrum Inspection book values, the directors believe that the differences are Systems business to Illinois Tool Works Inc. was executed on not material.
22 February 2007 for completion on 28 February 2007.
The total consideration is 16 million on a debt and cash-free basis Payment of suppliers and subject to a working capital adjustment.
The groups policy on payment of suppliers is to ensure that terms of payment accord with contractual and legal Share capital obligations.
The company had 0.5 million of trade creditors The issued share capital at the year end consisted of at the year end 2005: 0.1 million.
At the 2007 Annual General Meeting resolutions will be Directors proposed for the renewal of the authorities granted to the The directors of the company are named on pages 22 and 23. directors to allot shares, to allot shares on a non pre-emptive Peter Chambr, John OHiggins, John Warren and Clive basis for cash and to purchase the companys own shares Watson were appointed to the Board on 1 August 2006, either to be cancelled or to be held in treasury, all within 1 January 2006, 7 March 2006 and 1 October 2006 respectively.
Steve Hare resigned from the Board on 21 July 2006.
Martin At 23 February 2007 interests notified to the company in Lamb and Leo Murray retired from the Board following the accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency 2006 AGM.
Andrew Given will retire from the Board following Rules comprised: the 2007 AGM.
John Poulter, Stephen Harris, Anthony Reading and Jim Aegon Asset Management Webster retire from the Board by rotation in accordance with 6,258,884 shares 5.00% material interest the Articles of Association and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Peter Chambr and Clive Watson, having been Standard Life Investments appointed since the 2006 AGM, retire from the Board under 6,142,541 shares 4.92% material interest 24 Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2006 SPECTRIS 24-76 15 3 07 22:57 Page 25 the terms of the Articles of Association and, being eligible, offer an evaluation of the operation and performance of the themselves for election.
Board was not conducted in 2006, as required by provision The directors total remuneration for the year and their A.
6, given the changes in composition that took place during interests in the shares of the company and its subsidiaries at the year.
It is intended that an evaluation will be made 31 December 2006 are disclosed in the Directors during 2007.
Remuneration Report on pages 29 to 35.
Board composition and procedures In accordance with Section 309C of the Companies Act 1985 The Board meets formally around nine times each year to the directors disclose a qualifying third party indemnity consider developments in relation to the companys strategy provision entered into between the company and its directors and long-term objectives and to review trading results and and officers on 31 October 2006 which was in force at the date operational and business issues.
In particular it deals with of approval of this report.
This indemnity gives contractual those matters reserved to it for decision, including the force to the Indemnity of Officers provision contained in the acquisition and disposal of businesses, major capital companys Articles which were approved by shareholders in expenditure, the appointment and, where necessary, removal May 2005. of directors and Board and senior management succession planning.
Additional meetings are convened as required to Auditors consider specific topics requiring immediate decision.
Usually, Separate resolutions to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors two meetings each year are held at operating locations and and to authorise the directors to agree their remuneration will encompass a detailed review of the relevant business.
be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Operational decisions are delegated by the Board to senior Annual General Meeting management at trading company level over which the The Notice of Annual General Meeting to be held at the Business Group Directors exercise supervision.
All directors companys offices on Wednesday 16 May 2007 at 11.30 a. m. is receive detailed progress reports one week prior to each contained in a separate letter from the Chairman Board meeting.
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, four executive directors and four non-executive directors.
The Board Corporate Governance considers all its non-executive directors Peter Chambr, Combined Code statement of compliance Andrew Given, Anthony Reading and John Warren to be Spectris plc is subject to the Combined Code on Corporate independent.
The positions of Chairman, Chief Executive and Governance the Combined Code that is appended to the senior independent director, are held by separate individuals Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
The Combined Code and the Board has adopted written profiles for the first two sets out principles and provisions relating to the good of these.
The non-executive directors have all had senior governance of companies.
experience in other organisations and offer independent Corporate governance has been and remains the judgement on Board matters.
The Chairmans other significant responsibility of the whole Board.
This statement describes interests are as chairman of Filtronic plc and as a nonhow the company applied the principles and complied with the executive director of Smaller Companies Value Trust plc and provisions of the Combined Code during 2006. certain unlisted companies.
The Board believes that the The Board considers that it was throughout the year and Chairmans obligations to the company are unaffected by continues to be in full compliance with the provisions set out these directorships.
in Section 1 of the Combined Code, save that: There are procedures for individual Board members to receive induction and training as appropriate and to solicit between 17 May and 21 July 2006 comprising the period independent professional advice at the groups expense where between the retirement of Martin Lamb and Leo Murray and specific expertise is required in the course of exercising their the resignation of Steve Hare at least half the Board, duties.
All directors have access to the company secretary, who excluding the Chairman, did not comprise independent nonis responsible for ensuring compliance with appropriate executive directors, as required by provision A3.2.
a majority of the members of the nomination committee are All directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at the not independent non-executive directors, as required by first AGM after their appointment and thereafter at intervals provision A4.1.
The committee consists of the Chairman, the of no more than three years.
senior independent director and the Chief Executive and the Board considers this to be the most appropriate composition for the sensitive issues addressed by the committee.
Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2006 25 SPECTRIS 24-76 15 3 07 22:57 Page 26 Directors report continued The Board delegates specific responsibilities to Board develops a description of the role and required capabilities.
committees, notably the nomination, remuneration and audit Candidates are then identified for interview, external search committees.
The terms of reference of these committees are consultants being engaged as part of this process.
published on the companys website and the following The committee also makes recommendations to the Board additional documents are available to shareholders on regarding the re-election and or re-appointment of any application to the company secretary: director.
Similar selection processes will apply for the appointment of a chairman.
schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Board: The nomination committee meets as the need arises.
Its responsibilities of the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the terms of reference can be found on the companys website.
non-executive directors: The operation of the Board and its committees is evaluated by relations with shareholders: the Board as a whole annually.
The executive directors and performance evaluation: company secretarys performances are appraised annually procedure for taking independent professional advice.
against objectives established for the prior year.
The contributions of the Chairman and non-executive directors are Board and committee meeting attendance 2006 reviewed in advance of the conclusion of their initial three-year term, by the senior independent director and the Chairman Remuneration Audit Nomination respectively, prior to their being proposed to shareholders for Board committee committee committee re-election.
Additionally, the Chairman holds periodic meetings Total meetings during year 14 7 2 2 with the non-executive directors only and, led by the senior J W Poulter Chairman 14 N A N A 2 independent director, the non-executives have the opportunity A F Given senior independent director 14 7 2 2 to meet at least annually without the Chairman present.
P A Chambr 6 1 - N A An evaluation of the operation and performance of the A J Reading 14 7 2 N A Board was not conducted in 2006 given the changes in J A Warren 11 5 1 N A composition that took place during the year.
It is intended M J Lamb 3 2 1 N A that an evaluation will be made during 2007.
L G Murray 4 3 1 N A Shareholder relations J E OHiggins Chief Executive 14 N A N A 2 Spectris conducts regular dialogue with institutional S C Harris 14 N A N A N A shareholders and divulges such information as is permitted C G Watson 4 N A N A N A within the guidelines of the Listing Rules.
The content of J C Webster 14 N A N A N A presentations made after results announcements may be S Hare 7 N A N A N A accessed by individual investors on the group website, www.
P A Chambr, S Hare, M J Lamb, L G Murray, J A Warren and All shareholders are invited to participate in the Annual C G Watson held office for part of the year only.
P A Chambr attended General Meeting, where the Chairman, the Chief Executive six of the seven Board meetings which he was eligible to attend.
S Hare and the chairmen of the audit, remuneration and nomination attended all of the seven Board meetings which he was eligible to attend.
committees are available to answer questions.
The results of M J Lamb attended three of the five Board meetings which he was proxy votes are declared at the Annual General Meeting after eligible to attend.
L G Murray attended four of the five Board meetings each resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands.
which he was eligible to attend.
J A Warren attended all of the eleven These are then published on the group website.
Board meetings which he was eligible to attend.
C G Watson attended The Board is kept informed of the views of major all of the four Board meetings which he was eligible to attend.
shareholders through periodic reports from the Chief Board appointments and performance evaluation Executive, the companys joint brokers Merrill Lynch and The nomination committee consists of the Chairman, the Hoare Govett and the companys shareholder relations senior independent director and the Chief Executive and is adviser, Makinson Cowell.
The Chairman and non-executive chaired by the Chairman, save in the event of discussions directors have the opportunity to attend the bi-annual relating to his succession when the senior independent director analyst presentations.
Shareholders representing in excess of 3% of the companys Following a decision of the Board that the appointment of issued share capital receive a standing invitation to meet the a new director is appropriate, the duty of the committee is to Chairman, the senior independent director or new nonpresent for Board consideration suitably qualified candidate s. executive directors.
Such meetings would supplement if In making such recommendations, the committee evaluates the necessary, but not replace, the regular meetings with the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and Chief Executive and group finance director.
26 Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2006 SPECTRIS 24-76 15 3 07 22:57 Page 27 Audit committee Internal controls The audit committee comprises the non-executive directors The groups system of internal controls is described on page 15 and is chaired by John Warren who has recent and relevant of the Business review.
financial experience as the former group finance director of WH Smith PLC.
The committee meets at least twice each year Going concern to consider the effectiveness of the groups internal controls, Having reviewed the groups plans and available financial policies and procedures, the process of internal audit and the facilities, the Board has a reasonable expectation that the group outcome of the external audit.
Its meetings are normally has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for attended by the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the group the foreseeable future.
For this reason it continues to adopt the finance director, the company secretary and the external going concern basis in preparing the groups accounts.
All executive directors attend the year end final audit review meeting.
The committee regularly confers with the Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the auditor without the attendance of executive directors.
Its terms Directors report and the financial statements of reference can be found on the companys website.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Directors The committee is responsible for making recommendations report and the group and parent company financial statements, to the Board in relation to the appointment of the external in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
auditor and then for approving the external auditors Company law requires the directors to prepare group and remuneration, terms of engagement and scope of work.
parent company financial statements for each financial year.
The committee has also adopted procedures governing and Under that law they have elected to prepare the group financial restricting the appointment of the external auditor for nonstatements in accordance with International Financial audit services.
The following services are precluded: Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company book-keeping or other services related to the accounting financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting records or financial statements of Spectris plc: Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted financial information systems design and implementation: Accounting Practice.
appraisal or valuation services, fairness opinions or The group financial statements are required by law and IFRS contribution in kind reports: as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position actuarial services: and performance of the group: the Companies Act 1985 internal audit outsourcing services: provides in relation to such financial statements that references management functions or human resources: in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving broker or dealer, investment adviser or investment a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair banking services: presentation.
legal services and expert services unrelated to the audit.
The parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the A cumulative annual cap of 200,000 is established for all parent company.
other non-audit services save for acquisition due diligence In preparing each of the group and parent company and taxation services above which all engagements are subject financial statements, the directors are required to: to prior approval by the audit committee.
The group employs an internal control and risk manager who select suitable accounting policies and then apply performs internal control reviews across the group according to them consistently: a work programme agreed by the committee.
The group internal make judgements and estimates that are reasonable control and risk manager is assisted in this by an internal auditor and prudent: and by other group finance personnel.
The nature and scope of for the group financial statements, state whether they the groups internal control review resources is reviewed by the have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted audit committee annually.
The audit committee receives reports by the EU: twice a year on the results of internal control reviews.
The group for the parent company financial statements, state whether internal control and risk manager has direct access to the applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, chairman of the audit committee and may meet with him subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the absence of executive management.
in the parent company financial statements: and Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2006 27 SPECTRIS 24-76 15 3 07 22:57 Page 28 Directors report continued prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the parent company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditors are unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
R J Stephens Secretary 23 February 2007 28 Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2006
