Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2006 19 Report of the directors The directors present their Report, the audited consolidated financial On 10 August 2006, the Company announced the acquisition of statements and the parent Company financial statements for the year the business of Imperfect Networks, Inc for an initial consideration to 31 December 2006. of $4.0 million 2.1 million paid in cash, with up to a further $4.0 million 2.2 million payable depending on the satisfaction Change of Company name of certain technical milestones and revenues to be achieved in 2007.
At the 2006 Annual General Meeting 2006 AGM shareholders Further details of these transactions are set out in note 36 and 37 voted in favour of changing the company name from Spirent plc to to the consolidated financial statements.
Spirent Communications plc to ensure it reected the focus of the Group.
The new company name was effective from 8 May 2006.
Share capital Changes in the Companys share capital during 2006 are given in note Principal activities, business review and results 32 to the consolidated financial statements and note 17 to the parent The principal activities, business review and results for the year Company financial statements.
inclusive of financial performance, likely future developments and prospects are set out on pages 4 to 15.
Principal divisions and Substantial shareholdings subsidiaries are listed on page 111.
At the date of this Report, the Company had been notied of the following interests in 3 per cent or more of its issued Ordinary share Dividends capital: No interim dividend was paid during the year 2005 nil and the % held directors do not recommend the payment of a final dividend 2005 nil.
Sherborne Investors GP, LLC 14.69 Research and development Lexa BV 13.53 Product development and innovation are considered key strategies to Prudential plc 6.89 maintain and improve the Groups competitive position and therefore Aberforth Partners LLP 4.66 continue to receive high priority.
This commitment is highlighted by the Legal & General Group plc 3.64 57.3 million research and development spend during the year, Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada UK Ltd 3.03 equivalent to 21 per cent of sales 2005 58.4 million and 23 per cent.
The Company will continue to commit resources as appropriate to Additional shareholder information, including a prole of shareholdings, research and development.
Major transactions Share listings On 23 January 2006, the Company announced the acquisition of The primary listing for the Companys Ordinary shares is on the London SwissQual Holding AG renamed Spirent Communications Switzerland Stock Exchange.
The Companys Ordinary shares are also traded on AG for an initial consideration of CHF62.5 million 27.8 million which the New York Stock Exchange in the form of American Depositary was paid in cash, with up to a further CHF28.0 million 12.4 million Shares and these are evidenced by American Depositary Receipts payable depending on revenue growth and various technical and ADRs, each one of which represents four Ordinary shares.
Bank of New York is the authorised Depositary bank for the Companys ADR programme.
On 13 February 2006, the Company announced the acquisition of QuadTex Systems, Inc for an initial consideration of $7.5 million Board of directors 4.3 million, paid in cash with further consideration of up to The names and brief biographical details of the current directors are $1.5 million 0.9 million payable depending on certain technical shown on page 16.
At an Extraordinary General Meeting held on milestones and the retention of key employees.
22 December 2006 2006 EGM, shareholders voted to remove as On 15 February 2006, the sale of the HellermannTyton Division to directors of the Company, John Weston, Frederick DAlessio and funds controlled by Doughty Hanson & Co Limited for a cash free debt Andrew Given who had held ofce throughout the year and appoint free equivalent value of 296.7 million was completed.
as directors of the Company, Edward Bramson, Ian Brindle, Gerard Eastman and Alex Walker.
Following the conclusion of the 2006 EGM, On 10 July 2006, the Company completed the acquisition of scientific Kurt Hellstrm and Marcus Beresford resigned as directors of the Software Engineering, Inc with the initial consideration settled by way of Company.
James Wyness retired from the Board with effect from a cash payment of $10.0 million 5.5 million.
A further amount is 3 May 2006. payable of up to $6.0 million 3.3 million depending on the satisfaction of certain technical milestones and the retention of key employees.
20 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2006 Report of the directors continued Re-election of directors Employees Pursuant to the Companys Articles of Association and the Combined The Groups and the Companys employment policies regarding Code on Corporate Governance, Gran Ennerfelt will retire at the disabled persons and further information on employee training, Annual General Meeting to be held on 9 May 2007 2007 AGM development and involvement is explained in the Corporate social and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
On appointment to responsibility statement on page 17. the Board of directors on 22 December 2006, Edward Bramson and Gerard Eastman stated that they would retire and offer themselves for Employee share plans re-election as directors on an annual basis commencing at the 2007 The Company operates a number of share incentive plans, details of AGM.
None of the above directors have a service contract with the which can be found in note 32 to the consolidated financial statements Company or any Group company.
and note 17 to the parent Company financial statements.
Directors interests Share repurchase programme Gran Ennerfelt has a connected notiable interest in the Spirent The Company was authorised at the 2006 AGM to repurchase up to Communications plc Ordinary shares held by Lexa BV see Substantial 14.99 per cent of its own Ordinary shares, within certain limits and shareholdings on page 19 which, for statutory purposes, is also deemed as permitted by the Companys Articles of Association.
This share to be an interest of the director.
repurchase programme commenced on 15 May 2006 and a total of 1 90.3 million Ordinary shares, each with a nominal value of 3 3 pence Edward Bramson and Gerard Eastman have a connected notiable were repurchased for an aggregate consideration of 41.9 million and interest in the Spirent Communications plc Ordinary shares held by placed in Treasury during the year.
This represents 9.3 per cent of the Sherborne Investors GP, LLC see Substantial shareholdings on page 19.
Companys issued share capital at the time the authority was granted This connected notiable interest, is also deemed, for statutory purposes, by shareholders see also, note 32 to the consolidated financial to be an interest of each director as they are members of Sherborne statements and note 17 to the parent Company financial statements.
Investors GP, LLC, which is the general partner of Sherborne Investors, No further Ordinary shares were repurchased between 1 January 2007 LP.
Sherborne Investors, LP is the managing member of each of the and the date of this Report.
following funds, which are the beneficial owners of Spirents Ordinary shares: Sherborne Strategic Fund A, LLC: Sherborne Strategic Fund B, There is a further 8 million to be returned of the originally announced LLC: Hayden Investor Partners, LLC: Hayden Investor Partners II, LLC.
50 million programme and purchases are expected to be completed during 2007.
It was also announced in October 2006 that the Company The directors interests including those of their immediate families proposed to seek authority for a further return of 50 million to and any connected persons in the share capital of the Company are shareholders.
This will be considered further as part of the in-depth set out in the Report on directors remuneration on pages 26 to 32. business review currently underway and the Company will seek authority at the 2007 AGM to facilitate this further return of capital if Directors indemnity arrangements it is concluded that it is in the best interests of shareholders.
Save as disclosed, at no time during the year did any director hold a material interest in any contract of signicance with the Company or Social responsibility and donations any of its subsidiary undertakings other than a third party indemnity The Groups Corporate social responsibility statement appears on provision between each director and the Company and service pages 17 and 18.
Charitable donations of 32,000 were made in the contracts between each executive director and a Group company.
This amount excludes operating units support The Company has purchased and maintained throughout the year, and participation in local community activities.
No political donations directors and ofcers liability insurance in respect of itself and its were made in the year 2005 nil.
The directors also have the benefit of the indemnity provision contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
Policy on payment of suppliers Group operating companies are responsible for agreeing the terms Following the amendment of the Companies Act 1985 by the and conditions under which business transactions with their suppliers Companies Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise Act 2004, are conducted and it is Group policy to comply with those terms and the Company has executed a deed of indemnity for the benefit of the to make suppliers aware of them.
directors of the Company and persons who were directors of the Company during 2006 except Mr Wyness in respect of costs of At 31 December 2006, the Company had an average of 37 days defending claims against them and third party liabilities.
These purchases outstanding in trade creditors 2005 48 days.
provisions are currently in force.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2006 21 Corporate governance Disclosure of information to auditors The Directors statement on corporate governance is set out on pages The directors who were members of the Board at the time of approving 23 to 25.
The Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the the Report of the directors are listed on page 16.
Having made financial statements appears on page 22. enquiries of fellow directors and of the Companys auditors, each of these directors confirms that: Going concern to the best of each directors knowledge and belief, there is no After making enquiries, the directors confirm that they have a information relevant to the preparation of their report of which the reasonable expectation that the Group and Company has adequate Companys auditors are unaware: and resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the going concern basis continues to be adopted each director has taken all the steps a director might reasonably be in preparing the financial statements.
expected to have taken, to be aware of relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Annual General Meeting By Order of the Board The 2007 AGM will be held at 10.30 am on Wednesday 9 May 2007 at the ofces of the Companys PR advisers, Financial Dynamics, Paul Eardley Holborn Gate, 26 Southampton Buildings, London WC2A 1PB, Company Secretary United Kingdom.
1 March 2007 Auditors A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the 2007 AGM.
