Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2006 Directors Statement 9 POWERFUL OPPORTUNITIES Overall, SSE continued to perform well FINANCIAL OVERVIEW Adjusted Profit before Tax during 2005 06 and significant opportunities Adjusted profit before tax grew by 19.2%, for investment in new assets have been These are the first results that SSE has from 719.7m to 858.2m.
SSEs statutory identified for 2006 07 and beyond.
These reported under International Financial operating profit included an adverse investments are aligned to the UKs key Reporting Standards and the comparative movement on IAS 39 operating derivatives priorities of delivering reliable energy results for the year to 31 March 2005 have of 14.4m.
Additionally, there was an adverse supplies and reducing carbon emissions.
been re-stated in line with the new standards.
movement of 43.5m arising from financial This means that SSE is well-positioned to SSE focuses on profit before tax before derivatives used by Treasury which was achieve its target of at least 4% real growth exceptional items, net finance income from compounded by a further adverse movement in the dividend payable to shareholders pension assets IAS 19, the impact of IAS 32 on joint venture financing derivatives of in each of the years to March 2008, with and IAS 39, and after the removal of taxation 13.0m.
This meant that the impact of IAS 39 sustained real growth thereafter.
on profits from jointly controlled entities revaluations Movement in derivatives was and associates.
ENERGY SYSTEMS March March There was profit growth throughout SSEs 06 05 Key Points: business.
The most significant growth was m m achieved in Generation and Supply, which k Operating profit excluding gas Statutory profit before tax 896.9 789.3 continues to benefit from the expansion distribution up 9.2% to 367.9m.
Movement in derivatives 70.9 of SSEs electricity generation portfolio and Exceptional items 127.4 72.5 the increase in the number of energy supply k Investment in electricity networks Tax on JVs and Associates 29.9 15.3 customers achieved over the past four years.
Interest on convertible debt 3.6 k Fewer Customer Minutes Lost in Return on pension Adjusted Earnings Per Share electricity in Scottish Hydro and scheme assets 115.7 107.1 To monitor financial performance over the Southern Electric Power Distribution.
Interest on pension medium-term, SSE focuses on adjusted scheme liabilities 100.0 94.7 earnings per share, which increased by k Fewer customer interruptions in 16.1%, from 62.8p to 72.9p.
Adjusted profit before tax 858.2 719.7 electricity in Scottish Hydro and Adjusted current tax charge 231.5 182.0 Southern Electric Power Distribution.
Dividend Adjusted profit after tax 626.7 537.7 k Investment in Scotia Gas Networks The Board is declaring a final dividend of SGN completed in June 2005.
32.7p, compared with 30.3p in the previous Statutory profit after tax 642.3 559.8 year, an increase of 7.9%, making a full-year k SSEs share of SGNs adjusted Number of shares for basic dividend of 46.5p, an increase of 9.4%.
and adjusted EPS 859.5 857.2 compares with 27.5p in 2000, since when Adjusted EPS 72.9 62.8 the dividend has increased by 69.1%, which Basic EPS 74.7 65.3 represents a compound annual growth rate of 9.2%.
Dividend per share 46.5p 42.5p Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2006 Directors Statement Continued 10 Upgrading the transmission network in Scotland is essential to help meet the UKs target for 15% of electricity to come from renewable sources by 2015 16.
We work hard and take our work seriously, but we dont take ourselves too seriously.
Ruth Liddicoat Major Projects Administrator MAJOR PROJECTS SSE has a responsibility to ensure there is sufficient network capacity for all those seeking to connect new generation capacity to its network.
The 250m project to replace SSEs part of the electricity transmission line between Beauly in the Highlands and Denny in the Central Belt of Scotland is central to that responsibility.
After two years voluntary public consultation, SSE applied in September 2005 to the Scottish Ministers for consent to build the replacement line.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2006 11 period 2000-05, SSE invested 780m in its Energy Systems Introduction incentives framework.
A further 172.1m was SSE owns Southern Electric Power 34.9TWh of electricity, an increase of 0.75TWh.
Distribution, Scottish Hydro Electric Power Distribution and Scottish Hydro Electric The average number of minutes of lost In the course of the year, SSE added 974km Transmission.
These companies are the electricity supply per customer was 71, to the length of its networks, taking the total subject of incentive-based regulation by compared with 84 in the previous year.
It also rebuilt 378km of the Office of Gas and Electricity Markets The number of supply interruptions per its networks as part of its programme of Ofgem, which sets for periods of five years 100 customers was 78, compared with 98 replacing open wire overhead lines and low the prices they can charge for the use of in the previous year.
Performance in respect voltage Consac cable.
their electricity networks, their capital of both minutes lost and interruptions was expenditure and their allowed operating ahead of targets set by Ofgem under its The Price Control Review for 2005-10 expenditure.
In broad terms, Ofgem seeks Information and Incentives Project IIP resulted in significantly increased allowances to strike the right balance between attracting which gives financial benefits to distribution for capital expenditure to maintain and investment in electricity and gas networks, network operators that deliver good improve the electricity networks, and SSEs encouraging companies to operate them performance for customers.
This together increased investment programme is now as efficiently as possible and ensuring that with income earned under other incentive under way.
prices for customers are no higher than arrangements is expected to lead to they need to be.
As at 31 March 2006, SSE additional revenue of over 8m in 2007 08.
As a result, SSE forecasts that the RAV of estimates that Ofgems valuation of the its distribution and transmission businesses assets of SSEs distribution and transmission Scottish Hydro Electric Power Distribution has increased by around 80m nominal businesses the Regulated Asset Value or and Scottish Hydro Electric Transmission to 2.55bn as at 31 March 2006.
In addition, RAV was around 2.55bn.
Operating profit for Scottish Hydro Electric SSE expects to deliver an increase in capital Power Distribution and Scottish Hydro expenditure, of over 20%, during 2006 07 SSE also has an equity interest of 50% in, Electric Transmission increased by 4.9% and to sustain capital expenditure at this and provides corporate and management to 141.8m.
This reflected an increase in level until 2010.
On this basis, the RAV is services to, Scotia Gas Networks SGN, the number of units distributed and follows expected to grow by around 500m or which owns Southern Gas Networks and the introduction of the new Price Control around 120m in real terms, excluding any Scotland Gas Networks, companies which for 2005-10 and improved performance major transmission investment, during the own and operate the medium and low under Ofgems incentives framework.
pressure gas distribution networks in their the Scottish Hydro Electric area, 8.9TWh parts of the UK.
They are the subject of of electricity were distributed during Future Transmission Developments incentive-based regulation by Ofgem similar 2005 06, compared with 8.7TWh in the Since the introduction of British Electricity to that applied in electricity.
Trading and Transmission Arrangements that the RAV of the networks it owns was BETTA in April 2005, National Grid has been around 3.0bn as at 31 March 2006.
The average number of minutes of lost electricity supply per customer was 65, Great Britain System Operator, responsible compared with 86 in the previous year, for balancing the supply and demand of Energy Systems Overview making performance in 2005 06 the best electricity across Great Britain.
Scottish Operating profit in Energy Systems, since records began in the 1960s.
The Hydro Electric Transmission remains excluding gas distribution, increased by number of interruptions per 100 customers responsible for operating, maintaining and 9.2%, from 336.8m to 367.9m.
SSEs was 79, compared with 89 in the previous investing in the transmission network in its share of SGNs operating profit in the 10 year.
Performance in respect of both minutes area, which serves around 70% of Scotland.
lost and interruptions was ahead of Ofgems These arrangements are working well.
In total, Energy Systems contributed 46.4% IIP targets.
This together with income earned of SSEs total operating profit.
under other incentive arrangements is In March 2006, Ofgem published the third expected to lead to additional revenue of of six consultation documents that will form Southern Electric Power Distribution over 4m in 2007 08. part of the Transmission Price Control During 2005 06, Southern Electric Power Review for 2007-12.
The objectives of the Distributions operating profit increased Electricity Network Investment Review are to develop incentives for by 12.2% to 226.1m.
This reflected an The key responsibility of SSEs Power investment in electricity infrastructure, increase in the number of units of electricity Systems businesses is to maintain safe and ensuring they are best able to provide distributed compared with the previous year reliable supplies of electricity, and to restore efficient and timely investment and allocate and follows the introduction of the new supplies as quickly as possible in the event risk appropriately.
In this context, key issues Distribution Price Control for 2005-10 of interruptions.
During the Price Control include the arrangements for remunerating and improved performance under Ofgems Did you know?
SSE owns one electricity transmission SSE distributed 43.8TWh of electricity We deliver electricity to We distributed network and two electricity to the homes, offices and businesses distribution networks, comprising connected to its electricity networks in 127,000km of overhead lines and 2005 06.
The average number of underground cables across one third minutes that these customers were of the UK landmass.
It delivers without their electricity supply during electricity to 3.5 million homes, offices the year was 65 in the north of 3.5 43.8 and businesses.
The income which Scotland and 71 in central southern SSE can earn by charging electricity England.
This means that the networks million customers TWh of electricity generators and suppliers for using were more than 99.9% reliable.
these networks is regulated by Ofgem, as is the level of investment in them.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2006 Directors Statement Continued 12 investment in the transmission network, SGN funded the acquisitions through: Scotia Gas Networks Operational including the major upgrades likely to be 540.0m of shareholder subordinated debt: SGNs overriding goal is to distribute gas required in the future to accommodate the 427.8m of equity: and 2,250m of nonsafely and reliably.
During 2005 06 it secured generation of renewable energy.
SSE is recourse bank borrowings.
SSEs actual a reduction in the rate of lost-time incidents.
encouraged by Ofgems previous work in investment, including the shareholder It also embarked on a major programme of relation to approving investment for such subordinated debt, was 505.0m, which was performance improvement.
This has already infrastructure development.
35.0m lower than was expected when the delivered some early results, such as a fall acquisitions were completed.
of 52% to 166 in the number of complaints As the licensed transmission company for from customers sent to energywatch for the north of Scotland, SSE has to ensure In return for this investment of 505.0m, SSE resolution in 2005 06, compared with there is sufficient network capacity for those recognises 50% of the distributable earnings the previous year.
seeking to generate electricity from renewable from SGN.
SSE is also providing SGN with sources, in response to the Renewables corporate and management services.
The As part of their licence conditions, all Obligation.
The project to replace the acquisitions have made SSE the second gas network companies are required to electricity transmission line connecting largest energy distribution business in the UK.
commission quarterly independent customer Beauly in the Highlands with Denny in the satisfaction surveys relating to planned Central Belt of Scotland is in line with that In the first 10 months, SSEs share of SGNs replacement work or unplanned repair work.
It is likely that the construction adjusted operating profit was 102.7m.
Net In the results compiled in January 2006, of its part of the replacement line will require of all items of interest, its contribution to overall satisfaction in Scotland was 4.04 and an investment by SSE of around 250m.
SSEs profit before tax was 48.6m.
This in Southern it was 4.00 on a scale of 1.00 was despite high gas prices leading to being very dissatisfied and 5.00 being SSEs applications to Scottish Ministers significantly increased shrinkage costs.
for consent to build its part of the line were submitted in September 2005, but it is not Significant benefits have already arisen SGNs focus on delivering a high standard yet clear how long it will take for the as a result of the synergies between SGN of service to customers is reflected in its applications to make their way through and SSE, as a provider of corporate and decision to undertake a pilot programme the planning process.
For example, the two within its Operations Division in which the organisations share around 400 items of existing functionally-based structure is Electricity Distribution and Transmission common stock which gives them the ability replaced by a geographically-based Priorities in 2006 07 to make larger-scale purchases.
This is expected to enable there During 2006 07, SSEs first objective in power to be more local, and customer-focused, systems will be to maintain safe and reliable In October 2005, Scotland Gas Networks plc management of the business operations supplies of electricity and to restore supplies and Southern Gas Networks plc issued a and to help secure cost savings.
as quickly as possible in the event of combination of fixed rate, floating rate and interruptions.
This will be supported by a index-linked bonds totalling 2.2bn, with an Looking to the longer-term shape of the significant increase in investment in the average maturity of 17 years.
The transaction business, SGN will be undertaking major networks, targeted at upgrading them where was heavily over-subscribed and was a investment to upgrade its gas networks.
The benchmark transaction for the UK gas the greatest number of customers will efficient and economic delivery of this capital distribution sector.
It was also the largest benefit.
SSE will also continue to work investment will increase further SGNs RAV.
corporate financing in Europe in 2005 at the closely with Ofgem to secure a satisfactory To support this programme and its other date of issue.
With a rate of interest that is outcome from the Transmission Price activities in the most efficient way possible, below that envisaged when the decision was Control Review.
It will also seek to make it has in-sourced the work of around 700 made to acquire the two networks, the progress with the replacement of its part people in gas contracting and gas success of the issue will give SGN significant of the Beauly-Denny transmission line.
connections who were previously employed financial benefits over the long-term.
Scotia Gas Networks Financial The proceeds were used by SGN to repay In June 2005, Scotia Gas Networks plc SGN, Scotia Gas Networks Priorities in 2006 07 substantially the bank borrowings that in which SSE holds 50% of the equity, acquired SSEs priority in gas distribution will be were arranged to fund the purchase of the the Scotland and the Southern gas distribution to provide SGN with the corporate and networks.
As at 31 March 2006, SGNs net networks from National Grid Transco.
They management services to support its ongoing debt, which is non-recourse to SSEs balance comprise 73,000km of gas mains, delivering reform of procedures, processes and sheet, was 2.1bn.
gas to around 5.6m industrial, commercial practices.
These are designed to secure cost and domestic customers.
They will involve, Did you know?
In 2005 06, SSE added 974km to SSE owns 50% of Scotia Gas Networks We expect to add We distribute gas to the length of its electricity networks, SGN, the company which owns taking the total to over 127,000km.
Scotland Gas Networks and Southern It expects to deliver an increase in Gas Networks.
It also provides capital expenditure on the networks corporate and management services of over 20% during 2006 07 and that for SGN.
The Scotland and the Ofgems valuation of the assets of Southern networks comprise around 500 5.6 its distribution and transmission 73,000km of gas mains, delivering gas businesses the Regulated Asset to 5.6 million industrial, commercial million pounds to our million customers Value will grow by around 500m and domestic customers.
Regulated Asset Value Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2006 13 for example, more work in gas mains Following the acquisition of an additional Emissions Trading Scheme EU ETS replacement being brought in-house.
As part stake in Barking Power Ltd and the in January 2005: SSEs decision to protect of this, SSE is supporting the introduction completion of the Hadyard Hill wind farm in its customers from the worst impacts of of new front office management systems, early 2006, SSE owns over 10,000 megawatts volatile wholesale energy prices by delaying reducing the total number of systems from MW of electricity generation capacity, increases in the price of gas and electricity: 56 to 11, which will be very important.
SSE including its share of joint ventures.
This and lower output from SSEs hydro electric will also support SGN during the Gas comprises almost 4,400MW of gas-fired schemes which was below the long-term Distribution Price Control Review, in which capacity, 4,000MW of coal-fired capacity, average, having been significantly above the the existing Price Control is being extended over 1,500MW of hydro and wind capacity long-term average in the previous year.
for one year from 1 April 2007 and then and 150MW of oil-fired capacity.
As at 31 reset for the next Price Control period from March 2006, SSE supplied electricity and The Hydro Benefit subsidy previously paid 1 April 2008. gas to over 6.7 million homes, offices and from SSEs generation activities was businesses within the UKs competitive abolished on 1 April 2005 and was replaced GENERATION AND SUPPLY energy supply market.
by a separate scheme to assist customers with the high costs of distributing electricity Key Points: Generation and Supply Overview in the north of Scotland.
The abolition Operating profit in Generation and Supply contributed 37.0m to SSEs profit from k Operating profit up 14.5% to 444.8m.
rose by 14.5%, from 388.6m to 444.8m, its generation activities during 2005 06.
The profitability of its distribution businesses contributing 43.9% of SSEs total operating k Gas-fired power station availability was unaffected.
The underlying 87% and coal-fired power station financial performance of Generation and availability 92%.
EU ETS and BETTA Supply has been reported excluding the Since its launch in January 2005, the EU ETS k Good performance in new BETTA impact of IAS 39 derivative movements has seen the price of carbon allowances arrangements.
see Financial Overview above as SSE fluctuate, with a peak of around 30 Euros a believes this better represents underlying k Investment at Ferrybridge, Fiddlers tonne in the first few months of 2006.
emissions allowance, of around 20 million tonnes, was reasonable in comparison to the k Partnership to undertake front end During 2005 06, SSEs power stations rest of the UK electricity generation sector, engineering design of 500MW cleaner wholly-owned and owned by joint ventures but was lower than the level of emissions coal plant at Ferrybridge.
generated 41.1TWh of electricity, compared that SSE requires in practice.
As part of the with 38.8TWh in the previous year.
SSE k Acquisition of options to develop new cost of generating electricity, higher prices supplied 49.9TWh of electricity to industrial, wind farms.
of carbon allowances add upward pressure commercial and domestic customers, to electricity prices.
SSEs policy is to ensure k Net gain of 600,000 customers compared with 47.7TWh in the previous year.
it has minimal exposure to fluctuations in during 2005 06 following policy Its number of energy supply customers grew the price of carbon allowances.
by 600,000 during the year to over 6.7 million.
k Further reduction of 15%, in number SSE is one of a number of companies There were four main reasons for the growth of complaints to energywatch.
which has submitted an application to the in operating profit: ongoing benefits from the European Court of First Instance under acquisition in July 2004 of the Ferrybridge Generation and Supply Introduction Article 230 of the EC Treaty challenging the and Fiddlers Ferry power stations: the A series of market reforms in Great Britain, European Commissions decision to reject successful deployment of SSEs Scottish culminating in the introduction of BETTA the UK governments proposed amendment power stations in the new Great Britain in 2005, means that wholesale gas and to the UK Phase I National Allocation Plan.
electricity market BETTA : the abolition wholesale electricity are traded like any of the Hydro Benefit subsidy previously paid other commodities.
SSE purchases gas and, Uncertainty also surrounds the longer-term by SSEs Generation and Supply business: where appropriate, some electricity via impacts of EU ETS, not least because: the and sustained growth in energy supply bilateral contracts and through trading, the first phase has less than two years left to customer numbers.
latter complementing the electricity produced run: the details of the second phase, due from its own generation portfolio.
Within its to start in 2008, have not been finally These reasons for growth were, however, integrated business model, SSEs power determined: and it is not yet certain that offset by three factors: the impact of high stations are used to support performance in there will be an EU ETS after the end of wholesale energy prices driven partly by electricity supply.
Generation and Supply is, the second phase in 2012.
In its submission the price of carbon emissions allowances therefore, assessed as a single value chain.
to the UK governments review of energy following the introduction of the EU Did you know?
SSE owns just over 10GW or 10,000MW During 2005 06, the amount of We produce electricity from We generated of gas-fired, coal and biomass-fired, electricity generated at SSEs oil-fired, hydro, pumped storage and power stations wholly-owned and wind generation capacity in England owned by joint ventures was 41.1TWh.
Its principal power This was around 12% of the electricity stations are at Ferrybridge, Fiddlers generated in the UK as a whole Ferry, Keadby, Medway and Peterhead.
and was enough to power around 10.0 41.1 SSEs portfolio of power stations is the 11 million homes for one year.
second largest and most diverse in the GW of generating capacity TWh of electricity UK.
It is also the leading generator of electricity from renewable sources in the UK.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2006 Directors Statement Continued 14 planned outages, during the year, compared policy, SSE argued that there should be believes there is a significant value in the with 88% in the previous year.
The winter of confirmation that there will be a long-term diversity of its electricity generation portfolio 2005 06 demonstrated the value of coal as carbon pricing framework from 2012 and expects to make new investments in part of SSEs diverse generation portfolio.
onwards, accompanied by as much clarity as gas-fired generation plant to go alongside Against a background of very high wholesale possible on the second phase of the EU ETS.
its plans in coal and biomass generation gas prices, coal-fired plant met 50% of and in renewables.
average weekday demand, compared with Since the BETTA arrangements were 40% under more normal conditions.
The introduced in April 2005, SSE has benefited The launch of the EU ETS has underlined the diversity of its primary fuel sources enabled from its ability to deploy its flexible power need to develop new technologies to reduce SSE to manage its exposure to changes in stations in Scotland to meet demand from and capture carbon dioxide emissions primary fuel prices by balancing its gas the electricity market in England and Wales.
caused by the use of fossil fuels and SSE portfolio with a coal portfolio.
As part of This positive impact from Scottish-based is committed to looking for opportunities SSEs single value chain in Generation and generation contributed over 20m to to participate in appropriate developments.
Supply, this diversity also enabled SSE to delay operating profit.
increases in electricity and gas prices for In June 2005, SSE and its partner BP, domestic customers.
Gas-fired Generation Operations announced they are undertaking detailed Good performance in BETTA is dependent front-end engineering design work on the The stations also co-fire fuels from on power stations being available to generate worlds first industrial-scale project to renewable sources biomass in order electricity in response to customer demand generate fide-carbonised electricity from to displace fossil fuels, thus reducing the and market conditions.
The planned project would convert impact of carbon emissions resulting from wholly-owned gas-fired power stations natural gas to hydrogen and carbon dioxide their operation.
The resulting output of are Fife, Keadby, Medway and Peterhead.
gases, then use the hydrogen gas as fuel for electricity qualifies for Renewables During 2005 06 as a whole, they achieved a power plant at Peterhead Power Station Obligation Certificates ROCs.
During 87% of their maximum availability to with a capacity now expected to be 475MW, 2005 06, their output qualifying for ROCs generate electricity, excluding planned and export the carbon dioxide to a North Sea was around 795GWh, an increase of 9.8% outages, compared with 94% in the previous oil reservoir for increased oil recovery on the previous year.
The plant delivered better performance and ultimate storage.
SSEs interest in the during the second half of the year, following project is limited to its onshore aspects.
Coal and Biomass Generation Investment problems with reliability during the first half, Following investment of around 20m, SSE and availability improved to 92%, up from The current phase of work is expected to has developed additional facilities to increase 83% in the first six months.
be completed in the second half of 2006 07, further the ability to co-fire fuels from which will then allow a final investment renewable sources at both power stations.
The issues are being dealt with through well decision to be taken.
The full project The installation of new direct injection established long-term service agreements could require investment by SSE of around burners at the stations gives them the ability with contractors.
In addition, the number 150m and is subject to, amongst other to generate a total of up to 1,500GWh per of unplanned outages at SSEs four main things, the establishment of an appropriate year of output qualifying for ROCs.
gas-fired power stations was down by 40% policy and regulatory framework which during 2005 06. encourages the capture of carbon from SSE has opted in to the Large Combustion fossil fuel-based electricity generation Plant Directive LCPD all of the capacity at Gas-fired Generation Investment and its long-term storage.
Fiddlers Ferry and half of the capacity at In January 2006, SSE acquired an additional Coal and Biomass Generation Operations Ferrybridge and in line with that is installing 8.35% stake in Barking Power Ltd from the SSE acquired the Ferrybridge and Fiddlers Flue Gas Desulphurisation FGD equipment administrators of TXU Europe Power Ltd Ferry power stations, each with a capacity of in an investment estimated to be around for 14.7m.
The acquisition gives SSE a total almost 2,000MW, and associated coal stocks, 225m.
Following the installation of the stake of 30.4% in the 1,000MW combined for 136.0m in July 2004.
This equated to FGD equipment, which is expected to be cycle gas turbine station, which was around 20 per kilowatt of installed capacity.
completed during 2008, restrictions on commissioned in 1995, and effectively The 123.3m paid by SSE for fuel in transit the stations ability to generate electricity added 84MW to the portfolio of electricity and contracts to supply fuel has now been between 2008 and 2015 will be lifted and they generation assets owned by SSE.
more than recovered from the value of will be able to remain open beyond 2015. the contracts.
SSE believes that installing FGD represents The acquisition of an additional stake in a good investment opportunity and a step Barking Power Ltd complemented SSEs The stations achieved 92% of their maximum forward in environmental terms.
It will also other investments in coal and biomass availability to generate electricity, excluding extend the contribution of its coal-fired plant generation and in renewable energy.
Ferrybridge power station was the SSE owns almost 4.4GW of gas-fired We produced We own first in the UK to co-fire fuel from generation capacity at power stations renewable sources in order to displace in England and Scotland.
This includes fossil fuels, and Fiddlers Ferry an additional 84MW at Barking Power followed suit shortly thereafter.
The Station, reflecting the further renewable source is biomass.
SSE has investment in Barking Power Ltd invested around 20m at the stations which SSE made in 2006.
It also 795 4.4 to increase further their ability to includes a number of embedded co-fire renewable fuels.
In 2005 06, power stations which are directly GW of gas-fired GWh of electricity they produced 795GWh of electricity connected to SSEs electricity from biomass generation capacity from biomass.
This will increase distribution network in the south significantly as a result of the of England.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2006 15 Im part of a team that ensures our power stations use leading edge technology to deliver efficient electricity generation.
SSE is one of the biggest players in the UK energy market.
Darren Bolton COAL AND BIOMASS Generation Engineer GENERATION SSEs coal and biomass-fired generation plant makes a major contribution to its total generation output, particularly after increases in gas wholesale prices.
To ensure the long term contribution of its Fiddlers Ferry and Ferrybridge power stations, SSE is investing 225m to install Flue Gas Desulphurisation equipment.
This will allow restrictions to be lifted that would otherwise be imposed by the Large Combustion Plant Directive.
In addition, SSE is developing additional facilities to allow it to increase the proportion of biomass burned, to give the stations the ability to generate a total of 1,500GWh per year of output qualifying for ROCs.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2006 Directors Statement Continued 16 to the security of the UKs energy supplies premium price of around 44 MWh during Hydro and Wind Generation Investment and means that SSE will continue to have the 2005 06.
In total, SSE has 404MW of capacity The Renewables Obligation Order 2005 came countrys most diverse generation portfolio.
in its sub-20MW stations including the new into force on 1 April 2005 and increased the 3.5MW Kingairloch plant which was officially UKs target for electricity generated from To complement the investment in FGD, SSE opened by the Secretary of State for Scotland renewable sources to 15.4% by 2015 16. is investing 16m in installing re-designed in August 2005 and the new 7MW plant at This confirmed the important part that hydro high-pressure turbines and static blades at Fasnakyle, which has now been completed.
and wind generation will have to play in the all four units at Fiddlers Ferry and at two future, and the framework for investment units at Ferrybridge.
This will increase their The ability to qualify for ROCs provided an in renewable energy, based around the thermal efficiency by around 1.4%, resulting incentive for SSE to invest in the refurbishment Obligation, remains positive.
in significant fuel savings and delivering of its smaller hydro electric stations and a reductions in emissions of carbon dioxide.
total of 66 stations were refurbished under a In July 2005, SSE received consent for, and programme, which began in 2002 and which decided to proceed with, the construction In Budget 2006, the government stated that was completed in September 2005.
This of what will be the UKs second largest carbon abatement technologies which represents a major landmark in SSEs 350m conventional hydro electric power station at enable fossil fuels to be used with programme of investment in refurbishing its Glendoe, near Loch Ness.
With an installed substantially reduced carbon emissions, existing hydro electric power stations and in capacity of 100MW, Glendoe will produce could make an important contribution to developing new hydro capacity.
in an average year around 180GWh of meeting the UKs energy policy objectives.
When SSE has entered into a partnership with Water running off into reservoirs during synchronised, it will be able to generate Mitsui Babcock, Siemens and UK Coal with 2005 06 was 7% below the long-term electricity at full load within 30 seconds.
a view to installing cleaner coal technology average, and significantly lower than in The development of Glendoe will require at Ferrybridge, comprising a 500MW the previous year, when it was 14% above investment of around 140m.
Supercritical Boiler, with a thermal the long-term average.
Total hydro output efficiency of over 45% and the subsequent was 3,054GWh, also lower than the longThe Prime Minister and the First Minister deployment of post-combustion carbon term average and compared with 3,544GWh of Scotland visited the site in February 2006 capture equipment.
Within this, SSEs ROCto mark the start of construction work.
If the qualifying hydro output during the year was project goes according to schedule, it will The partnerships priorities will include the 1,428GWh, compared with 1,448GWh in the begin generating electricity commercially identification of secure supplies of coal, previous year.
from the winter of 2008 09. which may provide opportunities for deepmined coal in the UK.
The partners expect The Tangy, Spurness, Artfield Fell and SSEs first wind farm, at Tangy in Argyll to make a final decision on whether to make Hadyard Hill wind farms also contributed 13MW, has been operating since 2003. this investment in early 2007.
Installation 127GWh of ROC-qualifying output during Its second wind farm, at Spurness 9MW on of the Supercritical Boiler and related plant the year, compared with 42GWh from SSEs the Orkney Islands, was officially opened in to meet all established environmental then operational wind farms in 2004 05.
March 2005, and its third wind farm, Artfield standards would require investment by SSE Fell 20MW in Wigtownshire, was officially Assuming average run off and typical wind of around 250m.
opened by the Energy Minister in July 2005. conditions, SSE expects that the ROCqualifying output from its hydro and wind As the UK Energy Minister observed, the Construction work at the wind farm at generation for 2006 07 as a whole will be winter of 2005 06 demonstrated the value Hadyard Hill in Ayrshire was completed and over 1,800GWh.
of coal as part of the UKs diverse electricity in March 2006 it became the first ever wind generating mix.
He also pointed out that farm in the UK to generate over 100MW of The completion of the programme of hydro cleaner generation is essential if coal is to electricity.
With a total installed capacity of refurbishment and of the Hadyard Hill wind survive the shift to more sustainable forms of 120MW, it takes SSEs portfolio of wind farms farm see Hydro and Wind Generation energy.
If SSE proceeds with the installation to 162MW.
This will increase to 168MW Investment below means that SSE now of the Supercritical Boiler at Ferrybridge, it following the completion in 2007 of the has 566MW of ROC-qualifying capacity and will take its investment in cutting emissions construction work to add 6MW to the wind so is more than half way towards its target from its coal-fired power plant to over 500m.
These schemes comprise the of having around 1,000MW of such capacity, first phase of SSEs wind energy development which it hopes to achieve before the end Hydro and Wind Generation Operations plans and, on the completion of the extension of this decade.
Future developments will, The output of refurbished hydro electric at Tangy, will have required investment however, depend on the progress of stations with capacity of up to 20MW of 125m.
qualifies for ROCs and therefore attracted a Did you know?
SSE is investing around 225m to The system of Renewable Obligation We are investing We have install flue gas desulphurisation FGD Certificates ROCs was introduced equipment at its Fiddlers Ferry and by the UK government to encourage Ferrybridge power stations.
FGD investment in renewable energy equipment is designed and operated sources.
It means that suppliers as a chemical absorption process.
of electricity are obliged to buy an Injection of a limestone slurry increasing proportion of the electricity 225 566 removes at least 94% of the sulphur they supply from specified renewable dioxide, one of the main causes of sources.
SSE now has 566MW of million pounds to reduce MW of ROC-qualifying acid rain.
capacity, the output of which qualifies emissions generation capacity for ROCs.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2006 17 business development opportunities in SSE is also continuing to develop plans for during 2006.
In advance of that, RSPB has technologies which have the potential to the next phase of its investment in wind commented that the proposal has avoided help the UK meet its targets for reducing energy.
During 2006 07, it hopes that its the most important designated wildlife areas emissions of carbon dioxide while being applications in respect of seven wind farms in Shetland and that the degree of cocapable of generating significant amounts in Scotland with a total capacity of 361MW operation with conservation organisations of electricity.
Its first investment was in will be determined and approved.
This on research and survey into wildlife has Edinburgh-based Ocean Power Delivery.
includes Drumderg 32MW, Gordonbush established a new level of best practice.
87MW, Blackcraig 69MW, Fairburn 35MW The proposal is subject to, amongst other SSEs investment in the project to generate and Achany 40MW.
It also includes sites at things, being able to demonstrate to Ofgem fide-carbonised electricity from hydrogen at Toddleburn 36MW and Calliachar 62MW the viability of a sub-sea cable from Shetland Peterhead Power Station fully complements which SSE has acquired, subject to planning to the mainland of Scotland.
its diverse interests in generating electricity consent for the projects being secured and from renewable sources, as does its grid capacity becoming unconditional at SSEs proposal to develop a 250MW wind farm consideration of the issues surrounding the Calliacher.
The development of these seven on the Western Isles has been complicated development of clean coal technologies at sites, if consented, will require investment by Scottish Ministers decision to refer to the Ferrybridge, including research by Heriot of over 400m over the next few years.
Scottish Land Court the interposed lease Watt University on the prospects for carbon over the site of the proposed wind farm.
Nevertheless, the process for considering Ministers have said that they are unable to other applications for consent to build wind say how long it will take the Court to make With interests in emerging technologies, farms, including those proposed by SSE, its determination or even whether the including micro generation technologies is proving to be arduous and prolonged.
process will end there, as any decision will see Energy Services below, allied to its The applications to build wind farms at be subject to appeal.
established capability in generating Drumderg 32MW and Gordonbush 87MW electricity from the more mature have both been in the planning process for New Technologies technologies of hydro, onshore wind and almost three years, but have yet to be finally Investment in the research, development biomass, SSE has the broadest range of determined a rate of progress which is and demonstration of new technologies interests in the UK in zeroand low-carbon slow and disappointing.
for generating electricity from renewable electricity generation technologies.
sources is a key part of the governments The Drumderg proposal is the subject of energy policy, and is part of SSEs strategy Generation Priorities for 2006 07 a Public Inquiry which got under way during to remain the UKs leading generator of During 2006 07, SSEs key objective in March 2006.
The Highland Council agreed electricity from renewable sources.
generation will be to ensure that its diverse The Highland Renewable Energy Strategy portfolio of power stations is available to and Planning Guidelines in May 2006 and It is investing around 10m in a project, with generate electricity in response to customer the proposed wind farm at Gordonbush Talisman Energy UK, to deploy two 5MW demand and market conditions, while is located in a preferred area for wind demonstrator wind turbines in deep water in the Moray Firth.
Subject to suitable weather complying fully with all safety standards farm developments.
conditions being available, the turbines will be and environmental regulations.
deployed in the water during the summer of Beyond this programme of investment, 2006 with electricity being generated from It will also be working to ensure that the other opportunities are also being examined.
In addition, SSEs marine energy venture, installation of flue gas desulphurisation In line with that, SSE and Viking Energy, Renewable Technology Ventures Ltd RTVL, is equipment at Fiddlers Ferry and Ferrybridge the company formed to represent Shetland on course to deploy its 2.4MW tidal underwater and the development of the Glendoe hydro Island Councils interests in large-scale wind turbine demonstrator at the European Marine electric scheme proceed on time and on energy development in Shetland, have signed Energy Centre in Orkney during 2007 08. budget.
It also hopes to secure consent for a Memorandum of Understanding which the construction of additional wind farm is expected to lead to the establishment SSE is also investing up to 2.4m in a fund capacity at up to seven sites with a total of a joint venture aimed at developing on the to support renewable energy projects and capacity of 361MW and to identify new Shetland Islands a wind farm with a capacity technologies being developed by companies opportunities to invest in gas-fired generation.
Viking Energys involvement in the east of Scotland.
The fund will would make the scheme the largest be managed by a subsidiary of Sigma There are also significant decisions to be community-backed wind farm development Technology Group.
The 10-year fund will taken in terms of whether to go ahead with in the world.
have a total initial value of up to 6m and the projects to generate fide-carbonised an investment period of three years.
electricity at Peterhead and to install a Super A planning application for consent to build SSE expects that its investment will yield Critical Boiler and post-combustion carbon the wind farm is expected to be submitted capture equipment at Ferrybridge.
SSE is investing around 140m in a SSE owns and operates four wind We are building a We have wind farms with new hydro electric scheme at Glendoe, farms in Scotland with a total capacity to the east of Fort Augustus in of 162MW.
In March 2006, its Hadyard Inverness-shire.
The power station Hill wind farm in South Ayrshire itself, which will be built under became the first in the UK to generate ground, will be located close to the over 100MW of electricity.
Over a year, south east corner of Loch Ness.
the 85m wind farm will generate 100 162 With an installed capacity of 100MW, enough electricity to power 80,000 Glendoe will be Scotlands second homes, sufficient to supply every MW hydro electric power MW of capacity largest conventional hydro electric household in a city the size of York.
station near Loch Ness station and the first large-scale station to be built since 1957.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2006 Directors Statement Continued 18 over 30 process re-designs.
These include, Energy Supply Premier Cricket League.
These programmes for example, increasing the frequency of SSEs energy supply business had over 6.7 will be followed by a SWALEC-supported reviews of direct debit payments being made million customers as at 31 March 2006, a net sports initiative in south Wales.
by customers, to every six months, so they gain of 600,000 during 2005 06.
Overall, SSE can be satisfied their payments are in line now has 2.2 million more customers than at Customer Service with their actual energy consumption.
As the start of 2002, an increase of almost 50%.
Equally important to success in Energy part of the project, it is expected that the Within the overall total, SSEs business Supply is maintaining the highest possible introduction of computer-telephony customers now cover almost 400,000 sites standards of customer service.
The leading integration CTI will be completed well throughout Great Britain.
annual independent study, by JD Power, before the end of 2006.
It will, amongst other published in November 2005, found that SSE things, reduce the number of menu options SSEs policy is to seek to protect its domestic has the highest level of customer satisfaction customers have to deal with before they customers from the worst impacts of volatile among UK electricity suppliers and the speak to a customer service adviser.
wholesale energy prices and to delay for as second highest among gas suppliers.
long as possible any increases in prices for Despite the significant growth in customer Product Development gas and electricity.
It has, therefore, numbers, SSE secured during 2005 06 a Energy supply remains intensely competitive, increased prices for domestic customers reduction of almost 15% in the number of and key to long-term success will be greater more slowly than its major competitors.
customer complaints sent to energywatch success in gaining and retaining customers When the latest increase was announced in for resolution, to 1,692 the third successive loyalty, and the performance improvement March 2006, SSE gave a commitment to hold year in which a significant reduction in the programme is designed to achieve that, as electricity and gas prices at their revised number of complaints has been achieved.
levels until at least the start of 2007.
SSEs In the statistics published by energywatch decisions to delay price rises have saved a in March 2006, SSE had the lowest rate of In line with this, SSE has launched typical gas and electricity customer around complaints in respect of all three categories: energyplus pulse.
For every customer 100 since the start of 2004, compared with account and billing matters: direct selling: who switches gas and electricity supply what they would have paid had SSE and transfers between companies.
to energyplus pulse, SSE donates 10 increased prices at the same time as the a year to the British Heart Foundation.
SSE believes that a high quality of service will become an increasingly important part It forms part of the energyplus suite of The outlook for gas and electricity prices of its customer proposition and that loyalty products which are available from remains uncertain.
Nevertheless, SSE will customers expectations of the service their SSE and which now have, in total, over seek to maintain its reputation for energy supplier should provide will increase.
In a highly competitive responsible pricing and for protecting its In line with this, it has implemented a new market, SSE believes that its ability to offer customers from the worst impacts of volatile Domestic Energy Customer Charter, the a range of loyalty products positions it well wholesale energy markets.
It believes that first of its kind in the UK.
It makes a series to retain customers for the long-term.
this reputation for restraint has contributed of specific commitments in respect of customer service, such as a pledge to In addition, SSE has continued to look to the sustained growth in the number of respond to letters from customers within at options for new products, given the energy supply customers which has been five days of receipt and the right to importance of developments in this field achieved in recent years, and will support the independent arbitration where necessary as a key contributor to long-term success achievement of additional growth in the future.
For example, for customers who like peace of mind and wish to guard According to the Domestic Retail Market The introduction of the Charter is part of against future uncertainty in energy prices, Report published by Ofgem in February 2006, the wider performance improvement SSE has introduced a fixed price tariff for gas SSEs three regional brands Scottish Hydro programme in SSEs Customer Service and electricity.
While the fixed price is higher Electric, Southern Electric and SWALEC division.
This programme is geared to than the revised prices which took effect on have been the most successful of the improving significantly customers experience 1 May 2006, it is guaranteed until 2010. incumbent electricity suppliers in the 14 in dealing with SSE and, amongst other regions in Great Britain in maintaining their things, reducing the number of customers Energy Services market share within the competitive market.
lost to other suppliers an area in which An increasing number of supply customers there is scope for SSE to improve.
are likely to seek a wider range of energyIn support of the Scottish Hydro Electric related services, covering renewable, brand SSE announced in March 2006 a major The programme involves a major resustainable and energy efficient products.
three-year sponsorship of the Camanachd organisation and simplification of the In Budget 2006, the government said that Cup.
This complements the well-established division, around the customer lifecycle, with supplying energy on an energy services basis sponsorship of the Southern Electric Did you know?
SSE is one of the largest suppliers of With SSEs energyplus pulse product, We supply energy to over We give electricity and gas with over 6.7 customers dont pay any more than million customers.
It brings together SSEs standard prices for energy the Southern Electric, Scottish Hydro and SSE gives 10 a year to the British Electric, SWALEC and Atlantic brands.
Heart Foundation for every customer These brands offer a range of energywho buys electricity and gas through related products and services.
The money that 6.7 10 delivers sector-leading service from SSEs donates on customers behalf its centres in Basingstoke, Cardiff, is used by the British Heart million customers pounds to the British Perth and Portsmouth.
SSEs Energy Foundation to support patient care, Heart Foundation with Services unit provides a comprehensive emergency skills and equipment, energyplus pulse range of beyond the meter services.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2006 19 Im responsible for ensuring new staff arent thrown in at the deep end, We have excellent training and lots of support.
After all, theyre going to be making promises on our behalf promises we must keep.
CUSTOMER Ryan Sadler Customer Service Training Manager SERVICE The 2005 leading annual independent study, by JD Power, found that SSE has the highest level of customer satisfaction among UK electricity suppliers, and the second highest among gas suppliers.
SSE believes that a high quality of customer service will be an increasingly important part of customers expectations.
In line with this, it has introduced, as part of major reorganisation of its customer service division involving over 30 process re-designs, a Domestic Energy Customer Charter.
These initiatives are geared to improving significantly customers experience of dealing with SSE and, amongst other things, reducing the number of customers lost to other suppliers.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2006 Directors Statement Continued 20 helps shift the focus of energy producers and pricing policy and its range of value-adding throughout Great Britain and trades as customers from the supply of units of offers to increase further its number of SWALEC Contracting in Wales, Scottish electricity and gas to the supply of the overall energy supply customers.
Amongst other Hydro Contracting in Scotland, Eastern services for which energy is used.
things, this will require a continuing focus Contracting in the east of England and on delivering the highest possible standard Harrison Smith in the north of England.
SSE is very well positioned to capture a of service to customers and completing the significant proportion of this developing delivery of the performance improvement SSEs national Connections business market over the remainder of this decade programme in the Customer Service division, provides utility infrastructures and because it combines established contracting, with the explicit aim of increasing customer connections for new developments.
private networks, connections and appliance loyalty.
SSE is committed to keeping It finances, plans and constructs projects retail businesses with a portfolio of micro domestic electricity and gas prices at their and owns and operates gas, electricity and generation technologies.
current levels until at least the start of 2007. telecommunications networks throughout the country.
In terms of micro generation technologies, As the energy supply market evolves to SSE has invested 1.12m to increase its stake include more energy services, SSE will seek During the Distribution Price Control Review in Edinburgh based Swift Turbines to 10% of to increase further its activity in gas and for 2005-10, Ofgem reviewed the price the share capital, with options over a further electricity infrastructure, microgeneration control treatment of the provision, 20%, and 2.0m to increase its stake in and, in particular, the provision and installation and maintenance of meters and solarcentury to 13.3% of the share capital.
It will actively separated it from the electricity distribution Swift Turbines has developed what is believed encourage the UK government, in the context RAV.
This resulted in a reduction in SSEs to be the worlds first feasible rooftopof its review of energy policy, to develop further RAV of 23m on 1 April 2005. mountable wind energy system and Londonthe framework for energy services, in based solarcentury is the largest independent general, and micro generation in particular.
Contracting, Connections and solar photovoltaics company in the UK.
Metering Overview CONTRACTING, CONNECTIONS Contracting, Connections and Metering In addition to its investments, SSE is working AND METERING delivered operating profit of 50.4m during with both companies to market the provision 2005 06, an increase of 5.2%.
This includes and installation of the technologies to an Key points: 3.4m of operating profit from Thermal increasing number of customers in the UK.
Transfer, SSEs specialist contracting k Operating profit up 5.2% to 50.4m.
business, which was sold to ETDE on SSE is also launching a new domestic boiler 31 March 2006 for 20m.
k Acquisition of Harrison Smith in installation and maintenance and repair February 2006. service for gas central heating systems.
Contracting The initial offering is being made in 13 k Secured Leeds City Council street The sale of Thermal Transfer will allow SSEs postcode areas covering 3.5 million lighting PFI.
core contracting business, Southern Electric households.
The product features an annual Contracting SEC, to develop its mechanical k 50,800 electrical and gas connections inspection, full breakdown and emergency and electrical capability.
It is continuing to completed.
cover and a 24-hour, 365-day manned make significant progress.
It covers customers k Number of out-of-area electricity entire gas central heating system, including networks up to 19, with agreement It acquired the Yorkshire-based plumbing the boiler, pipe work, radiators, cylinders on a further 12. and heating contractor, Harrison Smith and tanks.
Batley in February 2006 in a transaction Introduction to Contracting, with a value of around 1.2m.
The acquisition The establishment by SSE of an Energy Connections and Metering has given SEC the scope to offer a more Services unit anticipated a growing demand SSEs contracting business, Southern comprehensive range of electrical, heating for services beyond the meter.
Its ability to Electric Contracting, has five main areas and plumbing services to customers in the provide these services is a natural long-term of activity: industrial, commercial and north of England.
It followed the acquisition complement to its existing business of domestic, mechanical and electrical in January 2005 of the electrical contracting distributing and supplying energy to the meter.
contracting: data communications: high division of what was previously Eastern voltage design and maintenance: electrical Contracting, a business which is now a fullyEnergy Supply Priorities in 2006 07 and instrumentation engineering: and public integrated part of SEC.
During 2006 07, SSE will seek to capitalise and highway lighting.
It is one of the largest on its strong regional brands, its best-inelectrical contracting businesses in the UK SECs joint venture with Interserve, PriDE, sector customer service, its responsible and operates from 48 regional offices has now completed the first year of a seven Did you know?
During 2005 06, SSE received 9.2 SSE has one of the UKs leading We received We have million telephone calls from its gas Mechanical and Electrical contracting and electricity supply customers.
Operating from In its new Domestic Energy Customer 48 regional offices around the country, Charter, the first of its kind in the UK, and employing 3,000 experienced SSEs commitment is to answer engineers and electricians, it offers telephone calls within 20 seconds.
customers: local client management: 9.2 48 It forms part of a wide-ranging local project management: IOSH performance improvement qualified managers: and local million calls from regional offices in the programme in SSEs Customer resources, including directly customers contracting business Service division which will be employed labour.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2006 21 year contract worth around 400m to provide Metering GAS STORAGE mechanical and electrical maintenance for SSEs Metering business provides services over 100 Ministry of Defence sites in London to most electricity suppliers with customers Key points: and the south east of England.
The profit in central southern England and the north contribution of the venture in its first year of Scotland.
It supplies, installs and k Operating profit up 43.7% to 27.3m.
was in line with that expected when the maintains domestic meters and carries out k 100% availability to meet customers contract was awarded.
metering work in the commercial, industrial nominations.
It also offers data In partnership with the asset finance division collection services to the domestic and k Nine wells drilled at the Aldbrough of The Royal Bank of Scotland, SEC also SME sectors.
has contracts with a value of over 700m k Leaching under way at five caverns.
to replace and maintain streetlights for four In total, SSE owns 3.6 million meters and local authorities in England under the Private changes around 250,000 meters each year Introduction to Gas Storage Finance Initiative.
This includes the largestas they reach the end of their useful life or SSE owns and operates the UKs largest ever street lighting PFI in the UK, agreed to meet customer requests for changed onshore gas storage facility at Hornsea in with Leeds City Council in February 2006. functionality.
Each year, it collects around East Yorkshire.
Nine man made salt cavities 5.1 million electricity readings and 1.3 have been leached into a salt layer 1.8 SSE has contracts with 28 local authorities million gas readings.
It is focused on kilometres below the surface creating 325 to maintain around one million lighting units, providing an efficient service in SSEs two million cubic metres of gas storage space.
making it the UKs largest street lighting licensed electricity distribution areas.
Gas can be withdrawn at a rate of 18 million contractor and operating profit from SSEs cubic metres per day, the equivalent of the lighting services activities grew by over 50% Contracting, Connections and Metering requirements of around four million homes.
Priorities in 2006 07 The services offered at Hornsea provide The priorities for SEC in 2006 07 are to customers with a reliable source of flexibility Connections complete the integration of the Harrison with which to manage their supply demand The Connections business completed 42,900 Smith business and to make a successful balance and exploit market opportunities.
Its start to the Leeds PFI.
It is also important rate of connecting new premises to its gas to ensure that there continues to be good Gas Storage Operations networks continued to grow, and during the performance in other long-term contracts, Gas Storage delivered an operating profit of the year, it connected a further 7,900 such as the Ministry of Defence PriDE 27.3m during 2005 06, an increase of 43.7% premises, up 12.9% on the previous year, contract.
Given such a significant proportion compared with the previous year.
The value taking the total number of gas connections of its business is repeat, its over-riding of, and demand for, gas storage facilities in now owned by SSE to more than 35,000. priority is to deliver a high standard of the UK remains high and, in a volatile gas service to all customers in all of the sectors market, SSE has continued to enter into new In addition, the Connections business has in which it operates.
contracts to provide storage at a significantly continued to expand its portfolio of electricity higher value than the contracts they replace.
networks outside the Southern Electric and The connections business focus will be on Scottish Hydro Electric Power Distribution the successful delivery of a growing number The facility at Hornsea has a good record areas.
It now owns and manages 19 electricity of utility connections and on continuing to of reliability and during 2005 06 was 100% networks outside SSEs two electricity expand its range of electricity networks available to customers except in instances distribution areas, a gain of three during the outside the Southern Electric and Scottish of planned maintenance.
The three new networks are at Hydro Electric Power Distribution areas.
customers to manage their gas market Waterfront Edinburgh, Braehead Glasgow In particular, it expects to construct and risks and exploit gas trading opportunities.
The Metering business will continue to Gas Storage Investment It has also won during 2005 06 a total of 12 focus on delivering a good service at SSEs joint venture with Statoil UK, in which new contracts to provide energy infrastructure, competitive prices.
SSE is investing 150m, to develop what will including schemes for Cardiff International become the UKs largest onshore gas Sports Village, Dagenham and Warrington storage facility at Aldbrough, is continuing Golden Square.
These projects further to make good progress.
With a total new demonstrate SSEs capability to provide capacity of around 420 million cubic metres, energy networks to customers across the of which SSE will have the ownership interest whole of the UK and will take its total number in 280 million cubic metres, Aldbrough will of out-of-area electricity networks to 31.
SSEs contracting business is one of In addition to its electricity networks in We manage and maintain We manage the UKs largest contracting its central southern England and the businesses and has five main areas of north of Scotland areas, SSE owns and activity: industrial, commercial and manages 19 networks elsewhere in domestic, mechanical and electrical the UK.
These include networks at contracting: data communications: Waterfront Edinburgh, Braehead high voltage design and maintenance: Glasgow and Doncaster Interchange.
1.0 19 electrical and instrumentation This number is increasing, as SSE has engineering: and public and highway signed new contracts to provide million street lights out-of-area lighting.
It is responsible for energy infrastructure, including the electricity networks maintaining around one million Cardiff International Sports Village.
lighting units, making it the UKs largest street lighting contractor.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2006 Directors Statement Continued 22 provide essential additional gas storage profit of 13.2m during 2005 06, compared third payments, SSE expects to receive further for the UK energy industry.
with 10.8m in the previous year, an distributions later in 2006 and that, in total, increase of 22.1%.
The business offers well over 90% of its claim will be settled.
Nine caverns will be used to store gas customers a national telecoms network, at Aldbrough.
They are being created and has a UK-wide sales force and a broad Thermal Transfer by directionally drilling from a central range of products including Ethernet, SDH In March 2006, SSE completed the sale processing area down to the salt strata.
Leased Lines and Dark Fibre.
As a subsidiary of Thermal Transfer to ETDE, the electrical Seawater is then pumped into the boreholes of SSE, it is also able to position itself as one contracting maintenance subsidiary of the to dissolve the salt and form the caverns.
of the UKs most financially secure telecoms French-owned Bouygues Construction.
This is the process known as leaching.
network operators, which gives a significant The profit on disposal was 18.6m.
All nine wells have been drilled and the competitive advantage.
leaching is at full capacity at five caverns.
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE The process will take another three years The improvement in performance during to complete, with the first cavern expected 2005 06 was mainly the result of higher Investment and capital expenditure, to be ready to store gas in 2007. sales, and important contracts have recently excluding acquisitions, totalled 502.1m been signed with a diverse range of major during 2005 06, compared with 383.5m in Gas Storage Priorities in 2006 07 organisations, such as Opal Telecom part the previous year, an increase foreshadowed All storage capacity at Hornsea for 2006 07 of the Carphone Warehouse, College of Law in the Annual Report 2005. was sold before the end of March 2006.
SSEs the largest provider of legal education and priorities in Gas Storage during the year are training in Europe and Savvis for easyJet.
Capital expenditure in Power Systems was to ensure that Hornsea maintains its 172.1m, compared with 171.5m in the excellent record of reliability and to ensure During the year the business secured further previous year.
A major part of the ongoing that the Aldbrough development remains improvements in the quality of project delivery.
capital expenditure programme is focused on the replacement of parts of the electricity on course to begin storing gas in 2007, network that date back to the 1960s.
with the completion of the leaching of the Telecoms Priorities in 2006 07 first storage cavern by the end of this SSEs priority in Telecoms in 2006 07 is to In addition, there was investment of 133.6m financial year.
continue to grow its sales, using its alreadyfor growth in Generation during the year, established nationwide network, with its with the refurbishment work carried out at TELECOMS competitive range of products targeted at hydro electric power stations, the commercial and public sector customers.
development of new hydro electric and wind Key points: energy schemes leading to the production EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS k Operating profit up 22.1% to 13.2m.
of ROC-qualifying electricity and investment in biomass co-firing and other developments k Increased sales to major customers.
TXU Europe Group plc at Fiddlers Ferry and Ferrybridge.
In August 2005, SSE received its second net k Improved project delivery.
distribution payment, of 41.6m, from the As well as Power Systems and Generation, administrators of TXU Europe Group plc Introduction to Telecoms 46.7m was invested in the ongoing and certain of its subsidiaries, with regard SSE Telecom provides radio sites for local development of the new gas storage facility to its claim of 294.2m in respect of a authorities, mobile operators and emergency at Aldbrough.
In addition, in February 2006, 14-year contract originally entered into in services throughout central southern SSE acquired a building in Havant for 10.5m 1997.
A third net distribution payment, of England and the north of Scotland, enabling which it is now refurbishing and which will 50.5m, was received in January 2006.
To customers to improve their network become its regional base for southern these has been added SSEs share 16.7m coverage and capacity.
This will enable SSE to bring of the distributions paid by the administrator Networks, operates a 7,500km UK-wide together in a single, higher-quality building, to Barking Power Ltd, the operators of telecoms network, including 1,100km of employees who currently work in separate Barking Power Station, in which SSE now underground and overhead fibre optic cable sites in Portsmouth and Havant, which will has a total stake of 30.4%.
This gives a total installed on SSEs electricity network, be vacated and sold.
providing networking services to other telecoms providers, companies and public Within the overall total, capital expenditure for These payments followed the first net sector organisations.
growth was 287.7m during 2005 06, including distribution payments of 159.1m to SSE and 133.6m of the overall capital expenditure in SSEs share of 22.3m to Barking Power Ltd, Telecoms Operations Generation.
As previously stated, capital which were received from the administrator SSEs combined Telecoms business SSE expenditure will continue to be significant in March 2005.
Following the second and Telecom and Neos achieved an operating Did you know?
SSE owns the UKs largest onshore SSEs telecoms business comprises We own and operate We provide services to gas storage facility at Hornsea in East SSE Telecom and Neos Networks.
SSE Yorkshire, which has a total storage Telecom provides radio sites for local capacity of around 325 million cubic authorities, mobile operators and metres.
It operates as a tool for emergency services throughout meeting peak demand for gas.
SSE is central southern England and the now developing an even larger facility north of Scotland, enabling customers 325 400 at nearby Aldbrough.
This will have a to improve their network coverage and total new capacity of around 420 capacity.
Neos Networks operates a million cubic metres major telecoms customers million cubic metres, of which SSE will 7,500km UK-wide telecoms network, of gas storage have an ownership interest in 280 providing networking services to other million cubic metres.
telecoms providers, companies and public sector organisations.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2006 23 with 90.9m in the previous year.
Of the during the rest of this decade, with investment capital expenditure for growth, principally 155.3m, SGN interest was 54.1m net of in generation, including FGD installation, in electricity generation and gas storage, loan stock interest payable to SSE.
electricity networks and gas storage, and is totalling 287.7m: and an adverse movement expected to be over 650m in 2006 07.
This reflected higher March March investments are expected to achieve returns commodity costs incurred during the year 06 05 which are greater than the cost of capital and which were lagged by cash collections from m m are expected to enhance earnings.
Working Published net finance costs capital is forecast to improve in 2006 07 as Note 6 89.4 61.3 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT this lag is reversed during the year.
add less Share of JCE Treasury Policy There was a cash inflow of 92.1m from the Associate interest 97.3 17.2 SSEs operations are financed by a administration of TXU businesses.
In April Convertible debt IAS 32 combination of retained profits, bank 2004, SSE acquired over 300,000 electricity adjustment 3.6 borrowings, long-term debt issuance and and gas customers and the customer debt Interest on pension plan commercial paper.
As a matter of policy, book from Atlantic Electric & Gas for 85.3m.
liabilities 100.0 94.7 a minimum of 50% of SSEs interest rate In the two years since the acquisition, all of Return on pension plan exposure is kept at fixed rates of interest.
the money which SSE paid for the customer assets 115.7 107.1 debt book has been collected.
Movement on derivatives 43.5 Within this policy framework, SSE borrows as required, at both fixed and floating rates, Borrowings and Facilities Adjusted net finance costs 155.3 90.9 with interest rate swaps and forward rate The objective for SSE is to maintain a balance agreements being used to achieve the between continuity of funding and flexibility, Jointly Controlled Entities desired profile.
All borrowings in foreign with a range of maturity dates.
Its average currencies are swapped back into Sterling.
age of debt as at 31 March 2006 was 12.7 years, The average interest rate for SSE, excluding At 31 March 2006, 83.2% of SSEs borrowings compared with 12.0 years as at 31 March 2005.
JCE Associate interest, during the year was were at fixed rates, after taking account of 5.42%, compared with 5.91% in the previous interest rate swaps.
The maturity profile continues to reflect year.
Underlying interest cover was 9.2 times, the medium to long-term nature of SSEs compared with 9.0 times in the previous year: Liquidity policy requires SSE to ensure that underlying assets and means that its debt including SGN it was 6.6 times.
it has committed borrowings and facilities structure continues to be in a strong position equal to at least 105% of forecast borrowings going forward, with around 1.85bn of TAX over a rolling 12 month period.
SSE had borrowings in medium to long-term funding undrawn committed bank facilities of 650m, in the form of issued Bonds and European To assist the transparency of SSEs tax with a weighted average period, until Investment Bank borrowings.
A total of position, the adjusted current tax charge maturity, of 3.7 years as at 31 March 2006.
18.7% of SSEs borrowings will mature in is calculated as follows: As the United Kingdom is SSEs main area of the 12 months to March 2007. operation, foreign currency risk is limited March March In February 2006, SSE issued a 325m long- 06 05 mainly to procurement contracts, fuel m m dated sterling bond for Southern Electric purchases and commodity hedging Power Distribution to pre-finance pending transactions.
Its policy is to hedge all Published tax charge 254.6 229.5 maturities and to provide funding for its material foreign exchange exposures add back: capital expenditure programme.
This bond through the use of forward currency Share of JCE Associate tax 29.9 15.3 which matures in 2037, has a coupon of purchases and or derivative instruments.
less: 4.625%, which will help to reduce significantly Indirect exposures created by SSEs gas Deferred tax 37.7 35.6 SSEs interest costs over the long-term.
purchases are similarly hedged on an Tax on exceptional items ongoing basis.
and remeasurements 15.3 27.2 Net Finance Costs Adjusted current tax charge 231.5 182.0 The basis of the presentation of net finance Net Debt and Cash Flow costs has changed under IFRS and the table During 2005 06, SSEs net debt increased by below reconciles published net finance costs 736.4m to 2,166.4m.
Net debt includes The effective adjusted underlying current tax to adjusted net finance costs which SSE 26.2m owed by the PFI street lighting rate, based on adjusted profit before tax, was believes is a more meaningful measure.
companies, which is non-recourse to SSE.
27.0%, compared with 25.3% in the previous In line with that, SSEs adjusted net finance The increase followed: the 505m acquisition year.
The headline tax charge was 28.3%, costs in 2005 06 was 155.3m, compared cost of the 50% stake in SGN: increased compared with 29.1% in the previous year.
During 2005 06, SSEs investment During 2005 06, the average interest We invested over We had a and capital expenditure excluding rate for SSE was 5.42%, compared acquisitions totalled just over 500m.
with 5.91% in the previous year.
In This included investment to upgrade February 2005, SSE issued a 325m its electricity networks, build new long-dated sterling bond for Southern hydro electric and wind energy Electric Power Distribution.
This bond, schemes and develop new gas which matures in 2037, has a coupon 500 5.42 storage facilities.
of 4.625%, which will help to reduce significantly SSEs interest costs over million pounds in capital per cent average the long-term.
projects interest rate Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2006 Directors Statement Continued 24 I manage a team of technicians responsible for leaching the caverns by pumping sea water at high pressure to dissolve the salt.
This involves hands on practical work where common sense and a practical approach are as valuable as qualifications.
Scott Maxwell Leaching Engineer GAS STORAGE FACILITY As the UK becomes more dependent on imported gas, gas storage facilities become increasingly important in enabling suppliers to balance supply and demand.
SSE already owns the UKs largest onshore gas storage facility at Hornsea in East Yorkshire.
Now, in a joint venture with Statoil UK, it is investing 150m to develop a second storage facility, at nearby Aldbrough.
Nine man made cavities are being leached into a deep salt layer 1.8 kilometres below the surface.
The new facility will have a total capacity of around 420 million cubic metres, with SSE having an ownership interest in 280 million cubic metres.
The first of the cavities is expected to be ready to store gas in 2007.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2006 25 Within the main Index is the Business in the BALANCE SHEET the companys own shares at the Annual Environment Index.
SSEs score was 99.20%, General Meeting on 27 July 2006.
It remains compared with 98.80% in the previous year.
SSE continues to maintain one of the the policy of the Board of SSE to take As with the overall Index, making SSE best strongest balance sheets in the global utility opportunities to return value to shareholders in its sector.
sector, which continues to give it significant through the purchase of the companys own competitive advantage in terms of cost of shares should the conditions be appropriate.
STRATEGY AND OUTLOOK funding and supporting new developments.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY In a sector which remains subject to During the year, the trustees of both the significant change, SSE continues to focus Southern Electric scheme and the scheme Safety and the Environment on enhancing and creating value for for employees at Fiddlers Ferry and SSE aims to create value for shareholders shareholders from its energy and Ferrybridge agreed to merge their final by running the business with a strong  businesses in the UK.
The merger has no impact emphasis on safety and on caring for the The businesses have been expanded in on members benefits.
During 2005 06, the actual recent years through incremental growth created an enlarged pension scheme with number of lost time and reportable accidents and investment in assets, and they are wella more balanced investment strategy and within the company was 17, the same as placed to deliver further growth.
That growth lower costs, giving increased security for in the previous year.
This equates to 1.38 will be based on SSEs core strengths, all members.
per 1,000 employees, compared with 1.54 amongst which the achievement of per 1,000 employees in the previous year continuous improvement and the delivery In line with the IAS 19 treatment of pension which, on this basis, was SSEs best-ever of operational excellence in all activities scheme assets, liabilities and costs, pension safety performance.
scheme liabilities of 284m and a pension scheme asset of 90.2m are recognised in The number of serious, or potentially There are excellent opportunities to grow the balance sheet at 31 March 2006, gross serious, road traffic accidents involving these businesses further through the major of deferred tax.
Overall, this represents an employees driving company vehicles fell investment programme planned for the rest improvement of 33.8m compared with the from 24 in 2004 05 to 17 in 2005 06. of this decade, which will add significantly position at March 2005.
Performance in 2005 06 equates to 0.28 to SSEs asset base in energy networks, accidents per 100 vehicles compared with electricity generation, energy supply and gas During 2005 06, employer cash contributions 0.42 in the previous year.
All of this investment is in line with to the Scottish Hydro Electric pension the UKs key goals of delivering reliable and scheme amounted to 9.2m.
Contributions SSEs target for any given year is zero lower carbon energy supplies.
to the Southern Electric pension scheme reportable environmental incidents.
There amounted to 46.5m during the year.
This were no such incidents during 2005 06.
SSE can take advantage of these includes a contribution towards the deficit opportunities because of its carefully of 31.7m that was agreed in March 2005, Corporate Responsibility Index and maintained financial strength.
SSE is, in addition to an ongoing contribution rate of Business in the Environment Index therefore, in a very good position to expand 19.9% of salaries.
As part of the Distribution Business in the Communitys Corporate Responsibility Index provides an authoritative its businesses further through incremental Price Control for 2005-2010, it was agreed benchmark for companies to evaluate their growth and investment in assets and, most that allowance for 76% of deficit repair management practice in four key areas of importantly of all, to deliver sustained real contributions should be included in price corporate responsibility community, growth in the dividend.
environment, marketplace and workplace and performance in a range of environmental At 31 March 2006, there was a net asset and social impact areas material to arising from IAS 39 of 46.5m, before tax, their business.
compared with a net asset of 31.8m, before tax, at 1 April 2005.
The results of the Index for 2005, in which 131 companies participated, were published PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES in May 2006.
SSEs score was 97.5%, compared with 93.0% in the previous year.
The Directors of SSE have not exercised This placed SSE joint 7th in the Index, their authority to purchase, in the market, compared with joint 14th in the previous the companys own shares during 2005 06. year, and made it the joint top-ranked The Directors are, however, seeking renewal company in its sector.
of their authority to purchase, in the market, Did you know?
SSE was one of 131 companies which SSE was one of 155 companies which We scored We scored participated in Business in the participated in Business in the Communitys Corporate Responsibility Communitys Environment Index 2005.
Index, the leading UK benchmark of It is widely recognised as the leading responsible business practice.
SSEs benchmark of corporate environmental score in the Index was 97.5% and its engagement.
SSEs score in the Index position was joint 7th, which made it was 99.2%, which made it the top- 97.5 99.
2 the joint top-performing company in performing company in its sector and its sector.
placed it in BitCs Premier League per cent in the Corporate per cent in the of participating companies.
Responsibility Index Environment Index Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2006 Directors Statement Continued 26 CR KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ENVIRONMENT Responsible Business Practice CO from SSEs power stations mte Waste produced tonnes 2 Scottish and Southern Energy SSE seeks to ensure that responsible business practice is 2006 25.34 2006 28,378 fully integrated into the management of all of 34.1% -1.4% 2005 18.90 2005 28,776 its operations and into the culture of all parts of its business.
It believes that the consistent adoption of responsible business practice Non-power station CO emissions mte Waste sent to landfill tonnes 2 is the pre-requisite of operational excellence, which, in turn, underpins the delivery of its 2006 16,865 2006 10,215 core objective of sustained real growth in -3.4% -9.4% the dividend.
2005 2005 17,460 11,281 The Board is satisfied that corporate responsibility matters do not represent a CO from electricity supplied kg kWh Water consumption at power stations cubic metres 2 material threat to SSE.
Overall, it is confident that there are in place within SSE effective 2006 2006 3,485,992 617 systems to assess and manage corporate 40.2% -25.2% 2005 440 2005 4,659,768  issues and risks.
These systems are regularly monitored and reviewed.
SSEs principles of corporate SO from electricity supplied g kWh Non-power station water consumption cubic metres 2 responsibility will remain central to its activities in 2006 07.
2006 1.5820 2006 104,774 43.4% 18.2% BitC Corporate Responsibility Index 2005 1.1033 2005 88,652 To benchmark its approach to corporate responsibility, SSE was one of 131 companies which participated in Business NOx of electricity supplied g kWh Travel on SSE business km in the Communitys Corporate Responsibility Index 2005, the results of which were 2006 1.197 2006 194,537,400 published in May 2006.
The Index enables 64.0% 16.2% 2005 0.730 2005 167,430,609 companies to evaluate their management practice in BitCs four key areas of corporate responsibility environment, marketplace, Breaches of IPC IPPC Business flights workplace and community and their performance in a range of environmental 2006 6 2006 8,054 and social impact areas material to -14.3% 5.9% their business.
2005 7 2005 7,602 SSEs score in the Index was 97.5%, compared with 93.0% in the previous year and its Renewable energy generation capacity MW Business rail journeys position was joint 7th, compared with joint 14th the year before.
2006 1,516 2006 1,546 11.2% 181.1% 2005 2005 550 1,363 Corporate Responsibility Report 2006 SSEs Corporate Responsibility Report 2006 sets out its approaches to, and performance Thermal efficiency of gas-fired power stations % in respect of, issues related to the environment, marketplace, workplace and 2006 community.
It is available at scottish- 50.4 -7.2% southern.
Key performance indicators 2005 54.3 from the Report are summarised opposite.
The Report provides background information and commentary on each of these Thermal efficiency of coal-fired power stations % performance indicators and on other corporate  matters.
2006 36.2 They include, for example, information about 1.7% 2005 35.6 emissions related to the generation and supply of electricity.
Background to this is also set out in the Generation and Supply Oil leaked litres section of the Directors Statement, on pages 13 to 20.
2006 27,941 -26.7% 2005 38,105 Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2006 27 MARKETPLACE WORKPLACE COMMUNITIES Customers with tailor-made payment arrangements Number of employees Southern Electric Power Distribution customer interruptions number per 100 customers 2006 235,630 2006 12,287 2006 78 48.9% 11.4% -20.4% 2005 158,284 2005 11,034 2005 98 Customers registered with Careline Average age of employees Scottish Hydro Electric Power Distribution customer interruptions number per 100 customers 2006 219,870 2006 39 2006 79 27.4% 0% -11.2% 2005 2005 2005 172,557 39 89 Total complaints to energywatch Turnover of employees Southern Electric Power Distribution customer minutes lost 2006 2006 2006 1,692 11.2 71 -14.6% 5.7% -15.5% 2005 1,981 2005 10.6 2005 84 Complaints to energywatch Lost time and reportable accidents number per Scottish Hydro Electric Power Distribution direct selling number per 1,000 transfers 1,000 employees customer minutes lost 2006 0.85 2006 1.38 2006 65 -60.1% -10.4% -24.4% 2005 2.16 2005 1.54 2005 86 Complaints to energywatch transfers number per Serious, or potentially serious, road traffic accidents Charitable donations 000s 1,000 transfers number per 100 vehicles 2006 2.57 2006 0.28 2006 496 -38.1% -33.3% 24.0% 2005 4.15 2005 0.42 2005 400 Complaints to energywatch Injury-free business units account and billing number per 1,000 customers 2006 0.147 2006 50 -2.7% -2% 2005 0.151 2005 51 ENVIRONMENT AND MARKETPLACE Absence from work per employee days Standardised energy savings under the Energy Efficiency Commitment GWh 2006 5.75 2006 4,891 5.9% 57.3% 2005 3-year average 5.43 3,109 Employees in Share Incentive Plan % Homes benefiting from insulation measures 2006 2006 48 200,000 33.3% 66.6% 2005 36 2005 120,000 Low energy lamps subsidised 2006 410,000 71.5% 2005 239,000 Energy efficient appliances subsidised 2006 24,826 349.9% 2005 5,518 Calls handled by the energy efficiency advice line 2006 55,822 208.7% 2005 18,081
