Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2006 Directors Report 28 Principal Activities financial year directors and officers liability opportunities for employees to become Scottish and Southern Energy plc is a holding insurance in respect of itself and its directors.
shareholders, and in extra recognition of company.
Its subsidiaries are organised into employees efforts in 2004 05, employees were the main businesses of: generation, Results and Dividends offered shares free of charge in the early part transmission, distribution and supply of The Group profit attributable to shareholders of 2005 06.
50 free shares in the company electricity: storage and supply of gas: for the financial year amounted to 642.3m.
were offered to employees, with 94% of eligible electrical and utility contracting: domestic The Directors recommend a final dividend staff taking up the offer in August 2005.
A total appliance retailing and telecoms.
A review of of 32.7p per ordinary share which, subject of 48% of the companys employees now take the years operations and future developments to approval at the Annual General Meeting, part in its Share Incentive Plan.
The Share is contained in the Chief Executives will be payable on 22 September 2006 to Incentive Plan was commended by Proshare Statement and the Directors Statement on shareholders on the register at close of in 2005. pages 9 to 27 and Corporate Governance business on 25 August 2006.
With the interim Statements on pages 29 to 33 which form dividend of 13.8p per ordinary share paid on The company also offers a Sharesave part of this report.
24 March 2006, this makes a total dividend Scheme which is open to all eligible of 46.5p per ordinary share.
A total of 35% of the companys Business Review employees participate in Sharesave.
The Business Review has been divided into Share Capital three areas and dealt with in the Annual Details of the companys authorised and Participation by employees generally is Report as follows: issued share capital at 31 March 2006, which encouraged through team meetings, includes options granted under the Groups briefings, an internal magazine, intranet, k Principal risks and uncertainties employee share option schemes, are detailed and also specific surveys.
pages 32 and 33 of the Corporate in notes 24 and 28 to the Financial Statements.
Governance report: The company has in place an extensive range k Balanced and comprehensive review Annual General Meeting of policies to safeguard the interests of of the development and performance The 17th Annual General Meeting of the employees and potential employees.
In of the business included in the company will be held on 27 July 2006 at particular, its equal opportunities policy Directors Statement on pages 9 to 27: 12 noon at the Bournemouth International aims to ensure that all employees and job Centre, Exeter Road, Bournemouth, BH2 applicants are no less fairly treated due to k Key performance indicators 5BH.
The Notice of Meeting, together with sex, marital status, race, disability or other on pages 6 and 7 and pages 26 and 27. full explanations of special business, is set reasons not justified in law or relevant to out on pages 101 to 104. performing the job.
The company also aims Directors to ensure that employees have the right The Directors at the date of this report are: Substantial Shareholdings skills to deliver the high standards of Executive Non-Executive As at the date of this report the company performance that are necessary to achieve Gregor Alexander Sir Robert Smith had received the following notifications its objectives.
Detailed information about Colin Hood Chairman of beneficial interests of three per cent or the companys approach to these and related Ian Marchant Ren Mdori more in the companys issued share capital.
matters is set out in its Corporate Alistair Phillips-Davies David Payne Responsibility Report 2006 see scottishSusan Rice Number of shares Percentage southern.
Kevin Smith The Capital Group Henry Casley retired as a non-Executive Creditor Payment Policy Companies Inc 34,048,224 3.96% Director on 17 May 2005.
The company complies with the CBI Prompt Legal & General plc 28,226,847 3.28% Payment Code.
The main features of the Barclays plc 26,313,232 3.06% Gregor Alexander, David Payne and Susan Code are that payment terms are agreed at Rice, retire by rotation at the Annual General the outset of a transaction and are adhered Research and Development Meeting and, being eligible and in accordance to: that there is a clear and consistent policy The company pursues a variety of research with the Articles of Association, offer that bills are paid in accordance with the and development initiatives, which are themselves for re-election.
Biographical contract: and that there are no alterations generally environmentally driven and which details for all Directors are set out on pages to payment terms without prior agreement.
are designed to secure changes in the way in 34 and 35.
Details of the service contract for The numbers of suppliers days represented which electricity is produced and used.
Many Gregor Alexander and letters of appointment by trade creditors was 30 at 31 March 2006. of the principal initiatives are set out in the for David Payne and Susan Rice, all of whom Generation and Supply section of the are standing for re-election, are set out in Auditors Directors Statement.
There are initiatives the Remuneration Report on pages 38 and 39 Resolutions to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc in other parts of the Group.
The interests of the Directors in as auditors, and to authorise the Directors Power Systems business is actively engaged the ordinary shares of the company are set to fix their remuneration, will be proposed in responding to Ofgems Innovation Funding out in the Remuneration Report on page 40. at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Incentive, which encourages electricity network companies to innovate in ways Resolution 2 to be proposed at the Annual The Directors who held office at the date which deliver benefits to customers in areas General Meeting seeks shareholders of approval of this Directors Report confirm such as quality of electricity supply, safety, approval of the Remuneration Report.
that, so far as they are each aware, there the environment or cost savings.
During is no relevant audit information of which the 2005 06 a new Research and Development Directors Indemnity companys auditors are unaware: and each Manager was appointed to support and The Directors have the benefit of the director has taken all the steps that ought advance the companys work in these fields.
indemnity provision contained in the to have been taken as a director to be aware companys Articles of Association.
This of any relevant audit information and to Employees provision, which is a qualifying third party establish that the companys auditors are The number of staff directly employed by the indemnity provision as defined by section aware of that information.
They are 309B of the Companies Act 1985, was in encouraged to participate in the business of force throughout the financial year and By Order of the Board the company in a variety of ways.
In support is currently in force.
The company also Vincent Donnelly, Company Secretary of the Boards commitment to providing purchased and maintained throughout the 30 May 2006
