Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2006 Directors Biographies and Responsibilities 34 Ian Marchant David Payne Sir Robert Smith Alistair Phillips-Davies Ren Mdori Gregor Alexander Sir Robert Smith Gregor Alexander Ren Mdori 61 Chairman 43 Finance Director 48 Audit Committee Chairman Sir Robert joined the Board as a non-Executive Gregor joined the Board of Scottish and Ren joined the Board as a non-Executive Director in June 2003 and was appointed Southern Energy as Finance Director in October Director in June 2003.
He is Finance Deputy Chairman in November 2003.
He was appointed Group Treasurer and Director of Anglo American plc and is a nonbecame Chairman following the retirement of Tax Manager in 1998 having held a number of Executive Director of AngloGold Ashanti and DB Dr Bruce Farmer on 31 December 2004.
He is senior positions within the Finance team.
He is a former Finance Chairman of The Weir Group plc and a nonworked with accountants Arthur Andersen for Director of the BOC Group plc, and previously Executive Director of 3i Group plc, Standard five years before joining Scottish Hydro Electric worked for Accenture and Schlumberger Bank Group Limited, and Aegon UK plc.
Sir in 1990, six months before privatisation.
He is Chairman of the Audit Committee Robert was formerly Chief Executive of Morgan is a Director of Scotia Gas Networks plc.
and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Grenfell Asset Management Limited, a member of the Financial Services Authority and the Colin Hood David Payne Financial Reporting Council, a Governor of the 51 Chief Operating Officer 63 Deputy Chairman BBC, a Board Trustee of the British Council and Colin joined the Board of Scottish and Southern David joined the Board as a non-Executive Chairman of Stakis plc.
He is Chairman of the Energy as Power Systems Director in January Director of Scottish Hydro Electric in June Nomination Committee.
2001, becoming Chief Operating Officer in 1998 and became Deputy Chairman in January October 2002.
Previously he was Director of 2005.
He held a number of senior positions with Ian Marchant Distribution for Southern Electric, having joined the BP Group and was Deputy Chief Executive 45 Chief Executive the industry with the North of Scotland Hydro of BP Oil.
He is the Senior Independent Ian was appointed Chief Executive in October Electric Board in 1977.
He is Chairman of Scotia Director, Chairman of the Remuneration 2002 having been Finance Director since 1998.
Gas Networks plc and a Fellow of the Institute Committee and a member of the Audit and He joined Southern Electric in 1992 and joined of Electrical Engineers.
Colin is the lead Director Nomination Committees.
the Board on becoming Finance Director in 1996. for the Environment and Health and Safety Previously he worked for Coopers & Lybrand matters and has Board level responsibility for now PwC, including a two-year secondment to Generation, Power Systems, Customer Service, the Department of Energy working on electricity Human Resources, I. T. and Contracting.
Ian is Chairman of the United Kingdom Business Council for Sustainable Energy, a member of the Forum for Renewable Energy Development in Scotland, Ofgems Environmental Advisory Group and the Energy Research Partnership.
Ian is a non-Executive Director of Maggies Cancer Centres and was appointed as a non-Executive Director of John Wood Group PLC on 18 May 2006.
He is a member of the Nomination Committee and is lead Director for Corporate Responsibility.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2006 35 Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements on the same basis.
The Group and company financial statements are required by law and IFRS as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position of the Group and the parent company and the performance for that period: the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of the Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
Kevin Smith Colin Hood Susan Rice In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the directors are required to: Alistair Phillips-Davies k select suitable accounting policies 38 Energy Supply Director and then apply them consistently: Alistair joined the Board in January 2002.
He was k make judgements and estimates previously Director of Energy Supply Operations, that are reasonable and prudent: overseeing the introduction of the New Electricity k state whether they have been prepared Trading Arrangements.
He joined Southern in accordance with IFRS as adopted by Electric in February 1997 having previously the EU: and worked for HSBC and the National Westminster k prepare the financial statements on Bank in corporate finance and business the going concern basis unless it is development roles.
He is a Chartered Accountant inappropriate to presume that the Group and a Director of the Energy Retail Association.
and the parent company will continue Alistair is Chairman of the Risk Committee and in business.
has Board level responsibility for Energy Trading, Electricity and Gas Supply, Marketing and The Directors are responsible for keeping Energy Services.
proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the Susan Rice CBE financial position of the parent company 60 Non-Executive Director and enable them to ensure that its Susan joined the Board as a non-Executive financial statements comply with the Director in July 2003.
She is Chief Executive of Companies Act 1985.
They have a general Lloyds TSB Scotland plc, having previously been responsibility for taking such steps as are Managing Director, Personal Banking, for the reasonably open to them to safeguard the Bank of Scotland.
Susan is a member of the assets of the Group and to prevent and Audit and Nomination Committees.
detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulation, Kevin Smith CBE the Directors are also responsible for 51 Non-Executive Director preparing a Directors Report, Directors Kevin joined the Board as a non-Executive Remuneration Report and the Corporate Director in June 2004.
He is Chief Executive Governance Statement that comply with of GKN having previously been Managing that law and those regulations.
Prior to GKN, he held The Directors are responsible for the various positions in BAE Systems over a maintenance and integrity of the 20-year period, latterly as Group Managing corporate and financial information Director New Business.
Kevin is a included on the companys website.
Vice-President of The Society of Motor Legislation in the UK governing the Manufacturers and Traders Ltd, and Deputy preparation and dissemination of financial President of The Society of British Aerospace statements may differ from legislation in Companies Ltd.
He is a member of the other jurisdictions.
