Brand Strategy and Execution Group Strategy SSL brands Important, Innovative, Inspiring One of the key measures of our success is growing the value of our global and locally owned brands through consumer insight-led product innovation, inspirational advertising, and opening up new markets and distribution channels.
High profile launches and the development of established household name products has brought success over the past 12 months across our four main categories: Durex, Scholl footcare, Scholl footwear and SSLs portfolio of locally owned brands.
SSL International plc Annual Report and Accounts Brand Strategy and Execution Group Strategy 2006 Durex Scholl footwear Durex continues to move forward with its vision As for Scholl footcare, Scholl footwear must remain of becoming the worlds number one authority true to its brand heritage of solving foot problems.
on sexual wellbeing and championing the cause As the worlds number one foot specialist, we of better sex.
understand the anatomy of the foot better than anyone else only Scholl starts from the foot when The sharply focused brand repositioning, from safer designing every shoe.
sex to better sex, has led to the development of three clearly defined product groups under the Durex Our aim is to provide well-designed shoes that take banner condoms, lubricants and devices.
care of feet and deliver benefits without compromising on style.
Each of these categories is supported by a tailored and highly successful NPD programme, designed to reflect Although our key competitive environment is the the safer and better sex brand development theme.
pharmacy sector, we aim to extend distribution beyond the confines of pharmacy into high street Durexs enviable track record in this area has helped footwear retailers.
grow the brand by 30 million over the past three years, securing its highest ever market share in over Locally owned brands 20 countries including France, Italy and the UK.
SSLs extensive range of local brands continues to play an important part in achieving our objective of One of the keys to this success story has been the growing brand contribution and improving overall continued development of Durex Play into new sales and distribution efficiency.
markets and new product lines.
The range of personal massagers has now been launched in a number And where there is a clear strategic fit we will be of countries and the new Durex Play Vibrations looking to add to a portfolio which already includes an innovative vibrating ring has enjoyed significant such household names as Paramol, Medised and sales and in-depth media coverage.
Meltus in the UK, Mister Baby in Italy and Woodwards Gripe Water in Asia Pacific.
Scholl footcare Scholl is another innovative and inspirational global In the UK, analgesics Medised and Paramol both brand which is looking forward to the future benefited from their first-ever TV adverts this year, without losing sight of the past.
while Meltus cough syrup with sales growth significantly ahead of the UKs total cough market While remaining true to its heritage, medical returned to the small screen in the winter with its background and scientific expertise, Scholl is popular comic book hero campaign.
successfully rejuvenating its footcare range through marketing and NPD strategies that reflect changing Italys Mister Baby range was also supported by TV consumer mindsets and needs.
The new creative treatment, when a mother is born, was set in a city full of expectant The brand focus, across its global communications, mums and was designed to present consumers with is the new concept of Schollness.
Its core principle a fresh, modern view of the brand.
foot science made relevant combines Scholls highly respected scientific heritage with a desire to increase Woodwards Gripe Water, one of SSLs key products its relevance and availability to a far wider audience.
in Asia Pacific, accounts for almost a fifth of Malaysias sales.
The main marketing focus, a sponsorship Development of the remedies category, one of the arrangement with the Malaysian Paediatric most important Scholl brand pillars, has been a Associations Positive Parenting programme, key business priority.
Range rejuvenation over has been supported by advertorials in mother and the past 12 months has featured a more focused baby publications and parenting features in the product offer, revitalised pack design, clearer range mainstream press.
segmentation, improved on-pack communication and new products.
The skin and nail range has also benefited from the brand rejuvenation programme, while Scholl Party Feets ongoing sales success has been further boosted by a new TV advertising campaign which focuses on creating an emotional bond with consumers the very essence of Schollness.
10 11 SSL International plc Annual Report and Accounts Brand Strategy and Execution Group Strategy 2006 Brand Strategy and The European region Execution is managed on a countryEurope cluster basis.
The major markets by turnover are UK, Italy, Spain, France, and Germany.
The team, left to right Peter Blanchard, European Logistics Director Josephine van Vreeswijk, Managing Director Ian Adamson, Managing Director Europe Francesc Roura, Managing Director Benelux and Scandinavia Roberto Veneziani, Managing Director Iberia and France Mario Della Cava, Managing Director South East Europe Volker Sydow, Managing Director Eastern Europe Martyn Ward, Managing Director UK Central Europe Carolyn MacNab, European HR Director Sales by brand Sales growth Sales from the European division 3 years in 2005 06 was 333.6 million Durex 34% 2005 06 333.6m 8% Scholl footcare Scholl footwear 2004 05 323.1m Locally owned brands 19% Other 2003 04 320.9m At constant exchange rates and excluding third party supply.
23% 16% Employees Within the European division there are approximately 1,000 employees based in the regional clusters as follows: UK 20% Benelux and 17% Scandinavia Central Europe 19% Eastern Europe South East Europe 17% Iberia and France 10% 17% SSL International plc Annual Report and Accounts Brand Strategy and Execution Europe 2006 UK Medised An increasing number of stores now carry the range, A new name and brand identity has resulted in supported by creative point-of-sale displays and a UK renaissance for the childrens pain and fever innovative customer incentive offers including a treatment Medised.
popular buy one get one free offer that ran throughout the summer.
Pharmacists have recommended Medised to parents of young children as a trusted brand for a number The Spanish success story has been such that of years now.
However, it was recognised that the magazine adverts have been created to capitalise Medised Infant label was rather limiting and did on the ranges popularity in the market.
All the signs not clearly communicate that the product is suitable are there for continued growth into the next year for children aged three months to six years.
In the summer of 2005 the brand was renamed France Durex Pleasuremax Medised for Children.
The packaging for the Men and women feel different pleasures and strawberry-flavoured analgesic underwent a ultimately have different experiences during sex.
complete redesign, hitting pharmacies and other stores in August.
A creative advertising campaign, And this has been recognised by the development developed to communicate this brand development of Durex Pleasuremax a unique condom in the to parents, aired on TV screens throughout the UK in Durex product range, specially designed to increase the winter.
And the new brand positioning, backed stimulation and pleasure during lovemaking for by Mediseds first ever TV campaign, is certainly both men and women.
paying off with a 50 per cent increase in sales and positive customer feedback.
In France, Pleasuremax was presented as the star product in the Durex portfolio.
High-profile television Italy Mister Baby and Dr Scholl advertising and point-of-sale display material Sold throughout Italy, the diverse Mister Baby range targeted couples, positioning the Pleasuremax brand includes feeding bottles, hygiene products, dummies as enabling the mutual sharing of pleasure.
The television campaigns success culminated in an Mister Baby has teamed up with Dr Scholl to award from Strategies, a professional communication launch the unique Due In Uno System a patented magazine, which rated the advert highly in terms of technology which provides the only insole on the its power to motivate consumers to buy the product.
Above: market that incorporates two shoe sizes in a single Durex Play Vibrations pair of shoes.
As a result of all this activity, sales of Pleasuremax in Childrens shoes France recorded a major year-on-year sales increase.
Due In Uno Young childrens feet grow quickly and research confirms parents regularly buy footwear a size larger UK Durex Play Vibrations than needed to allow the child to grow into the shoe Following the launch of our range of personal a practice which can damage the development massagers, 2005 saw the launch of Durex Play of the childs foot.
Mister Babys reputation in the Vibrations the first vibrating, stimulating ring pharmacy sector, coupled with Dr Scholls expertise available on the high street.
in the footwear market, has made this an inspired partnership and given added credibility to this Aiming to capture part of the UKs estimated new innovation.
700 million market for sexual enhancement products, Durex Play Vibrations provides both partners with More than 50,000 pairs of shoes, in over 50 different 20 minutes of pleasure and can be used with or styles, have been sold in Italian pharmacies and without a condom.
Before its launch, the product healthcare supply shops over recent months making went through an intensive research process involving a major contribution to Mister Babys continuing 100 quivering couples!
The results were extremely sales success.
positive with more than half claiming it had made sex more enjoyable and three-quarters saying they Spain Scholl Odour would use Durex Play Vibrations again.
Scholls Odour Control and Fresh Step product ranges have been designed to meet the needs of anyone Durex Play Vibrations, available in supermarkets and who wants to look after their feet.
pharmacies throughout the UK, has proved to be the perfect product for those who want to add a Below left to right : In Spain, demand for the Odour Control products has little more to their lovemaking without going into TV campaign for Medised seen Scholl footcare sales grow by 120% against an a specialist retailer!
Scholl Odour Control looking after your feet overall market increase of just 24%.
This success has Durex Pleasuremax propelled Scholl to the position of the number one providing pleasure for brand of its kind in Spanish hyperand supermarkets.
him and her 12 13 SSL International plc Annual Report and Accounts Brand Strategy and Execution Europe 2006 Brand Strategy and The Asia Pacific region Execution is managed on a countryAsia Pacific cluster basis.
The major markets by turnover are Thailand, Japan, Australia, Malaysia and Hong Kong.
The team, left to right Jon Gray, Managing Director Asia Pacific Simon Clarke, Finance Director Asia Pacific Jun Wright, Commercial Director China JV Eleanor Mok, Managing Director Leigh Taylor, Marketing Director Asia Pacific Greater China and Philippines Tim Evans, Regional Director Andrew Raper, Managing Director South East Asia Australasia Naomi Ogiso, President Japan Sales by brand Sales growth Sales from the Asia Pacific division 3 years in 2005 6 was 74.6 million Durex 30% 2005 06 74.6m Scholl footcare 16% Scholl footwear 2004 05 72.9m Locally owned brands Other 12% 2003 04 69.3m 25% At constant exchange rates.
17% Employees Within the Asia Pacific division there are approximately 500 employees based in the regional clusters as follows: Japan 5% 10% Australasia 10% 75% South East Asia Greater China and Philippines SSL International plc Annual Report and Accounts Brand Strategy and Execution Asia Pacific 2006 Malaysia Scholl footwear Australia Scholl Party Feet Building on Scholls commitment to style and Women across the world have found a new best innovation, 2005 saw the launch of the Freedom friend Scholl Party Feet!
Collection of footwear in Malaysia with a special event celebrating the art and design of shoemaking.
The discreet, clear gel cushions that help prevent the burning pain that comes from wearing high heels Held in Kuala Lumpurs Darling Muse Art Gallery, the have grown in popularity the world over and in team behind the Art and Sole event commissioned Australia alone sales have achieved in excess of the a local artist to produce a piece of artwork based on AUS$4 million mark this year.
the evolution of Scholl design over the years.
With its innovative in-store advertising The grand unveiling to an audience of specially incorporating typically Aussie humour with the invited journalists resulted in media coverage with strapline No more sore balls and a competition a reach of almost nine million.
with the prize of a party in New York, Scholl Party Feets popularity has been overwhelming.
The Scholl Urban Collection launched later in the year with its Shoe Couture extravaganza which So much so that when a Scholl Party Feet pamper built on the themes of the Art and Sole event, zone was set up at the Victoria Spring Racing while confirming Scholls role as a key player in the Carnival, organisers were inundated with requests local footwear industry.
to help relieve the tired feet of racing enthusiasts.
Students of the Fashion Academy of Creative A 10 per cent increase in retail outlets stocking Party Technology were challenged to create a collection Feet has also helped to drive its growth, with some of clothing designs to complement the new shopping centres having as many as 20 individual Urban Collection.
The competition, designed to highlight Scholls India positioning as a forward-looking footwear company, SSL has long-established joint venture operations culminated in a catwalk show with a panel of top in India manufacturing both Durex condoms and the magazine editors judging the winner.
leading Indian condom brand, Kohinoor, and so is well placed to further capitalise on the growing economy.
Hong Kong Durex Play lubricants SSL has recently increased its investment in India Above: The launch of the Durex Play range of lubricants by setting up a Scholl footcare packing operation.
Scholl Freedom Collection and massage gels underlines our commitment from Malaysia to encourage people to have better sex lives.
China With a population of over 1.3 billion people and In Hong Kong, the range continues to go from a growing consumer culture, China represents strength to strength and the launch of Play Tingling a huge expansion opportunity for SSL.
For the last lubricant and Play Sensations a pick and mix selection eight years SSL has had a 50 per cent stake in a joint heralded a complete overhaul of the product venture operation in Qingdao manufacturing condoms packaging, resulting in a premium presentation.
In May we exchanged contracts with our joint venture partner to acquire Supported by intensive PR and advertising, alongside the remaining 50 per cent share of the business strategic sampling of the products at key events, for approximately 20 million.
This represents a the Play lubricants range has built on its position as significant opportunity for SSL as we strengthen our the number one lubricant in the territory with foundations and build this business going forward.
a 16-point increase in market share in value terms over recent months.
Below left to right : Durex Play lubricant helping people to have better sex Scholl Party Feet 14 15 SSL International plc Annual Report and Accounts Brand Strategy and Execution Asia Pacific 2006 Brand strategy and The Americas division execution is managed from Americas Atlanta, Georgia, where the majority of the 50 employees are based.
The major markets in the region by turnover are North America and Canada.
The team, left to right Bob Kaiser, Vice President General Counsel Keith Heintz, Director of Logistics Mario Ramirez, General Manager Ven Govindarajan, Vice President Finance Tim Cleary, Vice President Sales Latin America Ted Conley, Vice President Marketing Bill Siegel, President Americas Michael Cullen, Director of Sales Canada Sales by brand Sales growth Sales from the Americas division 3 years in 2005 06 was 29.8 million Durex 7% 93% 2005 06 29.8m Other 2004 05 25.2m 2003 04 22.7m At constant exchange rates.
Note: SSL International plc does not own the Scholl brand in the Americas.
SSL International plc Annual Report and Accounts Brand Strategy and Execution Americas 2006 Durex Its official in 2005, Durex claimed the crown as the USAs fastest growing condom brand!
The second successive year of double-digit growth in condom sales was, in part, fuelled by the successful introduction of the Durex Warming Pleasure and Durex Sensations condom ranges to the market both receiving an enthusiastic welcome from consumers.
Other elements of the range have mirrored this success with the Durex Play product range leading the way, as Play lubricant sales across the Americas exceeded $4 million last year, with growth coming from a broad customer base and all market channels.
Our performance in Wal-Mart was particularly pleasing.
We were awarded both additional shelf space and Wal-Marts prestigious Supplier of the Quarter award in November 2005.
Canada has also reported strong growth in condom sales and a growing network of retailers selling the Play personal massagers range in pharmacies and drugstores.
And with similar growth being reported in Latin America and the Caribbean, the future for the Durex brand in the Americas looks promising.
Below left to right : Durex Warming Pleasure a condom with a warming lubricant Play personal massager Durex Play lubricants giving a warming sensation 16 17 SSL International plc Annual Report and Accounts Brand Strategy and Execution Americas 2006
