Group Supply Chain What is the supply chain?
At SSL, the supply chain is defined as all those activities necessary to get products to our end-consumer.
The start of this process is the sourcing of raw materials which are used within our in-house manufacturing processes or by third party manufacturers, through production and packaging through to the shipment of finished goods to our customers and hence to our end-consumers.
The Group Supply Chain function, headquartered in the UK, but with a global sourcing capability, procures and delivers products to in-market warehouses.
Local market management teams then assume responsibility for the distribution of finished products to their customers.
Objective The core objective within the area of supply chain is to deliver a consistently high level of service at the lowest overall cost to the business.
Sourcing strategy The sourcing of products is continually challenged to help us achieve our core objective and ensure that we achieve the appropriate balance between in-house and external manufacture.
For example, SSL uses its specialist and extensive know-how to manufacture all condoms in-house at manufacturing facilities in Thailand, Spain, India, China and Cambridge, whilst footwear production is outsourced to factories in Asia Pacific and Europe.
An approximate analysis of our sales by source is shown below: Product sourcing In-house 30% manufacture Joint venture 20% manufacture Footwear 10% outsourced 25% 15% Third party brands outsourced Locally owned brands outsourced SSL International plc Annual Report and Accounts Group Supply Chain 2006 Manufacturing locations Currently, we have seven in-house manufacturing facilities and five joint venture sites employing around 3,000 people, as indicated on the map below.
We have virtually completed the transfer of the Scholl footcare packing operations from Derby and moving all operations to our new joint venture in Tamil Nadu, India.
Europe 5 Asia Pacific 11 1 Derby, UK, Footcare 7 Irungattukottai, India JV, Peterlee, UK, OTC products Bangpakong, Thailand, Condoms Footcare 6 2 Rubi, Spain, Condoms 8 12 Guernsey, UK, OTC products Pallavaram, India JV, Condoms Qingdao, China JV, Condoms 3 9 Redruth, UK, Pondicherry, India JV, Condoms Compression hosiery products 10 4 Virudhunagar, India JV, Cambridge, UK, Condoms Condoms Left to right: OTC facility in Peterlee, UK Condom manufacturing facility in Bangpakong, Thailand New Scholl footcare packing operations in Irungattukottai, India 12 1 5 4 3 2 8,11 7 9 10 6 18 19 SSL International plc Annual Report and Accounts Group Supply Chain 2006
