Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors Board of Directors Garry Watts 1 Gerald Corbett 5 Anna Catalano 9 Chief Executive Chairman Non-Executive Director Appointed as Chief Executive Appointed as Chairman in August Appointed in November 2004, on 1 April 2004 after joining 2005, Gerald is also Chairman Anna has held senior global as Group Finance Director in of Woolworths Group plc and marketing and sales positions February 2001.
He was previously Britvic plc, and Non-Executive in Amoco and was Group Vice an Executive Director of Celltech Director of Greencore Group PLC.
President, Marketing, at BP plc.
Group plc and Finance Director Previously he has been Chief She is a Non-Executive Director of Medeva plc.
Garry is a Executive of Railtrack PLC and of the US company, Hercules Non-Executive Director of the Group Finance Director of both Incorporated.
Medicines and Healthcare Grand Metropolitan plc and Products Regulatory Agency Redland PLC, and a Non-Executive Company Secretary 10 MHRA and also of Protherics Director of MEPC PLC and Antony Mannion plc.
Appointed in September 2004, Antony qualified as a solicitor Mark Moran 2 Peter Read 6 with Freshfields in 1986 and has Group Finance Director Senior Independent also worked as an investment Appointed in June 2004 as Non-Executive Director banker with Citicorp Investment Group Finance Director, Mark Appointed in March 2002, Peter Bank and Standard Chartered was previously Finance Director is Chairman of the Nomination Bank.
He is a member of the Board Ian Adamson 3 of the South East Development Managing Director, Europe Agency, a Non-Executive Appointed as Executive Director Director of Vernalis plc and is in April 2004.
He joined Seton an independent Director of Healthcare plc in 1991 as Director Innogenetics NV.
Previously, of Marketing and subsequently Peter was a senior executive held a number of senior sales with Hoechst and a President of and marketing positions in the ABPI and Non-Executive Director organisation.
He previously held of Celltech Group plc.
Age 67. sales and marketing positions at Johnson & Johnson and W. L. Richard Adam 7 Gore.
Non-Executive Director Appointed as Non-Executive Mike Pilkington 4 Director and Chairman of the Group Supply Chain Director Audit Committee in November Appointed as Executive Director 2003, Richard is currently Group in February 2004 after joining Finance Director of Associated SSL in April 2002.
Previously British Ports Holdings PLC.
Mike was Head of European He is a Fellow of the Institute 1 Distribution and Supply Chain of Chartered Accountants of Development, and Director of England & Wales.
Susan Murray 8 Non-Executive Director Appointed in January 2005, Susan is currently a Non-Executive Director of Enterprise Inns PLC, Imperial Tobacco PLC, WM Morrisons Supermarkets plc and The Advertising Standards 2 5 Authority.
Previously, Susan was Chief Executive of Littlewoods Stores Limited.
3 6 4 7 9 8 10 SSL International plc Annual Report and Accounts Board of Directors 2006
