ABG-007 Annual Report 2006. qxp 12 4 07 11:20 Page 30 Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2006 Principal Activities and Business Review The subsidiary undertakings principally affecting the The directors present their annual report on the results or net assets of the Group in the year are set affairs of Abbot Group plc the Company and out in note 39 to the accounts.
its subsidiary undertakings together the Group, Results and Dividends together with the consolidated accounts and auditors The Group made a profit on ordinary activities before report, for the year ended 31 December 2006. taxation of US$55,385,000 2005: US$47,853,000.
The Groups predominant focus is on providing The audited accounts for the year ended 31 December development drilling services and rig operations 2006 are set out on pages 42 to 75. to major oil companies in its key strategic areas The directors recommend a final dividend of 3.65p of Europe, north and west Africa, the Middle East, 2005: 3.30p per ordinary share to be paid on 1 June the Caspian Sea and Russia.
It is the largest offshore 2007 to ordinary shareholders on the register at the platform drilling contractor in the North Sea, an close of business on 4 May 2007, which, together international operator of mobile offshore drilling Alec W. J. Banyard with the interim dividend of 1.85p 2005: 1.70p units and one of the largest international land Company Secretary paid on 3 November 2006, makes a total of 5.50p drilling contractors outside the Americas.
Abbot per ordinary share for the year 2005: 5.0p.
is also a leader in the field of drilling rig design and construction and the manufacture of land drilling Share Capital rigs and related components.
47,743,925 ordinary shares were issued on 8 June 2006 at a price of 2.975 per ordinary share to shareholders Further information regarding the Group, including of Songa Drilling AS as part consideration of the important events and its progress during the year, events acquisition of that company.
since the year end and likely future development, is contained in the Chairmans Statement and in the Directors and their Interests Operating Review on pages 4 to 19.
The information The directors who served during the year were that fulfils the requirements of the Business Review as follows: as required by Section 234ZZB of the Companies Act A. J. D. Locke executive chairman 1985, which is incorporated in this Directors Report by reference, can be found in the following sections M. J. L. Salter chief operating officer of this Annual Report: P. J. Milne finance director Information Location M. A.
White executive director Development and Chairmans drilling operations performance during Statement and the financial year Operating Review H. W. Temmen executive director business development Position at the year end Operating Review including analysis and key R. A. Duncan non-executive director performance indicators J. Ferrn non-executive director Other performance, Operating Review J. W. Hollis non-executive director including environmental and employee matters I. M. Smith non-executive director Principal risks and Operating Review G. E. Watkins non-executive director uncertainties facing The interests of the directors in the ordinary shares the business of the Company are disclosed within the Directors Explanation of amounts Financial Review Remuneration Report set out on pages 36 to 40. included in the annual and Notes to the accounts Financial Statements Directors Report - Annual Report and Accounts 2006 30 ABG-007 Annual Report 2006. qxp 12 4 07 11:20 Page 31 Substantial Shareholdings Directors Responsibilities At 16 March 2007, the Company had been notified, Company law requires the directors to prepare in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure Rules accounts for each financial year which give a true and Transparency Rules Sourcebook published by the and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company Financial Services Authority, that the following persons and the Group, and of the profit or loss of the held 3% or more in the voting rights of the Company: Group for that year.
In preparing those accounts, the directors are required to: Number of Percentage ordinary shares held % Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently with the exception of the changes A. J. D. Locke 30,000,000 12.91 arising on the adoption of a new accounting policy as explained in note 1 to the accounts: Spencer Energy AS 28,462,950 12.25 Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable Prudential plc 18,078,937 7.78 and prudent: Baillie Gifford & Co 12,146,693 5.23 State whether applicable accounting standards have Legal & General 8,364,573 3.60 been followed, subject to any material departures Group plc disclosed and explained in the accounts: and Resolution Investment 7,347,492 3.16 Prepare the accounts on the going concern basis Services Ltd unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
Number of ordinary shares in respect of which voting rights held.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable Supplier Payment Policy accuracy at any time the financial position of the The Group policy is to agree terms of payment Company and the Group and enable them to ensure with suppliers prior to entering into contractual that the accounts comply with the Companies Act relationships and to abide by those terms of payment.
They are also responsible for safeguarding As the Company is principally a holding company the assets of the Company and the Group and it has no trade creditors and accordingly no hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention disclosure is made of the year end creditor days.
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Employees Directors Statement as to Disclosure The Group is committed to involving employees of Information to Auditors in the business through a policy of communication a So far as each director is aware, there is no and consultation.
Arrangements have been relevant audit information of which the auditors established for the regular provision of information are unaware, and to all employees through briefings and well-established formal consultation procedures.
b Each of the directors has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director in order Applications for employment by disabled persons are to make himself aware of any relevant audit always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes information and to establish that the Companys and abilities of the applicant.
If employees become auditors are aware of that information.
disabled every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues and that Annual General Meeting appropriate training is arranged.
It is the policy of The notice covering the Annual General Meeting the Group that the training, career development to be held on 23 May 2007, which can be found and promotion of a disabled person should, as far on pages 78 to 79, contains details of five resolutions as possible, be identical to that of a person who which will be considered as special business.
does not suffer from a disability.
Resolution 8 Health & Safety at Work Directors Remuneration Report The well-being of the employees is given the highest In accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report priority throughout the Group and it is the Groups Regulations 2002 the Remuneration Regulations, policy not only to comply with Health & Safety the Company is required to submit the Directors measures, as required by law, but to act positively Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December to prevent injury and ill health, and damage to the 2006 to a vote of the shareholders.
In accordance environment arising from its operations.
Further with the Remuneration Regulations, approval of the information is contained in the Corporate Social Directors Remuneration Report is proposed as an Responsibility Report set out on pages 26 to 27. ordinary resolution.
Resolution 9 The Abbot Group Annual Share Bonus Plan Resolution 9 contains details of an ordinary resolution empowering the directors to increase the maximum allowable annual bonus from 75% to 100%, in line with market practice, with effect from 1 January 2007.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 - Directors Report 31 ABG-007 Annual Report 2006. qxp 12 4 07 11:20 Page 32 Directors Report continued Resolution 10 Shares held in treasury may subsequently be cancelled, Directors authority to allot relevant securities sold for cash or used to satisfy share options and share awards under a companys employees share scheme.
The Companys Articles of Association permit the Once held in treasury, a company is not entitled directors to allot shares and other securities, in to exercise any rights, including the right to attend accordance with Section 80 of the Act, up to an and vote at meetings in respect of the shares.
Further, amount authorised by the shareholders in general no dividend or other distribution of the companys meeting.
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, assets may be made to the company in respect of the directors are seeking authority to allot shares and the treasury shares.
other securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 11,144,249, being 31.97% of the issued ordinary If the directors exercise the authority conferred by share capital of the Company as at 16 March 2007. resolution 12 they will consider holding those shares This authority would be effective for a period of twelve in treasury, rather than cancelling them.
The directors months or, if earlier, until the next Annual General believe that holding shares in treasury may provide the Meeting.
The directors have no present intention Company with greater flexibility in the management of exercising the authority proposed to be granted of its share capital.
The directors will also consider pursuant to resolution 10. using the treasury shares to satisfy any share awards under an employees share scheme.
The directors Resolution 11 will have regard to the Pre-Exemption Groups Dis-application of pre-emption rights Statement of Principles published in May 2006 in respect of the re-sale of any treasury shares.
Resolution 11 contains details of a special resolution empowering the directors to allot relevant securities Auditors for cash up to a maximum nominal amount of The directors will place a resolution before the Annual 1,742,787, which represents just under 5% General Meeting to reappoint  of the Companys issued ordinary share capital LLP, who were first appointed in 2001 as auditors of as at 16 March 2007. the Company, to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid Resolution 12 Purchase of own shares before the Company.
Going Concern The Company is taking this opportunity to seek After making enquiries, the directors have a authority to purchase its own ordinary shares.
reasonable expectation that the Company and The directors propose that the Company be authorised the Group have adequate resources to continue to purchase a maximum of 23,237,167 ordinary shares in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
representing just under 10% of the share capital of For this reason, they continue to adopt the going the Company in issue as at 16 March 2007 within the concern basis in preparing the accounts.
limits described in resolution 12 contained in the Notice Re-election of Directors of the Annual General Meeting.
It is intended that In accordance with the Articles, Messrs Locke, purchases will only be made on the London Stock Duncan and Milne retire by rotation and offer Exchange plc.
The directors believe that it is in the best themselves for re-election.
Messrs Locke and Milnes interests of all shareholders that the Company should service agreements are subject to twelve months have the flexibility to make market purchases of its notice by the Company.
Mr Duncans appointment own shares.
The authority would be valid until the is subject to three months notice.
conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or the expiry of twelve months from the date of Change to the Board the resolution, whichever is the earlier.
The directors John Hollis, who has been a non-executive director have no present intention of exercising the authority since August 1999, having reached the age of 65, has proposed to be granted pursuant to resolution 12. indicated that he will step down from the Board at the Annual General Meeting in May 2007.
John has been The effect of such purchases would either be to cancel the number of shares in issue and the directors a valued colleague during his time on the Board and the Board would like to thank him for his contribution would accordingly only make such purchases after considering the effect on earnings per share and the to the success of the Group over many years.
best interests of the shareholders generally, or the directors may elect to hold them in treasury pursuant By order of the Board to the Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Alec W. J. Banyard Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 the Regulations.
Company Secretary, 16 March 2007 Directors Report - Annual Report and Accounts 2006 32
