Robert Speirs Brian Souter Martin Griffiths Graham Eccles Ann Gloag OBE Ewan Brown CBE Iain Duffin Sir George Mathewson Dr Janet Morgan Russell Walls 4.
Directors biographies Details of corporate governance, including the operation of the Board of Directors, are 4.7 Ann Gloag OBE, Non-Executive Director given in section 6 of this Annual Report.
A brief biography of each director is given Ann Gloag co-founded Stagecoach in 1980 and served as an executive director until below.
She became a member of the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee in June 2005.
She is a past winner of the Businesswoman of the Year Award and 4.1 Robert Speirs, Non-Executive Chairman European Women in Achievement Award.
She is an international Board member of Robert Speirs has been a non-executive director of the Group since March 1995.
In June 2004, she was awarded an OBE for services to charity.
2002, he was appointed by the Board as Non-Executive Chairman.
He is currently a non-executive director of Victoria Mortgage Funding Ltd and Chairman of the Miller 4.8 Sir George Mathewson, Non-Executive Director Group Ltd.
He is a former Group Finance Director of The Royal Bank of Scotland plc.
Sir George Mathewson joined the Group as a non-executive director on 8 June 2006.
Robert Speirs is Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
He was Chairman of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Royal Bank until his retirement on 28 April 2006.
Sir George is currently an advisor to the Royal Bank and is 4.2 Brian Souter, Chief Executive also a director of the Scottish Investment Trust plc.
In November 2001, he was The co-founder of Stagecoach, Brian Souter is the architect of the Groups strategy and appointed to the Board of Directors of the Institute of International Finance and in June philosophy.
He has extensive knowledge of the ground transportation industry around 2005, he became president of the International Monetary Conference.
Sir George the world and is responsible for managing all of the Groups operations.
He is also joined the Advisory Committee of Bridgepoint Capital Limited in January 2004 and in Chairman of ScotAirways Group Ltd.
He was named Businessman of the Year at the November 2004, he was appointed a member of the Financial Reporting Council.
Sir Insider Elite Awards 2004 and is a Chartered Accountant.
George is also chairman of Toscafund Holdings, a hedge fund.
4.3 Martin Griffiths, Finance Director 4.9 Dr Janet Morgan, Non-Executive Director Appointed Finance Director in April 2000, Martin Griffiths is responsible for the Groups Dr Janet Morgan, Lady Balfour of Burleigh, became a non-executive director in April overall financial policy, taxation and treasury management.
She is Chairman of the Health, Safety & Environmental Committee and is a for the overall management of the Groups property portfolio and supports the Chief member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
She is also Executive in all aspects of new business development across the Group.
He is a member Chairman of the Nuclear Liabilities Fund and is a non-executive director of Murray of the Groups Pension Oversight Committee and was a director of Trainline Holdings International Investment Trust and other companies.
She was a non-executive director Limited up until June 2006.
He won the Young Scottish Finance Director of the Year of BPB plc until December 2005.
Dr Morgan is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Award in 2004 and is a Chartered Accountant.
Edinburgh, a Trustee of the Carnegie Trust for the Universities of Scotland and a Trustee of the National Library of Scotland.
She was a member of the Central Policy 4.4 Graham Eccles, Executive Director Rail retired 30 April 2006 Review Staff of the Cabinet Office.
Graham Eccles has over 40 years experience in the rail industry and has held a number of senior management posts.
Up until his retirement in April 2006, he was a member 4.10 Russell Walls, Non-Executive Director of the Board, which he joined in September 2000 and prior to that was Managing Appointed as a non-executive director in June 2000, Russell Walls is the Chairman of Director of South West Trains from 1999.
He was responsible for the management of the Audit Committee and is a member of the Remuneration Committee and the all the Groups rail operations.
In addition, he had main board responsibility for Group Nomination Committee.
He is the senior independent non-executive director.
He is safety matters and was also a member of the Health, Safety and Environmental Chairman of Delphic Europe Limited, a non-executive director of Signet Group plc and Committee until earlier this year.
Aviva plc and is a member of the Conflicts Clearance Committee of the ABN AMRO Infrastructure Capital Equity Fund.
He was previously Group Finance Director of BAA plc 4.5 Ewan Brown CBE, Non-Executive Director and Wellcome PLC.
For many years he worked abroad with Coats Viyella plc where he Ewan Brown has been a non-executive director of the Group since 1988 and chairs the was Group Finance Director from January 1990.
He is a fellow of the Association of Groups Pensions Oversight Committee.
He is a non-executive director of Noble Chartered Certified Accountants.
Russell Walls retires by rotation at the 2006 AGM and Grossart Ltd and Lloyds TSB Group plc where he chairs the Audit Committee.
He is also has indicated that he does not intend to seek re-election.
Chairman of Lloyds TSB Scotland plc and was a non-executive director of John Wood Group plc until May 2006.
4.6 Iain Duffin, Non-Executive Director Iain Duffin became a non-executive director of the Group in September 2001.
He was appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 1 May 2003 and is also a member of the Audit Committee and Health, Safety and Environmental Committee.
He is a non-executive Chairman of Origo Services and Beattie Media Group.
He has previously held executive positions in the UK and the US with a number of organisations including Macfarlane Group plc, Lucas Varity plc, ITT Corporation and Hughes Aircraft.
Aged 59. page 18 | Stagecoach Group plc
