Board of Directors 4 5 6 2 1 Stanley Leisure plc 2006 Annual Report and Accounts 18 1 Lord Steinberg 69 Non-Executive Chairman Founded the business in the mid 1950s and has been responsible for the strategic development and growth of the Group.
He has received numerous awards for his business and charitable work including an Honorary Doctorate by the University of Salford and in 3 2004 was awarded a peerage.
With so many years experience in the gaming industry he is considered by many to be a leading authority on gaming and related matters.
In addition to his involvement with a number of charitable committees, he is Non-Executive Chairman of Empire Online Limited.
2 Bob Wiper 51 Chief Executive Joined the Board in April 1999.
He was formerly divisional Chief Executive of National Express Group plc.
Bob previously held senior management positions within National Tyres and NFC plc.
3 Colin Child FCA 48 Finance Director and Company Secretary Appointed to the Board on 13 September 2004.
He was formerly Finance Director and Chief Operating Of cer at Fitness First plc until it was taken private in 2003.
Prior to this, he was Deputy Chief Executive and Finance Director of National Express Group plc.
Colin quali ed as a Chartered Accountant with Ernst & Young.
4 Lord Baker of Dorking 71 Non-Executive Director Appointed in September 2001.
He was a Conservative MP from 1968 to 1997.
His Cabinet posts included Environment Secretary, Education Secretary and Home Secretary.
Lord Baker is currently the Chairman of Teather & Greenwood Limited.
He previously served as Non-Executive Director of Hanson plc.
He is the President of the Royal London Society for the Blind and Vice Chairman of the Cartoon Art Museum.
5 Robert Waddington 64 Non-Executive Director Appointed in December 1998, Robert is the Senior Independent Director.
He is a NonExecutive Director of Elvaston Investments Limited.
Previously he served as a Director of Hambros Bank Limited.
6 Tim Weller FCA 43 Non-Executive Director Appointed in July 2003.
Tim has recently joined United Utilities plc as Chief Financial Of cer.
Prior to this he was the Group Finance Director of RWE Thames Water plc, following a two year spell as Group Finance Director of Innogy Holdings plc.
He quali ed as a Chartered Accountant with KPMG becoming a partner in 1997.
Board Committees Audit Committee R. Waddington Committee Chairman, Lord Baker of Dorking and T. Weller.
Remuneration Committee Lord Baker of Dorking Committee Chairman, R. Waddington and T. Weller.
Nomination Committee T. Weller Committee Chairman, Lord Baker of Dorking, Lord Steinberg, R. Waddington and R. Wiper.
Donations Committee Lord Baker of Dorking Committee Chairman, Lord Steinberg, R. Waddington, T. Weller and R. Wiper.
Banking and Finance Committee R. Waddington Committee Chairman, C. Child, Lord Steinberg and T. Weller.
Stanley Leisure plc 2006 Annual Report and Accounts 19
