Directors Report The Directors present their Report and the audited Financial Directors Statements for the year ended 30 April 2006.
The Directors of the Company on 20 July 2006 are named on pages 18 and 19, together with accompanying biographical Principal Activities and Business Review notes.
John Whittaker resigned as Managing Director of the Stanley Leisure plc is one of the UKs leading leisure companies.
Betting Division on 7 July 2005 but remains with the Group and During the year, the principal activities of the Group were the manages the International Betting Operation.
Michael Riddy operation of casinos and licensed betting of ces and agents.
resigned as Managing Director of the Gaming Division on On 18 June 2005, the Group sold its domestic Retail Betting 24 March 2006 to assume the role of Managing Director, Operation and on 9 July 2005, as a consequence of this disposal, Marketing and Development for Stanley Casinos.
closed its internet sports betting and telebetting activities.
The Group sold its online gaming business in October 2005.
Tim Weller and Lord Steinberg will retire at this years Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for The Chairmans Statement on pages 2 and 3, the Chief re-election by the shareholders.
Apart from their service contracts, Executives Review on pages 10 to 15 and the Financial Review as at the date of this Report, no Director of the Company had on pages 16 and 17 report on the Groups development during noti ed any interest in any contracts with the Company or its the year to 30 April 2006, its position at that date and the subsidiaries during the year or thereafter.
Information ful lling the requirements of the Business Review can be found on pages 2 Directors Interests to 17 and are incorporated in this Report by reference.
The interests of the Directors who held of ce at 30 April 2006, are shown in the Remuneration Report on pages 25 and 26.
Results and Dividends The Financial Statements of the Company and the Group for the Corporate Social Responsibility year to 30 April 2006 appear on pages 32 to 75.
The Board understands its responsibilities in respect of social, environmental and ethical matters.
The Companys risk The pro t before tax and exceptional items for the year was assessment processes include the monitoring of such matters 38.2m 2005: 39.3m as restated for IFRS.
to assess if there are any signi cant risks which may impact on the Groups short and long term value.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 8.3p per ordinary share 2005: 7.5p which, together with the interim dividend Employees of 3.3p per ordinary share 2005: 3.0p already paid, makes The Group recognises that the success of its business is a total dividend for the year of 11.6p 2005: 10.5p.
Subject fundamentally linked to the contribution made by its employees.
to shareholder approval, the final dividend will be paid on The Group strives to attract, motivate and retain quality 20 September 2006 to those shareholders whose names are employees by offering competitive salary and bene ts packages, on the register on 18 August 2006.
Under IFRS the results for investing in employee development and training programmes the year do not provide for dividends proposed.
and encouraging employee involvement and communication.
Share Capital The Group endorses the principles of equal employment Full details of the Companys share capital are included at note opportunities in the selection, career development and promotion 25 to the Financial Statements.
of employees, regardless of gender, sexual orientation, ethnic origin, religion and whether disabled or otherwise.
At an Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company on 8 September 2005, shareholders approved a return of surplus Health and Safety funds in conjunction with a reorganisation of the Companys The Group takes all reasonable and practicable steps to safeguard share capital.
Shareholders received 250p per ordinary share the health, safety and welfare of employees and customers.
either in the form of capital or income.
Following the return of The Board receives regular reports and updates on health and surplus funds, a share reorganisation was effected.
Operational management has responsibility received eight new ordinary shares for every 15 ordinary shares for effective management of health and safety in the business held prior to the reorganisation.
As a result, 69,734,920 new in accordance with the Groups health and safety policies and ordinary shares were issued and 130,769,850 ordinary shares manuals which fide ne the Groups approach to compliance with were cancelled.
Major Interests in Shares Environment As at 20 July 2006 the Company had been noti ed of the Although the Group is considered to have low environmental risks, following interests in the Companys issued share capital.
the Board recognises that the business does have an impact on the environment.
The Board is committed to developing methods Percentage held of working which are environmentally responsible.
Energy and water conservation and effective waste management continue Genting Berhad 19.98% to be a central focus.
The Group has also commenced work to Schroder Investments 11.74% review opportunities for further energy ef ciencies in its estate.
Fidelity Investments 8.14% M&G Investment Management Limited 4.28% The Chairman, Lord Steinberg, also had a major interest in the Companys shares at that date, details of which are shown in the Remuneration Report on page 25.
Stanley Leisure plc 2006 Annual Report and Accounts 20 Directors Report continued Political and Charitable Donations No political contributions were paid during the year 2005: nil.
Donations for charitable purposes within the UK amounted to 0.3m 2005: 0.3m, including a donation of 0.2m to the Responsibility in Gambling Trust, with 0.1m being donated to local charities.
Auditors A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as the Companys auditors will be submitted to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Disclosure of Information to Auditors Each Director at the date of this Report has con rmed, so far as the Director is aware, that there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
Each Director has taken appropriate steps to make themselves aware of any such information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Creditor Payment Policy Details are shown in the Financial Review on page 17.
Post Balance Sheet Events On 19 June 2006, the Group acquired Harbour House Casino Limited, which owns the Harbour House Casino in Southampton, for a total consideration of 5.9m.
On 26 June 2006 we announced that we were in discussions with the Board of London Clubs International plc LCI concerning the possibility of a merger of Stanley and LCI.
Discussions are ongoing and there is no certainty that they will lead to a transaction.
Annual General Meeting The 2006 Annual General Meeting will be held on 14 September 2006.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting, together with an explanatory circular, is set out in a separate document which, for shareholders, is enclosed with this Annual Report.
By order of the Board Colin Child Company Secretary 20 July 2006 Stanley Leisure plc 2006 Annual Report and Accounts 21
