Chief Executive Officers Review Chief Executive Officers Review Report & Accounts 006 Report & Accounts 006 continued The financial year 006 was SThrees over its long history as a private of 7.6%.
In addition, the number illustrates the scope of the market Although physical offices outside of Staffing Levels first full year as a public company.
In particular, we continued of active contractors had risen to a opportunity within the UK from newer the UK remained limited to the three The Group continued to grow frontlargest brands i. e. Computer Futures, As such, it is particularly pleasing to be highly selective in terms of record 4,7 9 at the year-end 005: sectors.
That said, during the year office staff numbers significantly Huxley and Progressive, certain of the to be able to comment on a highly the quality of business undertaken, 4,365 representing a more modest we started to see the results of newer during the year.
Total headcount at other brands increased their trading satisfactory performance with consistently avoiding low margin but nevertheless healthy increase of sector disciplines being rolled out year-end was, 48 005:, 073 of with non-UK clients during the year progress made across all of the clients in favour of those prepared to 8.
Although still at a which 894 005: 6 7 were sales with a view to establishing overseas sectors in which we operate.
pay a favourable rate for our services.
relatively early stage, as this trend consultants.
The remaining 587 offices in due course.
We also maintained our commitment The difference in the relative growth develops further we would expect staff cover sales management, During the year positive business to ensuring our key staff were able rates is consistent with benign market to see it impact meaningfully on the direct sales support, sales training, At a total of 98.9m 005: 79.5m, sentiment underpinned continued to gain equity participation in the conditions in which employers have Groups overall sector mix.
internal recruitment and back office UK gross profit grew by 4.4% during healthy demand for specialist staff.
Group, either through employee the confidence to make permanent functions.
The expansion of the sales the year and represented 73.0% This in turn encouraged candidates share schemes or minority stakes in hires.
In the Groups case, this macro The potential of this was well of the overall business compared function required some increases in to seek new challenges creating individual businesses.
element is further impacted by the illustrated during the year with the to 76.
Given the highly headcount in the Human Resources, additional placing opportunities as fact that our fast-growing non-UK opening of Huxleys New York office competitive nature of the UK Legal, Internal Recruitment and their employers looked to replace in Key factors supporting our successful business is disproportionately biased in Q3.
This office was initially specialist staffing market, this is an Information Systems functions.
These market conditions pursuit of this strategy were once towards permanent placements.
launched off the strength of Huxleys encouraging result, particularly as However, headcount in Finance allowed the Group to build on the again our multi-brand model and franchise in specialist banking we achieved this whilst maintaining decreased shortly after the year-end progress made in the previous year our strong SME franchise.
Both Imbalances in candidate supply and and finance recruitment and has our margins.
In other words, we were as a consequence of restructuring and to further increase its sales factors mitigate against any potential demand in the specialist staffing subsequently added ICT to its able to win market share rather than associated with the implementation consultant headcount to capitalise on over-reliance on a limited number of market complemented the Groups portfolio.
This was the first time that buy market share.
clients and this insulates us against proactive efforts to place higher-level a non-ICT platform has pioneered the downward margin pressure staff, resulting in contract day rates geographical expansion but we see no As expected, a stronger rate of During the year the Group maintained This capacity-driven growth was experienced by less diversified increasing to 64.9, an increase of reason why this should not become growth was achieved from the its core strategy of recruiting sales enhanced by increases in both players.
At the same time, our niche-.
% 005: 58.4 and permanent more widespread going forward.
newer businesses outside of the UK, staff at a trainee level and from the average contract day rate within-niche approach allows us to fees reaching an average of 8,563 with gross profit of 36.6m 005: outside of the staffing industry.
achieved as well as the average fee credibly position ourselves as market 005: 7,97, an increase of 7.4%.
The ICT versus non-ICT breakdown is 5.0m, representing an increase of These recruits were then put through charged for permanent placements.
experts, particularly in relation to also influenced by the growth 46.4% on the previous year.
Overall an in-house graduate training and We were therefore able to build candidate acquisition.
This in turn The aggregate effect of all of the in the number of non-ICT sectors non-UK share of gross profit increased development programme.
In terms of substantial increases in the volume justifies our higher margins.
above was to see an increase of in which we operate as well as the to 7.0% from 3.9% in 005.
As sales staff the Group ended the year of transactions undertaken without permanent business within the overall number of group brands that have we continue to expand into new on planned headcount.
We see this as During the year we took further mix.
For the year, the gross profit was extended their remits beyond an territories and at the same time add last quarter represented a particularly a further vindication of our longsteps in applying this model to an split 5 % vs. 49% in favour of contract ICT-specific focus.
In both of these new sectors to the non-UK business, intense recruitment phase meaning established strategy of avoiding the ever-increasing number of staffing as opposed to the 54% vs. 46% split respects 006 was a year of progress the proportion of non-UK contribution that those hired in this latter period high volume, low margin model in sectors and geographies.
This of the previous year.
with a number of brands taking is expected to continue to grow as a had limited opportunity to contribute favour of quality business.
continuous programme of rolling their first steps towards enhancing percentage of the overall total.
before the end of the financial year.
out the business model across a their portfolios to include other Sector Focus The outcome achieved as a result matrix of complementary disciplines specialist staffing sectors.
In each Brand Breakdown Given the highly competitive Given the history of the Group it was an improvement in gross profit and territories is expected to be case, however, the Group intends environment in which we operate, is unsurprising that a significant In aggregate our four largest of 9.7% to 35.5m 005: 04.5m.
the core group growth strategy on to remain tightly focused on niche, when recruiting sales staff we must percentage of our business is in the brands, Computer Futures, Huxley, This figure translated into a 39.3% an on-going basis.
We have also higher value areas.
take every opportunity to establish ICT sector with 8.
0% of gross profit Progressive and Pathway accounted growth in operating profit before continued to underpin our expansion in the minds of our potential recruits derived from this source in 006 for 78.7% of overall gross profit, the exceptional items to 4.
0m 005: strategy through investment in and Geographical Breakdown that SThree is an employer of choice.
However, non-ICT is same as in 005.
As a result our operating development of best in breed ERP For this reason it was particularly clearly now a substantial and rapidly By the end of the year the Group posted impressive levels of growth profit before exceptional items to and CRM technology.
pleasing to note that in the 006 growing element of our business.
operated from a total of thirty-two UK during the year.
gross profit conversion ratio improved Sunday Times Best Companies Top During the year gross profit from nonoffices, eleven elsewhere in Europe to 30.3% 005: 8.
This is a Contract Permanent 00 Places To Work index SThree ICT sectors grew by 49.8% to 4.4m and one office in New York.
During Computer Futures remained noteworthy achievement, particularly Business Mix was placed in overall 3th position.
the year, in addition to the New York marginally the largest brand given that this metric was already office, the Group opened new offices measured by gross profit, achieving Both parts of the Groups business amongst the best in class relative to The latter point should be seen in in Paris, Frankfurt and Munich.
Further 36.7m which equated to a growth Strategy experienced strong growth during our peer group and also that during international expansion through new the context that the vast majority of of 0.0% on 005.
By year-end the Group had the year we invested significantly in The Groups first year as a public offices for Huxley in Brussels and the fast-growing non-UK businesses was achieved despite the brand made a total of 7,685 permanent geographical and sector expansion.
company saw minimal changes to Computer Futures in Rotterdam is are currently predominantly ICThaving focused to date solely placements 005: 6,0 3 an increase the strategy that has served it well scheduled for Q 007. based and hence the growth figure on rolling out ICT across all its SThree plc SThree plc 5 7 8 5
