STHREE PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 SThree plc Contents 1 Board of Directors 4 Chairmans Statement 6 Overview of SThree Group 7 Chief Executive Officers Review 11 Chief Financial Officers Review 14 Directors Report 17 Directors Remuneration Report 22 Corporate Governance Report 26 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 28 Audit Opinion 31 Consolidated Income Statement 32 Balance Sheet 33 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 34 Company Statement of Changes in Equity 35 Cash Flow Statement 36 Notes to the Financial Statements 82 Financial Summary 83 Shareholder information.
Sunil Wickremeratne Report & Accounts 006 Sunil Wickremeratne age 4 has served as SThrees Chief Operating Officer since 004 having previously been Managing Director of The Board brings together a wealth of experience across differing sectors and businesses on an international basis.
After working for VNU Business Publications, he joined Computer Futures in 988 and subsequently established Progressive in 990, Pathway in 997 and Real I. T. Resourcing in 998.
Sunil holds a degree in Economics from University College, London.
Most importantly they share a passion for the business and the outstanding opportunities ahead.
Russell Clements Tony Ward, OBE age 57 was appointed to the SThree Board in August 006 and to the SThree Remuneration and Nomination Russell Clements age 4 has served as SThrees Chief Executive Officer since 004 having previously held the position of Deputy Committees in October 006.
Tony has over thirty years experience in a variety of senior executive roles with blue chip companies Chief Executive Officer since 00.
He worked for VNU Business Publications, a Dutch international publishing company, before joining including BAA plc, Kingfisher plc and Grand Metropolitan plc.
He joined BAA in 997 as Group HR Director and has held his current post Computer Futures in 986 shortly after its inception.
He subsequently served as Director and as Joint Managing Director of Computer of Services Director since 999, being responsible for activities including IT, Security and Airside Operations.
Tony was a Board Director Futures.
Russell holds a degree in Government from the University of Essex and is also a graduate of the Advanced Management Program of BAA plc between November 999 and July 006.
Prior to joining BAA, Tony was Group HR Director of Kingfisher plc and held senior at the Wharton Business School, University of Pennsylvania.
He is Chairman of the Association of Technology Staffing Companies ATSCo.
personnel positions in both the operating divisions and corporate office of Grand Metropolitan plc.
He is an advisor to Manchester Square Partners LLP, a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Personnel Development, a former Deputy Chairman of the Commission for Racial 2.
The Baroness Noakes Equality and a graduate of the University of Leeds.
The Baroness Noakes, DBE, FCA age 57 has served as a Non-Executive Director of SThree since 00, chairs the SThree Audit 7.
Alicja Lesniak Committee and sits on the SThree Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
She qualified as a Chartered Accountant at Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co. now KPMG, where she was a partner from 983 to 000, and led KPMGs international government practice.
The Alicja Lesniak age 55 was appointed to the SThree Board in May 006 and to the SThree Audit Committee in July 006.
Alicja is Baroness Noakes is also a Non-Executive Director of Hanson plc, Carpetright plc and Imperial Chemical Industries plc.
She is a Director currently a Non-Executive Director of DTZ Holdings plc and, from April 007 CFO of Aegis plc and has over thirty years experience in of the Reuters Founders Share Company Ltd and the English National Opera.
She holds a Bachelors degree in Law from the University of fast moving service businesses, the latter twenty years being senior financial and managerial roles within the advertising media sector, Bristol, is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales and a former president thereof.
including seven years with BBDO Worldwide, latterly as Chief Financial Officer for BBDO EMEA, and seven years at WPP Group plc, where she held positions as Chief Financial Officer for Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide and Managing Director of J Walter Thompson in the UK.
Sir Anthony Cleaver Prior to joining the advertising sector she held senior management positions with Arthur Andersen & Co, having originally qualified as a Chartered Accountant with them in 976.
Alicja is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales and holds a Sir Anthony Cleaver age 68 has served as SThrees Non-Executive Chairman since July 000 and sits on the SThree Nomination degree in Mathematics from Imperial College.
He spent the majority of his career with IBM, where he served as European Vice-President of Marketing and as General Manager, Chief Executive and Chairman and Chief Executive in the United Kingdom.
Sir Anthony has also served as Chairman of the 8.
Michael Nelson United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority, AEA Technology plc, General Cable plc, and the Medical Research Council, and as a Non-Executive Director of Lockheed Martin UK Limited.
He currently serves as Chairman of the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority, Michael Nelson, FCA age 5 has served as SThrees Chief Financial Officer since March 005.
After qualifying in 978 as a Chartered IX Europe plc, Working Links Employment Limited and the Royal College of Music and as a Director of the Links Foundation.
Accountant with Arthur Andersen, he gained experience in a wide range of industries and countries, including working as a corporate Sir Anthony holds a degree in Literae Humaniores from Oxford and was President of the Chartered Management Institute.
For the ten years prior to joining SThree, Michael served as the Chief Financial Officer of EMI Europe and of the Bally Group in Switzerland.
Michael holds a degree in Mathematics from the University of Bristol.
Brian McBride Brian McBride age 5 has served as a Non-Executive Director of SThree since 00, chairs the SThree Remuneration Committee and sits Steve Hornbuckle on the SThree Audit and Nomination Committees.
Brian has over twenty-six years of experience in the IT industry and has worked at Xerox, IBM, Crossfield Electronics, Madge Networks, Lucent, Dell Computers and T-Mobile UK.
He is currently Managing Director of Amazon.
co. uk Steve Hornbuckle, FCIS age 39 was appointed to the role of Company Secretary in October 006.
Steve has and a Non-Executive Director of the football club, Celtic PLC.
Brian holds a Masters degree in Economic History from Glasgow University.
over twenty years company secretarial experience, having held Deputy and Assistant Secretary positions within a variety of listed companies, including Intertek Group plc, BPB plc, Kidde plc, Railtrack Group plc, London & Manchester Group plc and English China Clays plc.
Steve is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries.
