Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Report Year ended 30 November 006 continued Year ended 30 November 006 continued meet with the Chairman or Senior meeting.
Additionally, each Director Information and professional respective Committee is shown under engagement of the Companys Performance Evaluation Independent Non-Executive Director must retire at the Annual General development the relevant section below.
During the auditor,  were made by shareholders during Meeting held in the third calendar During the year a performance year Brian McBride was absent for one LLP.
Both the Committee and the A formal induction programme the year.
year following the year in which evaluation process, led by the Board and one Nomination Committee auditors themselves have safeguards has been established for all new he she was elected or last re-elected, Chairman, was established to meeting, whilst Alicja Lesniak was in place to ensure that the objectivity Directors and this is tailored to Appointments to the Board are the but shall be eligible for re-election.
evaluate the Board, Committees and absent for one Board meeting, and independence of the auditors is each individual to ensure that it is responsibility of the full Board, on the Any Director who has agreed to do individual Directors.
This ensures that otherwise there was full attendance.
maintained, including the periodic appropriate for their level of previous recommendation of the Nomination so shall retire at the Annual General the performance of each individual rotation of the audit partner.
During the year, and after Meeting whether in accordance with Director and the functioning and addition to the annual appointment Audit Committee meetings Directors receive detailed appropriate external consultation terms of appointment or otherwise constitution of the Board and of the auditors by the shareholders, reports from executive management and selection, this Committee and, unless the other Directors have each Committee are assessed.
The Audit Committee met twice the Committee regularly reviews on the performance of the Group recommended the appointment of agreed, he she shall not be eligible for The Chairman also discusses the during the year and consists of The their independence taking into and senior management regularly two further Non-Executive Directors.
individual performance of Directors, Baroness Noakes Chairman, Brian consideration relevant UK professional make presentations on their areas On joining the Board, all Directors in consultation with other Directors, McBride and Alicja Lesniak, and and regulatory requirements.
Board members receive a formal appointment The Board explains the reasons why it whilst the Senior Independent accordingly comprises at least three The Committee reviews auditor are invited to the Groups annual letter, which identifies the time believes each retiring Director should Director held discussions with independent Non-Executive Directors performance and fees charged and conference, together with senior commitment and responsibilities be re-elected in the Notice of Annual the other Non-Executive Directors as required by the Code.
The Chief meets with the auditor at least once a management from each brand expected of them.
without the Chairman being present Executive Officer, the Chief Financial year without management present.
and geographic area, in order to Director candidate is required to and also with the Chief Executive Officer and the external auditors discuss relevant initiatives.
Regular disclose all significant outside Officer, in order to appraise the attend all meetings at the request Chairman and Chief Executive The Committees policy is that updates are provided on other commitments prior to appointment.
Chairmans performance during the of the Committee.
The Baroness non-audit work is carried out by the Officer topics as required and Directors All Non-Executive Directors have year.
These assessments concluded Noakes is a Chartered Accountant auditors only where that work does There is a clear division of are encouraged to attend external undertaken that they have sufficient that the performance of the Board, and is considered by the Board to not impair the auditors independence responsibilities between the seminars on areas of relevance to time to meet commitments and major each Committee and each Director have recent and relevant financial and where the Committee believes Chairman and the Chief Executive their role.
These measures help to shareholders may, upon appropriate was and is effective and that Directors experience.
that it is in the Groups best interests Officer and they have been set ensure that the Directors continue request, meet new Non-Executive demonstrate full commitment in to make use of the auditors out in writing and approved by the to develop their knowledge of the Directors.
The Board will The Committees principal knowledge of the business.
The Board so that no one individual has Groups business and get to know its continue to develop this process as responsibilities are to monitor the Committee continuously monitors unfettered powers of decision.
The composition of the Board and necessary in order to ensure that it integrity of the Companys Annual the quality and volume of this work in appointment, the Chairman met its various Committees is reviewed can properly review, on an annual and Interim Reports, preliminary order to assess whether to use other the independence criteria set out in Directors have access to the advice and evaluated so as to reflect the basis, its performance and that of its results announcements and any accounting firms or appropriately the Code.
The Chairman leads the and services of the Company Boards and the Committees balance Committees and individual Directors.
other formal announcements relating qualified organisations.
Board in the determination of its Secretary, who is responsible to of skills, expected time commitment, to financial performance, reviewing strategy and in the achievement of the Board for ensuring that Board knowledge and experience.
The particularly any significant financial Board and Committee Details of fees paid to the auditors its objectives and is responsible for procedures are complied with Directors aim is to ensure that reporting judgements contained for both audit and non-audit work Composition and Attendance organising the business of the Board, and to assist in arranging any the balance of the Board reflects therein: to review the Groups are given in note 4 to the financial ensuring its effectiveness and setting additional information as required.
the changing needs of the Groups The Board has established several systems of internal control and risk statements.
its agenda but has no involvement The appointment and removal of business and therefore composition, Committees, each with clearly management: to identify and report in the day-to-day business of the the Company Secretary is a matter balance and skills are all regularly defined terms of reference, on any business areas where action The Group does not currently have Group.
The Chairman facilitates the reserved for the Board as a whole monitored.
Excluding the Chairman, procedures and powers, as or improvement are needed and an internal audit function, although effective contribution of the Nonand the Board last appointed a the Board considers all Non-Executive summarised below, which are recommend actions to be taken: to the need for such function has been Executive Directors, and constructive Company Secretary in October Directors to be independent.
All Committees review arrangements by which Group and is regularly reviewed by the Audit relations between Executive and 006.
All Directors are entitled to in compliance with the Code, which operate in accordance with the employees may raise concerns about Committee in light of the growth of Non-Executive Directors, ensures obtain independent professional requires at least half of the Board to relevant terms of reference as possible improprieties in financial the business.
Directors receive accurate, timely advice, at the Companys expense, consist of independent Non-Executive approved by the Board.
Copies of reporting or other such matters, and clear information and effective in the performance of their duties as Directors.
the terms of reference for each of and ensure appropriate follow up: Nomination Committee communication with shareholders.
No such advice was sought these Committees are available on to monitor the effectiveness of the The Chief Executive Officer has direct during the year.
The Companys Articles of Association request from the Company Secretary external audit process: and to ensure The Nomination Committee met twice charge of the Group on a day-to-day state that a Director appointed by the at the registered office or can be that the audit report and all related during the year and consists of Sir basis and overall responsibility to the Board in accordance with the Articles downloaded from www.
Anthony Cleaver Chairman, Brian Board for the financial and operational of Association shall hold office In addition to the seven scheduled McBride and The Baroness Noakes, performance of the Group.
only until the next Annual General Board meetings during the year, The Committee considers matters and accordingly comprises a majority Meeting, unless re-elected during that the Board met at the AGM, EGM and relating to the recommendation of independent Non-Executive strategy away day.
The number of for appointment, re-appointment, Directors as required by the Code.
Committee meetings held for each remuneration and terms of SThree plc SThree plc 5 3 5 4 Corporate Social Corporate Governance Report Year ended 30 November 006 continued Responsibility Report Year ended 30 November 006 The Nomination Committees terms Groups assets.
Executive Directors Audit Committee twice a year.
The Introduction Our Stakeholders of reference are to review regularly and senior management are purpose of the register is to record The Group obtains feedback At SThree plc, we take our duty to We aim to be as responsive as the structure, size and composition responsible for the implementation the key risks facing the business, from its brokers on the views of behave responsibly in governance possible and to engage with a wide including the skills, knowledge and maintenance of the internal the assessment of the likelihood of institutional investors on a nonand ethics seriously.
We will range of stakeholders.
and experience of the Board, make control systems, which are subject to the risks crystallising, their potential attributed basis and any issues continue to build our corporate recommendations with regard to periodic, and at least annual, review materiality and the Groups response or concerns are communicated social responsibility commitments any changes, and to review and by the Board.
Responsibility for Shareholders to the Board.
The Board routinely in the coming years, in addition to prepare relevant job descriptions management of the risks is attributed receives regular reports on issues Communications with fulfilling national and international for new appointees.
The Committee The Board monitors the ongoing typically to senior management.
relating to share price, trading shareholders are given a high legal requirements.
Our policy can be also considers future succession for process by which critical risks to the activity and institutional investor priority.
The Company produces summarised as follows: appointments to the Board and to business are identified, evaluated sentiment.
Going concern an Annual Report, which is sent senior management, so as to maintain and managed.
This process is to shareholders.
At the half-year, The Board has reviewed the Groups an appropriate balance of skills and consistent with the Turnbull Guidance Governance The Board views the Annual an Interim Report is published.
budget for the financial year expertise within the Company and on Internal Control and has been in General Meeting as a valuable SThree is committed to high The Company also has a website ending 30 November 007.
Where appropriate, the operation for the period under review opportunity to communicate with standards of corporate governance as www.
com which contains taking account of the cash flow Committee engages external search and up to the date of approval of this private and institutional investors outlined in the Corporate Governance up-to-date information on the projections, including proposed consultants with respect to both Annual Report.
Report and the Board is accountable Groups activities, investor capital expenditure and considering Executive and Non-Executive Board All Board members attend the to the Companys shareholders for presentations and published the availability of borrowing facilities, appointments.
The Board assesses the effectiveness Annual General Meeting and ensuring that principles of good financial results.
Shareholders can the Board has concluded that it is of the Groups system of internal in particular, the Chairmen governance are applied.
also subscribe for e-mail alerts of appropriate to prepare the accounts of controls, including financial, of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committee important announcements made both the Group and the Company on organisational and compliance Remuneration Committees are by the Company.
The Remuneration Committee the going concern basis.
Ethics controls and risk management available to answer questions.
met five times during the year systems.
These are designed to At General Meetings, a schedule At SThree, and as individuals, we: There is regular dialogue with and is responsible for making manage, rather than eliminate, the Corporate Social of the proxy votes cast is made institutional shareholders, whilst recommendations to the Board on risk of failure to achieve the Groups available to all shareholders and Responsibility Value trust and personal ensuring that price sensitive Group policy for the remuneration of objectives, and can only provide may also be accessed via the responsibility: information is released at the the Executive Directors and senior The Board recognises that the Group reasonable, and not absolute, Companys website.
The Company Act with integrity, honesty and same time to all shareholders in executives and for the determination, has a responsibility to act ethically assurance against material misproposes a resolution on each respect: accordance with the requirements within agreed terms of reference, of in relation to the physical and social statement or loss.
The Board substantially separate issue and Deliver excellent services that add of the UK Listing Authority.
additional benefits for each of the environment in which it operates, and considers, in assessing what does not combine resolutions Presentations are made after the value to our customers businesses: Executive Directors, including pension that failure to do so could adversely constitutes reasonable accuracy, inappropriately.
The website Company has published its fullrights and any compensation for impact on the Groups long and shortFocus on continual growth and the materiality of financial and noncontains copies of all Notices of year and half-year results, and loss of office.
The Committee is also term value as a result of financial outstanding performance: financial risks and the relationship Meeting and explanatory notes, there is also dialogue on specific responsible for the implementation penalty and loss of customer support.
between the cost of, and benefit from, Strive to create a safer working once issued.
In respect of all issues, such as Minority Stakes and operation of employee share It takes such responsibilities seriously internal control systems.
environment: Annual General Meetings, the and the introduction of the Long incentive arrangements.
The paying due regard to international and Notice is posted at least twenty Value each employees Term Incentive Plan.
Committee comprises at least three local laws in all its dealings.
Further The Board regularly reviews the working days prior to the date of contribution towards achieving independent Non-Executive Directors details are disclosed in the Corporate actual results compared with the the meeting.
our business objectives: The Chairman is available to as required by the Code.
budgeted and forecast performance Promote a culture where discuss strategy and governance of the Group, as well as other key motivated customer-orientated Customers issues with shareholders and is Full information on the composition, performance indicators.
Environmental Matters employees can flourish, available to shareholders if they role and operation of the SThree is built upon a strong experience professional fulfilment Information is disclosed in the have concerns that have not, or Remuneration Committee and ethos of customer service.
Lines of responsibility and delegated and reach their highest potential: Corporate Social Responsibility cannot, be addressed through Directors Remuneration is detailed A combination of years of authorities are areas which continue and Report.
the Chief Executive Officer or in the Directors Remuneration Report.
experience, detailed knowledge to be defined and the Groups policies Respect diverse perspectives, Chief Financial Officer.
The Senior of our specialist recruitment and procedures therefore continue experiences and traditions as Independent Non-Executive sectors and local legislation, Internal control to be updated and communicated essential.
Director, The Baroness Noakes, is culture and market conditions, as internally.
The Board has overall responsibility available to shareholders if they well as comprehensive training for the Groups internal control The foundation of the policy rests have concerns that have not, or programmes, mean that clients Assessment of risk systems and for monitoring their with the Groups employees, each cannot, be addressed through the receive the most professional Steve Hornbuckle, FCIS effectiveness in order to safeguard of whom must adhere to the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer The Group has developed a corporate service.
We conduct internal and Company Secretary shareholders investments and the Groups values.
risk register for review by the 3 March 007 SThree plc SThree plc 5 5 5 6 Corporate Social Audit Opinion Year ended 30 November 006 Responsibility Report continued Year ended 30 November 006 We report to you our opinion as to Directors Responsibilities.
We Independent auditors report external customer care surveys whether the financial statements give consider the implications for our Environmental Matters to the members of SThree plc and regular client contact a true and fair view and whether the report if we become aware of any SThree remains committed to reports.
Listening to our We have audited the group and financial statements and the part of apparent misstatements or material operating in an environmentally customers helps us understand parent company financial statements the Directors Remuneration Report inconsistencies with the financial responsible manner and all offices what they expect from us and of SThree plc for the year ended to be audited have been properly statements.
Our responsibilities do are encouraged to recycle paper, 30 November 006 which comprise how we can meet and exceed prepared in accordance with the not extend to any other information.
IT equipment and other relevant the consolidated income statement, their expectations.
Companies Act 985 and, as regards materials used.
Wherever possible, the group and parent company the group financial statements, Basis of audit opinion preference is given to purchasing balance sheets, the group and parent Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We Employees equipment which incorporates We conducted our audit in company statements of changes in also report to you whether in our The Group provides equal the latest power saving or other equity, the group and parent accordance with International opinion the information given in the opportunities for its staff as environmentally friendly capabilities, company cash flow statements and Standards on Auditing UK and Directors Report is consistent with disclosed in the Directors Report.
and disposal of such equipment is the related notes.
These financial Ireland issued by the Auditing the financial statements.
Employees have regular appraisals undertaken in a controlled manner, in statements have been prepared Practices Board.
An audit includes with their line managers in order conjunction with suppliers or under the accounting policies set examination, on a test basis, of In addition we report to you if, in our out therein.
We have also audited to address any concerns and other bodies.
evidence relevant to the amounts opinion, the company has not kept the information in the Directors the Human Resources Director and disclosures in the financial proper accounting records, if we have Remuneration Report that is is available in the event of statements and the part of the not received all the information and described as having been audited.
Employees can Directors Remuneration Report explanations we require for our audit, also report any matters of concern to be audited.
It also includes or if information specified by law via the Company Secretary.
an assessment of the significant Respective responsibilities of regarding directors remuneration and estimates and judgements made Directors and auditors other transactions is not disclosed.
Steve Hornbuckle, FCIS by the Directors in the preparation Diversity Company Secretary The Directors responsibilities for of the financial statements, and of We review whether the Corporate 3 March 007 SThree has, 48 employees in 7 preparing the financial statements whether the accounting policies Governance Statement reflects the countries and, together with our in accordance with applicable United are appropriate to the groups companys compliance with the nine policy to recruit qualified local people Kingdom law and International and companys circumstances, provisions of the 003 Combined wherever possible, this diversity is Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs consistently applied and adequately Code specified for our review by the as adopted by the European Union are one of our biggest assets.
Listing Rules of the Financial Services set out in the Statement of Directors with pursuing practices that are Authority, and we report if it does Responsibilities.
The directors are sensitive to the needs and cultures We planned and performed our audit not.
We are not required to consider also responsible for preparing the of our staff, diversity allows us to be so as to obtain all the information and whether the boards statements on Annual Report and the Directors adaptable and more open to different explanations which we considered internal control cover all risks and Remuneration Report.
ways of doing business, in line with necessary in order to provide us controls, or form an opinion on the local practices and customs.
The with sufficient evidence to give effectiveness of the groups corporate Our responsibility is to audit the Group provides equal opportunities reasonable assurance that the governance procedures or its risk and financial statements and the part for its entire staff, irrespective of their financial statements and the part of control procedures.
of the Directors Remuneration age, ethnic or religious background, the Directors Remuneration Report Report to be audited in accordance sex, sexual orientation or disability, to be audited are free from material We read other information contained with relevant legal and regulatory as disclosed in the Directors Report.
misstatement, whether caused by in the Annual Report and consider requirements and International SThree employs only the best people fraud or other irregularity or error.
Standards on Auditing UK and whether it is consistent with the for their role irrespective of gender: In forming our opinion we also Ireland.
This report, including the audited financial statements.
The nevertheless we are keen to see the evaluated the overall adequacy of opinion, has been prepared for and other information comprises only ratio of women in senior positions the presentation of information in the only for the companys members as the Chairmans Statement, the Chief improve.
financial statements and the part of a body in accordance with Section Executive Officers Review, the Chief the Directors Remuneration Report to 35 of the Companies Act 985 and Financial Officers Review, the detail of be audited.
We do not, in the Board of Directors, the Directors giving this opinion, accept or assume Report, the unaudited part of the responsibility for any other purpose Directors Remuneration Report, or to any other person to whom this the Corporate Governance Report, report is shown or into whose hands the Corporate Social Responsibility it may come save where expressly Report and the Statement of agreed by our prior consent in writing.
