OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED Competition production and marketing of ingredients Syrup.
We operate cane sugar refineries in The starch industry is concentrated around produced from corn and wheat for the food Canada and Vietnam and a joint venture in a small number of large participants who and industrial sectors.
Our corn sweeteners, Mexico which supply customers in those operate in many different application areas, such as HFCS, glucose syrup, fructose, regions.
We also operate a joint venture including food, beverage, paper and dextrose and maltodextrins, are widely processing beet sugar in Central and pharmaceuticals.
The US accounts for over employed in the production of soft drinks Eastern Europe.
In addition to refining sugar, half of global starch production.
Our main and as feedstocks in the brewing and our global trading operation purchases and competitors in the US for corn wet milling fermentation industry.
trades sugar in markets across the world.
and starch-based products are Archer In general, we purchase sugar from major Daniels Midland Company, Corn Products Starches sugar producing regions such as Brazil and International and Cargill.
National Starch a Our highly functional value added food sell it into countries with sugar deficits.
subsidiary of ICI PLC is another significant starches add texture and body to food as Molasses competitor in the US, particularly in relation well as bind together ingredients offering Molasses is the versatile by-product of cane to higher value modified food and industrial stability and moisture retention.
Our starches and beet sugar production.
It offers various starches, as well as Penford Corporation in can also improve the shelf-life of processed benefits as an animal feed, provides a raw the North American paper starch industry.
foods and snacks and are used to produce material for fermentation and is also used in In Europe, our main competitors in the the texture and other quality features of a diverse range of other industrial processes.
starch industry are Cargill and Roquette consumer products such as chewing gum, We have been able to leverage our position Frres.
Competition for our European sugar cosmetics, toothpaste and pharmaceutical as a leading sugar manufacturer to become business comes mainly from British Sugar applications.
We are also a key player in a market leader in the international trading, a subsidiary of Associated British Foods the production of non-food starches for distribution and storage of molasses with plc, Sdzucker, Nordzucker and Tereos.
We supply textile, operations in over 20 countries.
We have The main competitors for our global food paper, corrugated board and plasterboard developed the expertise we gained from ingredients business are Cargill, Danisco, manufacturers and the building industry with storing molasses to establish an ancillary Kerry and National Starch.
In the paper industry, business of storing for our customers other native and speciality starches are used to commodities in bulk liquid storage facilities Governmental regulation increase dry paper strength and improve around the world.
Some of the markets in which Tate & Lyle surface conditions.
Speciality starches are operates are subject to significant influence used in the manufacturing of corrugated SPLENDA Sucralose from legislation or regulation.
The main board to bond the different layers of paper.
SPLENDA Sucralose is a no calorie, high regulatory development during the year Starches are used in adhesive and building intensity sweetener that is made from sugar.
related to the reform of the EU sugar regime.
product applications, and in the textile SPLENDA Sucralose offers the taste of More information on the impact of this industry to increase weaving efficiencies.
As a food reform on the Group is explained in the ingredient, its proven stability means that Chief Executives Review on page 11.
Sugar and Related Products products using SPLENDA Sucralose will Another development during the year We are a world leading producer of sugar, retain their sweetness over time, helping to occurred in November 2005 when the antiprocessing cane and beet both for industrial preserve the optimal balance of sweetness dumping and countervailing duties which customers and retail sale.
We also produce and flavour.
SPLENDA Sucralose can provide protection to the Canadian domestic value added and consumer branded sugar be used successfully in high temperature sugar industry in which Tate & Lyle operates products such as Lyles Golden Syrup and processing, such as sterilisation, were renewed for a period of five years.
Tate & Lyle Light Cane a sugar and pasteurisation, canning and extrusion.
We have strengthened It is used today to sweeten more than this core business by adding a variety of 4,000 foods and beverages worldwide.
Products and their uses other products which are produced from natural by-products of the refining or Acidulants, Alcohol, Polyols and Proteins Tate & Lyles major products together with processing of sugar.
Acidulants information about the ways they are broadly Cane and Beet Sugar From a base of sugar, dextrose or molasses, used are detailed below.
The table on pages Sugar is produced from either sugar cane we produce acidulants such as citric acid, 4 and 5 shows the regions from which these or sugar beet.
Refined sugar, syrups and fumaric acid, malic acid, potassium citrate products are manufactured and distributed.
treacles are used to provide natural and sodium citrate.
We are one of the sweetness, texture, colour and flavour worlds leading producers of citric acid.
Cereal Sweeteners and Starches across a full range of food and drink Citric acid is used as a flavour enhancer and Cereal Sweeteners applications.
We are the largest producer to retard spoilage in a wide range of foods We believe we are one of the leading of cane sugar in the EU.
We are the UKs and beverages, as well as forming the basis producers of cereal sweeteners and starches sole cane sugar refiner, and produce over of detergents and pharmaceuticals.
We believe we are among the 1.3 million tonnes of cane sugar per annum top three producers of sweeteners and Alcohol from our refineries in London, England and starches in the European Union EU and We have expanded our product offering by Lisbon, Portugal.
We are a leading retail we hold the largest share of the current EU using the raw ingredients of corn, wheat and brand in the UK, supplying a full range of quota for isoglucose the European name sugar to become a producer and distributor retail and domestic sugars as well as more for high fructose corn syrup HFCS.
This of a range of alcohol products.
These are specialised products including Lyles Golden aspect of our business involves the used in the manufacture of beverages and 22 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2006
