vinegar, as well as industrial products such Key performance indicators Target in 2007 2006 2005 as paint, or blended with gasoline and used Contribution from value added as a fuel.
We produce fuel-grade alcohol 1 products 30% increase 161m 132m ethanol in both Europe and the US and, 2 Net debt to EBITDA multiple maximum 2.5 times 1.9 times 1.2 times in Europe, our potable grain alcohol is found 3 Interest cover minimum 5.0 times 9.9 times 11.6 times in some of the UKs leading brands of spirit- 4 Energy reduction 3.0% 3.6% 2.4% based drinks.
5 Safety index score zero 1.72 2.84 Polyols 1 A one-year target has been set for the financial year ending 31 March 2007 to increase the profit before interest, Polyols, such as sorbitol, are used by exceptional items and amortisation from value added products by 30%.
In the year ended 31 March 2006, the both food and pharmaceutical companies contribution from value added profit before interest, exceptional items and amortisation of 161 million consisted to sweeten and retain moisture and can of 68 million from Sucralose and 93 million from core value added products.
2 EBITDA is earnings before exceptional items and before interest, tax, depreciation and total amortisation.
As stated be found in toothpaste and chewing gum.
above, the target of 2.5 times is a maximum target level.
3 Based on profit before interest, exceptional items and amortisation.
As stated above, the target of 5.0 times is a Proteins minimum target level.
4 In addition to starches and sweeteners, Our businesses have a target to reduce energy consumption on a per unit basis by 3% per year.
Information on our environmental performance is on page 37. the processing of corn and wheat produces 5 The safety index compares safety performance across the Group and is a weighted average of injuries sustained in the proteins.
Wheat proteins such as vital wheat workplace, with more severe incidents having greater impact.
A decrease in the index reflects improved performance.
Information on our safety performance is on pages 35 and 36. gluten and soluble wheat proteins can be employed in a variety of food and animal feed products to provide valuable functional and nutritional benefits.
For example, vital It is a key objective for the Group to attract Key performance wheat gluten is used in baking to reinforce and retain top quality recruits, and to ensure the flour, guarantee stable dough processing indicators that our employees develop and grow in and improve loaf volume.
their roles and meet new challenges as their Tate & Lyles Board and Group Management careers progress.
To help achieve these Biogums Committee monitor a range of financial objectives, we have developed and are We produce biogums such as xanthan gum and non-financial performance indicators, implementing The Tate & Lyle People used by the food industry to provide texture reported on a periodic basis, to measure the Strategy.
This consists of four main and viscosity to sauces and dressings and Groups performance over time.
Of these, components: as low calorie fat replacers and stabilisers.
the key performance indicators KPIs are: Behaviours for Success this Our STANZAN X industrial-grade xanthan contribution from value added products: encourages our people to display gum is used in the oil-well drilling industry the net debt to EBITDA earnings before strong leadership at all stages of as a lubricant and coolant.
Our gum range exceptional items and before interest, tax, seniority by exhibiting identified key has recently been expanded through the depreciation and total amortisation characteristics and behaviours we acquisition of Cesalpinia Foods to include multiple: need for success, such as a focus locust bean and guar gums.
interest cover: on excellent customer service.
Advanced Bio-Materials energy reduction: and Talent Management this is a system TM Textile polymer ingredient Bio-PDO, the safety index score.
which addresses key business issues made from corn by DuPont Tate & Lyle such as succession planning and filling Targets are set anually for these KPIs in BioProducts, will be commercially available development gaps to ensure we have the line with the Groups strategic objectives.
in the financial year ending 31 March 2007. right skills to grow the Group at all levels.
Performance data in relation to the KPIs for It is used by DuPont to produce Sorona Leadership Programme this provides the year ended 31 March 2006 and for the which has a wide range of textile managers and supervisors across the prior year can be found in the table above.
applications from swimwear to carpets.
Group with the opportunity to improve The targets which have been set their skills and expand their knowledge for the year ending 31 March 2007 are Other products through a number of tailored explained in the Chief Executives Review We also produce Alleggra and Aquasta.
on page 9 and set out in the table above.
Alleggra is a unique, soy-based alternative Graduate Recruitment a Group-wide to liquid and powdered eggs and can be graduate recuitment programme to used for a variety of sweet and savoury attract and develop top talent building Resources product applications.
Aquasta is an on the existing successful programmes essential nutrient for farm-raised fish which already operated by our business The Group has a number of key resources we manufacture in joint venture partnership divisions.
that help it achieve its strategic objectives.
with Igene Biotechnology Inc. Tate & Lyles remuneration polices are People designed to attract, retain and reward Tate & Lyle employs 7,000 people in its employees of the highest calibre and subsidiaries with a further 4,800 employed in experience to help execute the joint ventures.
Our workforce encompasses Groups strategy.
a broad range of skills and experience in areas such as food science, sales and marketing, engineering and business support services.
