The majority of the All the Groups material financial instruments If the interest rates applicable to the Groups Groups borrowings are raised through the are categorised as being held either for floating rate debt rise from the levels at the Group treasury company, Tate & Lyle trading or risk management.
Financial end of March 2006 by an average of 1% International Finance PLC, and are then instruments held for trading within the over the year to 31 March 2007, this would on-lent to the business units on an armsGroup are severely limited, confined only reduce Group profit before tax by length basis.
to tightly controlled areas within the sugar approximately 5 million.
and corn pricing operations and reinsurance The Group manages its exposure to liquidity Management of foreign exchange risk activities.
The derivative financial instruments risk by ensuring a diversity of funding The Group has transactional foreign currency approved by the Board to manage financial sources and debt maturities.
Group policy exposures arising from sales and purchases risks include swaps, both interest rate and is to ensure that, after subtracting the total by subsidiaries in currencies other than their currency, swaptions, caps, forward rate of undrawn committed facilities, no more functional currencies.
The Groups foreign agreements, financial and commodity than 30% of gross debt matures within currency exposure management policy forward contracts and options, and 12 months and at least 50% has a maturity requires subsidiaries to hedge transactional commodity futures.
of more than two and a half years.
At the currency exposures against their functional end of the year, after subtracting total Control and direction of treasury currency once they are probable, mainly undrawn committed facilities, there was 10% Tate & Lyles group treasury function through the use of forward foreign of debt maturing within 12 months and 90% operates within a framework of clearly exchange contracts.
of debt had a maturity of two and a half defined Board approved policies and The Groups accounting policy is to translate years or more 2005 0% and 98%.
The procedures setting out permissible funding profits of overseas companies using average average maturity of the Groups gross debt and hedging instruments, exposure limits exchange rates.
It is the Groups policy was 4.8 years 2005 5.8 years.
and a system of authorities for the approval not to hedge exposures arising from of transactions.
Most of the Groups At the year-end the Group held cash profit translation.
financing, interest rate and foreign and cash equivalents of 158 million exchange risks and other treasury activities The Group has significant investment in 2005 384 million and had undrawn are managed through the Group treasury overseas operations, particularly in the committed facilities of 354 million company, Tate & Lyle International Finance Americas and Europe.
These resources are PLC, whose operations are controlled by exchange rates between balance sheet maintained to provide liquidity back-up and its Board.
The treasury company is chaired dates can affect the sterling value of the to meet the projected maximum cash by the Group Finance Director and has Groups consolidated balance sheet.
outflow from debt repayment, capital other Board members independent of the The currency profile of net debt is managed expenditure and seasonal working capital treasury function.
to mitigate the effect of these translational needs foreseen for at least a year into the exposures arising on the Groups net future at any one time.
Group interest rate and currency investment in overseas operations.
This is exposures are concentrated either in Funding not treated as debt achieved by borrowing in currencies, where the treasury company or in appropriate In respect of all financing transactions, the practicable and cost effective, which provide holding companies through market-related Group seeks to optimise its financing costs.
a match for the Groups foreign currency transactions with Group subsidiaries.
These Where it is economically beneficial, operating assets and which can be serviced from acquired positions are managed by the leases are undertaken in preference to foreign currency cash flows.
Given the treasury company within its authorised limits.
Leases of property, plant current profile of the Groups net operating and equipment where the lessor assumes Interest rate risk assets and operating cash flows the Group substantially all the risks and rewards of The exposure to fluctuating interest rates is aims to maintain a target currency profile ownership are treated as operating leases managed by fixing or capping portions of of net debt excluding the Groups share with annual rentals charged to the income debt using interest rate derivatives to achieve of joint venture net debt such that US and statement over the term of the lease.
a target level of fixed floating rate net debt Canadian dollars combined should exceed Commitments under operating leases to pay which aims to optimise net finance expense 40%, euro should exceed 25%, sterling rentals in future years totalled 229 million and reduce volatility in reported earnings.
should not represent more than 25% and 2005 212 million and related primarily The Groups policy is that between 30% other currencies should not exceed 10%.
to railcar leases in the US.
and 75% of Group net debt excluding the At the year-end net debt excluding the Groups share of joint venture net debt is Groups share of joint venture net debt Financial risk controls fixed or capped excluding out-of-the-money was held in the following currencies: net Management of financial risk caps for more than one year and that no borrowings of US and Canadian dollars The main financial risks faced by the Group interest rate fixings are undertaken for more 72% 2005 75%, euro 37% 2005 46% : are liquidity risk, interest rate risk, currency than 12 years.
At 31 March 2006 the longest and other currencies 0% 2005 0% with risk and certain commodity price risks.
term of any fixed rate debt held by the sterling deposits of 9% 2005 21%.
Tate & Lyle also faces risks which are nonGroup was until November 2014.
The The weighted average exchange rate used financial or non-quantifiable, for example, proportion of net debt excluding the Groups to translate US dollar profits was US$1.79 country and credit risk.
The Board of share of joint venture net debt which was 2005 US$1.85, compared with the yearTate & Lyle PLC regularly reviews these risks fixed or capped for more than one year was end rate of US$1.74 2005 US$1.88.
and approves written policies covering the 35% 2005 85%, excluding 147 million use of financial instruments to manage these 2005 145 million of out-of-the-money risks and sets overall risk limits.
interest rate options capping euro rates at 4.83% 2005 4.83%.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2006 33 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED The only material risks from economic Fair value estimation foreign currency exposures are to the The fair value of derivative financial UK sugar refining business from sterling instruments is based on the market price appreciation against the euro.
of comparable instruments at the balance sheet date if they are publicly traded.
The fair Credit risk value of the forward currency contracts has The Group controls credit risk by entering been determined based on market forward into financial instruments only with highly exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
credit-rated authorised counterparties which The fair values of short-term deposits, are reviewed and approved regularly by the receivables, payables, loans and overdrafts Board of Tate & Lyle PLC.
Counterparty with a maturity of less than one year are positions are monitored on a regular basis.
assumed to approximate their book values.
Price risk The fair values of bonds, bank and other Derivatives are used to hedge movements loans, including finance lease liabilities due in the future prices of commodities in those in more than one year are estimated by domestic and international markets where discounting the future contractual cash flows the Group buys and sells sugar, corn and at the current market interest rate available wheat.
Commodity futures and options are to the Group for similar financial instruments, used to hedge inventories and the costs of adjusted for the fair valuation effects of raw materials for unpriced and prospective currency and interest rate risk exposures contracts not covered by forward product where those instruments form part of a sales.
The options and futures hedging related hedging relationship agreements, contracts generally mature within one year financial and commodity forward contracts and all are with organised exchanges.
and options, and commodity futures.
Use and fair value of financial Going concern instruments After making enquiries, the directors have In the normal course of business the Group a reasonable expectation that the Company uses derivative financial instruments and and the Group have adequate resources non-derivative financial instruments.
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they The fair value of Group net borrowings at continue to adopt the going concern year-end was 869 million against a book basis in preparing the accounts.
value of 858 million 2005 fair value 503 million: book value 471 million.
Derivative financial instruments used to manage the interest rate and currency of borrowings had a fair value of 12 million asset 2005 2 million liability.
The main types of instrument used are interest rate swaps, interest rate options caps or floors and cross-currency interest rate swaps.
The fair value of other derivative financial instruments hedging future currency and commodity transactions was 3 million liability 2005 nil million.
In currency exposure management the instruments used are spot and forward purchases and sales, and options.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments held for trading was 71 million asset 2005 1 million liability arising in the commodity trading and reinsurance operations.
The net loss included in operating profit from trading financial instruments was 7 million 2005 3 million gain.
