DIRECTORS REPORT Principal Activities of the Group Details of shares purchased by the the details of which are set out on page 58.
The principal activities of Tate & Lyle PLC Tate & Lyle Employee Benefit Trust to satisfy Robert Walker does not have a service and its subsidiary and associated options granted under the Groups long-term contract.
undertakings the Group are developing, incentive plans are given in the Directors At no time during the year has any director manufacturing and marketing food and Remuneration Report on page 64. had any material interest in a contract with industrial ingredients that have been made Details of substantial interests in Tate & Lyle the Group, being a contract of significance from renewable resources.
as at 24 May 2006 are given on page 96. in relation to the Groups business.
Apart from these holdings, the directors have Financial Year A statement of directors interests in shares not been notified of any material interest The accounting period under review of the Company is given on page 64. of 3% or more or any non-material interest is for the year ended 31 March 2006. of 10% or more of the issued voting capital Comparative figures used in this report Corporate Governance of the Company.
are for the year ended 31 March 2005.
The report on Corporate Governance The Company was given authority at the is on pages 48 to 53.
The Directors Business Review 2005 AGM to make market purchases Remuneration Report is on pages 54 to 64.
The Chairmans Statement on pages 6 of up to 48,679,468 of its own ordinary and 7, the Chief Executives Review on shares.
This authority will expire at the 2006 Research and Development pages 8 to 11 and the Operating and AGM and approval will be sought from The Group spent 21 million 2005 Financial Review on pages 20 to 41 report shareholders at that meeting for a similar 20 million on research and development on the activities during the year, post authority to be given for a further year.
balance sheet events and likely future The Company has not acquired any of developments.
The information in these its own shares during the year.
Financial Risk Policies reports which are required to fulfil the A summary of the Companys treasury requirements of the business review Directors policies and objectives relating to financial are incorporated in this Directors Report The current members of the Board, together risk management, including exposure to by reference.
with biographical details of each director, are associated risks, is on pages 32 to 34. set out on pages 42 and 43. Dividend Employment A final dividend of 14.1p per share is Dr Barry Zoumas was appointed as a The average number of employees in the recommended for the year to 31 March non-executive director from 1 May 2005.
Group during the year is given in note 9 2006.
If approved, it will be due and payable Robert Walker was appointed as a nonon page 82. on 27 July 2006 to shareholders on the executive director from 1 January 2006. register on 30 June 2006.
This dividend Allen Yurko retired as a non-executive Group companies operate within a amounts to 68 million and makes a total director at the 2005 AGM on 28 July 2005. framework of human resources policies, for the year of 20.0p per share, compared practices and regulations appropriate to their with 19.4p per share for the year to Retirement and Re-election of Directors own market sector and country of operation.
In accordance with its Articles of Policies and procedures for recruitment, Association, one-third or the nearest whole training and career development promote Annual General Meeting number below one-third of the directors equality of opportunity regardless of gender, The Annual General Meeting AGM will be of Tate & Lyle PLC are required to retire sexual orientation, age, marital status, held at the Queen Elizabeth II Centre, Broad at each AGM, together with directors disability, race, religion or other beliefs and Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE appointed by the Board since the previous ethnic or national origin.
The aim is to on Wednesday 19 July 2006 at 11.15 am.
In addition, under the Combined Code encourage a culture in which all employees Enclosed with this report is a letter from on Corporate Governance, directors are have the opportunity to develop as fully as the Chairman to shareholders.
Attached required to submit themselves for re-election possible in accordance with their individual as an appendix to the letter is the Notice by shareholders every three years.
abilities and the needs of the Group.
convening the meeting which includes four The directors retiring by rotation at the 2006 The Group is committed to effective items of special business.
The letter includes AGM and offering themselves for re-election communication with employees, including an explanation of all the resolutions to be are Iain Ferguson, Stanley Musesengwa information on its performance and business proposed at the AGM.
It follows appropriate also be retiring by rotation at the 2006 AGM consultation procedures and has an Share Capital but will not be offering herself for re-election.
Training is The Company issued 2,268,237 ordinary In addition, Robert Walker, who was concentrated on multi-skilling to encourage shares during the year, all on the exercise appointed as a director since the last flexibility in working practices.
The Group of employee share options.
The total value AGM, will be retiring and offering himself runs a series of international management of ordinary shares issued at the issue price for re-election.
programmes to develop management skills for cash was 7,289,315.
Information about and create valuable opportunities for the the Companys share capital and options Iain Ferguson, Stanley Musesengwa and cross-fertilisation of management ideas granted under the employee share schemes Stuart Strathdee are all executive directors across the Group.
is given on page 95. and are employed under service contracts, 46 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2006 Donations Kingdom Accounting Standards United Auditors Worldwide charitable donations during the Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting The auditors,  LLP, year totalled 766,000 2005 778,000, Practice.
have signified their willingness to continue in of which 386,000 2005 317,000 was office and a resolution re-appointing them as The directors are responsible for preparing donated in the UK.
More details of the auditors will be proposed at the 2006 AGM.
financial statements for each financial Groups involvement in the community year which give a true and fair view, in can be found in the corporate social accordance with IFRS as adopted by the responsibility section of the Operating On behalf of the Board European Union, of the state of affairs of the and Financial Review on pages 35 to 41.
Robert Gibber Group and of the profit or loss of the Group Company Secretary During the year, in line with the Groups and a true and fair view, in accordance 24 May 2006 policy, no political donations were made in with United Kingdom Generally Accepted the European Union EU.
Outside the EU, Accounting Practice, of the state of affairs the Groups US Food & Industrial Ingredients of the Company for that period.
In preparing business made contributions during the year those financial statements, the directors are totalling US$28,000 16,000 2005 required to: US$29,000: 16,000 to state and national select suitable accounting policies and political party committees and to the then apply them consistently: campaign committees of state candidates make judgements and estimates that affiliated to the major parties.
Contributions are reasonable and prudent: and were only made where allowed by state and state whether the Group financial federal law.
The total includes US$10,000 statements comply with IFRS as 6,000 2005 US$12,000: 7,000 adopted by the European Union, and contributed by the Tate & Lyle Political Action with regard to the parent company Committee PAC.
The PAC is funded entirely financial statements whether applicable by US employees.
Employee contributions accounting standards have been are entirely voluntary and no pressure is followed, subject to any material placed on US employees to participate.
departures disclosed and explained No funds are provided to the PAC by in the financial statements.
Tate & Lyle but under US law, an employeefunded PAC must bear the name of the The directors confirm that they have employing company.
complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
Payment to Suppliers The directors are responsible for keeping It is the Groups policy that UK operating proper accounting records that disclose with companies should follow the CBI Prompt reasonable accuracy at any time the financial Payers Code.
The Code requires the position of the Company and the Group and Company to agree the terms of payment to enable them to ensure that the Group with its suppliers, to ensure its suppliers financial statements comply with the are aware of those terms and to abide by Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the them.
It is the Groups policy also to apply IAS Regulation and the parent company the requirements of the Code to wholly financial statements and the Directors owned companies around the world, Remuneration Report comply with the wherever possible.
They are also Tate & Lyle PLC is a holding company and responsible for safeguarding the assets had no amounts owing to trade creditors of the Company and the Group and hence at 31 March 2006. for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud The Groups creditor days outstanding at and other irregularities.
So far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information that is, information Directors Responsibilities for the Accounts needed by the Companys auditors in The directors are responsible for preparing connection with preparing their report of the Annual Report and the group financial which the Companys auditors are unaware.
statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Each director has taken all the steps that Standards IFRS as adopted by the he she ought to have taken in his her duty European Union, and for preparing the as a director in order to make himself herself parent company financial statements and aware of any relevant audit information and the Directors Remuneration Report in to establish that the Companys auditors are accordance with applicable law and United aware of that information.
