Business review: TNS services We have over 65,000 PeopleMeters in operation in almost TNS syndicated services 40,000 households globally and have pioneered the use of the Arbitron Personal People Meter, which allows for mobile TNS Worldpanel measurement of TV and radio audiences.
Notably, TNS is at TNS Worldpanel provides the forefront of digital audience measurement involving set top continuous measurement and box STB return path data, processing channel tuning analysis of consumer purchasing information from over one million digital STBs in several and usage behaviour.
Value-added analysis is delivered to clients through include both global and local TNS proprietary software, InfoSys, which is now used in consumer packaged companies, over 20 countries.
retailers, private label manufacturers, retailers, fresh food suppliers, market Reflecting the increasing convergence of digital media, TNS is analysts and other organisations.
also focusing on internet audience measurement to complement TV and radio.
Data is collected using technology matched to the development of each market, including bar code and till receipt scanners, internet, SMS text messaging and diary.
TNS custom specialist sectors That data is then interrogated and interpreted by our consumer panel specialists around the world, in order to provide clients TNS global sector operations are organised to focus on with essential insights into consumer and shopper behaviour providing actionable value-added business insights to multiand what the opportunities and implications are for marketing national clients.
This is achieved by combining specialist strategies, promotion and branding.
knowledge of the issues that drive clients business sectors with extensive research expertise.
This approach aims to drive TNS Media Intelligence revenue growth via improved coordination of resources and TNS Media Intelligence is knowledge at a global level.
TNS is a leading provider of dedicated to worldwide media market information for the following sectors.
analysis: providing advertising expenditure tracking, evaluation Automotive and consultative services for TNS Automotive addresses the broadcast, internet and print complex business and research media, in addition to news needs of major automotive monitoring and creative tracking manufacturers, component capabilities.
Media Intelligence clients include media owners, suppliers, oil companies, advertising agencies, advertisers, public relations firms, dealership and repair specialists broadcasters, publishers, government departments and and advertising agencies worldwide.
NGOs, as well as international and local companies.
TNS offers a complete portfolio of expert customised and syndicated solutions to deliver added TNS Media Intelligence is a world-leading provider of value and facilitate decision-making for clients in the process strategic advertising intelligence, operating in 23 countries of developing new products, optimising advertising and media with more than 16,000 clients.
It is the market leader in the expenditures, defining new market segments or improving US and France, with significant operations throughout Europe stakeholder management to consolidate their position in the and Asia.
A global player, TNS Automotive employs its 6th sense to help clients make the most effective decisions, TNS internet, TV and Radio identify development opportunities and improve profitability.
Audience Measurement iTRAM Consumer TNS is a leading provider of TV, TNS is the worlds leading radio and internet audience provider of custom research to measurement services to the consumer sector, working broadcasters, advertising with major consumer goods agencies and platform operators companies and retailers around worldwide.
TNS expertise and techthe world.
nology support TV audience services in 30 countries around TNS benefits from its ability to link its the world, including China, Russia, Spain, UK and the US.
significant experience and breadth of knowledge in the Consumer sector, with market place insights 32 TNS annual report 2006 Business review from TNS Worldpanel.
Using all its Areas of Expertise, TNS forecasting, attitude and awareness measurement, market advises clients on key issues affecting their businesses assessment and post-launch tracking.
To help companies through the whole product lifecycle, from concept anticipate and impact customers behaviours, we deliver development through to customer satisfaction.
integrated information across all key healthcare stakeholders including physicians, patients and consumers combining Be it a business issue such as the impact of media worldwide reach with local country expertise.
fragmentation or the rise of consumer empowerment, be it successful innovation management or powerful shopper Polling & Social insights TNS is building strong global partnerships with TNS is one of the worlds leading consumer goods companies to help them achieve success in providers of polling and social the global marketplace.
Clients include public sector organisations, Finance non-governmental organisations As the financial services industry and the news media.
We tell becomes increasingly international, clients about the major trends in TNS has the advantage of offering opinion: how the public is feeling about a global breadth of expertise its elected leaders and their policies.
TNS predicts what the and services.
outcomes of any up and coming elections are likely to be and TNS understands the commercial analyses the decisive factors in those elections.
issues facing the financial services We provide analyses of society for policy makers and for sector commoditisation and the need academic research, applying the wide suite of TNS business for brand differentiation, price pressure, the impact of solutions, especially adapted to polling and social research.
technology, increased regulation and empowerment of Studies are conducted across all the main fields in the public consumers.
To enable our clients to maintain a competitive sector, including health, employment, education, social edge, TNS combines this specialist sector knowledge with services and environment.
With the unique integration of expertise in all key research areas.
We advise clients on custom research services with strict technical standards and current issues such as online theft and identity fraud.
We also a global presence, TNS Polling & Social offers best-in-class offer over 40 syndicated services around the world.
solutions to meet the needs of our clients.
TNS Finance works with the worlds leading banks, building societies, insurance companies, asset management Technology companies and regulatory bodies, as well as lawyers and As the traditional boundaries accountancy firms.
We have over 40 years dedicated sector between IT, telecoms, consumer experience and our clients value the specialist knowledge and electronics, media and strategic guidance we deliver.
entertainment blur, the need for incisive market information has Healthcare never been greater.
Defining TNS Healthcare is one of the markets and their structure, worlds leading primary research understanding where consumers providers to the healthcare perceive benefits in a rapidly changing value chain, industry and delivers advanced determining the drivers of brand commitment and customer market research consulting to the loyalty: these are all areas where TNS supports our numerous global pharmaceutical, biotech blue chip clients.
and medical device industries, as The race to bring technological innovations to market is neverwell as health-focused ad agencies, ending.
With our understanding of their customers needs, media and analysts.
We offer globally consistent solutions and beliefs and values, we help our clients articulate new product custom advisory services.
Clients use these services to benefits in relevant ways and deliver insight into how to optimise brand, treatment and sales force performance: to leverage existing brand strength in a fluid competitive context.
develop, assess and refine professional and consumer promotions for maximum effectiveness: and to inform strategic Our geographic footprint enables us to understand the decisions for both new launches and in-line products.
nuances of differently evolving local markets and bring a much-valued international perspective to our many global TNS Healthcare supports a full range of head office and local partners.
market applications throughout the product lifecycle, including product development, pre-launch landscaping, positioning and segmentation, message and campaign creation, pricing, Business review TNS annual report 2006 33
