Business review: Actions to achieve strategic goal TNS co-ordinates TNS Worldpanel has Eurobarometer % a major public opinion tracking service for the 96 European Commission, coverage of GDP in across Latin America, 92% in In China, TNS iTRAM operates Europe and 78% in worlds largest TAM panel Asia Pacific 33 countries 149,000 people, 43,200 homes, 260 cities research expertise.
They have overall responsibility for TNS strategic goal managing revenue and profit of their account.
Sectors act as revenue drivers, with responsibility for: To be recognised as the global leader in delivering development of new products and services value-added information and insights that help clients to driving innovation make more effective decisions.
Introduced by TNS Chief Executive, David Lowden, when Sector heads developing relationships with global he took on the role in January 2006, the strategic goal is partnership accounts.
based on research into what clients will be expecting from New system and structure in place to manage multi-country their market insight and information providers in the future.
project pitches and to co-ordinate contract delivery.
It is designed to enable TNS to benefit from the changes These changes have resulted in some significant new business happening in the market information industry, as outlined in wins and revenue growth across a number of global the Market and Industry Overview on pages 14 to 15.
focus in 2006 and in the future is on execution to achieve that goal and the required actions are based around the groups Service excellence and cost efficiency four core principles, as described below.
KPIs: Gross margin was 71.7% Client orientation Staff cost revenue ratio was 43.4% KPI: Global partnership accounts grew by 7.5% in 2006.
The number of hours work undertaken in our Indian Appointed as Managing Director, Global Clients and Sectors off-shoring facility doubled in 2006 to 295,000 hours in January 2006, Pedro Ros has led significant change in 23% of custom research data is collected online a client orientation in the groups custom business and this year on year increase of 13.6%.
Our long-term goal is will continue into 2007.
Key actions in 2006 have been: for this to rise to over 40%.
Establishment of 13 global partnership accounts, within Gross margin and staff cost to revenue ratio are primary TNS six specialist sectors.
These accounts have the drivers of margin growth and the group seeks to achieve potential to grow faster than the rest of the custom improvement in both measures going forward.
business, as TNS wins an increasing share of their market Clients expect a reduction in the costs of data collection and research spend.
They currently represent 15% of custom production, while at the same time seeking assurances on revenue.
Our goal is that this increases to 20% in 3 5 years.
This does not indicate a drop Global partnership account directors selected for in their overall budgets, as they are moving their spend more management and leadership capabilities, as well as 18 TNS annual report 2006 Business review TNS Media Intelligence monitors TNS Healthcare offers online 3 million access to brands worldwide across 20 media 60,000 physicians in US, France, TNS Consumer Germany, Italy, Spain and UK works with all of the worlds top10 global FMCG advertisers towards insight and analysis.
In response to this trend, TNS Rationalisation of delivery systems.
A full review of the has introduced a number of measures to improve service custom business delivery applications was conducted in excellence and cost efficiency.
As a result, TNS developed a new strategy for information delivery.
A central resource now manages a Increased use of internet access panels for data set of core technologies that support the TNS business collection.
TNS is at the forefront of data collection via globally.
For more information, see TNSInfo on page 16. online panels across the world.
It has: over 1 million people in North America Regional initiatives.
In 2006, a full operational review was 740,000 people in Europe conducted in US custom, as part of the restructuring of almost 1 million people in Asia Pacific that business.
An operational review was also carried out who are active members of a TNS managed online in Europe.
Further details on the costs and cost savings access panel.
These panels are run from three regional can be found on page 27. hubs that report into the Global Panels Director.
Expertise and innovation More effective use of call centre capacity.
In 2006, the group further examined the opportunities for improved KPI: Revenue growth from business solutions was 8.4%.
utilisation of call centre capacity.
Actions taken included: TNS has what we believe to be a unique combination of call centre consolidation sector specialisation and research expertise.
Our specialist inter-country calling, making use of opportunities sectors are described on pages 32 to 33 and the Areas of presented by time zone differences and lower-cost Expertise are illustrated on page 17. economies co-ordinated, international call centre management As clients markets change increasingly rapidly, they are system introduced.
looking to their market information suppliers for new services and new ways of thinking.
Meeting this demand is a key action Increased use of off-shoring facilities.
TNS main in the achievement of TNS strategic goal and the group has off-shoring centre, ORSC is in Hyderabad, India where appointed a Global Innovation Director to co-ordinate TNS around 500 full-time employees offer services including activities in the field of innovation.
A great deal was achieved data processing, technical support, IT helpdesk, software in 2006, such as the introduction of new products including development, questionnaire scripting, charting reporting Innosuite, FutureView, AdEffect, AdScope, Branded and online coding.
Originally these services were used by Entertainment and several speciality panels.
Examples of operations in the US and UK but, increasingly, this is new TNS products and services are illustrated elsewhere in extending to other markets.
Other off-shoring centres this report.
have been established around the world.
Business review TNS annual report 2006 19 Business review: Actions to achieve strategic goal 268 individuals or teams were Our long-term goal is nominated for the TNS to achieve a TRI M Recognition Awards in 2006 score of The TNS Look Inside response rate of 70 % placing TNS in the 79 upper quartile was in itself a strong of companies indicator of employee engagement In 2006, we focused on developing action plans to address People development areas which need improvement and to enhance existing strength areas.
We also ran a follow-up Flashlight survey KPI: TRI M measure for 2005 was 56. which measured progress against the action plans, with People Development is one of the core principles supporting encouraging results.
Improvement in the TRI M score for the groups strategy.
As TNS evolves to meet its strategic their area of responsibility is included among the personal aims, we need to ensure that our people have appropriate objectives of senior managers and is linked to their skill sets and can operate at the level required to take the bonus potential.
group forward in a changing business environment.
We also need to attract the right talent in a highly competitive market.
A full Look Inside survey will be conducted every two years In order to achieve this, we have identified a number of key and, in 2007, there will be additional emphasis on the actions and, in 2006, we have taken significant steps towards employee experience and corporate values.
goal is to achieve a TRI M score of 70, placing TNS in the upper quartile of companies to work for.
During the year, we launched a new Talent Management Programme and also began upgrading and enhancing our Recognition learning and development programmes and our resourcing TNS promotes a culture of recognition where success is activities.
This has helped us to build on the platform already celebrated.
Globally, the Group Recognition Awards are used in place through the Tony Cowling Academy of Excellence to demonstrate the groups appreciation of the exceptional and the Maximising Growth through People initiatives.
dedication, diligence, leadership, creativity and resourcefulness of our people qualities that we believe differentiate us from Employee engagement our competitors.
The award programme has been run Building employee engagement is critical for a high-performing successfully for the past three years.
In 2005, using TNS proprietary TRI M stakeholder management tool, we conducted a major Winners in 2006 were: employee engagement initiative, Look Inside, which surveyed Client orientation: Microsoft Division, North America custom 13,000 TNS employees across the group.
The groups overall Service excellence and cost efficiency: Off-shoring of data TRI M score, which is one of the KPIs against which we to India, UK custom measure our performance in the People Development area, Expertise and innovation: Sales Performance Optimization, was 56, around the median of all companies benchmarked TNS Healthcare North America in the TRI M database.
People development: Develop, Inspire, Retain, Train, TNS Vietnam.
The results from Look Inside were reported to each employee at business unit level, via a series of workshops.
20 TNS annual report 2006 Business review TNS employs over 14,000 people in more than 70 countries We currently have around the world 400 learning and development Focus on talent: programmes within Leadership TNS globally Innovators Global accounts Internal communications Whilst the People Development agenda applies to all our Effective internal communication can impact positively on employees, the specific initiatives under the Talent employee retention, morale and performance.
For these Management Programme are aimed at a number of key reasons it has been another important area of focus in 2006. talent pools, which include Leadership, Innovators and A newly designed group-wide intranet has already proved to Global Accounts.
be both a valuable source of information across the group and A full talent review of the Leadership group was undertaken a vehicle to support better collaboration, as well as providing in 2006.
The review included assessment of strengths and access to online business processes.
This is supported by a development areas, as well as identifying potential role stronger emphasis on face-to-face communications and a successors and career planning.
Talent pool management is broader range of internal communication materials online, giving us new insight into our people and allowing us to print and multi-media.
improve the effectiveness and consistency of our talent activity, across attraction, selection, development, assessment, Learning and development compensation, career development and succession.
In 2006, we continued to develop the Tony Cowling Academy of Excellence, a virtual learning and development environment, Compensation and benefits designed to ensure that all our employees have access to The groups remuneration principles are reviewed annually appropriate learning and development opportunities, to help to ensure appropriate focus on incentivisation and to them deliver in their roles with expertise and professionalism.
strengthen the link between remuneration and individual, The Academy also promotes global consistency and the sharing team and company performance.
These principles, as of best practice in the area of learning and development.
detailed in the remuneration report, are applied across the Learning and development at TNS provides individuals with group to all employees.
the skills to do their roles and also ensures a high level of Looking ahead personal development.
TNS values individuals who display the There are significant challenges facing the group as we strive right attitude as well as achieving the right results.
We have for excellence in People Development.
TNS has grown rapidly begun to assess and develop attitude and adaptability as part in the past few years and we are now bringing creativity, of a new leadership programme, Leading Out Loud, which has consistency and professionalism to the way that we attract, been especially tailored to meet TNS specific needs.
select, develop, assess, reward, manage and plan the careers of our employees.
There is already excellence within the group Talent Management Programme in many of these areas and this additional emphasis will enable Talent management at TNS places additional focus on TNS to present a strong value proposition to our current and individuals with the critical skill sets that are required to achieve the groups strategic goals.
Business review TNS annual report 2006 21 Business review: TNS and the community TNS is raising funds to expand access to education for 14,400 Cambodian children aged between three and five years TNS is raising funds to build 120 new pre-school buildings in Cambodia In 2006, the group exceeded its fundraising targets.
Partnering with UNICEF 60 per cent of the money was raised by employees around One of TNS key strategic actions is to develop partnerships the world, both through direct donation and diverse and with its global clients.
This approach is mirrored in its innovative fund raising activities.
The balance came from community involvement, where TNS has entered into a business-led donations such as those from TNS Worldpanel partnership with UNICEF, which for 60 years has been the participants in Spain and from members of our 6thdimension worlds leader for children, working on the ground in 156 access panels.
countries and territories to help children survive and thrive, During the year, we organised our first field trip to Cambodia, from early childhood through adolescence.
giving six TNS people the opportunity to see first hand how This relationship began in 2005, when the group made a our funds are being used, by visiting community pre-schools donation to UNICEF in response to the tsunami disaster.
It gave them the chance to meet people such as We then embarked on Imagine, our three-year project in Mon Sok Yeun, who has been the teacher in her village since Cambodia that funds the building of 120 new community 2000.
Initially she taught in her own home but at the end of pre-school shelters, to expand access to education to 14,400 2005, as a result of money raised by TNS, she moved into a children aged between three and five years.
This shelter not only provides a safe Imagine funds the training of 950 community pre-school learning environment for her 25 pupils but has also become teachers and provides educational supplies.
a centre in the local community.
Initiatives such as this are vital to the future development of a TNS also uses its business expertise to support UNICEF.
country where less than half of the children enrolled in schools In October 2006, TNS Indonesia Polling & Social signed a complete their primary education and 14 per cent drop out in pro bono audience research service contract with UNICEF.
A specially developed approach, which incorporates TNS business solution TRI M, is being used to determine which activities have the most impact on achieving what are perceived by the community to be the most effective results.
During the year, we organised our first This innovative solution was used to evaluate the tsunami relief field trip to Cambodia, giving six TNS efforts in Aceh and is currently being implemented on a people the opportunity to see first hand nationwide initiative to prevent the spread of avian influenza.
how our funds are being used, by visiting This is just one example of how TNS contributes its knowledge and expertise to non-profit organisations.
22 TNS annual report 2006 Business review TNS is raising funds to train approximately 950 pre-school teachers country and responded through personal donations and fund Working with our local communities raising efforts.
The partnership with UNICEF is a strong and vibrant illustration In Vietnam, TNS has an established donation and regular visit of the ability of TNS people around the world to operate as programme to Mai Am Thien Phuoc, a charity providing for the one team with a common aim.
TNS is also aware of its needs of orphans and disabled children.
position in the local communities in which it operates and the group encourages local management to play an active part in The amount of the groups charitable donations is given in the those communities.
This activity takes many forms and the Directors report on page 37. following are just a very few examples to illustrate our local community involvement.
Employee development Europe The groups commitment to community involvement is In Latvia, TNS supports a local orphanage through the recognised through the External Development module of the donation of learning equipment and other gifts, as well as Tony Cowling Academy of Excellence.
Employees are providing students with free access to data from syndicated encouraged to participate in group or individual community services.
secondments, with the aim of combining the benefits to their personal development with the opportunity to serve their local Employees from across the UK raise funds to support local communities.
charities and give of their time through mentoring, support and pro bono work.
North America TNS is aware of its position in the local Our offices in the region actively support over 40 national communities in which it operates and the and local charities, through fund raising, donation and group encourages local management to volunteering.
In addition to employee contributions, access panel members can opt to have their points used for play an active part in those communities.
charitable donations and, in this way, the company has supported a further 20 charitable organisations.
ALM TNS employees in Dubai heard that some TNS field staff in Lebanon had been badly affected by the events in their Business review TNS annual report 2006 23
