Creating the global leader Market information remains a small proportion of overall advertising and marketing spend.
Our strategic goal: In 2005, the market To be recognised as the information industry global leader in delivering was valued at value-added information 1 and insights that help our $23 billion This goal is supported by clients to make more while the global four core principles: effective business advertising market client orientation: decisions was valued at around service excellence and cost efficiency: 2 expertise and innovation: $400 billion and people development Our clients marketing issues are changing There are few industries untouched by the pace of change in the economy and society today.
Technology, globalisation and the need for that edge in an evercompetitive marketplace are common themes.
Market information is no different.
The changes in our industry are based on how these factors are affecting our clients marketing issues.
These issues include the requirement to develop new products and services more quickly than before and to launch them using new forms of media and channels of marketing communication.
Increasingly, our clients are doing this based on insight and recommendations of what will successfully appeal to, target and retain consumers.
Clients then want to measure the effectiveness of this activity.
Additionally, our clients, like all others, are also looking for value for money.
They are under their own pressures to manage costs and they expect the same from their market information provider.
Finally, companies are carrying out their marketing in more countries, especially in the emerging markets, taking a global perspective.
Our market is changing at a significant pace and, Implications for the market information industry What does this mean for the market information industry?
Naturally, these in 2006, TNS has made developments mean that our industry is itself undergoing significant change.
considerable advances in I believe these changes directly manifest themselves as four major industry trends: adapting our business the increasing demand for insight and analysis, innovation of new products and services to help clients generate new revenue streams, the need to focus on the to these changes.
cost effectiveness and quality of data collection and the continued globalisation David Lowden, Chief Executive of demand from major multi-national organisations.
In 2006, TNS has made considerable advances in adapting our business to these changes our activity and progress is detailed in the Business review, later in this report.
For now, I would like to focus on what the future holds in store for our industry.
2 TNS annual report 2006 in value-added insight Countries with double digit net growth rates in 2005 all had one thing in common % relatively young market 23 information industries with 1 potential for strong growth of TNS custom research data was collected online in 2006, China 25% an increase of 13.6% over Industry online the previous year Russia 14% survey spending grew strongly in 2006 India 11% 54% Europe 3 19% US 1 Source: ESOMAR Global Market Research 2005 report 2 Source: TNS Media Intelligence 3 Inside Research Predicting the future is not easy, which is why our clients are increasingly seeking our expertise in this area.
But the key future trends for the market information industry directly follow on from the those affecting us now.
Specifically, I would like to focus on three themes: Global scale and shift in geographic focus Developments in data gathering and opportunities for new services Providing clients with actionable insight.
I hope that, by doing this, I will also put into context for you the significant change that we have driven through TNS over the past year.
Global scale and shift in geographic focus In the US and Western Europe, our clients are finding their own markets more challenging.
Advertising is more expensive and media fragmentation is leading to questions as to how to maximise the benefit of that advertising spend.
There are increasing pressures on our clients cost base, especially from labour costs.
In the Consumer sector, there is also increasing pressure on and from retailers.
In Asia Pacific, Latin America and the Middle East, as well as Eastern Europe, we see new opportunities for our clients.
Added investment by global brands, maturing local industries and growing consumer markets are all stimulating the demand for market information.
China and India are recording double-digit net growth in market information.
TNS clients such as Procter & Gamble, Unilever and LOral are all actively expanding in Asia Pacific and other emerging markets.
The geographic centre of gravity will shift, therefore, from the US and Western Europe, our industrys biggest markets today, to newer markets such as China, India, Russia and Latin America.
It is clear that our major clients will become increasingly global, with worldwide continuous contracts providing permanent tracking.
There will also be a much stronger focus on industry sectors.
As the industry becomes more global and as techniques and analysis methods become more specific, it is possible that the mid-size, generalist market information company could disappear.
TNS annual report 2006 3 Creating the global leader in value-added insight This geographic shift itself creates a new development in the area of human resources.
In order to service our global clients, we not only need the presence, but also the people.
There is a deep skills base in our established markets but less so in emerging markets.
To respond to this, our industry will have to invest in training, create the right resources locally and perhaps move our best people to these markets to ensure a consistent quality of service.
Developments in data gathering Clients expect solid samples and high quality data.
Recently, there has been an... data quality will become acceptance of methodologies by some clients that do not match the level of quality one of the key issues for to which we are accustomed in our industry.
However, I believe we are going through a discovery phase and quality will become one of the key issues for our our clients in future.
clients in future we are already seeing evidence of this.
TNS will continue to focus on quality of samples, while embracing opportunities for other sources of data gathering going forward.
Historically, market information has been largely based on building on representative samples but this will change due to factors such as respondent resistance and fatigue.
In line with this, we will continue to see growth in the use of access panels, more of which will be online.
The industry will discover non-intrusive sources of data, to supplement the traditional question based survey.
New and different data sources that reveal long-term behaviour can show what people are buying, using, doing, as well as when, how and where they do so.
Attitudinal-based information from surveys is already being combined with behavioural sources such as purchasing data and there are several companies active in the Business Intelligence space that use large and multiple databases.
Technology does not just provide opportunities for better data gathering and delivery but will also be a source of new services for the market information industry.
These databases will be able to talk to each other, so clients receive a comprehensive picture of an individual.
They will facilitate trend watching by cross-referencing views from many different groups.
More importantly, multiple databases will facilitate one-to-one marketing a different proposition to mass marketing.
The internet is already well established for collection and delivery of data and this part of our market will continue to grow.
But it also represents a huge opportunity as a source of measurement and analysis.
In the area of consumer generated media, blogging is increasing exponentially.
In January 2003, there were one-third of a million blogs.
Today there are an estimated 69 million more than a 200-fold increase.
Market information companies will need to have web-based tools to measure what is being written about clients brands and be able to integrate these services into their offering.
In many cases, TNS has already exploited these new sources of data well.
We already combine TNS Worldpanel consumer purchasing information with surveys to provide retail and shopper insights.
In the area of TV audience measurement, we are using very large samples of return path data to analyse digital viewing for major broadcasters in the US, UK and Asia Pacific.
We also have the capability to provide digital media measurement and to track online social networks, and we are developing our services for internet audience measurement.
4 TNS annual report 2006 Providing clients with actionable insight Geography and technology will continue to present their own challenges and opportunities for our industry, but perhaps the biggest issue we face is being able to provide actionable insight.
Clients want us to help them be more successful by providing analysis of the information we gather to recommend concrete actions.
It is interesting to look at how some of our major clients have redefined the role of the research department, to promote the concept of insight as a driving force for business decision making.
P&G has a department focused on Consumer Market Knowledge Unilever has Consumer and Market Insights Coca-Cola refers to Knowledge and Insights Hersheys has opted for Consumer Insights.
The pattern is the same consumer, knowledge, insight.
I believe the industry will separate even further into more advisory and consultative services on the one hand: and data gathering and processing on the other.
For TNS and other market information companies, this means having the reach, scale, tools, products and people that can provide high quality services to our clients in both disciplines.
Some of the work we have done for our clients in the past 12 months has been outstanding in both breadth and quality, including major international projects for companies such as AstraZeneca and Nissan.
We have received several awards from industry associations and clients, for our research initiatives and the contributions we have made to their businesses.
Some of our most advanced work, such as marketing mix modelling for a major financial services organisation in the US, has been submitted to the Harvard Business Review.
Looking forward Market information remains fragmented and research spending is still a relatively Clients want us to help small proportion of overall advertising and marketing.
Yet, as an industry, we have them be more successful a distinct advantage over other marketing services because what we do and what by providing analysis of we provide is based on fact.
the information we The growth of the worlds emerging markets is still at a relatively early stage.
I believe that as these regions gain importance, the consolidation of client gather to recommend budgets among the large international suppliers of insight and information will only concrete actions.
Other issues, such as survey response rates and data quality, will gain more prominence.
For now, there remains a largely unexploited opportunity for our industry to mature and provide clients with a response to the issues they are facing.
As a leader in our industry, it is up to TNS to stimulate this process.
Following the changes made in 2006, detailed in the Business review later in this report, I believe that we now have the right strategy and structure in place to do this successfully.
The advances that we have already made are testament to the quality of people across the organisation and their dedication, for which I thank them.
David Lowden, Chief Executive TNS annual report 2006 5 Needing or wanting?
As many as 70 per cent of purchasing decisions are made inside the retail environment.
Manufacturers are increasingly aware that they have little control over that process or the impact it has on their brand equity.
Retailers are becoming increasingly aware of the need to take more active control of shopper behaviour.
TNS helps both manufacturers and retailers by providing them with the knowledge and tools to 6 TNS annual report 2006 understand and influence how these purchasing decisions are made.
TNS Retail and Shopper Insights draws on the combination of expertise in both consumer purchasing from TNS Worldpanel and behavioural information and analysis in custom research.
It also directly addresses the need for manufacturers to build Power in the Market: Power in the Mind TNS approach to brand equity.
TNS Retail and Shopper Insights informs clients about the entire purchasing journey, right through to the moments of truth the points at which the purchasing decision is made.
Providing brand owners with knowledge in the retail environment is one way in which TNS is using expertise and innovation to respond to clients changing marketing needs.
Fragmentation, convergence of platforms and portability of devices are technological developments that create significant challenges for media measurement.
Broadcasters and advertisers need better information and analysis to understand how their content is consumed.
TNS is meeting these challenges with the development of digital TV audience measurement services.
Our iTRAM internet, TV and radio audience 8 TNS annual report 2006 measurement division has a distinguished history of expertise and innovation.
We now collect, process and analyse return-path data for cable and satellite broadcasters in the UK, US and Asia Pacific.
The insight we provide assists key business initiatives such as management of churn, measurement of interactive services, purchasing and allocation of content.
Media fragmentation also impacts advertising effectiveness traditional mass marketing approaches are no longer the most effective methods of engaging with the right audience.
In custom research, TNS brand performance optimisation incorporates advertising tracking that evaluates and optimises media mix.
As developed markets become more mature, large organisations are seeking growth in the emerging economies.
In China, GDP is consistently hitting double-digit growth and there is a burgeoning middle class of over 100 million people.
However, just having a presence does not guarantee success.
The best companies build up knowledge, without simply re-launching their brands.
TNS is the largest research company in China 10 TNS annual report 2006 and has operated there since 1982.
Our local market knowledge has been accumulated through our activities in TV and radio audience measurement, media intelligence, consumer panel and custom research.
We know that China is not just one market but a number of extremely diverse markets.
We help our global clients because we understand the business and regulatory environment, consumer lifestyles, media consumption and brand preferences in China and across the emerging markets.
We also help our clients in China and other emerging markets with their own international expansion, because we can deliver to them the knowledge we have from the rest of the world.
The nature of todays society means traditional notions of demographics are becoming blurred.
For our clients, it is less clear who their customers are.
As companies launch new products and services, they need prompt, accurate and reliable analysis of how to target the right audience.
One of TNS core Areas of Expertise is Segmentation and Positioning using sophisticated proprietary tools, we help clients build emotional 12 12 TNS annual report 2006 connections between consumers and their brands.
Our new tool, FutureView, identifies the future-influential consumers that will drive growth.
With marketing increasingly linked to financial accountability, TNS has also developed a new decision support tool that links marketing investments to performance metrics, such as Customer Equity.
Revenue Growth Manager allows marketing decision-makers to measure the return on their marketing investments and determine which marketing investments will produce the greatest long-term profitable revenue growth for their brands.
Launched in 2007 as part of our Innovation programme, Revenue Growth Manager is a forward-looking tool that also links with TNS current Areas of Expertise.
