Report of the Directors to the members for the year ended 31 December 2006 Introduction Each of the directors proposed for re-election has been Company law requires the directors to prepare a report to recommended following detailed consideration by the shareholders on various matters affecting the company and the Nomination Committee.
The directors retiring by rotation have Group during the reporting year 2006 and the general outlook additionally been subject to formal performance evaluation.
for the company and the Group in the context of the markets and business environment within which we operate.
Audit and auditors Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval Certain matters required to be included in the report appear of this report confirms that: elsewhere in this Report and Accounts and can be found in the following areas: So far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the company's auditors are unaware: and A detailed review of the Groups principal activities, the each director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have development of its businesses, an indication of likely future taken as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any developments, a review of financial and non-financial key relevant audit information and to establish that the company's performance indicators, and a description of the principal risks auditors are aware of that information.
and uncertainties facing the Group, are contained in the reports and reviews on pages 2 to 27.
This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 234ZA of the A list of the subsidiary and associated undertakings principally Companies Act 1985. affecting the profits or net assets of the Group in the year appears on page 87.
Deloitte & Touche LLP have confirmed their willingness to continue in ofce as auditors of the company and a resolution Changes in asset values are set out in the consolidated to re-appoint them will be proposed at the Annual General balance sheet on page 53 and in Notes 10 to 29 on pages Meeting.
Deloitte & Touche LLP also provide non-audit services 62 to 75. to the Group within a policy framework which is described in Corporate Governance on page 35.
The Groups profit before taxation and the profit after taxation and minority interests appear in the consolidated income Annual General Meeting statement on page 51 and in Notes 3 to 9 on pages 56 to 61.
The Annual General Meeting will be held at 2pm on Wednesday 2 May 2007 in the Oasis Suite at The Crowne Plaza Hotel, Detailed statements of the companys corporate governance Pendigo Way, National Exhibition Centre, Birmingham, B40 1PS.
principles, the Groups systems of internal control and the Formal notice of the meeting including details of special going concern conrmation are set out in Corporate business is set out in the Annual General Meeting circular.
Registrar Directors The companys registrar is Capita Registrars.
Their details, The following directors held ofce throughout the year: together with information on facilities available to shareholders, are set out in Shareholder Information on page 90.
Norman Askew Iain Napier retired from the Board on 31 December 2006 Treasury shares Peter Johnson During the year 5.4 million Treasury shares held by the company Graeme McCallum retired from the Board and the company were sold to the companys employee share ownership trusts on 16 January 2007 and to participants in certain of the companys employee share Mike Davies plans.
Andrew Dougal Katherine Innes Ker Substantial interests Vernon Sankey Details of the share capital are shown in Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements.
The following persons have Ian Smith was appointed a director and Chief Executive on notied the company pursuant to Rule 5 of the Disclosure and 2 January 2007.
Transparency Rules of their interests in the ordinary share capital of the company: The directors of the company at the date of this report, together Name Number of Percentage of with biographical information, are shown on pages 28 and 29. shares held issued voting millions share capital Retirement and re-election of directors Beneficial interests At the Annual General Meeting, Ian Smith, who has recently Barclays PLC 21.78 3.78 been appointed to the Board, will retire and seek election.
Legal & General Group plc 20.26 3.48 Katherine Innes Ker and Vernon Sankey, directors retiring by Britannic Asset rotation will, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election Management Limited 16.95 3.06 in accordance with the companys Articles of Association.
Legal & General Assurance Pensions Management Limited 17.50 3.01 30 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2006 Report of the Directors continued Name Number of Percentage of meet foreseeable needs and to invest cash assets safely and shares held issued voting profitably.
The Group does not undertake speculative or trading millions share capital activity in financial instruments or foreign currencies.
Non-beneficial interest AXA SA 100.77 17.32 The disclosures relating to the use of financial instruments and treasury risks faced by the Group, required under the EUs Fair Value Directive, are detailed in Notes 15 to 19 to the At 19 February 2007, no change in these holdings had been consolidated financial statements.
notied nor, according to the register of members, did any other shareholder at that date have a disclosable holding of the issued The Group maintains a balance between certainty and exibility share capital.
through the use of term borrowings, overdrafts and committed revolving credit facilities with a range of maturity dates.
It is the Directors interests, including interests in the companys shares, Groups policy to maintain committed facilities or borrowings are shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 37 with staggered maturity dates in order to ensure continuity of to 45. funding.
Dividend Treasury functions are centralised in our main geographic Information about the recommended 2006 final dividend is locations.
All treasury operations must remain in compliance given in the Chairmans Statement on page 2. with Group policy and are closely monitored by the Group treasury department.
The company operates a Dividend Re-Investment Plan, details of which are set out in full in the Annual General Meeting Equity, retained profits and long-term xed interest debt are circular, and on the companys website used primarily to finance goodwill, xed assets and land.
Short-term borrowings are required primarily to finance net current assets, other than landbank assets of more than one Payment of dividend has been waived in part by the Trustee year, and work in progress and are therefore kept at a oating of the companys two Employee Share Ownership Trusts over rate.
Where possible, temporary cash balances made available those Trusts combined holding of 5.1m shares and in full on by our construction business are used to reduce our short-term the companys holding of 12.2m Treasury shares.
The Group also uses derivatives to in the Trusts are set aside to meet commitments under the manage interest rate exposure if economically appropriate.
Shares held in Treasury result from the acquisition of the companys own shares in 2004 and A significant proportion of the Groups capital employed is in provide the company with additional exibility in the currencies other than sterling with the result that currency management of its capital base.
movements can affect the balance sheet.
Where appropriate, foreign currency translation exposure is reduced by nancing Corporate Social Responsibility CSR overseas assets with borrowings of the same currency and by CSR has become increasingly integrated within Taylor the use of derivatives.
In the Chief Executives Review on pages 5 to 27 you will nd a broad outline and many examples of the Research and development ways in which we continue to apply CSR principles throughout The company is committed to investing in research and everything we do.
We draw these themes together in the development projects where there are clearly-dened business groups full CSR Report for 2006 which is published separately benets.
in electronic form on the groups website www.
Charitable donations During the year Group companies donated 198,000 2005: The Groups commitment to advancing CSR within Taylor 363,000 to various charities, 63,000 2005: 96,000 in Woodrow is evidenced by the appointment from January 2007 the UK and Europe and 135,000 2005: 267, 000 in North of a full-time Director of CSR.
An outline of the Groups programme of charitable giving appears elsewhere in the Chief Executives Review During 2006, we focused the business on a number of highand fuller details can be found in the on-line CSR 2006 report.
level CSR objectives, covering the key areas of Sustainability, Safety, Health and People, Environment and Community.
These Political donations are discussed in the full CSR report.
The company did not make any donations to political parties during 2006 2005: nil.
Business subscriptions were paid to Treasury management and funding the Home Builders Federation of 192,000 2005: 167, 000 The Group operates within policies and procedures approved and Homes for Scotland of 20,000 2005: nil both of which by the Board.
The Groups capitalisation policy establishes are active in supporting the interests of the housebuilding overall parameters for the consolidated capital structure sector.
Some may consider that these payments may fall within together with guidelines in respect of interest and currency the meaning of EU Political Expenditure as dened by section translation exposures.
The Group seeks to match long-term 347A of the Companies Act 1985. assets with long-term funding and short-term assets with short-term funding.
Strict controls are exercised on the use of financial instruments in managing the Groups financial risk.
The objectives are to ensure sufficient liquidity is maintained to Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2006 31 Report of the Directors continued Policy on payment of suppliers The nature of the Groups operations means that there is no single Group standard in respect of payment terms to suppliers.
Generally, subsidiaries are responsible for establishing payment terms with suppliers when entering into each transaction or series of linked transactions.
In the absence of dispute, valid payment requests are met as expeditiously as possible within such terms.
This policy continues to apply in 2007.
Trade creditor days for the Group for the year ended 31 December 2006 were 32 days 2005: 31 days, based on the ratio of year-end Group trade creditors excluding subcontract retentions and unagreed claims of 13.2 million 2005: 12.9 million and land creditors, see Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements to amounts invoiced during the year by trade creditors.
The company had no significant trade creditors at 31 December 2006.
Important events since the year-end Except for any matters referred to elsewhere in this Report and Accounts, there have been no other important events affecting the company or any of its subsidiary undertakings since the end of the financial year.
This report of the directors was approved by the Board of directors on 19 February 2007.
Richard I Morbey Secretary 19 February 2007 32 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2006
