Board of Directors Norman Askew Ian Smith Peter Johnson Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Non-Executive Director Appointed a director and Appointed a director and Chief Appointed a director in Chairman in July 2003.
He is a He is judged by the Board to He chairs the Executive member of the Executive be an independent director.
Committee and is a member Committee.
Peter is an He chairs the Nomination of the Nomination Committee.
experienced financial Committee and is a member He brings wide experience as executive with a strong of the Remuneration a business leader across a background in financial Committee.
His current variety of international services and property appointments include the markets.
He was previously investment, in the UK and Chairmanship of IMI plc, Chief Executive of the General North America.
He is also a Derby Cityscape and of the Healthcare Group the UKs non-executive director of Board of Governors of the leading private healthcare Shanks Group plc and joined University of Manchester.
company, Chief Executive the board of Oriel Securities Europe, Middle East and Limited on 20 December 2006.
Age: 64 Africa of Exel, the Peter has previously held international logistics and board positions with distribution company, and Henderson plc, Pearl Chief Executive Europe of Assurance and Norwich Union Monitor, the global strategy Life and has also worked for consultancy.
He is also a Hammerson Property non-excecutive director of Investment and Development Galiform plc.
Age: 53 Age: 52 28 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2006 Mike Davies Katherine Innes Ker Vernon Sankey Andrew Dougal Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Director Director Director Director Appointed a director in Appointed a director in July Appointed a director in Appointed a director in October 2003.
She is Chairman of the January 2004.
A Chartered Senior Independent Director Remuneration Committee and of the Audit, Remuneration Accountant, he is Chairman and a member of the Audit, a member of the Nomination and Nomination Committees.
of the Audit Committee and Remuneration and Nomination Committee.
Katherine has He is a non-executive director a member of the Nomination Committees.
He is considerable experience as a of Zurich Financial Services Committee.
He is a director non-executive Chairman financial analyst gained with AG and Zurich Insurance of Premier Farnell plc and of Marshalls plc and a leading UK City financial Company AG both Swiss, Creston plc.
He was formerly non-executive director of houses with a particular Chairman of Photo-Me Chief Executive of Hanson plc Pendragon plc.
He was interest in the media sector.
International plc and Deputy until 2002, having previously formerly a director of She is Chairman of Shed Chairman of Vividas Group plc.
been the Group Finance Williams Holdings plc.
Productions plc, a nonDirector of Hanson, the Age: 57 executive director of Ordnance diversified industrial group Age: 59 Survey and of Gyrus Group plc.
He was also a non-executive Age: 46 director of BPB plc.
Age: 55 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2006 29
