06 telent Annual Report 2006 Directors report telent plc, which changed its name from Marconi Corporation plc on 24 January 2006 the Company was the holding company of the telent Group throughout the period under review.
Profits and dividends The profit for the year to 31 March 2006 on ordinary activities after taxation and minority interests amounted to 771 million 2005: 119 million restated on an IFRS basis.
The Board declared a special dividend of 275p per share 590 million in total, which was paid to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 24 March 2006, and has determined that no further dividend will be declared in respect of the year ended 31 March 2006 2005: nil.
Review of the Group The principal activity of the Company and its trading subsidiaries is the supply of communications support services which is more fully described in the Business and Financial Review on pages 16 to 23.
An analysis of results, and net assets and liabilities for the Company, its subsidiaries, and its share of joint ventures and associates is shown in note 4 to the accounts on page 43 and key performance indicators used by the directors to assist in the management of the business and to provide evidence of the achievement of its strategies are included in the Business and Financial Review on page 21.
A description of the key financial risks faced by the Group is given in the accounts in note 40 on page 70.
Other principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group are described in the Business and Financial Review on page 23.
Acquisitions and disposals The disposal of the Groups Telecommunications Equipment and International Services businesses to Ericsson, which substantially completed on 23 January 2006, was the only material disposal made during the year ended 31 March 2006.
This is more fully described in the Business and Financial Review on page16.
Recommended cash acquisition of the Company by Holmar Holdings Limited On 20 June 2006, Holmar Holdings Limited announced that it was proceeding with a recommended cash acquisition of the Company at 529.5p per share.
As described in the Chairmans statement on pages 2 and 3, the recommended cash acquisition by Holmar Holdings Limited has now lapsed.
07 telent Annual Report 2006 Directors Delisting from NASDAQ, termination of ADR programme The directors of the Company are listed on pages 10 and 11, together and SEC fide-registration with their biographical details.
The Company delisted from NASDAQ and terminated its ADR programme with effect from 31 December 2005 and intends to file Mr Parton and Mr Atkinson retired and, being eligible, were reappointed for fide-registration from the SEC in the near future, which will lead at the 2005 annual general meeting.
to termination of the Companys reporting obligations under the Mr Devaney and Mr Koepf will retire from office at the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer Payment of creditors themselves for reappointment.
It is the policy of the Group that operating subsidiaries agree with On 5 September 2006, the Board announced that Mr Parton had suppliers the best available terms taking account of quality, delivery, stepped down as Chief Executive Officer and that M Plato had assumed price and period of settlement and abide by those terms.
the role with immediate effect.
We also announced that Mr Binning had telent plc is a holding company and, as distinct from the Group, has no stepped down as Chief Financial Officer and that H Green had assumed revenue and no trade creditors.
It is therefore not possible to provide the role with immediate effect.
Accordingly, Mr Plato and Ms Green will, statistics for the Company as required by the Companies Act 1985. therefore, retire from office at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for reappointment.
Corporate social responsibility and employees Full and fair consideration is given to applications for employment from We further announced, on 5 September 2006, that Ms Flaherty people with disabilities having regard to their aptitudes and abilities: has decided not to stand for reappointment and will, therefore, special arrangements are made to support the continued employment retire from the Board after the conclusion of the forthcoming of those who become disabled.
Wherever practical, access, facilities and Annual General Meeting.
training programmes are made available allowing people with disabilities Details of the remuneration packages of the directors and their share to participate at work to the best of their ability.
interests in the Company are contained in the Remuneration report Individual employees and their representatives are kept informed of on pages 24 to 31. current business issues through the Groups intranet website, telephone The Articles of Association of the Company contain an indemnity in conference calls, briefing groups, training seminars and professional favour of all of the directors of the Company that, subject to the law, networks as well as through more formal consultative procedures.
indemnifies the directors from the assets of the Company against Charitable donations any liability incurred by them in defending any proceedings in which Charitable donations made by Group companies during the year judgement is given in their favour or otherwise disposed of without amounted to 16,000 2005: 57,000 of which 8,000 2005: any finding or admission of any material breach of duty on their 25,000 was made to charities in the UK.
Provisions exist in the letters of engagement of each of the non-cash support provided by operating businesses to charitable non-executive directors reflecting the indemnity contained in the organisations and educational establishments.
The Company also maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action against the directors.
Political donations No political donations were made during the year 2005: nil.
Company Secretary Mrs M Skelly resigned, and Mr K Smith was appointed, as Company At the 2004 annual general meeting shareholders gave a four year Secretary with effect from 5 September 2006. authority for the Company and a number of its subsidiaries to make political donations or incur political expenditure, subject to financial Compliance statement limits, as a precautionary measure in light of the wide definitions in the The Listing Rules of the United Kingdom Listing Authority require the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
These authorities Board to report on compliance with the provisions contained in Section 1 have not been used and there is no intention to change the Groups of the Combined Code throughout the accounting period and up to the policy of not making political donations.
date of approval of the financial statements.
Throughout, and since, the year ended 31 March 2006, the Company has been in compliance with Share option plans the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
In anticipation of the completion of the restructuring of the Marconi Group in May 2003, the Company conditionally adopted two share Substantial holders of share capital option plans: the Marconi Corporation plc Senior Management Share As at 29 August 2006 the latest practicable date prior to the approval Option Plan the Management Plan and the Marconi Corporation plc of this report the Company was aware of the following holdings of 3% Employee Share Option Plan the Employee Plan, which became or more of the Companys issued ordinary share capital: effective on 19 May 2003.
Summaries of the Plans were contained Polygon Investment Partners LLP and Polygon Investment Partners LP in the prospectus of 31 March 2003.
The Plans are also described in which act on behalf of Polygon Global Opportunities Master Fund 23.74% the Remuneration report on pages 25 to 26.
During the year, no options The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc 11.13% were granted under the Management Plan or the Employee Plan.
Deutsche Bank AG & subs 10.01% As at 31 March 2006, options over 5.2 million shares were outstanding Lehman Brothers International Europe Ltd 6.05% to directors and senior managers under the Management Plan and Merrill Lynch 5.84% options over a total of 2.4 million shares were outstanding to other Credit Suisse Securities Europe Ltd & Credit Suisse International 5.59% employees under the Employee Plan.
ING Bank N. V. 3.76% The Marconi Sharesave Plan was approved at the 2004 annual general Lazard Asset Management LLC 3.72% meeting of the Company.
As at 31 March 2006, options over 1.1 million JP Morgan Securities Ltd 3.48% shares were outstanding to employees of the Group under that Plan.
Allianz AG and its subsidiaries 3.22% Legal & General Group Plc companies 3.14% 08 telent Annual Report 2006 Directors report continued Capital reduction circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with On 21 May 2003 the High Court approved a reduction of capital all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
Directors are of the Company from 300,000,000 to 156,687,463.25 and the also required to: cancellation of 4,369,742,176.73 standing to the credit of the share properly select and apply accounting policies: premium account.
One of the requirements of the reduction of capital involved the Company giving an undertaking to the Court to create a present information, including accounting policies, in a non-distributable special reserve comprising the excess of the cancelled manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and share capital and share premium account over the deficit on the understandable information: Companys profit and loss account as at 31 March 2003, which would provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific be transferred to the profit and loss reserve as losses were incurred or requirements in International Financial Reporting Standards is when all of the creditors as at 21 May 2003 had been satisfied.
insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular On 11 October 2005, the Court released the Company from its transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial obligation to retain the non-distributable special reserve.
This release position and financial performance: and became effective when the Company placed 20 million in an escrow prepare the accounts on a going concern basis unless, having account held by Lloyds TSB Bank plc to cover any future potential claims assessed the ability of the Company to continue as a going concern, from the creditors existing at 22 May 2003.
The amount outstanding in management either intends to liquidate the entity or to cease trading, the escrow account as at 31 March 2006 was 16 million.
The monies in or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
the escrow account will be used solely for the protection of the creditors of the Company that were in existence at 22 May 2003, which were not The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records schemed and which remain outstanding.
The balance remaining on the which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial special reserve was transferred to retained earnings during the year.
position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other Statement of directors responsibilities irregularities and for the preparation of a directors report and directors The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the remuneration report which comply with the requirements of the financial statements.
The directors are required to prepare accounts Companies Act 1985. for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and have chosen to prepare Company financial The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Company website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
In the case of UK GAAP accounts, the directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair The financial statements, comprising the income statement, balance view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of sheet, cash flow statement, statement of recognised income and the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, expense and associated notes to the accounts, were authorised for the directors are required to: issue by the Board of directors on 6 September 2006. select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Going concern A going concern statement is made in the Business and Financial Review make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: on page 23. state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, Annual General Meeting subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the The Annual General Meeting will be held on 20 October 2006. financial statements: and The notice of meeting is set out in full on pages 86 to 87, and a proxy prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is card is enclosed, for shareholders, with this report.
inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
Resolution 3 proposes the reappointment of Mr Devaney as a director of In the case of IFRS accounts, International Accounting Standard 1 the Company.
Mr Devaney, who joined the Board shortly before the requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year financial restructuring of the Group in 2003, is the Chairman of the the Companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
Board and chairs the Nomination Committee.
His biographical details This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, can be found on page 10.
The Senior Independent Director confirms that, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and following formal performance evaluation, Mr Devaneys performance recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out continues to be effective and that he demonstrates commitment to his in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the role as Chairman of the Board, also that Mr Devaneys reappointment is Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all consistent with the plans for the Boards development that are subject to periodic review.
09 telent Annual Report 2006 Resolution 4 proposes the reappointment of Ms Green as a director of The directors have no current intention of using this authority but feel the Company.
Ms Green joined the Board as Chief Financial Officer on that the granting of this authority provides for greater flexibility in the 5 September 2006.
Her biographical details can be found on page 11. management of the Companys share capital.
Resolution 5 proposes the reappointment of Mr Koepf as a director The directors will only use this authority if they are satisfied that any of the Company.
Mr Koepf, who joined the Board shortly before purchase will lead to an increase in the earnings per share of the ordinary the financial restructuring of the Group in 2003, is an independent share capital in issue after the purchase and, accordingly, that the non-executive director.
His biographical details can be found on page 11. purchase is in the best interests of shareholders.
The directors will also The Chairman confirms that, following formal performance evaluation, give careful consideration to the gearing levels of the Company and its Mr Koepfs performance continues to be effective and that he general financial position.
demonstrates commitment to his role as an independent non-executive If the directors use this authority, they may consider holding any director, also that Mr Koepfs reappointment is consistent with the plans shares purchased in treasury, in accordance with the provisions of for the Boards development that are subject to periodic review.
the Companies Act 1985, rather than cancelling them.
Shares held in Resolution 6 proposes the reappointment of Mr Plato as a director of treasury may subsequently be sold for cash, cancelled or used to satisfy the Company.
Mr Plato joined the Board as Chief Executive Officer on share options or share awards under share incentive schemes.
His biographical details can be found on page 11. in treasury, the Company is not entitled to exercise any rights, including the right to attend and vote at meetings, in respect of those shares.
The special business to be conducted at this years Annual General No dividend or other distribution of the Companys assets may be made Meeting relates to: to the Company in respect of treasury shares.
Resolution 9: which will be proposed as an ordinary resolution, The directors will have regard to the guidance issued from time-to-time authorising the directors to allot relevant securities up to a maximum by the investor groups in relation to the purchase, holding or sale of value of 18,000,000, representing just under one third of the nominal treasury shares.
amount of the issued share capital of the Company at the date of this report.
This resolution is in place of the existing authority and will The total number of options to subscribe for ordinary shares outstanding be effective until next years annual general meeting or, if earlier, on 29 August 2006 the latest practicable date prior to the approval 31 December 2007.
It is the present intention of the directors to seek of this report was 6,862,093.
The proportion of issued share capital that a similar authority annually.
No treasury shares were held by the they represented at that time was around 11.06% and the proportion of Company at the date of this report.
The directors have no present issued share capital that they would represent if the full authority to intention of issuing further ordinary shares of 87.5p each other than purchase shares is used is 12.29%.
on the exercise of warrants and options.
Directors confirmation Resolution 10: which will be proposed as a special resolution, Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this authorising the directors to allot equity securities for cash other than report confirms that: on a pre-emptive basis.
This authority will enable the directors to issue 1 so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information shares in connection with a rights issue and otherwise to issue shares of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and for cash up to a nominal amount of 2,700,000 representing just under 5% of the issued share capital of the Company at the date of 2 the director has taken all steps that he she ought to have taken as this report, which includes the sale on a non pre-emptive basis of any a director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant shares the Company holds in treasury, if required.
This resolution is in audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are place of the existing authority and will be effective until next years aware of that information and, as far as the director is aware, there annual general meeting or, if earlier, 31 December 2007.
It is the is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors present intention of the directors to seek a similar authority annually.
Resolution 11: which will be proposed as a special resolution, This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance authorising the Company to purchase up to a maximum of 6,200,000 with the provisions of Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985. of its ordinary shares of 87.5p each in the market, representing just By order of the Board under 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company at the telent plc date of this report.
The price paid for any shares purchased will not be less than the nominal value of 87.5p per share nor more than the higher of i 5% above the average of the middle market quotation of the Companys ordinary shares as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days preceding the day on which the shares are purchased, or ii the price stipulated by Article 5 i K D Smith of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation EC No.
Company Secretary This resolution will be effective until next years annual general New Century Park meeting or, if earlier, 31 December 2007.
It is the present intention PO Box 53 of the directors to seek a similar authority annually.
