Markets decline, Italy has seen a renaissance out of the German market.
With 10.2 percent more bookings, this destination is one of the winners.
In long-haul, all of the Asian destinations that were so st A new segment structure was introduced with effect from May 1 2006.
The business divisions severely affected by the tsunami recovered without exception: the biggest increase was in Thailand are now Continental Europe, Great Britain and Ireland, Airlines Germany and Corporates.
with plus 76.9 percent, followed by the Maldives with plus 18.8 percent and Sri Lanka with an increase of 2.2 percent.
Continental Europe The losers included Turkey and Croatia.
The number of visitors to Turkey was down 14.5 percent The segment Continental Europe consists of the markets Germany, Austria, France, Belgium, on the previous year.
The main reasons for this were avian flu, the controversy over the caricatures the Netherlands, Hungary and Poland.
Evident throughout the course of business was an extremely of Mohammed and various terrorist attacks.
The downturn in Croatia confirmed how price-sensitive unbalanced development of the various international markets.
Despite some negative tendencies, the German traveller is.
Due to the considerable price increases at the beginning of the season, the number of guests increased slightly from 7.896 million to 8.058 million.
Turnover increased from bookings were down 19.4 percent.
4,484.6 million euros to 4,574.6 million euros.
The pre-tax result was pleasing: there was a 37.4 percent increase to 93.0 million euros.
The brands at a glance The development of the individual operator brands confirms that the premium brand Thomas Germany Cook Reisen in particular is on the right track.
Bookings in 2005 06 increased by 6.5 percent including last-minute.
The development in sales of catalogue products was even better, rising Market environment 8.7 percent.
The concept of offering travel both in a bundled package and as modules thus proved to The German operator market failed to meet expectations.
Instead of the five percent increase be extremely successful.
forecast by the German Travel Association DRV at the ITB tourism trade fair in March 2006, German tour operators only managed to increase their turnover by one percent increase to Neckermann Reisen finished with a 3.4 percent increase in bookings.
The operator successfully 19.6 billion euros: travel agencies fared even worse, growing just 0.5 percent on a reported turnover implemented its concept of profitable growth.
Neckermann Reisen recorded an increase in cataof 20.6 billion euros.
The number of booked holidays increased by two percent to 37.5 million, a little logue bookings of shortand medium-haul holidays of 8.7 percent.
The operator reduced its lastmore than the turnover.
The average length of stay dropped slightly, as did the average cost.
This is minute business as planned in favour of early-bookers: in the 2006 summer season, the proportion the first time that the seat-only business of Germanys holiday airlines was included in the DRVs of last-minute holidays was 20 percent just half the figure for 2003. market figures.
Looking just at the development of the operator business, then there was no growth in the German travel industry in the last business year.
Bucher was renamed Bucher Last Minute.
This makes the specialisation clearer for the customer.
Bucher Last Minute achieved positive results in the last business year despite the fact that Position developed the good development in catalogue business by Neckermann and Thomas Cook Reisen meant that Despite this difficult environment, the German operators in Thomas Cook AG managed to the number of guests dropped by seven percent to about 400,000.
The focus was on Turkey: due to perform better than the market.
The number of guests increased during the reporting period by 2.1 this destinations poor booking situation in the major operators catalogue business, a large proporpercent to 4.7 million travellers without Aldiana.
Turnover remained stable at 2.9 billion euros.
tion of the contingents had to be marketed as last-minute business.
In order to further develop its Thomas Cook developed its position as no.
2 in Germany, and narrowed the gap to the market position as the leading last-minute specialist, Bucher is increasing its advertising presence in the leader TUI.
print media and further developing its e-commerce business.
The relaunch of the internet sites is now complete.
Destinations: Spain conquered, Croatia taught a lesson The growth engine in the operator business was primarily the Spanish destinations: Balearics plus 10.4 percent, mainland plus 11.8 percent and the Canary Islands plus 6.5 percent.
After years of Markets 3 Austria Belgium All in all, the travel market just managed to hold its own at minus 0.5 percent.
The brands of The market for package holidays in Belgium increased by 2.1 percent.
The growth was mainly Thomas Cook Austria achieved a 20.1 percent share of the overall market.
Neckermann Reisen is the the result of strong summer activity, whereas the winter was poorer than expected because of weak biggest single brand in Austria, and its bookings were up 0.1 percent.
The low-budget product NeckChristmas business, the after-effects of terrorist attacks and increasing fuel prices.
The summer ermann Preisknller increased bookings by 26.8 percent: at the same time its last-minute business business benefited from the increase in long-haul travel.
Here it was evident that travellers were dropped by 44.0 percent.
The premium brand Thomas Cook Reisen recorded an increase in bookings returning to areas in the Far East and the Caribbean that had been affected by natural disasters of 14.7 percent, and the club specialist Aldiana which is marketed exclusively through Thomas such as the tsunami and hurricanes.
New destinations such as the Cap Verde Islands brought addiCook growth of 41.9 percent.
The business development of Thomas Cook Austria was positive.
There was only moderate growth in shortand medium-haul holidays, with the results Overall, Austria was able to increase slightly its previous year turnover of 155.4 million euros to for Turkey the weakest of all.
The good development in holiday products where guests arranged 156.9 million euros.
their own travel and in city breaks has helped to balance this drop.
France Thomas Cook Belgium finished the year well on the slightly growing Belgian market.
There The French travel market showed positive results in the last business year with an increase in was a 6.9 percent increase in revenues to 854.4 million euros, and customer numbers were up two bookings of 3.4 percent.
In this market environment, the development of the operators and sales percent to 1.674 million.
Over the year, Thomas Cook increased its market share by 0.3 percent.
The activities of Thomas Cook France was most satisfactory.
growth was due mainly to the good development in charter holidays and in shortand mediumhaul flights.
In the segment of holiday-makers who make their own travel arrangements, turnover At the heart of the business is an integrated, controlled sales network with a total of 458 travel increased by 6.3 percent.
The favourites were France, Spain and Italy, Austria lost.
The Neckermann agencies previous year: 448, 285 of which are its own and 173 franchisees.
This makes Thomas Cook brand proved especially popular in this segment and also for short city breaks.
1 in the sale of travel products.
In the last business year, the gross sales of the travel agency chain increased to 193 million euros, which equates to growth of 44 percent on the previous The three operator products in Belgium Neckermann, Thomas Cook Reisen and Pegase are year.
offered through various sales channels.
Thomas Cook and Pegase are also available through travel agents who are not part of the group.
Neckermann Reisen holidays are only available from the On the revenue side, the impact of the reduction in travel agency commissions that was introcompanys own sales organisation 108 travel agencies, call-centre and website.
All three operator st duced on April 1 2005 was clear.
This change encouraged the growth of pure online providers who brands recorded increasing sales and booking figures in 2005 06. developed their market share in ticketing and last-minute sales compared to traditional sales channels.
Thomas Cook Airlines Belgium welcomed more than one million passengers on board, 2.3 percent more than in the previous year.
Efforts in ticket-only sales paid off, resulting in growth of It is pleasing that the brand awareness levels of the chain, which was renamed Thomas Cook more than 20 percent on the previous year.
A sixth Airbus A320 joined the fleet in June 2006.
Voyages formerly Havas Voyages only two years ago, increased by 15 percentage points to 52 percent.
The aim of the marketing efforts is now to increase customer loyalty with a wider selection of Netherlands products and services, and to align the marketing offers in the travel agencies more to the particular The last business year saw an improvement in the consumer climate in the Netherlands.
otherwise saturated travel market, high over-capacities hindered market development, the trend for consolidation continued.
Several companies, both travel agencies and tour operators, went bankThe development in the operator business was pleasing: due to the strong development of the rupt.
The strong growth in online sales continued.
In particular, the market for short breaks continbrands Neckermann and Thomas Cook Reisen, where there was a 2.5 percent increase in turnover to ued to develop into a domain of the online portals.
The competition was accelerated by airlines 207 million euros and an 11.8 percent increase in bookings to more than 290,000 guests.
The medioffering cheap flights, more and more of which are now going to the popular summer destinations.
um-haul business was up 21 percent.
Short-haul also developed positively thanks to the good results Then there were non-industry market participants who sold travel in addition to their main busifor citybreaks and winter sports.
Long-haul was negatively affected by the late delivery of biometric ness.
Market transparency increased, and thus the comparability of prices.
This further  entry into the USA and the outbreak of the chikungunya illness on Mauritius and the price pressure Markets.
4 In the Netherlands as in most other European countries there was a reduction in the Poland demand for travel to Turkey.
Thomas Cook was able to benefit more than the average from the Thanks to the good state of the economy, the industry developed positively.
Growth was about resulting swing towards Spain and Egypt.
Despite the positive development, there were some spectacular failures in the 2005 06 business year: operator Open Travel and the airline Fischer Air both filed for bankruptcy.
In the last business year, Thomas Cook Netherlands proved its position as market leader with its operator brands.
However, turnover was down one percent to 494.4 million euros, and 1.2 million Thomas Cook Poland grew considerably faster than the market.
The Neckermann brand customers booked through Thomas Cook.
This represents a reduction of 2.5 percent.
achieved a turnover of 50.2 million euros up 45.8 percent.
The number of guests increased by 40.3 to more than 100,000.
The most popular summer destinations were Crete and Majorca, and the Vrij Uit, the specialist for holidays where guests arrange their own travel, developed well, and Salzburger Land, the Dolomites and Slovakia for winter.
The launch of the Hit-Preisknller discount recorded a high level of demand for winter sport destinations and France in particular.
Despite the offer went well and increased the demand for shortand medium-haul holidays.
decline in short breaks due to competition from direct providers, Vrij Uit was able to defend its position as no.
1 in the segment of holiday products with independent travel.
The stationary sales network was developed further.
Charter business in Poland is largely determined by Long-haul proved to be particularly pleasing.
There was a marked increase in destinations in Centralwings, a subsidiary of the national airline LOT.
Attempts by the competition to establish the Caribbean.
The demand for all-inclusive holidays was very good.
Sales of holidays through the themselves on the charter market failed.
By contrast, the low-cost carriers recorded extraordinary internet continue to develop strongly.
Eleven percent of the turnover is currently generated online.
E-commerce business increased by a total of 24 percent.
Hungary Great Britain and Ireland The business year was marked by a difficult general economic situation.
Political instability combined with parliamentary elections and the governments new cost-cutting measures intended Market environment to make up the budget deficit resulted in a significant decline in consumer demand.
The summer of 2006 will go down in the annals of British tourism as its most difficult season.
Various factors played a part in the extraordinarily difficult conditions experienced by all British Neckermann Hungary was able to avoid this negative trend and sustain its market leadership.
The reasons for the negative market development of 5.4 percent were avian flu in Increases both in customers and turnover were achieved over the year.
Turnover increased by nine Turkey, the football world championships, the warm summer and stricter security measures at Britpercent to 45.0 million euros, and customer numbers were up 6.8 percent to 84,610.
development was supported by strong direct selling and Neckermann franchise travel agencies with in-house sales of more than 60 percent.
The separate e-commerce business with fully bookable Positive development websites developed well.
Thomas Cook UK developed better than the market.
The number of guests dropped only 1.8 percent to 3.0 million, and turnover was down 0.7 percent to 2.5 billion euros.
Despite that, The laws to further restructure the Hungarian budget that were introduced with effect from Thomas Cook achieved a positive financial result in Great Britain and Ireland one that furthermore st January 1 2007 will continue to depress consumer behaviour.
The high pace of growth should be was even higher than their own forecasts.
The pre-tax result was 127.5 million euros up 13 percent maintained in the new business year by developing the proportion of e-commerce sales and proon the previous year.
The profit margin was 5.1 percent.
moting the budget brand lastminute.
The implementation of a new strategy was begun with an eye to business development.
Thomas Cook UK has decided to be the best-priced supplier on the market whilst improving the quality of its products and its service at the same time.
In the last business year, one of the most important initiatives was the bundling of the production of long-haul travel.
Thus the production of Markets 5 long-haul travel by specialist provider Thomas Cook Signature was made the responsibility of the Airlines Germany volume operators, and back office functions were bundled at the same time.
So not only did it mean that the travel offer could be extended for customers, but the increase in efficiency totalled almost Increased competition 30 million euros.
The overall European flight market increased by between four and five percent in the last business year.
The charter flight market, however, was down by two percent.
Innovations to strengthen the position Once again, Thomas Cook UK was able to prove its innovativeness with new offers.
The indusAs a result, there was a further increase in competition on the European air travel market.
In trys first catalogue Spa and Sports set new standards in wellness tourism.
addition to the classic scheduled markets, low-cost carriers are expanding more and more to tourist markets such as the Balearics, the Spanish mainland and Turkey.
In response, the traditional charter Since 2004, Thomas Cook UK has been offering travel to the major sporting events in Great airlines are increasing their winter offers, in particular with city trips, while scheduled carriers are Britain through the Thomas Cook Sports Division.
In 2005 06, the Sports Division increased its increasing their low-budget offers such as Lufthansa with BetterFly.
Increasingly, the business modturnover significantly to 1.3 million euros.
This is partly the result of the new partnerships with els of scheduled, low-cost and charter airlines are overlapping.
Higher capacities on the market also Chelsea and West Ham United football clubs.
Furthermore, the division also offers exclusive event led to a net price fall in the last year.
packages for Premier League games in the Match Breaks programme.
The consequence of this competition is consolidation on the German flight market.
Thus DBA Thomas Cook is Englands market leader for cruises.
In order to further reinforce this position, was acquired by Air Berlin, and the merger between Hapagfly and HLX has been announced.
It is to the end of the business year saw a relaunch under the new brand umbrella of Cruise Thomas Cook.
be assumed that most of the resulting cost benefits will be passed on to the market and that next year will probably see an increase in the intensity of competition.
Thomas Cook Airlines took a new Airbus A330 into operation in the last business year.
Last year the airline industry suffered considerably from the increase in the cost of aviation Last year, as before, the focus was on customer satisfaction.
As in the previous year, Thomas fuel.
Only some of these additional costs could be passed on to the market as surcharges, and this Cook Holidays Division achieved a high customer satisfaction rate of 81 percent.
Satisfaction with had a negative effect on demand in particular for long-haul.
hotel staff increased from 77 to 82 percent.
Overall, ratings either improved in all surveys or at least remained at the same level as in the previous year.
Main measures to increase productivity: Condors programme of reorganisation, started in March 2004, continued.
The programme In the last business year, Thomas Cook UK began the construction of a Financial Services includes measures both to increase revenue and to reduce costs.
With regard to revenue, the measDepartment.
The foundation of a joint venture with Barclaycard for the introduction of a Thomas ures to increase loads and encourage flight-only sales were reflected in the results.
On the cost side, Cook credit card and other financial services was the first step towards playing a major role in this further measures for the optimisation of externally-supplied services were implemented in the highly competitive market.
The division also won the highly contested competition to install curareas of Maintenance, Catering and Handling and in increases in productivity.
Overall, permanent rency exchanges in the new Terminal 5 at Londons Heathrow airport.
The aim is to provide currency cost reductions of 160 million euros were achieved over 2003. exchanges at other airports in Great Britain as well.
Despite the 4.9 percent increase in production, the year-average number of employees remained more or less the same at 2,312 full-time equivalents 0.3 percent on previous year thanks to improved productivity.
In September 2006, a new tariff package was agreed for new cabin crew st of Condor Flugdienst, Kelterbach, CFG and Condor Berlin CIB employed after February 1 2005.
The key elements are a new tariff agreement with lower remuneration levels, a new general wage agreement and a retirement agreement for an externally financed pension for cabin crew.
6 October 2005 saw the introduction of a conversion programme to increase the seating capacThe newly negotiated agreements with external service suppliers paid off in many areas.
By the end of December 2005, all of the aircraft had a seating capacity of the variable maintenance costs were down eleven million euros on the previous year.
In April 2006 Condor Berlin put its 14 A320 into service.
Thus the Condor fleet totalled 37 airflight safety and landing charges were a good 3.5 percent lower in the costs per unit than in the st craft at Oct 31 2006 nine B767-300, one B757-200, 13 B757-300 and 14 A320 at Condor Berlin.
Understandably, the fuel costs of 316 million euros up a staggering 47 percent on the previous year had an extremely negative effect.
Without price hedging the increase would In line with strategic development, Condor moved into the market for city trips in April 2006. undoubtedly have been much higher.
To this end, two A320 were based in Munich and routes started up to twelve major European cities.
In line with its portfolio adjustment, Thomas Cook sold its share to the operator ger Tours.
The Positive result st shares were transferred with effect from Nov 1, 2005.
In the 2005 06 business year, and despite significant burdens, there was a positive result in ordinary activity EBT of 18.0 million euros.
The EBT for the same period in the previous year was Improved economic situation 20.5 million euros.
In the last business year, block hour performance increased by 3.8 percent to 162,697 block hours.
The production of seat kilometres increased by 4.9 percent.
This was due in part to better organisation of the existing aircraft on short-, mediumand long-haul routes and to the acquisition of the additional A320 by Condor Berlin.
Overall, aircraft productivity increased by about 0.9 percent.
The increase in capacity was easily implemented on the market, and the load factor increased by 0.5 percentage points to 86.4 percent.
Overall, the number of passengers was up 6.7 percent on the previous year to 7.8 million.
Long-haul passenger numbers increased by almost six percent to 1.1 million, and shortand medium-haul numbers including cities rose by 6.9 percent to 6.7 million.
At 1,172 million euros, traffic revenue was up about ten percent on the previous year.
The number of seats sold increased by 6.5 percent, thereby exceeding market growth.
Despite the fuel surcharges, the average revenue per seat yield improved by just about four percent.
A new sales agreement has been made with the Thomas Cook operators for shortand medium-haul flights under which seats can only be sold back to Condor via an internal seat exchange.
Overall sales revenues with Thomas Cook operators increased by seven percent, and for seat-only business there was an increase of 17.8 percent on the previous year.
Of special note is the 19.8 percent increase in the seat-only yield on short tourist routes.
In total, seat-only now has an approximately 35 percent share of sales revenue.
In the last business year, costs per unit ects SKO were up about six percent on the previous year: after adjustments for fuel costs they were down almost two percent.
