Dear Reader, Welcome to Thomas Cooks latest annual report.
Throughout the markets, the group will also continue to invest and develop its presence in independent travel a fast growing sector in the industry.
This, together with the commitment to As the following pages will show, the 2005 2006 financial year saw Thomas Cook reaping the become the dominant e-commerce travel provider, will be a key focus for Thomas Cook over the rewards of a continued focus on cost reduction, thanks to its business transformation programme coming year and beyond.
Condor, an airline with an excellent brand name and good reputation, will also play a major The years result of 205.8 million euros is a 65.8 million euro improvement on the previous role in the groups development going forward.
Managing costs and ensuring that the group contwelve months.
For the second year running, Thomas Cook has shown substantial pre-tax profits, tinues to operate in the most cost effective and efficient way remain a key priority.
and remains firmly on course for achieving its desired position in the market.
The mutual agreement reached between the current shareholders, KarstadtQuelle and A major highlight is that, thanks to the cost reductions made in previous years, Thomas Cook Lufthansa, provides Thomas Cook with the necessary clarity for its future direction.
KarstadtQuelles has been able to demonstrate and develop price leadership in many of the markets in which it full ownership of the Thomas Cook Group will form the foundation on which the company will operates.
As a result, the company has managed to grow its market share significantly across its develop its position within the European travel market.
As the new Chairman and group CEO of Thomas Cook, my vision for the group is simple: to A combination of unsettling economic conditions and changing consumer trends across the continue to build a lean and streamlined integrated business that delivers exceptional service to its European market has led to increasingly tough trading conditions in recent years.
The future looks customers, together with high levels of profitability for its shareholder.
We have a dynamic leaderset to present even more challenges, with further consolidation expected to take place across the ship team in place and employ a motivated workforce, and it is of them that I would like to make a industry and new entrants continuing to take on the traditional travel players.
However, over the past twelve months Thomas Cook has begun to implement its strategy for The strong results in the 2005 06 financial year could not have been achieved without the growth, based on giving customers the holidays they want, at a price they are prepared to pay, great help and support demonstrated by the people of Thomas Cook.
In a year of great change both through a variety of different channels that meet their needs.
With Thomas Cooks robust and within the organisation and across the industry they have worked together to deliver another highly flexible business model in place, the package holiday will remain at the core of the group, strong year in terms of both financial and customer service performance, and for that I sincerely which will continue to evolve and develop the proposition enabling customers to take holidays thank them.
