Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2006 The directors present their report and group audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006.
Principal Activity The principal activity of the group during 2006 continued to be software development and distribution and related support, maintenance and consulting services.
The group has activities throughout Europe, North America, Asia and Australia, with smaller operations in Brazil and Argentina.
Review of Developments and 2006 Results Results of the company are set out beginning on page 20.
Revenue for the year ended 31 December 2006 was $250.7 million, an increase of 161% from $96.0 million in 2005.
Net profit was $39.1 million for 2006 compared with net profit of $9.0 million in 2005.
The company solidified its industry-leading position during 2006, following two significant acquisitions in 2005.
The Financial Review beginning on page 4 provides further comment on the developments and the results for the year, as well as risks and uncertainties.
Enhanced Business Review The directors are required to provide an enhanced business review.
The information the review is required to contain is set out in this report and in the financial results section of the letter from the CEO and the Financial Review, which also report on the business and principal issues of the past year and future prospects.
Research and Development The company remains firmly committed to research and development to maintain its position as a market leader.
During the year the company spent $54.9 million 2005: $21.9 million, including $3.2 million of capitalized costs, on research and development, an increase of 150% from 2005.
Dividends The Board reviews uses of cash resources on an ongoing basis.
In light of the companys continued need for cash for potential trade investments and expected significant investment in further research and development, the company to date has not paid or declared dividends on its shares, in common with most of its peer companies in the high technology sector.
The policy will be kept under continual review.
Accordingly the directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend 2005 - Nil.
Authority to Purchase Own Shares At the last Annual General Meeting, the shareholders authorized the company to make market purchases of up to 27,407,950 ordinary shares representing approximately 14.9% of its issued share capital at that time.
The authority will expire at the end of the next Annual General Meeting of the company unless renewed at that meeting.
During 2006 the company did not conduct any share repurchases.
In total, the company has purchased for cancellation 20,997,824 shares, representing approximately 11.2% of the company's total issued share capital at 31 December 2006, at an average price of 1.65 per share, for aggregate consideration of 34.4 million.
As of 31 December 2006, the company had remaining authorization to repurchase 27,407,950 of the companys ordinary shares.
The companys continuation of its repurchase program during 2007 will depend on market conditions.
Financial Instruments In relation to the use of financial instruments, the directors' objectives are to minimize risk whilst achieving maximum return on liquid assets.
The directors are averse to principal loss and manage the safety and preservation of the companys invested funds by limiting default and market risks by investing with high rated financial institutions.
The companys investment portfolio is comprised entirely of cash and cash equivalents.
All short-term investments have a fixed interest rate.
The company does not use derivative financial instruments.
The group historically has not faced material exposure to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk or cash flow risk, outside of the ordinary course of business.
As the company has a bank loan, arising in connection with the Verity acquisition, the company is marginally exposed to interest rate risk.
Further information about the companys financial assets and liabilities is provided in the notes to the financial statements.
Future Developments The company's stated objective is to establish its technology as the infrastructure standard for automating operations on all forms of unstructured information.
The directors continue to believe that to achieve this goal it is important to expand the number and range of potential customers for its technology.
To this end, the company intends to sign further licence agreements with new customers and to establish relationships with third-party value added resellers, services providers and OEMs to ensure that the company's products are distributed as widely as practicable.
The company also plans to develop new technology to license to new and existing customers.
As a result of its position as an emerging standard in its industry, the company is presented with opportunities from time to time to acquire complementary technology or resources.
Autonomy Corporation plc 8 Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2006 Directors and Their Interests A list of the directors who served during the year, their interests in the ordinary share capital of the company and details of any share options over the ordinary share capital of the company, as well as details of service contracts, are set forth in the Remuneration Committee report beginning on page 14.
No director had a material interest in any significant contract, other than a service contract or contract for services, with the company or any of its subsidiaries at any time during the year.
Re-election of Directors The companys Articles of Association require at least one third of the directors to be subject to re-election at each Annual General Meeting.
Dr. Lynch and Mr. Hussain were re-elected as directors at the companys Annual General Meeting in 2004 and are standing for re-election at the next Annual General Meeting.
In addition Mr. McMonigall is standing for re-election in accordance with Combined Code Section A.
Each individuals performance continues to be exemplary and they demonstrate commitment to their roles.
Biographies for all directors, including those standing for re-election, appear on page 7.
2 Interests of FMR Corp and Fidelity International Limited were previously aggregated under Fidelity International Limited prior to implementation of the EU Transparency Directive, but are now reported separately.
Supplier Payment Policy The company's policy is to settle payment terms with all suppliers when agreeing a transaction, to ensure that suppliers are aware of the terms and to abide by such terms.
Generally the company pays suppliers at the end of the month following that in which the supplier's invoice is received.
Creditor days outstanding as at 31 December 2006 calculated in accordance with Schedule 7 Companies Act 1985 for the company was 25 days 2005 - 22 days and for the principal U. K. subsidiary was 52 days 2005 - 50 days.
Employees Matters relating to the companys employees are discussed on page 18.
Charitable and Political Contributions The companys charitable policies are discussed on page 19.
The group made $164,420 in charitable donations during 2006 to a variety of charities including The Princes Trust, Comic Relief and Alderburgh Music 2005 - $45,634.
The group did not make any political contributions during 2006 2005 - $Nil.
Going Concern After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources to continue its operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Indemnity Provisions At the companys Annual General Meeting in May 2006 shareholders approved an amendment to the companys Articles of Association providing for indemnification of directors, which remain in force.
A copy of the companys Memorandum and Articles of Association are available for inspection at the companys office and from Companies House.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at the companys offices in Cambridge, UK, on 18 April 2007, at 1:00 pm.
The company will convey the results of proxy votes cast at the Annual General Meeting, and the results of the meeting will be announced through the regulatory news services.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting is set out in the circular to shareholders accompanying this annual report.
The company is committed to the policy of one share one vote.
Deloitte & Touche LLP, the companys independent auditors, have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors.
A resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
9 Autonomy Corporation plc Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2006 Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
The directors are required to prepare financial statements for the group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and have also elected to prepare financial statements for the company in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
Company law requires the directors to prepare such financial statements in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a directors report and directors remuneration report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the company website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Audit Each of the persons who were a director at the date of approval of this annual report confirms that: so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the company's auditors are unaware: and he has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the company's auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
On behalf of the Board, Dr. Michael R. Lynch Chief Executive Officer and Co-Founder 13 March 2007 Registered Office: Cambridge Business Park, Cowley Road, Cambridge CB4 0WZ Registered Number: 3175909 Autonomy Corporation plc 10
