Topps Tiles Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 THINK STRATEGY A PROVEN AND RESILIENT BUSINESS MODEL 1.
STORE LAYOUT We continually strive to provide and maintain high levels of Our average store size is just over 6,250 square feet and can customer service and regard it as fundamental to the ongoing accommodate our in-house formats including wood flooring and success of Topps.
The quality and performance of our staff at natural stone, which usually have their own individually branded every level is key and we train all our staff at our own national section of the store.
and regional training centres and through our e-learning tile training college.
Customer service remains our number one All our stores have a similar layout, are clearly branded and priority and it is our policy to be honest, helpful and designed to be customer-friendly with product and pricing knowledgeable but never pushy.
clearly displayed on colourful and informative point-of-sale displays.
The stores are mini-warehouse style, which is ideal to We complement the advice that our staff can give in store with a display our extensive product ranges as well as ensuring they range of services offering practical support to customers which are easy to navigate with trolleys, prams and pushchairs.
include Loan-a-Tile, free How to DVD, tile cutting service and our buy-back service which allows undamaged stock tiles to be returned within 45 days for a full refund.
STORE LOCATIONS Topps Tiles and Tile Clearing House offer a huge choice of Topps stores are purposely located in highly visible destinations, product, with the best the world has to offer in wall and floor on or close to busy roads and always with parking facilities.
Our tiles, natural stone, laminate and real wood flooring.
Our stores in the main are not located on high streets or large retail extensive in-store product offering is supported by on-site parks.
Our controlled expansion programme is taking us across stock facilities.
The combination of choice of product with the UK and a full list of stores can be found at the end of this the availability of inventory is unrivalled in the UK.
Our new report or on our website at www.
marketing and distribution centre ensures that all our stores Our stores trade seven days a week on Monday to Saturday receive at least two deliveries a week to ensure stock levels opening from 8.00am to 6.00pm and on Sundays either 10.00am are maintained at every store.
to 4.00pm or 11.00am to 5.00pm, with a number of larger stores opening until 8.00pm during the week.
05 Topps Tiles Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 WE BELIEVE WE HAVE THE RIGHT BUSINESS MODEL AND THE RIGHT PEOPLE TO CONTINUE TO GAIN MARKET SHARE IN THE CURRENT TRADING ENVIRONMENT.
