70306 Travis Pre 26 3 07 14:42 Page 56 DIRECT ORS REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2006 The Directors present their annual BALANCE SHEET AND POST to be effective in, and committed to, report and audited accounts for the year BALANCE SHEET EVENTS their roles as non-executive directors.
The balance sheet on pages 65 and 66 In accordance with the Companys shows the Groups financial position.
At Articles of Association, Stephen Carter, PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES the year end, in both net assets and who has been appointed as a director Travis Perkins is one of the largest cash terms, it is consistent with the since the last Annual General Meeting, builders merchants and home prior year.
No significant events have will retire at the forthcoming Annual improvement retailers in the UK.
The occurred since the balance sheet date.
General Meeting and will offer himself principal activities of the Group are for election.
The Board believes that, the sale of timber, building materials, PRINCIPAL RISKS AND with his experience of a number of plumbing and heating products, and UNCERTAINTIES different business sectors, he will the hiring of tools to the building A review of the Groups principal risks continue to make a valuable trade and industry generally and, and uncertainties are contained in the contribution to the Board.
Tim since the acquisition of Wickes, to the Finance Directors report on pages 34 to Stevenson, Chairman, confirms on general public, within the United 37 and in note 3 to the accounts.
behalf of the Board that Stephen Carter Kingdom.
The Directors are not aware, continues to be effective in and at the date of this report, of any likely DIRECTORS AND THEIR committed to his role as a nonmajor changes in the Groups activities INTERESTS executive director.
As a non-executive in the next year.
The names of the Directors at 31 director, Stephen Carter does not have a December 2006, together with their service contract.
ENHANCED BUSINESS biographical details, are set out on Directors and officers of the REVIEW pages 40 and 41.
All of those Directors Company are entitled to be indemnified A review of the Groups position, held office throughout the year except out of the assets of the Company in developments and future prospects is Andrew Simon, who was appointed on respect of any liability incurred in 20 February 2006 and Stephen Carter, relation to the affairs of the Company, contained in the Chairmans statement on pages 10 and 11, the who was appointed on 24 April 2006.
In or any associate company, to the extent Chief Executives review on pages 12 accordance with the Companys Articles the law allows.
In this regard, the to 23, the Chief Operating Officers of Association, John Carter, John Company is required to disclose that review on pages 24 to 29 and the Coleman and Michael Dearden will under article 147 of the Companys Finance Directors report on pages 30 retire by rotation and, being eligible, Articles of Association, the Directors to 37.
A review of the Groups will offer themselves for re-election at have the benefit of an indemnity, to the environmental performance is the forthcoming Annual General extent permitted by the Companies Act contained in the Chief Executives Meeting.
John Carter has a rolling 12 1985 as amended, against liabilities review on pages 16 to 20. month notice period in his contract.
As incurred by them in the execution of non-executive directors, John Coleman their duties and exercise of their RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS and Michael Dearden do not have powers.
This indemnity is currently in The Group results and dividends for the service contracts.
A copy of the Companys Articles year ended 31 December 2006 are set evaluation of their performance as a of Association which contains this out on page 64.
If approved, the final result of the process described on page indemnity is available for inspection at dividend will be paid on 17 May 2007 to 43, Tim Stevenson, Chairman, confirms the Companys registered office during those shareholders on the register at the on behalf of the Board that John normal business hours and will be close of business on 20 April 2007.
Coleman and Michael Dearden continue available for inspection at the 56 70306 Travis Pre 26 3 07 14:42 Page 57 DIRECT ORS REPORT SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS AT 19 JANUARY 2007 Beneficial Non-beneficial Number % Number % E. R. A. Travis 1,966,026 1.61 6,402,252 5.24 C. M. Travis 1,016,992 0.83 5,793,257 4.74 Legal and General Group PLC 4,267,030 3.49 - - companys forthcoming Annual General EMPLOYEES AND organisations or incur any EU political Meeting.
CHARITABLE DONATIONS expenditure during the year.
None of the Directors had an Statements on these matters are interest in any contract to which the contained in the Chief Operating SUPPLIER PAYMENT POLICY Company or any of its subsidiaries was a Officers review and in the Chief The Groups policy is to pay all of its party during the year.
Executives review respectively on pages suppliers in accordance with established The disclosable interests of Directors 28, 29 and 20. terms.
Group trade creditors at 31 at 31 December 2006, including Details of the number of December 2006 represented 52.5 days holdings, if any, of wives and of employees and related costs can be 31 December 2005: 50.5 days of children aged under 18, were as found in note 7 to the financial average purchases of goods and detailed in the directors remuneration statements.
The Company trade creditors at report on pages 51, 53 and 54.
Applications for employment by 31 December 2006 represented 30 days disabled persons are always fully 2005: 30 days.
SUBSTANTIAL considered, bearing in mind the SHAREHOLDINGS aptitudes of the person concerned.
In AUDITOR Until 19 January 2007, the Company the event of a member of staff A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte & maintained a register of substantial becoming disabled, every effort is Touche LLP as the Companys auditor shareholdings in accordance with the made to ensure that their employment and to authorise the Directors to fix the provisions of s. 211 of the Companies Act with the Group continues and that auditors remuneration will be proposed 1985.
At 19 January 2007, the register appropriate training is arranged.
It is at the Annual General Meeting.
showed that the holdings exceeding the the policy of the Company that the 3% disclosure threshold were as the training, career development and STATEMENT ON DISCLOSURE table above.
promotion of disabled persons should, OF INFORMATION On 20 January 2007, the Companies as far as possible, be identical to that TO AUDITOR Act 1985 provisions in respect of of other employees.
Each of the persons who is a director at substantial shareholdings were repealed The Groups policies and practices the date of approval of this report and replaced by the Disclosure and have been established to keep confirms that: Transparency Rules of the FSA.
As at 5 employees informed on matters so far as the Director is aware, there March 2007, the Company had received relevant to them as employees is no relevant audit information of notification that the holdings of voting through regular meetings and which the Companys auditor is rights exceeding the 3% notification newsletters.
Employee representatives unaware: and threshold was as follows: are consulted regularly on a wide the Director has taken all reasonable Baillie Gifford & Co which held range of matters affecting their steps that he ought to have taken as 9,079,300 voting rights representing interests.
The sharesave scheme has a director in order to make himself 7.44% of the total voting rights attaching been running successfully since its aware of any relevant audit to the issued ordinary share capital of inception and is open to all employees information and to establish that the the Company.
Companys auditor is aware of that information.
CLOSE COMPANY STATUS POLITICAL DONATIONS This confirmation is given and should The close company provisions of the The Group did not give any money for be interpreted in accordance with the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 political purposes in the UK nor did it provisions of s234ZA of the Companies do not apply to the Company.
make any donations to EU political Act 1985.
57 70306 Travis Pre 26 3 07 14:42 Page 58 DIRECT ORS REPORT letter from the Chairman to time such placing will cease to be shareholders dated 5 March 2007. relevant to this cumulative limit.
The authority extends until the earlier of the Resolution 11: Renewal of authority conclusion of the next Annual General to allot shares Meeting and the date fifteen months Under the Companies Act 1985 the from the passing of this resolution.
Any Board is not able to allot shares except issue of shares for cash will, however, with the general or specific authority of still be subject to the requirements of shareholders.
Resolution 11 renews the the UK Listing Authority.
Boards authority to issue share capital up to an aggregate nominal amount of Resolution 13: Amendment of 1,288,449.20 being the Companys Articles of Association authorised but unissued share capital.
Resolution 13 proposes certain This represents 10.55% of the issued amendments to the Companys Articles ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING share capital of the Company as at 5 of Association.
The revised Articles of SPECIAL BUSINESS March 2007 excluding treasury shares.
Association would enable the Company The Annual General Meeting of the The Company holds no treasury shares to benefit from broader powers under Company will be held at Northampton at 5 March 2007.
The authority extends the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act Rugby Football Club, Franklins until the earlier of the conclusion of in relation to the sending or supplying Gardens, Weedon Road, Northampton, the next Annual General Meeting and of notices, documents or information by NN5 5BG on Tuesday 15 May 2007 at the date fifteen months from the the Company in electronic form 11.45 a. m. The following items are to passing of this resolution.
The Board including via a website.
Although the be proposed at the forthcoming Annual does not have any present intention of Company's Articles of Association General Meeting as items of special exercising this authority other than for currently contain provisions relating to business, and the Board recommends the purposes of the Companys electronic communications, the relevant that shareholders vote in favour of all employee share option schemes.
provisions of the 2006 Act, which came resolutions put before the Annual into force on 20 January 2007, permit General Meeting.
Resolution 12: Limited authority the use of electronic communications to to allot shares for cash a greater extent than was previously Resolution 8: Directors The Companies Act 1985 provides that, possible.
In particular, the 2006 Act remuneration report when equity securities are being issued permits all communications between In accordance with the Directors for cash, such securities must first be shareholders and the Company to be Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, offered pro-rata to existing shareholders made in electronic form and allows this resolution seeks shareholders unless the Board is given power to allot notices, documents or information approval of the report of the Directors them without regard to that including, for example, the Companys Remuneration Report as set out on requirement.
Resolution 12 therefore annual report and accounts to be sent pages 47 to 54. empowers the Board to allot for cash, or supplied via the Companys website equity securities of a nominal amount unless a shareholder has specifically Resolution 9: Amendment of share not exceeding 610,577.54 representing requested to continue to receive notices, matching scheme 5 % of the issued share capital as at documents and information in hard This resolution seeks shareholders 5 March 2007 without first offering such copy form.
approval to amend the rules of the securities to existing shareholders.
Under The Directors believe that it is in the Travis Perkins Share Matching Scheme the relevant institutional shareholder interests of the Company to take which is summarised on pages 49 and voting guidelines, the annual advantage of these broader powers.
50 and further details of which are disapplication of pre-emption rights Subject to the passing of this resolution, given in the letter from the Chairman to should not exceed 5% of the issued the Company intends to make use of shareholders dated 5 March 2007. share capital and there is also a these provisions in the future in order to cumulative limit of 7.5% of issued share facilitate communications between the Resolution 10: Approval of capital in any three year period.
Company and its shareholders and to performance share plan Although the Board is seeking a reduce the cost currently incurred in This resolution seeks shareholders disapplication in respect of 5% the Board sending paper copies of documents to a approval to the proposed rules of the will have due regard to the effect of the large number of shareholders.
If this Travis Perkins 2007 Performance Share placing in connection with the Wickes resolution is passed the Company will Plan which is summarised on page 49 acquisition on such 7.5% cumulative write to shareholders, in accordance and further details are given in the limit until 18 December 2007, at which with the 2006 Act, inviting those 58 70306 Travis Pre 26 3 07 14:42 Page 59 DIRECT ORS REPORT shareholders who wish to continue to resolution, which is set out in full in 11,997 Deferred Shares, 12,916 Deferred receive notices, documents and the Notice of Annual General Meeting Matching Shares and 26,147 Investment information in hard copy form to notify on page 104, will be proposed as Matching Shares, these are described in the Company accordingly.
As this will special business at the forthcoming the Share Matching Awards section of only take place after the Annual General Annual General Meeting to give the the Remuneration Report on pages 49 Meeting, shareholders need take no Company the authority to purchase its and 50, which represent 3.70% of the action at present.
own ordinary shares in the market as Companys issued ordinary share capital In addition, the references to sections permitted by the Companies Act 1985. excluding treasury shares.
If the of the Companies Act 1985 contained in The authority limits the number of authority to purchase the Companys the existing Articles of Association shares that could be purchased to a ordinary shares were exercised in full, dealing with the disclosure of Directors maximum of 12,211,550 representing these options would represent 4.11% of interests and the Companys power to 10% of the issued ordinary share the Companys issued ordinary share investigate holdings of its shares are to capital of the Company as at 5 March capital excluding treasury shares.
As at be updated to reflect the repeal and or 2007 and sets minimum and 5 March 2007, the Company did not re-enactment of those sections by the maximum prices.
This authority will hold any treasury shares in the Company 2006 Act.
expire no later than 15 months after and no warrants over ordinary shares in A copy of the Companys existing the date of the forthcoming Annual the capital of the Company existed.
Articles of Association, a copy marked to General Meeting.
show the differences between the The Directors consider that it is in existing Articles of Association and the the best interests of the Company to Articles of Association as proposed to be have available this authorisation, in amended pursuant to resolution 13 and case of circumstances when it would be By order of the Board a copy of the Articles of Association appropriate to use it.
They would only A. S. Pike incorporating such amendments will be use it after consideration of the effect Secretary available for inspection from the date of on earnings per share and the longer 5 March 2007 this notice up to the time of the Annual term benefit for the Company and General Meeting at the registered office shareholders generally.
The fact that of the Company during usual business such authorisation is being sought hours and at the place of the Annual should not be taken to imply that General Meeting for at least 15 minutes shares would be purchased at any before and during the meeting.
particular price or indeed at all.
Any ordinary shares purchased pursuant Resolution 14: Authority to to this authority may either be held as purchase own shares treasury shares or cancelled by the The authority for the Company to Company, depending on which course purchase its own shares of 10 pence of action is considered by the Directors each granted at last years Annual to be in the best interests of General Meeting will expire on the shareholders at the time.
date of the forthcoming Annual As at 5 March 2007, there were General Meeting.
The Directors wish to options over 4,515,230 ordinary shares renew this authority and a special in the capital of the Company, including 59
