70306 Travis Pre 26 3 07 14:40 Page 6 WHO WE ARE TRAVIS PERKINS PLCKEYLINE CITYPLUMBING Travis Perkins, a major PLC, is a Keyline Builders Merchants is a City Plumbing Supplies is one of main supplier to the building and major supplier of heavy building the fastest growing plumbing and construction market, one of the products and materials to the heating suppliers in the UK, with largest industries in the UK.
building and construction a dedicated nationwide branch The present day Company was market, one of the largest network of 178 branches.
formed in 1988 out of a merger industries in the UK.
The Company began trading between Travis & Arnold plc, a Born out of the merger of in 1981 from a single site in company with a strong Midlands established regional merchants Salisbury, Wiltshire, supplying and Northern based business, and united under the one name plumbing and heating products and Sandell Perkins plc, a of Keyline in 1988, the Company to the local trade.
During its first company with an equivalent developed its strong local identity decade of trading it concentrated strength in the South of England.
through the late 1970s and early on steady growth, developing The origins of Sandell Perkins 1980s by capitalising on the existing sites and evolving its can be traced back over 200 knowledge and expertise of staff range of products and services.
years to 1797 when a carpentry in acquired businesses.
For more than 25 years, the company was first established in Further acquisitions of Company has built its reputation London: Travis & Arnold was independent merchants of selling quality products and initially formed as a partnership continued throughout the 1990s providing expert service.
During the early to mid which gave Keyline a competitive The Company offers the 20th century both businesses advantage.
It now operates from highest quality products, and, expanded before eventually 76 branches across Scotland, expert service to trade and retail becoming listed public England and Wales.
customers which makes City companies, Travis & Arnold was As a progressive company, Plumbing Supplies the first choice the first to the market in 1964, Keyline has developed its for plumbing and heating followed 22 years later by requirements.
Its trade counter traditional heavyside range and Sandell Perkins.
increased its product portfolio to offers one of the UKs largest 2006 saw a major include roofing, insulation and ranges of stock products from achievement with the opening dry lining, hand and power tools, tried and trusted brands, at the the Groups 1,000th business unit: landscaping materials, painting lowest trade prices.
a brownfield Travis Perkins and decorating materials, timber branch in Hatfield, Hertfordshire, and Truss Joists, kitchens, five years after opening its 500th tool hire as well as general branch.
The Group also launched building materials.
its latest business, Benchmarx Kitchens and Joinery a trade-only one-stop-shop for the small specialist joiner.
Arthur Davidson, Managing Director, Keyline John Frost, Managing Director, City Plumbing 6 70306 Travis Pre 26 3 07 14:40 Page 7 C CF WICKES BENCHMARX CCF Commercial Ceiling Factors Wickes stores are designed to Benchmarx is the newest is one of the UKs leading appeal to tradesmen, who business within the Travis Perkins distributors of interior building undertake general repairs, Group, opening its first branch on products to the construction maintenance and improvement 10 July 2006 in Croydon.
Its service and support, projects for households and to The Company targets the small combined with a nationwide serious DIY customers, who carry specialist joinery SSJ market, branch network and extensive out more complex DIY projects.
which has emerged over the past fleet of modern vehicles ensures These customers are more ten years, and is now a significant that customers get the materials demanding in terms of service, sector in the merchanting arena.
they require, where and when quality and price.
With its offering of ready they need them.
The Company meets these assembled kitchens, doors, Founded in 1978, CCF expectations by offering a hardware, and accessories: its operates from a network of 25 targeted range of primarily own vision is to become the first branches throughout mainland brand, competitively priced home choice supplier of kitchens and UK, with a further five branches improvement products, with joinery products to the trade operating as Passmore Drywall particular emphasis on building through its competitive pricing, and Insulation.
CCF supplies trade products, such as timber, bricks quality products and account customers with an and cement.
In addition, Wickes knowledgeable staff.
impressive product portfolio, stores offer a range of kitchens, The Company operated from which has extended since the conservatories, bathrooms and six locations in the South East of Companys formation to include bedrooms, which are sold England by the end of 2006 and ceilings, dry lining, insulation, through in-store showrooms.
has a vigorous expansion plan partitioning and fire protection Wickes opened its first store in for 2007. products, all from the leading the UK in 1972 at Whitefield in manufacturers.
The concept was CCF is proud of its dedication launched as a joint venture to service excellence.
As well as between the US group, Wickes providing customers a large and Corporation, and the UK builders comprehensive stockholding of merchant, Sankeys.
Travis Perkins major product lines it also offers acquired Wickes in 2005 and the a variety of transport and company now operates from delivery options.
Andrew Harrison, Managing Director, CCF Jeremy Bird, Managing Director, Wickes Rob Gladwin, Managing Director, Benchmarx 7 70306 Travis Pre 26 3 07 14:40 Page 8 WHO WE ARE TP MIDLANDS TP SOUTH EAST TP SOUTH WEST From its Head Office in Travis Perkins operates from 132 Travis Perkins has seen Northampton, Travis Perkins branches across the South East: tremendous growth in the South Midlands operates 115 branches more than 50 of which are within West over the last 10 years.
From across the breadth of England the M25.
At eight acres, Aylesford 42 branches in 1996, it now and Wales, from Lowestoft in the is its largest branch and is also boasts 159 branches following East to Caernarfon in the West.
the major acquisitions of Sharpe Travis Perkins in the Midlands The business also operates and Fisher, Brittons in South supplies a wide range of products Travis Perkins timber operations Wales and important single consisting of 100,000 lines, at the Port of Tilbury, Essex.
including general building company imports in excess of At least one-third of all materials, timber, plumbing & 75,000 cubic metres of timber building and construction heating, kitchens, bathrooms and product per year from material sales in the South-West landscaping materials to trade responsible sources across the as supplied by UK builders professionals and self-builders.
World, and distributes it from a merchants were made from The Midlands business is also 200,000 sq ft facility to the these Travis Perkins branches.
home to the new Group Hire groups merchanting branches Its operation in Ferndown, Division and the new 1.8m across the UK.
Dorset, produces all the prepared National Service Centre - a One of TP South Easts branch and moulded softwood for the dedicated 15,000 sq ft facility, openings in 2006 was historic for South West business and supplies which offers an onsite workshop the Group, as Hatfield in much of the specialist plywood and huge equipment stock to Hertfordshire was chosen as for boat and yacht builders in the support a network of 163 Hire Travis Perkins 1,000th branch.
With its strong network of branches in London, the business is working closely with building and construction companies in the development of facilities for the London 2012 Olympics.
Ian Church, Managing Director, TP Midlands Joe Mescall, Managing Director, TP South East Norman Bell, Managing Director, TP South West 8 70306 Travis Pre 26 3 07 14:40 Page 9 Benchmarx, Croydon TP NORTHERN Based in Stockport, Cheshire, Travis Perkins Northern has increased its business unit portfolio by an impressive 35% in just four years, and operated from 156 branches by the date of this report.
Of all the TP businesses Travis Perkins Northern has the largest geographical spread.
It reaches as far North as Invergordon in Ross Shire down to Long Eaton in Nottingham and Spalding in Lincolnshire, then across from Scarborough in the East to the very Western point of Scotland at Fort William.
Like all Travis Perkins businesses, Travis Perkins Northern supplies these areas of the UK with an extensive range of product lines, including timber, forest, heavy and light building materials, plumbing & heating Andrew Pike and Tool Hire.
Company Secretary TP Northern has successfully built and opened 17 new branches in the last two years and looks set to continue its aggressive expansion strategy in the future.
Carol Kavanagh Group Human Resources Director Mark Nottingham, Managing Director, TP Northern Martin Meech Group Property Director 9
