4 Chairman and Chief Executive statement Business review Corporate responsibility Board of Directors and Executive Committee Corporate governance Remuneration report Directors report Group independent auditors report Accounts and notes Unaudited other information Holding company accounts and notes Investor relations Chairman and Chief Executive statement Within the following Chairman and Chief Executive Statement, all figures are presented on an adjusted basis excluding disposed businesses Magazines and Exhibitions division and traditional recruitment consultancy business, non-recurring items including a 250 million impairment of Regional newspaper titles, reduction in the charge for share-based payments relating to 2004 and 2005, the amortisation of intangible assets and the impact of IAS 39 unless otherwise stated.
A reconciliation between the adjusted and the statutory numbers is provided in note i on page 86.
Overview Throughout 2006 Trinity Mirror faced a difficult advertising We publish 324 newspapers marketplace due to the volatile retail sales environment, the effect of rising unemployment and the impact of rising interest rates on and supplements, as well consumer confidence.
However, the end of the fourth quarter showed some encouraging improvement in the advertising markets, as 322 websites although it is still too early to call the turn in the cycle.
In the face of these conditions our performance was creditable.
Whilst Group revenues fell by 51.5 million to 1,032.1 million, the impact on profit was partially mitigated through tight cost management which contributed to operating profits falling by only 37.4 million to 207.0 million.
The benefit of a 9.9 million IAS 19 finance credit limited the fall in profit before tax which fell by 29.7 million to 185.4 million.
We exceeded our target of 15 million net cost savings announced in December 2005 and delivered 20 million.
As a result operating costs, excluding acquisitions, fell by 23.3 million in the year despite significant inflationary pressures.
Our strategy, to build a multi-platform media business, remained on course throughout 2006.
We continued to further segment and layer our portfolio by geography and target segments, across both print and online, deepening our penetration in our core markets.
This activity saw us launch both companion websites to many of our print titles, micro-sites serving local communities and sites serving key advertising markets in recruitment, property and motors.
In addition we launched six new newspapers and continued to acquire digital assets.
com mdia press We continued to generate strong cash flows with net debt falling during the year from 492.5 million to 440.9 million.
This figure takes into account the payment of 63.7 million for dividends and 72.8 million net capital expenditure which has been partially offset by the proceeds from the disposal of the Magazines and Exhibitions division and the traditional recruitment consultancy business acquired with the hotgroup plc.
The Board remains confident in the strong cash flow and the long-term growth potential of our business and therefore proposes to maintain the final dividend at 15.5 pence per share even though earnings have fallen during the year.
Throughout 2006, our staff, across all areas of our business, have demonstrated their talent, tenacity and enthusiasm in rising to the challenges we have faced.
On behalf of the Board, we would like to thank them for their commitment and hard work over the course of the year.
We also undertook a thorough review of our businesses and concluded that to take the Group forward we should rationalise our portfolio and concentrate on those assets in Wales, the North East, the North West, Scotland and our national newspaper titles.
At the same time we will streamline and modernise the Group through the implementation of a new technology-led operating model which will further drive efficiencies and performance.
These changes are expected to deliver revenue benefits and we have already identified a further 20 million of annualised cost savings by 2008.
Our approach is one of continuous improvement to ensure we are best positioned to take advantage of all changes in market conditions.
Our Regional businesses in the Midlands and London and the South East do not offer the same opportunities for the Group and are likely to be more attractive to other owners.
The Board, therefore, concluded that it should seek to dispose of these businesses.
In addition it concluded that the Racing Post, which operates as a standalone business within the Group, should also be divested.
The disposals do not affect any part of the Groups manufacturing network.
The disposals will focus the Group on a streamlined portfolio of high-quality media assets, offering growth in revenues, margins and earnings.
Strong cash flow generation will support this growth through continued investment and selected acquisitions and will provide continuing rewards to shareholders.
We intend to optimise our capital structure following the disposals and we are intending to return the cash proceeds, net of related taxes and payments into the pension funds, to shareholders.
Looking further ahead we are confident that the reorganisation we have started following the business review, the strength of our portfolio and our growing success at building and acquiring digital assets will all contribute to growth once the current cyclical advertising downturn comes to an end.
6 Chairman and Chief Executive statement Business review Corporate responsibility Board of Directors and Executive Committee Corporate governance Remuneration report Directors report Group independent auditors report Accounts and notes Unaudited other information Holding company accounts and notes Investor relations Publishing activities New initiatives Our portfolio of businesses delivered a creditable performance in a We continue to focus on driving growth from new initiatives, depressed advertising market through our continued focus on deepening our presence in our core markets and geographies, both improving revenues and driving efficiencies to partially mitigate the in print and online.
During the year we have launched 245 websites, impact on profits.
six new newspaper titles including Metros in Cardiff and Liverpool and six BuySell editions covering the North West and North Wales.
Our Regionals division, in line with our strategy, continued to drive 2007 will see the Group continue this launch pipeline.
forward with launching new titles and websites and in doing so deepening our penetration of core markets.
Coupled with this we To strengthen our online presence in property we acquired have been maximising revenues through the rejuvenation of our Email4Property in May 2006.
This business is now fully integrated brands and through optimising our pricing and packaging of within the operations of Smartnewhomes and achieved revenues advertising across our portfolio of products and platforms.
These of 0.7 million in the period since acquisition.
activities have partially offset the impact of the advertising market.
In addition, our little and often cover pricing policy has enabled us to The development of our digital assets continues with significant continue to increase circulation revenues despite volume declines.
Whilst the hotgroups development was temporarily slowed by management changes made during the first half, Our National titles achieved a strong profit performance despite a the remainder of our acquired digital businesses are exceeding difficult advertising market and an extremely competitive circulation expectations.
We have appointed a senior manager with environment characterised by substantial increases in promotional responsibility for seeking out new opportunities and accelerating activity and price-cutting by all our competitor daily newspapers.
the development of our acquired online recruitment businesses.
While circulation volumes remain under pressure as a result of this Our aim is to substantially increase digital revenues as a proportion activity, management continues to believe that excessive marketing of total revenues.
expenditure does not drive longer-term value and its focus is to ensure sustainable returns on all investment in our titles.
We are progressing with the implementation of our new technologyled operating model thereby modernising and streamlining We appointed a new Managing Director for the UK Nationals at the our processes.
beginning of 2006 and further strengthened the team with the appointment of a new Advertising Director.
This programme will enable us to drive revenues by better serving our advertisers and readers through: In Scotland the marketplace saw heavy cover price-cutting activity by all national tabloids and in particular the Sun newspaper which Online booking of adverts across print and digital platforms cut its price to 10 pence.
In order to preserve the Daily Records Advert creation functionality that will enable customers to create market leadership, we promoted and rewarded reader loyalty their own adverts online through the use of discount vouchers for a limited period.
Whilst this Consolidation of call centres to drive best in class customer service activity has impacted profits it has provided a firmer platform for the A new multi-platform editorial system business with which to grow future profitability.
In August we Transformation of our newspaper sales operations for both paidlaunched Record PM, in Glasgow and Edinburgh, as a paid-for for and free titles.
evening edition of the Daily Record, to increase reach and response for our advertisers.
To optimise our market penetration we moved the In addition to transforming the way we do business the new title to a free distribution model and extended its distribution to operating model is expected to drive significant efficiencies, further Aberdeen and Dundee in January 2007. cost savings, and incremental revenues.
The Sports division delivered a robust performance in 2006 despite the impact of a new nationally distributed daily betting title The Sportsman which launched in March 2006.
The division rose to the competitive challenge by introducing further improvements to both the editorial content of the Racing Post and the availability of the paper within the news trade.
These enhancements were supported by a strong marketing campaign.
Just six months after launch The Sportsman ceased publication.
com mdia press Disposals During June and July 2006 we disposed of our non-core Magazines and Exhibitions division In 2006 through a number of transactions generating gross disposal proceeds of 42.6 million.
In August 2006 we also disposed of our traditional recruitment consultancy business we launched: which was acquired as part of the hotgroup plc in 2005, for a consideration of 11.2 million.
245 websites We have commenced the disposal of our Regional businesses in the Midlands and London and the South East, and the Sports division.
We have strong interest from both trade buyers and private equity and expect to complete these transactions during the second and third 6 newspaper titles quarters of 2007.
6 new BuySell Capital expenditure Our programme of investment in colour presses is progressing to plan with the Nationals editions Oldham site repressing programme completed on schedule in July 2006.
The repressing of our other Nationals print sites in Scotland and Watford is scheduled to complete in early 2007 and 2008 respectively.
2006 also saw the completion of a complex network upgrade and rationalisation project which moved all our operations onto a single integrated group network operating on new technology.
The business will benefit significantly through the enablement of new initiatives dependent on the provision of world-class, resilient, networking technology.
Board changes On 4 May 2006, at the Groups Annual General Meeting, Sir Victor Blank retired from the Board.
On the same date, Sir Ian Gibson was appointed as Chairman to the Board.
Sir Victor made a significant contribution over a number of years during which he oversaw the creation of the UKs largest newspaper group when Mirror Group merged with Trinity in 1999.
The Board would like to thank him for his enthusiasm and dedication and for the support he gave the management team to help develop our business.
Laura Wade-Gery joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 4 August 2006.
Outlook We witnessed an encouraging finish to 2006.
Although the current environment remains challenging and volatile we continue to expect advertising market conditions to stabilise during the year with the rate of decline slowing.
The combination of this stabilisation and continued focus on cost reduction underpins the Boards confidence in the future, with 2007 performance in line with expectations.
Sir Ian Gibson, CBE, Chairman Sly Bailey, Chief Executive
