com governance accountability Directors report Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, corporate and financial information included on the Companys Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation accordance with applicable law and regulations.
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
United Kingdom company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
The directors are required Business review by the IAS Regulation to prepare the Group financial statements The Business Review is set out on pages 8 to 25. under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial statements are also required by Principal activities and future development law to be properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act The principal activity of the Group is the publication and printing of 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
newspapers, primarily in the United Kingdom.
The analyses of turnover and operating profit are included in note 4 to the financial International Accounting Standard 1 requires that IFRS financial statements.
A review of our business and activities during the period statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys is contained in the statement of the Chairman and Chief Executive on financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires page 4 and the Business Review on pages 8 to 25. the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition Our strategic intent is to create a more broadly based leading media criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the and information group by growing organically, by acquisition and by International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the developing opportunities for expansion in the new information preparation and presentation of financial statements.
The directors will develop opportunities in print and circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance electronic form.
However, directors are also required to: Results and dividends properly select and apply accounting policies The loss for the 52 weeks to 31 December 2006 attributable to present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that shareholders after taxation and minority interest was 11.5 million.
provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable The comparative for 2005 was a profit of 146.9 million.
An interim information dividend of 6.4 pence per share has been paid on ordinary shares.
provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific The directors now recommend a final dividend of 15.5 pence per requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to share, making a total dividend for the year of 21.9 pence per share.
understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and Payment of the recommended final dividend will be made on 8 June conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
2007 to shareholders registered at the close of business on 4 May 2007.
The payment of these dividends requires 45.4 million 2005: The directors have elected to prepare the parent company financial 45.4 million, as disclosed in note 11 to the financial statements, statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted leaving a loss of 56.9 million 2005: profit of 101.5 million to be Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and retained in the Group.
The parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Charitable and political donations Company.
In preparing financial statements, the directors are During the year contributions for charitable purposes totalled required to: 68,000 2005: 60,000, principally to various charities connected or associated with the newspaper, printing or advertising industries select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently and local charities serving the communities in which we operate.
No make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent direct political contributions were paid during the year 2005: nil.
The state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been editorial stance of our National titles, and in particular that of the Daily followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and Mirror and the Daily Record, is politically left of centre and often explained in the financial statements supportive of the Labour Party.
Although we do not make direct prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless political donations, it has been in the best interests of the Daily Mirror it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue and Daily Record to sponsor, on commercial terms, certain events in in business.
This is a practice that has been followed for many years.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial At the Companys AGM held in 2004, various of our subsidiaries position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the parent received authority from shareholders under the Political Parties, company financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
Elections and Referendums Act 2000 to make donations to political They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the parties of up to 75,000 in aggregate per annum.
In 2006 there were Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention no such payments 2005: nil.
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
48 Chairman and Chief Executive statement Business review Corporate responsibility Board of Directors and Executive Committee Corporate governance Remuneration report Directors report Group independent auditors report Accounts and notes Unaudited other information Holding company accounts and notes Investor relations Employment policies Directors We pursue a policy of equal opportunities to all employees and The directors of the Company who served during the period unless potential employees.
We have continued our policy of giving fair stated otherwise are listed below: consideration to applications for employment made by disabled persons bearing in mind the requirements for skills and aptitude Executive for the job.
In the areas of planned employee training and career Sly Bailey Vijay Vaghela development, we strive to ensure that disabled employees receive Paul Vickers maximum possible benefits, including opportunities for promotion.
Every effort is made to ensure that continuing employment and opportunities are also provided for employees who become disabled.
Non-executive Sir Victor Blank retired 4 May 2006 Within the limitations of commercial confidentiality and security, it is Peter Birch CBE the policy of the Company to take views of employees into account Sir Angus Grossart in making decisions, and, wherever possible, to encourage the Sir Ian Gibson CBE appointed 4 May 2006 involvement of employees in the Groups performance.
Gary Hoffman David Ross Group companies evolve their own consultative policies.
Methods of Laura Wade-Gery appointed 4 August 2006. communication used include advisory committee meetings, newsletters, bulletins, pension trustee reports and management Their remuneration is summarised on page 44 in the Remuneration briefings.
We have operated a savings-related share option scheme Report.
since 1987 and all eligible employees are encouraged to participate.
Details of the directors beneficial and non-beneficial interests in Payment of suppliers shares can be found on pages 45 and 46.
We have a supplier payment policy which provides for payment of all suppliers other than those with agreed alternative terms at the In accordance with the Articles of Association, the directors are month end following the month of receipt of invoice.
All companies required to retire every three years.
Vijay Vaghela, who was last elected within the Group are encouraged to make payments in accordance in 2004, retires and offers himself for re-election.
with those terms and conditions provided that the supplier has also complied with them.
At 31 December 2006, the Company had In accordance with the articles of Association, Directors who are an average of 32 days 2005: 32 days purchases outstanding in appointed between Annual General Meetings are required to retire at trade creditors.
the next Annual General Meeting.
Sir Ian Gibson and Laura WadeGery retire and offer themselves for re-election.
Share capital Details of the movements in the Companys share capital are Sir Angus Grossart, Peter Birch and David Ross will retire at the included as note 30 to the financial statements.
Substantial shareholdings Kathleen ODonovan will be appointed as a non-executive director So far as is known the only persons interested in 3% or more of the following the AGM on 10 May 2007. ordinary shares of the Company as at 1 February 2007 were: Auditors Holding Number of shares in Company % Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this annual report confirms that: Barclays plc 20,508,937 6.99 so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information Brandes Investment Partners, L. P. 18,319,783 6.24 of which the Companys auditors are unaware The Capital Group Companies Inc 28,766,733 9.81 the director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken Fidelity Investments 8,872,747 3.02 as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant Goldman Sachs Group Inc. 17,027,176 5.81 audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Harris Associates, L. P. 38,365,438 13.08 Legal & General Investment This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance Management Ltd 11,312,244 3.85 with the provisions of section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
Standard Life Investments 11,731,465 4.00 Tweedy, Browne Company LLC 13,960,967 4.76 In accordance with section 385 of the Companies Act 1985 a resolution proposing the re-appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as ADRs and ordinary shares aggregated together for disclosure purposes.
auditors to the Company will be put to the Annual General Meeting.
Directors and officers liability insurance By orderofthe Board During the year, the Company has maintained cover for its directors and officers and those of its subsidiary companies under a directors Paul Vickers and officers liability insurance policy, as permitted by section 310 3 Secretary and Group Legal Director of the Companies Act 1985.
