com governance directors Tony Pusey Executive Committee Group Information Technology Director Tony was appointed Group IT Director in December 2000.
Prior to Sly Bailey joining Trinity Mirror, he was Group CIO and Business Change Chief Executive Director at Storehouse plc, which incorporates BHS and Mothercare.
Vijay Vaghela Rupert Middleton Group Finance Director Director of Manufacturing Rupert joined Trinity Mirror as Group Director of Manufacturing Paul Vickers in March 2004.
He was responsible for developing an integrated Secretary and Group Legal Director manufacturing division.
Prior to joining Trinity Mirror, Rupert was previously Managing Director of a division within The Georgina Harvey Stationery Office.
Managing Director, Regional Newspapers Georgina joined the Company in February 2005.
She started her Richard Webb media career at Express Newspapers where she was appointed Managing Director, National Newspapers Advertising Director in 1994.
She joined IPC Media in 1995 as Group Richard joined Trinity Mirror in January 2006 as Managing Director Advertising Sales Director for SouthBank and went on to form National Newspapers.
Previously he was General Manager of News IPC Advertising in 1998, where she was Managing Director.
Georgina Group Newspapers, responsible for The Sun and the News of the became a member of the Board of IPC Media in 2000 and World.
Prior to working in the newspaper industry he worked in was subsequently appointed Managing Director of Wallpaper Group advertising and media buying, latterly as Deputy Managing Director in 2003. of Optimedia UK.
Nick Fullagar Director of Corporate Communications Nick joined Mirror Group as a reporter for the Daily Mirror in 1980.
He is responsible for Group communications including investor and public relations.
He was appointed to the Executive Committee in 2002.
Steve Bird Group HR Director Steve joined Trinity Mirror in 2005.
Previously he was Group HR Director at Lend Lease Corporation, a global property business best known in the UK for its development of the Bluewater shopping centre and the Greenwich peninsula.
Steve has also held senior positions at NatWest Group, Glaxo Wellcome and Ford Motor Company.
