com environment environpolicy guidance on how the essential standards of integrity and conduct are agreement of the relevant Managing Director.
In addition to cash to be maintained.
It is not intended as a statement of new beliefs or donations, the Company is active in making donations in kind in the the creation of new rules of conduct.
Rather, it is a reaffirmation of our form of used computer equipment, furniture, books, etc.
Through its continuing values and practices.
community involvement programmes, the Company makes available members of its staff for volunteering and mentoring programmes.
Finally, this document should be read in conjunction with any specific code issued to individual groups of employees e. g. Financial Community engagement Dealings by Journalists or any provisions of individual contracts of Community engagement is a core element of our local businesses, employment.
with campaigns, appeals and a wide range of other local activities forming part of the everyday activities of our titles.
For example, this The policy itself is available on the Companys website and gives support can either be by advertising the activities of a charity or by guidance on conflicts of interest, the acceptance of gifts and running appeals through which our readers donate to good causes.
entertainment, confidential information, insider information, and In addition, however, the Company also contributes directly, through political and civic activities.
cash donations, to a variety of charities.
Charities To back this work up with further commitment from our own The Companys policy with regard to charitable donations and other workforce, this year Trinity Mirror has introduced an Employee such payments is as follows: Volunteering Policy which enables all our employees to volunteer to work for a day to support a good cause in their area with their effort Trinity Mirror believes that it can best support charities through the paid for by Trinity Mirror.
This support will either be through appeals to readers for donations or through editorial content, describing the To further encourage community engagement within the Group we aims and activities of various charities.
In every case the decision as also have introduced an unsung heroes scheme to award and give to whether or not to support a charity appeal or whether to run internal publicity to the employee who, in the view of their peers, have editorial comment will be one for the editor of each newspaper.
contributed most to the local community over the year.
Trinity Mirror plc will make direct cash donations to charities in certain Risks and opportunities limited circumstances.
The Company will, at a Group level, support Trinity Mirror is not a multinational nor is it engaged in heavy various charities connected with or associated with the newspaper, industry.
It is not, therefore, exposed to some of the risks faced by printing or advertising industries.
A second category of direct cash those who operate in developing countries or with significant support will be to charities operating in the communities immediately environmental exposure.
The greatest exposure for the Group would, surrounding Trinity Mirrors offices and print sites.
The charities that therefore, be a systems failure that led to a domestic failure of its are likely to receive support are smaller community-based charities environmental, health and safety or ethical policies.
It is unlikely that where a modest donation will make a big impact.
It is unlikely that a a failure in any of these three areas would be catastrophic.
major national charity that just happens to be based very close to one of our offices would receive a donation.
There will be a further limited The Board believes that the Companys main exposure would be one general pool of funds out of which donations will be made to legitimate of reputational damage.
The procedure that the Company employs and supportable causes that fall outside the above two criteria.
There to control and manage these risks is through a regular review of its will, however, need in each case to be a demonstrable business standards and systems and through training of relevant employees commercial reason why such support should be given.
The Companys Standards of Business Conduct are embedded within the culture of the Group.
More recently the Each of our regional newspaper companies will have a small budget Companys health and safety policies and systems have been put out of which they will make direct cash donations to charities working under review and have been consolidated and codified.
More in the community in which the newspaper is based.
Scottish Daily attention is now being paid than in the past to environmental matters.
Record and Sunday Mail Limited will similarly make a number of The Company believes that opportunities in these areas are, similarly, donations to appropriate charities based in Scotland.
We believe that there are advantages to being seen as the employer of choice for those entering our industry, that decision The National titles of the Daily Mirror, Sunday Mirror and The People having been made on an assessment, amongst many other things, are most unlikely to make direct cash donations.
They will do so only of our corporate social responsibility programmes.
Those where they are asked to make a payment to charity in lieu of a fee for programmes will also be key in the retention of staff.
We also believe an interview or some form of support.
Any corporate donations that there are obvious commercial advantages from being seen as a requested from the National titles are likely to be redirected to the socially responsible company.
Group, as the Companys headquarters share the same office location as that of the National titles.
Comments to: All Group donations need the prior agreement of the Secretary and Paul Vickers Group Legal Director.
Any local business donations require the prior Secretary and Group Legal Director Trinity Mirror plc, One Canada Square, Canary Wharf, London E14 5AP
