32 Chairman and Chief Executive statement Business review Corporate responsibility Board of Directors and Executive Committee Corporate governance Remuneration report Directors report Group independent auditors report Accounts and notes Unaudited other information Holding company accounts and notes Investor relations 1 3 4 6 5 2 10 11 12 33 http: www.
com governance directors Board of Directors Executive Committee Sly Bailey, Chief Executive 12 Sly Bailey, Chief Executive 12 Peter Birch CBE, Senior Independent Director 6 Vijay Vaghela, Group Finance Director 13 Sir Ian Gibson, Chairman 11 Paul Vickers, Secretary and Group Legal Director 1 Sir Angus Grossart, Non-Executive Director 5 Steve Bird, Group Human Resources Director 3 Gary Hoffman, Non-Executive Director 15 Nick Fullagar, Director of Corporate Communications 7 David Ross, Non-Executive Director 4 Georgina Harvey, Managing Director, Regional Newspapers 2 Vijay Vaghela, Group Finance Director 13 Rupert Middleton, Director of Manufacturing 9 Paul Vickers, Secretary and Group Legal Director 1 Tony Pusey, Group Information Technology Director 8 Laura Wade-Gery, Non-Executive Director 14 Richard Webb, Managing Director, National Newspapers 10 89 7 14 13 15 34 Chairman and Chief Executive statement Business review Corporate responsibility Board of Directors and Executive Committee Corporate governance Remuneration report Directors report Group independent auditors report Accounts and notes Unaudited other information Holding company accounts and notes Investor relations Gary Hoffman 46 Board of Directors Non-Executive Director Gary joined the Board in March 2005.
He is Group Vice Chairman Sly Bailey 45 of Barclays, having previously been Chairman of Barclays UK Chief Executive Banking and Chairman of Barclaycard.
Gary joined Barclays Main Sly joined the Board in February 2003.
She started her media career Board in January 2004.
He began his career in Barclays in 1982 and in advertising sales at the Guardian and then The Independent.
In held various positions until he was appointed Managing Director, 1989 she joined IPC Media Limited as Head of Classified Advertising Marketing and Distribution in 1998.
Gary was responsible for the Sales and joined their Board in 1994 as Advertising Director.
In 1997 launch of internet banking as well as setting up Barclaycall, the Sly was appointed Managing Director of IPC tx, the TV listings telephone banking service.
He is a Board member of both Visa division.
In December 1999 she was appointed Chief Executive of International and Visa Europe.
IPC Media Limited and subsequently led the sale of the business to AOL Time Warner.
Sly was previously a non-executive director of David Ross 41 Littlewoods Plc.
Currently she is on the Press Association Board and Non-Executive Director is also Senior Independent Director at EMI as well as President of David joined the Board in February 2004.
He qualified as a chartered NewstrAid, a charity for the distribution and retail trade.
accountant with Arthur Andersen & Co.
He co-founded and is currently Deputy Chairman of The Carphone Warehouse, Europes Peter Birch CBE 69 leading mobile communication retailer.
He took a lead role with The Senior Independent Director Carphone Warehouse IPO in July 2000.
He is Chairman of National Peter joined the Board in March 1998 and was Chairman of Trinity Express Group Plc.
He also holds non-executive directorships at until September 1999.
He started his commercial career at Nestl Wembley National Stadium Limited, Big Yellow Self Storage Plc and and then moved to Gillette, eventually becoming Managing Director, Cosalt Plc.
He then joined Abbey National where he served as Chief Executive between 1984 and 1998.
He is currently Chairman of Vijay Vaghela 40 Kensington Group plc and Trigold plc.
He was Chairman of Land Group Finance Director Securities plc until 1 January 2007.
He is a director of Travelex plc, Vijay qualified is a chartered accountant and worked in private Lamprell plc and Dah Sing Financial Holdings Limited.
He is also an practice with Deloitte.
He joined Mirror Group in 1994 as Internal adviser toNMRothschild &SonsLimited and Cambridge Place Auditor.
He was subsequently Group Treasurer and then Director of Investment Management LLP.
He was appointed Group Finance Director in May 2003.
Sir Ian Gibson CBE 60 Chairman Paul Vickers 47 Sir Ian joined the Board of Trinity Mirror and was appointed Chairman Secretary and Group Legal Director on 4 May 2006.
Sir Ian was Chairman of BPB plc until the end of Paul joined the Board in September 1999 having been a director of 2005 and currently holds Non-Executive Directorships at GKN plc, Mirror Group since 1994.
He originally qualified as a barrister and Greggs plc and is the Senior Non-Executive Director at Northern was in private practice at the bar.
He was legal manager of the Rock plc.
Previously he was President of Nissan Europe and Senior London Daily News, which he left to join the breakfast television Vice President of Nissan Group.
He has also held Non-Executive company TV-am where he subsequently became Assistant Directorships at Pro Drive Ltd. and Chelys Ltd.
He was on the Court Managing Director.
He was previously a non-executive director of of the Bank of England and was Deputy Chairman of Asda Group plc.
Sir Angus Grossart 69 Laura Wade-Gery 42 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Sir Angus joined the Board in September 1999 having previously Laura joined the Board on 4 August 2006.
She is Chief Executive of been a director of Mirror Group since 1998.
He is qualified as both a Tesco.
com and a Director of Tesco Personal Finance.
Previously she chartered accountant and advocate and practised for some years at was Group Strategy Director, Tesco plc.
Prior to joining Tesco in 1997 the Scottish bar.
He founded and chairs the Scottish merchant bank Laura held positions with Gemini Consulting and Kleinwort Benson.
He is a former vice-chairman of The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc and is a director of Scottish and Newcastle Plc.
He is a former Chairman of the National Galleries of Scotland and Trustee of the National Heritage Memorial Fund and is Chairman of the National Museums of Scotland.
He has been Chairman or a director of a wide range of public and private companies in the UK, Canada and the United States involved in investment, investment management, insurance, construction, oil and gas, property, media and other sectors.
