Tom Hickey Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Aged 56.
Pat Plunkett joined the Board as Aged 54.
A founding Director and shareholder Aged 38.
A Chartered Accountant, Tom Hickey a non-executive Director in 1998 and was of the Company, Aidan Heavey has played was appointed Chief Financial Officer and appointed non-executive Chairman in 2000. a key role in the development of Tullow to the Board in 2000.
Prior to joining Tullow He is also Chairman of the Nominations from its formation in 1985, to its current he was an associate director of ABN AMRO and Remuneration Committees.
Mr Plunkett international status as a leading independent Corporate Finance Ireland Limited, which is an accountant with over 30 years oil and gas Exploration and Production he joined in 1995.
In this role, he advised experience in the financial services sector Group.
A Chartered Accountant, he previously public and private companies in a wide and is a former director of the Irish Stock held roles in the airline and engineering range of industry sectors in the areas of Exchange.
He managed the stockbroking sectors in Ireland.
He is a member of the fund raising, stock exchange requirements, and corporate finance businesses of ABN Nominations Committee.
Aidan is a director mergers and acquisitions, flotations and AMRO Bank in Ireland from 1993 to 1998. of Traidlinks, an Irish based charity related transactions.
He is a non-executive Since then he has been providing strategic established to develop and promote director of Ikon Science Limited, a specialist advice and non-executive director services enterprise and diminish poverty in the geological software company in which Tullow to a number of private companies.
has a minority equity stake and of PetroNeft Resources plc, an Irish oil and gas company 4.
Paul McDade with exploration and development interests, Exploration Director Chief Operating Officer principally in Russia.
Angus McCoss was appointed Aged 43.
Paul McDade was appointed to to the Board in December 2006.
He joined the Board in March 2006.
Graham Martin Tullow in April 2006 as General Manager Tullow in 2001 and was appointed Chief General Counsel Exploration.
A geologist with a BP sponsored Operating Officer following the Energy Aged 53.
A solicitor, Graham Martin joined PhD: Dr McCoss has 20 years of wideAfrica acquisition in 2004, having previously Tullow as Legal and Commercial Director ranging exploration experience, working managed Tullows UK gas business.
An in 1997 from Vinson & Elkins, a leading primarily with Shell in Africa, Europe, engineer with over 20 years experience international law practice, where he was China, South America and the Middle East.
he has worked in various operational, a partner.
Prior to that, he was a partner He has held a number of senior positions commercial and management roles with in Dickson Minto WS, a UK corporate law within Shell including Americas Regional Conoco, Lasmo and ERC.
He has over 25 years experience of Vice President Exploration and ultimately international experience having worked in UK and international corporate and energy as the General Manager of Exploration the UK North Sea, Latin America, Africa and transactions.
He has been the principal legal throughout onshore and offshore Nigeria.
South East Asia and holds degrees in Civil adviser to Tullow since its formation in 1985 Engineering and Petroleum Engineering.
and was appointed to his current position as General Counsel in 2004.
34 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 789 10 11 12 7.
Clare Spottiswoode CBE General Manager Projects Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director Aged 62.
Rohan Courtney has been a Aged 54.
Clare Spottiswoode was appointed appointed to the Board as Operations non-executive Director since 1993 and as a non-executive Director in 2002.
She Director in 1998 having joined Tullow in Senior Independent Director since 2000. is a member of the Audit, Nominations and 1987 as General Manager in Senegal.
An He is Chairman of the Audit Committee Remunerations Committees.
An economist engineer, he has over 35 years experience and a member of the Nominations and by training, Ms Spottiswoode began her in the oil and gas exploration sector and held Remuneration Committees.
Mr Courtney career in the Treasury before starting her a number of senior roles with Schlumberger was a career banker for 27 years and held own software company.
Between 1993 and Wireline, working in Europe, Africa and the senior positions in London and Hong Kong, 1998 she was Director General of Ofgas, the Middle East.
A core member of the original including that of Chief Executive Europe of UK gas regulator.
She is currently Deputy team that has developed the Groups the State Bank of New South Wales from Chairman of British Energy Group plc and business and international operating 1982 to 1990.
Between 1991 and 1996, he Chairman of Economatters Limited.
She is capability, he was appointed to his current advised and represented major shareholders also a non-executive director of Biofuels position in 2004. on the boards of several private and public Corporation plc, Bergesen ASA and companies.
From1996 to 2001, he was Petroleum Geo-Services ASA.
Steven McTiernan Executive Chairman of West 175 Media Group 2006, she became the nominated Non-Executive Director Inc.
He is currently a director and Partner in Policyholder Advocate for Aviva plc.
Steven McTiernan was appointed the UCG Partnership, a trade association as a non-executive Director in 2002.
David Williams established to promote underground coal a member of the Audit, Nominations and Non-Executive Director gasification around the world.
David Williams was appointed began his career as a petroleum engineer, 11.
David Bamford as a non-executive Director on 1 June 2006. working with BP, Amoco and Mesa in the Non-Executive Director He is a member of the Audit, Nomination Middle East and the UK.
David Bamford was appointed and Remuneration committees.
A Chartered Chase Manhattan Bank, where he became as a non-executive Director in July 2004.
Accountant, he brings a wealth of public Senior Vice-President and head of the He is a member of the Audit, Nominations company experience to Tullow from 15 years banks energy group based in New York.
With a PhD with Bunzl plc, where he was Finance Director, From 1996 to 2001 he held senior energy in Geological Sciences from the University and prior to that as Finance Director of Tootal related positions at NatWest Markets and of Birmingham, he has had over 23 years Group plc.
He was a non-executive director of then CIBC World Markets.
He is currently exploration experience with BP where he The Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation principal of Sandown Energy Consultants was Chief Geophysicist from 1990 to 1995, Company plc until its acquisition in 2006.
He Limited, a natural resources advisory firm General Manager for West Africa from is currently a non-executive director of Meggitt based in London.
1995 to 1998, and acted as Vice President, PLC and of George Wimpey plc, where he is Exploration, directing BPs global exploration also the Senior Independent Director.
He is a non-executive director of Paras Limited, a specialist oil and gas industry consulting firm.
Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 35 Contents to the accounts 37 Corporate governance 42 Directors report 44 Directors remuneration report 52 Statement of Directors responsibilities 53 Group financial statements 53 Independent auditors report 54 Income statement 54 Statement of Recognised Income and Expense 55 Balance Sheet 56 Cash Flow Statement 57 Accounting policies 60 Notes to the Group financial statements 80 Parent Company financial statements 80 Independent auditors report 81 Balance Sheet 82 Accounting policies 83 Notes to the Company financial statements 90 Licence interests 95 Reserves summary 96 Five year financial summary 97 Shareholder information 98 Senior management 99 Contacts 100 Index
