Business review: Exploration Tullow continuously develops its high quality exploration portfolio, strengthening the potential for sustained long-term growth.
This is achieved through a consistent programme of new ventures, effective deployment of core skills, strong Joint Venture partnering and quality execution of exploration campaigns.
2006 was a successful year for Tullows Fold belts These provide substantial exploration.
Seven out of 12 wells were upside potential within Tullows prospect discoveries and the Group opened a new inventory, particularly in Pakistan.
and significant hydrocarbon basin in Uganda.
Reservoirs folded into very large anticlines We also acquired material acreage in Ghana, can trap material volumes of hydrocarbons Angola, Congo DRC and Madagascar, adding with good follow up potential.
to the Groups leads and prospects, which will Focusing on our core geological plays allows help deliver future reserves replacement.
us to grow through a controlled extension Four core plays of our geographic footprint.
This is through Tullow excels in four core play types and we strategic step-out of drilling to pursue leverage our capabilities in those plays familiar plays across national boundaries and across the world, in effect ensuring geology by cross-connecting between Atlantic twins, surpasses geography when it comes to finding which are familiar but new basins on the oil and gas.
The Group has over 200 leads opposite side of the Atlantic Ocean.
Tullows and prospects in these core plays, covering knowledge of West African basins and plays all stages of evaluation from initial screening directly complements acreage on the eastern through to delivering developable commercial continental margin of South America, discoveries.
Each of the core plays is proven acquired with the Hardman portfolio.
to have first class potential and each comes Three leading campaigns with its particular value and challenges.
High-impact exploration campaigns targeting Salt basins Salt is a first class seal multiple leads and prospects are central to and salt tectonics form a rich diversity Tullows growth.
Each is led by an exploration of trap types.
Tullows seismic acquisition, manager who is a member of Tullows global processing and interpretation expertise exploration leadership team.
This team has in Salt Basins provides a tangible over 200 years of exploration experience and competitive advantage.
works alongside over 50 high-calibre geological and geophysical professionals Stratigraphic traps These targets can across the Group.
have exceptional upside and often lie subtly within held acreage.
We are working consistently to develop Tullows portfolio and proven expertise in this play and in 43% particular to tap the vast potential of is Tullows average licence interest.
significant stratigraphic traps lying offshore West Africa.
During 2006 the Group drilled 12 exploration wells, seven of which were hydrocarbon Rift basins These are a fundamentally rich setting for petroleum exploration discoveries.
Three successful nearinfrastructure exploration wells were drilled and customarily benefit from world-class source rocks and generally straightforward in the UK Southern North Sea including the potentially significant K4 discovery in structural geology.
Tullow has gained extensive expertise in this core play the CMS Area.
through our work on discoveries and prospects in the UK North Sea, Uganda, Madagascar and India.
12 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Global Experience in Core Plays Feeding the Business Funnel Europe Salt basins Stratigraphic traps Rift basins Africa Salt basins Stratigraphic traps Evaluate Development Screen Deliver Rift basins & Validate & Production Asia Rift basins Fold belts South America Stratigraphic traps Fold belts Over 200 leads and prospects currently in funnel Tullows Ugandan exploration campaign Emerging upside in the Lake Albert Rift Basin this year In offshore Ghana, seismic interpretation Exploration had a 100% success rate, yielding five oil and prospect evaluation through 2006 200 leads and prospects, discoveries.
These discoveries established identified the Mahogany prospect in the West 120 licences, 22 countries a totally new proven hydrocarbon basin.
Cape Three Points block in 2007.
Mahogany The oil is light and sweet, albeit waxy, is a large high-impact oil prospect.
Detailed with a low gas content and, on testing, analysis of the 3D seismic response indicates Challenges flowed at remarkably high rates from very the potential to encounter hydrocarbons.
Expand the funnel of opportunities permeable reservoirs.
Following the based on core plays In blocks CI-107 and 108 in Cte dIvoire, acquisition of Hardman, Tullow now has two significant structural highs have been operational control of Block 2, the central Acquire fairly priced and attractive identified that are analogous to the Espoir acreage containing four of the five prospective acreage and Baobab fields to the east.
Acquisition discoveries and the key location for of 3D seismic data was completed in basin-wide operations.
Improve portfolio quality November 2006 and the data is currently Our exploration campaign in India in the being processed with a view to drilling one Balance near-infrastructure Cambay Rift Basin is geologically analogous of these features in 2008. and high impact exploration to the Lake Albert Rift Basin in Uganda Mauritania also has significant upside and targets proven plays within which, Find 30 mmboe per year to potential and an exploration campaign is immediately to the north, there have been maintain reserves being developed.
Considerable 3D seismic material oil discoveries and from which, coverage over our extensive acreage allows immediately to the south, substantial oil us to work up the plays in detail, fine tune production is being delivered to a strong Skills and opportunities our geological understanding and target local market.
Significant progress was made Team with global and core prospects in sweet spots.
in India with the completion in 2006 of an plays experience extensive, block-wide, 1500km 2D seismic An exciting exploration outlook programme.
Interpretation and integration Clear strategy to bring focus to a While we are extending and expanding of data is generating independent prospects upon the newly discovered plays, we wide range of prospects and leads in multiple plays which will lead to the are also fast-tracking the appraisal of drilling of several wells, commencing in the Opportunity rich portfolio with mix discoveries, as we prepare for development, second half of 2007. of onshore and offshore activities production and early commercialisation.
In addition, we aim to maintain a balance in different territories Detailed geological studies of well and between near-infrastructure and highseismic data from the Kudu offshore gas Access key resources in a impact exploration opportunities and field in Namibia have enabled us to develop competitive market between core plays and regions through a predictive model of the reservoir types ongoing portfolio and risk management.
and distributions in and around the Kudu field.
A highly productive gas reservoir forms the Kudu main field and a laterally extensive gas reservoir, albeit less productive, establishes a play with very substantial multi-tcf upside volumes.
This will be appraised through drilling and flow testing two wells in Kudu East in 2007.
Angus McCoss, Exploration Director Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 13
