Business review: Africa 2006 was an outstanding year for Tullows African assets.
Production commenced from two major development projects, a new hydrocarbon province was discovered in Uganda and the portfolio was enhanced through the award of licences in Angola, Madagascar, Ghana, Congo DRC and Gabon.
2006 highlights at a gross rate of over 5,000 bopd.
Production from the Tchatamba field declined during In Gabon, new interests in three development licences and the year.
However, following workovers on back-in rights to nine exploration assets were acquired three wells in November and December, gross production had recovered to close to First oil was achieved in July from West Espoir, Cte dIvoire 27,000 bopd by year end.
In 2007, methods of enhancing production by accessing bypassed First oil was achieved in December from the Okume Complex, oil in the field will be examined.
Equatorial Guinea Exploration in Gabon in 2006 focused on targets 100% success in Ugandan exploration with five oil discoveries close to existing infrastructure.
Three wells were drilled on our acreage during the year, Hardman acquisition resulted in operational control of Block 2 but were not successful.
However, farmouts in Uganda and a new material position in Mauritania reduced overall financial exposures.
Seven new African licences awarded Exploration plans for 2007 comprise one onshore well on the Nziembou Licence and continuing technical work on a number of the licences to identify prospects for drilling In January 2007, Tullow completed the and is expected to contribute approximately in 2008. acquisition of Hardman which added materially 1,000 boepd by early 2008. to the Groups assets in Mauritania, enabled Congo Brazzaville Tullow now has interests in a total of 12 Tullow to take operational control of Block 2 In Congo Brazzaville, Tullow is a partner in producing fields, five exploration licences, in Uganda and added further high impact the MBoundi field.
During 2006, 29 wells were back-in rights to three fields that are exploration acreage in the region.
Since year drilled on the field and production averaged currently under development and back-in end, Tullow has acquired interests in two 56,000 bopd for the year, reaching a peak of rights to a further nine exploration blocks.
additional licences in Cte dIvoire.
60,000 bopd in the first quarter.
Following a Through these interests, Tullow has exposure period of rapid reserves and production Gabon to almost 40% of the currently licensed growth in recent years, the field boundaries In 2006, production from Gabon averaged Gabon exploration acreage and participates have been substantially delineated and the 15,120 bopd.
Activity during the year focused in fields which together account for almost focus of the operations is now on water on optimisation of the current producing one third of Gabons daily production.
injection and optimising reserves recovery.
assets, commercialisation of undeveloped On the onshore Niungo field, a new assets and the acquisition of additional During the year the facilities were upgraded phase of appraisal and development licence interests.
to provide for 60,000 bwpd water injection drilling commenced in September 2006. capacity and three injection and several At the end of 2006 Tullow acquired a Five successful wells have been drilled water supply wells were drilled.
Water package of assets from the Gabonese and have assisted in increasing gross injection commenced in January 2007 and Government through a 50:50 Joint Venture field production to over 15,000 bopd.
This it is anticipated that it will be expanded to with AIC-Petrofi Limited.
The package programme will resume during the second the full field.
The blending and export of comprises interests in three producing quarter of 2007 with the drilling of two MBoundi crude with the higher quality fields and back-in rights to a further nine further infill wells and an exploration well to NKossa blend commenced in January 2006, exploration licences.
Further fields are the south of Niungo in the Nziembou Licence.
significantly improving the discount to Brent.
expected on stream over the next 18 months.
First production from the first Etame The acquisition increases Tullows net In 2007, 33 development wells are planned satellite, the Avouma field, commenced in production by approximately 350 boepd and field production is expected to average January 2007 and the field is now producing 50,000 bopd.
18 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Men at work on the foundations of a water tank at the MBoundi field in Congo Brazzaville.
Equatorial Guinea First oil from West Espoir was achieved in very substantial upside potential within the The development of the Okume Complex in July 2006 and the field is expected to average Kudu area.
Tullow has fully integrated all Equatorial Guinea continued on schedule over 10,000 boepd during 2007.
Drilling is the regional geoscience data to develop a throughout 2006.
First oil was achieved expected to continue into 2008 with six geological model, which will be tested by two ahead of schedule in mid-December.
Drilling production wells planned for 2007. appraisal wells on the field starting in April is in progress on the Oveng and Elon fields 2007.
The aim is to establish commercially During 2006 the average gross East and and will continue throughout 2007 and into productive flow rates in the much more West Espoir production was 30,000 boepd.
Wells will also be drilled into the laterally extensive but less permeable of two Production is expected to increase to 36,000 Okume and Ebano fields in the latter half proven gas reservoirs.
If this can be achieved, boepd by the end of 2007. of 2007.
The gross production rate in March then a multi-tcf upside potential will be 2007 was approximately 26,000 bopd and is demonstrated and direct pipeline exports A seismic survey was conducted in CI-107 expected to increase to a plateau of 60,000 of Kudu gas may become feasible.
and CI-108 and is currently being interpreted.
The oil is being blended with It is likely that drilling will commence on Tullow has been seeking a partner to join Ceiba production and exported via the Ceiba these licences in 2008. the Kudu partnership and this process will FPSO, for maximum operating and be completed prior to the start of the 2007 production efficiency.
Cte dIvoire has been identified as a key area appraisal programme.
Tullow expects to for expansion of Tullows exploration portfolio In the Ceiba field, three infill production wells reduce its working interest from 90% to and since year end, Tullow has acquired two and two water injectors were drilled during approximately 70% and to introduce a strategic new licence interests.
Gross annual production averaged partner who can contribute expertise, funding 40,000 bopd and at the end of the year the and other skills to achieve the optimal longrate for the field reached 50,000 bopd.
This term development of this asset.
programme has continued into 2007 with the First oil The successful development of Kudu has objective of maintaining an average field rate the potential to make a very important from the Okume Complex was achieved in of 40,000 bopd.
Up to three water injectors contribution to Namibias long-term power December 2006, on time and on budget.
and three producers are planned for 2007. needs and Tullow is committed to sanctioning Tullow also has an interest in Equatorial this project at the earliest opportunity.
Namibia Guinea Block L and in May 2006 participated In 2006, Tullow continued to make steady Mauritania in the unsuccessful Banyan-1 exploration progress with the development of the Kudu Tullow has held interests in Blocks 1 and 2 well.
A farmout in exchange for a carry gas field.
The Group focused on negotiating offshore Mauritania since 2004.
In Block 1, of costs on this well significantly reduced a gas sales agreement for the gas-to-power integration and analysis of the results from Tullows financial exposure.
The operator of project, preparing for two appraisal wells in the 2005 Faucon discovery have upgraded the block is in the process of negotiating an early 2007 and initiating negotiations to bring the exploration potential on the block and extension and a seismic option on the permit.
in a partner for up to 20% of the project.
a 3D seismic survey is planned for the third Cte dIvoire quarter of 2007.
In addition, five prospects The potential development options for the In Cte dIvoire Tullow has production, have been delineated in Block 2, one of substantial proven gas volumes already development and exploration interests in which will be selected for drilling in mid 2007. discovered in the Kudu field now include three offshore blocks.
both the export of electricity generated by a In January 2007 Tullow acquired interests 800 MW power plant located in Namibia and The CI-26 licence contains the producing in a further eight licences as part of the the direct gas export by pipeline to South East and West Espoir fields with potential acquisition of Hardman.
A review of these options by Namibian satellite tie-backs.
During 2006 a very include the producing Chinguetti oil field, and South African stakeholders is under way.
successful East Espoir infill drilling the Tiof and Tevet potential developments programme was completed.
The Al Baraka and the Banda and Pelican gas discoveries.
In addition to gas reserves required for rig then moved to West Espoir in mid-2006.
power generation, Tullow has also identified Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 19 The successful Ugandan exploration campaign in the Lake Albert Rift Basin this year included: four onshore wells and two flow tests to establish a working hydrocarbon system: acquisition of gravity, magnetic and 2D seismic data to identify new prospects in the unexplored Butiaba area: drilling and testing of the significant Kingfisher discovery.
The Kingfisher drill site is pictured here: and preparation for drilling more frontier wells including Ngassa and Kingfisher2, in 2007.
The Chinguetti field, operated by Woodside, well is a success, an appraisal well from this December 2005 and intersected two is located in 800m of water 80km southwest block will follow.
oil-bearing sandstone reservoirs of very of Nouakchott.
Production commenced in late good quality.
In March 2006 the Waraga-1 There are several existing oil and gas February 2006 and peaked at a gross rate of well was drilled 19km to the north of discoveries in the Shallow Water Tano contract 75,000 boepd but has subsequently declined Mputa-1.
This well discovered oil at three area, one of which will be appraised during to 23,000 boepd, leading the Operator to separate levels including a basal sandstone 2007 following reprocessing of the 3D data downgrade the ultimate recovery from that not encountered in Mputa-1.
A successful gas appraisal envisaged in the original development plan.
well was then drilled in May, 3km northwest well could result in a rapid development of of Mputa-1.
This well intersected oil in a thin An infill drilling programme to enhance gas into the existing gas market in Ghana.
basal sand and also confirmed the existence recovery commenced in December with of an oil column of at least 100m in the Angola the C-18 well in the southwest of the field.
In August 2006 Tullow was awarded a 50% The well has been drilled to a total depth operating interest in Block 1 06, offshore of 2,883m and encountered a gross oil Angola.
The block extends from a water column of approximately 213m, in line with depth of 40m to approximately 300m and expectations.
Importantly, the well also 27,000 bopd contains three undeveloped oil fields, appears to be receiving pressure support Pitangueira, Bananeira and Sapesapeiro.
cumulative test rate from three Ugandan from a nearby water injection well.
a workover to shut off water in the C14 well Tullows initial objective is to evaluate the was also completed.
These operations commerciality of these discoveries by Between June and August 2006 the Waraga-1 are expected to provide an immediate reprocessing the 3D data during 2007 and, and Mputa-1 wells were production tested, the enhancement of current production rates.
following interpretation of the results, the Group first time hydrocarbons have been produced expects to drill two wells in 2008.
A regional Further infill wells are scheduled to to surface in Uganda.
Three production tests interpretation is also in progress to evaluate commence during the third quarter of on Waraga-1 yielded a maximum combined the potential of the remainder of the block 2007.
The final locations of the wells will be flow rate of 12,000 bopd.
The Mputa-1 well prior to planning a large 3D seismic survey.
determined by the results of the high density tested at a combined maximum flow rate 3D and 4D seismic surveys conducted over of 1,100 bopd from two shallower, lower Uganda and Congo DRC the Chinguetti field in March 2007. pressure intervals.
The test results showed 2006 has been an exceptional year for that the penetrated reservoirs are of excellent Tullow in Uganda.
The Group has proved Tullow believes that Mauritania is a region quality.
The crude is waxy but is generally up a substantial new hydrocarbon province with considerable long-term upside potential a light oil of good quality 33-34 API, with in the Lake Albert Rift Basin with five and, following the Hardman transaction, a low gas-to-oil ratio.
discoveries and well test results surpassing Tullow is developing its technical all expectations.
The acquisition of Hardman understanding of the assets acquired to The Nzizi-1 well was drilled in October and has enabled Tullow to take operational support the ongoing exploration and proved the presence of oil in a structure control of the exploration and appraisal of development activities in the region.
analogous to the Mputa reservoirs.
This well the basin and has increased its exposure to also encountered a 30m section of oil shows Ghana the significant upside potential of the region.
in weathered basement, indicating additional Three exploration blocks were signed in During the year, Tullow also gained interests upside potential.
Ghana during 2006 Shallow Water Tano, in two prospective blocks in Congo DRC Deepwater Tano and West Cape Three Points.
adjacent to its Ugandan acreage.
The fifth well, Kingfisher-1, in Block 3A, targeting a much larger structure under 2007 will see the drilling of the significant The initial four wells in Uganda were drilled Lake Albert, was spudded in August 2006.
Mahogany prospect in West Cape Three in Block 2 from the lake shore to prove up The well intersected two significant Points.
The prospect extends into the a working hydrocarbon system in the basin.
oil-bearing intervals, with net pay of 10m Deepwater Tano block and if the exploration The Mputa-1 well was spudded in late and 44m, which tested at cumulative rates 20 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Mauritania Senegal Ghana Cameroon Cte dIvoire Equatorial Guinea Uganda Congo Gabon DRC Congo Brazzaville Tanzania Angola Namibia Madagascar of 4,120 bopd and 9,773 bopd respectively.
Key producing assets Assets under development Due to the operating capability of the rig the well could not be deepened to reach Country Activities Producing fields Tullow % the primary target.
However, the excellent fields under development results from the secondary objectives should Congo Brazzaville D P MBoundi 11.00 substantially reduce the exploration risk in this deeper part of the Lake Albert Rift basin.
Cte dIvoire E D P Espoir 21.33 Following the successes of 2006 and the Equatorial Guinea E D P Ceiba 14.25 large upside potential identified, the plan 1 Okume Complex 14.25 for 2007 is to pursue an aggressive programme of 2D and 3D seismic and further Gabon E D P Avouma 7.50 exploration appraisal drilling across the Lake 2 Ebouri 7.50 Albert Rift Basin.
Studies are also under way Echira 40.00 to identify solutions for drilling on the lake Etame 7.50 and, in parallel, a higher capacity rig is being Limande 40.00 sourced to drill the large Ngassa and Niungo 40.00 Kingfisher deep targets from the shore.
Oba 5.00 Obangue 3.75 In addition to the extensive exploration and 2 appraisal programme, Tullow is pursuing Onal 7.50 the development of an Early Production Tchatamba Marin 25.00 System, in 2007, with a view to producing first Tchatamba South 25.00 oil in 2009.
The initial conceptual studies are Tchatamba West 25.00 well advanced and are likely to involve the Tsiengui 3.75 installation of a local topping plant to extract Turnix 27.50 petroleum products from the crude and a 3 power generation plant to meet local Mauritania E D P Chinguetti 19.01 electricity demands.
It is anticipated that this 4 Namibia D Kudu 90.00 early development will be sanctioned in 2007.
Key: 2007 Operational outlook E Explo ration D Development P Production In 2007, in Africa, the Group plans to continue with significant levels of exploration, Exploration activities development and production activity.
The exploration activity will involve drilling 10 Angola, Cameroon, Congo DRC, Ghana, Madagascar, Senegal, Tanzania, Uganda or more wells with a focus on the two key campaigns in Uganda and Namibia.
In addition, Notes: ongoing development projects in Gabon, 1.
Okume Complex includes the Elon, Okume, Ebano and Oveng fields.
Congo Brazzaville, Cte dIvoire, Equatorial 2.
Tullow has back-in rights to this field which is due on stream in 2008.
Guinea and Mauritania, are expected to result 3.
Interest in the Chinguetti field was acquired in December 2006 as part of the in continued production growth.
Project activities focused on concluding commercial agreements for gas-to-power project.
For more information, see our website: www.
com Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 21
