Hardman Resources Limited This acquisition is an excellent strategic fit with Tullows production, development and exploration activities and significantly enhances the Groups world-wide portfolio.
On 25 September 2006 Tullow announced a proposal to acquire Hardman by way of a Scheme of Arrangement, for US$1.1 billion.
Following regulatory and shareholder approval, the transaction became effective on 20 December 2006 and formal completion, which involved the payment of A$819.5 million and the issue of 65 million Tullow shares, occurred on 10 January 2007.
The integration of the Hardman assets is now substantially complete.
Operationally, the African assets are being managed out of Tullows office in Cape Town and the South American assets will be managed out of our Dublin office.
The acquisition provides material additions to the Groups production, development and exploration activities in Africa and adds exciting exploration opportunities in South America.
In particular, the addition of the Hardman assets to Tullows portfolio: increases production by approximately 4,000 boepd: increases year end 2P reserves and resources by 35%: delivers a full cycle business in Mauritania: establishes operational control of Block 2 in the Lake Albert Rift Basin, Uganda: significantly enhances Tullows prospective acreage position: and adds 16 exploration wells to the 2007 campaign.
Mauritania Tullow now has a unique position in Mauritania with interests in eight contiguous offshore blocks.
These include a 19% interest in the producing Chinguetti field and interests in material but undeveloped fields including the Tiof and Tevet oil discoveries and the Banda, Faucon and Pelican gas discoveries.
The region is a proven oil and gas province with a diversity of geological plays.
While exploration success has been high since 2000 this is still an underexplored basin.
Tullow believes that by working closely with our Joint Venture partners on the 2007 2008 exploration campaigns and applying our knowledge and skills to the multiple play types, we can realise some of the significant upside potential of these assets.
Uganda The Group now has a 100% operated interest in Block 2 in the Lake Albert Rift Basin.
Tullow and Hardman jointly made four oil discoveries in the Kaiso-Tonya region of the block in 2006.
These discoveries proved up a working hydrocarbon system in the basin and tested good quality oil from highly productive reservoirs.
Building on this success, substantial upside potential has been identified in the block in the Kaiso-Tonya area, the Butiaba Area to the north and beneath Lake Albert, where the larger prospects are located.
Block 2 in Uganda is also likely to be the hub of any future development due to the relatively easy access to the lake shore, the level terrain for operations and the logical oil export route to the coast.
Gaining operational control was therefore key for Tullow to drive the pace of further exploration, appraisal and future development across the basin, where Tullow is the largest acreage holder.
In 2007, Tullow will undertake a programme of 2D and 3D seismic acquisition and further drilling across the basin to prove up the reserves.
In addition, Tullow plans to sanction the development of an Early Production System in 2007, with a view to producing first oil in 2009.
Additional prospective acreage The acquisition expands Tullows prospective acreage position through the addition of licences in Tanzania, Mauritania, Suriname, French Guiana and the Falkland Islands and adds 16 exploration wells to the 2007 programme.
Extending Tullows acreage into new frontier basins in South America allows the Group to apply its expertise from comparable geology in West Africa.
For more information, see our website: www.
com 8 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 9
