Directors report For the year ended 31 December 2006 The Directors present their annual report on the affairs of the Group, together with the accounts and auditors report, for the year ended 31 December 2006.
Details in relation to health, safety and the environment, business ethics, employment practice and employee consultation and charitable donations are included in the Corporate Responsibility Statement on pages 24 to 27.
Principal activity Ultra Electronics Holdings plc is the Group holding Company and the Company is incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985.
The principal activities of its subsidiary undertakings are the design, development and manufacture of electronic systems for the international defence and aerospace markets.
Enhanced business review The Company is required to set out in this report a fair review of the business of the Group during the financial year ended 31 December 2006 and of the position of the Group at the end of that financial year together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
The information that satisfies these requirements can be found in the following sections of the Operating and Financial Review: Ultras 2006 results on pages 14 to 15: Divisional review on pages 15 to 16: Ultras future outlook on pages 17 to 19: Management of risks and uncertainties on pages 19 to 20 and Corporate responsibility on pages 24 to 27.
Results and dividends The Operating and Financial Review is contained on pages 13 to 23.
Group results and dividends are as follows: 2006 000 Balance on retained earnings, beginning of year 53,647 Total recognised income and expense 45,710 Dividends: 2005 final paid of 10.7p per share 7,150 2006 interim paid of 5.9p per share 3,952 Equity settled employee share schemes 107 Balance on retained earnings, end of year 88,362 The final 2006 dividend is proposed to be paid on 4 May 2007 to shareholders on the register at 13 April 2007.
The interim dividend was paid on 29 September 2006, making a total of 16.6p 2005: 14.4p per share paid for the year.
Future developments A review of the activities and future developments of the Group is contained in the Operating and Financial Review on pages 13 to 23.
Research and development The Directors are committed to maintaining a significant level of research and development expenditure in order to expand the Groups range of proprietary products.
During the year a total of 92.3 million 2005: 77.9 million was spent on engineering development of which 69.4 million 2005: 60.6 million was funded by customers and 22.9 million 2005: 17.3 million by the Group.
Directors and their interests The Directors who served throughout the year and their interests in the shares of the Company are listed on page 43.
Substantial shareholdings At 23 February 2007, the Company had been notified in accordance with Sections 198-208 of the Companies Act 1985 that the following were registered as having an interest in 3% or more of the Companys ordinary share capital: Percentage of ordinary Number of 5p share capital ordinary shares Barclays Plc 11.9 8,058,239 Shroders Plc 6.7 4,501,053 Aegon UK Plc Group of Companies 4.1 2,739,212 Legal & General Group Plc 3.7 2,512,870 Following implementation of the EU Transparency Directive effected by the new Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR made by the Financial Services Authority, there has been a change in the basis on which we disclose certain major interests in the capital of the Company.
As at 23 February 2007, under DTR 5, we have received notification that F&C Asset Management plc hold less than 5% of the voting rights of the issued share capital of the Company.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 31 Directors report continued Charitable and political contributions The Group contributed 44,000 2005: 23,000 to charities and made no contributions for political purposes in either year.
Supplier payment policy Operating divisions are responsible for agreeing the terms and conditions under which they conduct business transactions with their suppliers.
It is Group policy that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with those terms, provided that the supplier is also complying with all relevant terms and conditions.
Trade payable days of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2006 were 54 days 2005: 51 days, based on the ratio of Group trade payables at the end of the year to the amounts invoiced during the year by suppliers.
The Company had no trade payables at either year end.
Annual General Meeting Explanation of special business resolutions is given below: Resolution 8 This resolution authorises the Directors to allot shares in the Company up to a maximum nominal amount of 1,125,957 one third of the allotted and fully paid up share capital of the Company.
Resolution 9 and 10 These resolutions authorise the Directors to implement a new Company Share Option Plan and a new Executive Share Option Scheme, the previous arrangements having recently expired.
The Company wishes to continue to focus its long-term incentive strategy for executives below Board level on share option participation and is therefore seeking authority to re-establish similar arrangements.
The intention is to operate the Option plans for the benefit of senior executives and certain key employees below Board level.
The Plans grant options to individual employees to purchase shares at a fixed price after three years have elapsed from the date the option is granted.
The previous schemes have been successful in providing incentives closely linked to the performance of the Company and have proved a valuable tool in the recruitment and retention of key staff.
The Directors believe that these schemes help to align the interests of senior executives with the overall performance of the Company.
This is in the best interests of the Company and shareholders as a whole.
The Directors recommend voting in favour of these resolutions.
Resolution 11 This resolution authorises the Directors to introduce a new long-term incentive plan.
The existing long-term incentive arrangement expires in 2007.
The intention is to continue to focus the long-term share incentive strategy for the Executive Directors and selected senior executives on participating in a challenging performance shares arrangement.
The scheme will be supervised by the Remuneration Committee.
The Committee will grant awards which give entitlement to Ultra Electronics shares, the final numbers of which are dependent on the growth of the Companys adjusted earnings per share over a three year period when compared to a basket of other comparable companies.
The vesting of awards will continue to be subject to stringent performance conditions.
The existing Ultra Electronics Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP has been successful in aligning the Directors interests with those of the shareholders.
The Board is therefore seeking the approval of shareholders to extend the operation of this successful LTIP by adopting the Ultra Electronics Long-Term Incentive Plan 2007.
The Directors believe that the adoption of the new LTIP will be in the best interests of the Company and the shareholders as a whole.
They recommend a vote in favour of this resolution.
Resolution 12 This resolution authorises the Directors to introduce a new savings related share option scheme, the authority to make further grants under the previous scheme having recently expired.
The intention is to continue to focus the Companys all-employee share ownership policy on savings-related share scheme participation.
The Board is therefore seeking authority to establish the Ultra Electronics Savings Related Share Option Scheme 2007.
This scheme is primarily structured to include Ultras UK employees, but the rules have been framed in such a way as to permit the establishment of a replacement International Savings Related Option Scheme, which will be required in future to continue to offer Share Options to the Groups employees in Canada.
The Directors believe that this scheme will align the interests of UK and Canadian employees with the overall performance of the Company and that it is in the best interests of the Company and the shareholders as a whole.
The Directors recommend a vote in favour of this resolution.
32 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Directors report continued Annual General Meeting continued Resolution 13 This resolution authorises the Directors to introduce a new stock purchase plan for US employees to replace the previous scheme for which authority has recently expired.
The intention is to continue to focus the Companys all employee share ownership policy in the US on tax-favoured savings related share option scheme participation.
The Company is therefore seeking authority to establish the Ultra Electronics US Stock Purchase Plan 2007.
The Directors believe that this scheme will align the interests of US employees with the overall performance of the Company and that this is in the best interests of the Company and the shareholders as a whole.
Resolution 14 This resolution authorises the Directors to allot shares for cash, without first having offered to allot such shares to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings, in respect of 5% of the total issued share capital of the Company.
Resolutions 8 and 14 comply with the Association of British Insurers guidelines and renew similar authorities given previously.
The authorities expire on the earlier of the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or 15 months after the date of passing these resolutions.
The Directors have no current intention to exercise the authorities sought by these resolutions except for employee share option schemes.
Resolution 15 This resolution authorises the Directors to purchase up to a total of 3,377,872 of the Companys shares representing 5% of the issued share capital of the Company.
This authority expires on the earlier of 12 months from the date of passing this resolution or the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
The Directors will use the share purchase authority with discretion.
In reaching a decision to purchase shares of the Company the Directors would take account of the Companys business and any impact on earnings per share and net tangible assets per share.
The Directors have no current intention to exercise the authority sought by this resolution.
Resolution 16 This resolution authorises the Directors to amend the Companys Articles of Association to permit electronic communication with shareholders in future.
The resolution further seeks approval from shareholders for a proposal to adopt electronic communication with shareholders as a default, as opposed to the existing approach involving written communication.
The Companies Act 2006 gives the Company the option to use electronic communications with shareholders as a default, subject to prior approval by the shareholders.
The Company proposes to contact all shareholders by letter during 2007 to ascertain whether each shareholder wishes to continue to receive hard copies of all communication from the Company, or whether the shareholder wishes to receive such communications electronically.
As a default, those shareholders who do not respond to the letter will receive all future communications electronically.
The Directors believe that this change is in line with emerging best practice and will offer a more cost-effective, efficient, and environmentally friendly means of communicating with shareholders.
Auditors Each of the Directors at the date of approval of this report confirms that: 1 So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and 2 The Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of S234ZA of The Companies Act 1985.
By order of the Board, D. Jeffcoat Company Secretary 23 February 2007 Registered Office: 417 Bridport Road, Greenford, Middlesex UB6 8UA Registered Number: 2830397 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 33
