Report of the Directors continued Corporate governance continued In 2007, Unilever plans to appoint its first independent Nonlocal requirements for requisitioning a resolution.
In order to Executive Chairman, Michael Treschow, subject to his ensure that the Boards remain identical, anyone being elected as a appointment as a Non-Executive Director at the AGMs.
Director of NV must also be elected as a Director of PLC and vice versa.
If an individual fails to be elected to both companies then The text that follows describes the corporate governance he or she will be unable to take their place on the Boards.
More information on our corporate governance arrangements is set out in The provisions in the Articles of Association for appointing The Governance of Unilever, the Boards statement of Directors cannot be changed without the permission, in the case their internal arrangements, which can be found at of NV, of the holders of the special ordinary shares numbered www.
1 - 2400 inclusive and, in the case of PLC, of the holders of PLC's deferred stock.
The NV special ordinary shares may only be The Boards transferred to one or more other holders of such shares.
The The Boards of NV and PLC comprise the same Directors and have joint holders of both the NV special ordinary shares and the the same Chairman.
This ensures unity of governance and PLC deferred stock are N. V. Elma and United Holdings Limited, management by ensuring that all matters are considered by the which are joint subsidiaries of NV and PLC.
The boards of N. V. Boards as a single intellect, reaching the same conclusions on the Elma and United Holdings Limited comprise the members of the same set of facts save where specic local factors apply.
The Boards are one-tier boards, comprising Executive Directors Board meetings and, in a majority, Non-Executive Directors.
The Boards have Our Boards meet at least seven times a year to consider important ultimate responsibility for the management, general affairs, corporate events and actions, such as: direction and performance of the business as a whole.
The responsibility of the Directors is collective, taking into account approval of corporate strategy: their respective roles as Executive Directors and Non-Executive approval of the corporate Annual Plan: Directors.
The Executive Directors have additional responsibilities review of risks and controls: for the operation of our business as determined by the Group authorisation of major transactions: Chief Executive.
review of the functioning of the Boards and their Committees: preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts: Our Directors have set out a number of areas of responsibility declaration of dividends: which are reserved to themselves and other areas for which agreement of quarterly results announcements: matters are delegated to the Group Chief Executive and convening of shareholders meetings: committees whose actions are regularly reported to and nominations for Board appointments: and monitored by the Boards.
These are described on pages 35 to 38. approval of Board remuneration policy.
Further details of how our Boards effectively operate as one board, govern themselves and delegate their authorities are set In 2006 the Boards of NV and PLC met eight times.
All our out in The Governance of Unilever, which can be found at Executive Directors attended all meetings.
Directors attended all meetings, except for Wim Dik who missed one meeting: Lynda Chalker, David Simon and Jean-Cyril Spinetta Appointment of Directors who each missed two meetings, and Jeroen van der Veer who Directors are appointed by shareholders at the AGMs.
All existing missed three meetings.
Board meetings are normally held either Directors unless they are retiring submit themselves for election in London or Rotterdam.
The Chairman is assisted by the Joint every year and shareholders can remove any of them by a simple Secretaries, who ensure that the Boards are supplied with all the majority vote.
information necessary for their deliberations.
The Chairman and the Joint Secretaries involve the Senior Independent Director see In order to seek to ensure that NV and PLC have the same page 36 in the arrangements for Board meetings.
Directors, the Articles of Association of NV and PLC contain provisions which are designed to ensure that both NV and PLC Board induction and training shareholders are presented with the same candidates for election Upon election, Directors receive a comprehensive Directors as Directors.
This is achieved through a nomination procedure Manual and are briefed thoroughly on their responsibilities.
operated by the Boards of NV and PLC through Unilevers Updates on corporate governance developments and investor Nomination Committee.
relations matters are frequent items at Board meetings.
On-going training is provided for Directors by way of site visits, The Nomination Committee, based on the evaluation of the Boards, presentations, circulated updates, teach-ins and agenda items its Committees and its individual members, recommends to the at Board or Board committee meetings on, among other things, Boards a list of candidates for nomination at both the Annual Unilevers business, corporate governance, regulatory General Meetings of NV and of PLC.
In addition, since 2006 developments, and investor relations matters.
In 2006, a Board shareholders have been able to nominate Directors for this list but meeting was held at Port Sunlight which included a visit to one to do so they must put a resolution to both meetings in line with of Unilevers Research and Development facilities.
34 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2006
