Report of the Directors continued Report of the Remuneration Committee continued Base salary Global Performance Share Plan GPSP The Remuneration Committee reviews base salary levels annually, Under the GPSP conditional rights over shares in NV and PLC are taking into account external benchmarks in the context of Group awarded annually to Executive Directors.
For Executive Directors and individual performance.
the value of a grant of conditional shares will not exceed 50% of base salary.
The number of shares actually received at the end of Annual incentive the performance periods of the three years depends on the The annual incentive arrangement rewards Executive Directors for satisfaction of the performance targets.
the delivery of trading contribution Unilevers primary internal measure of economic value added and top-line growth targets, The performance measures for vesting are underlying sales as well as for their individual contribution to Unilevers business growth for 50% of the award and ungeared free cash ow strategy.
These are key performance measures in Unilevers external reporting.
Underlying sales growth focuses In 2006, the Group Chief Executive had a maximum opportunity on the organic growth of Unilevers turnover.
Ungeared free cash of 150% of base salary.
The maximum level is only payable in the ow expresses the translation of profit into cash and thus longercase of exceptional performance.
The opportunity for other term economic value.
Executive Directors in 2006 was between 0% and 100%.
In respect of performance targets, there is a minimum and a The performance criteria for the annual incentive are: maximum performance range for each of the two measures and associated vesting levels.
Each year, the Remuneration Committee Trading contribution: Unilevers primary internal measure of reviews the performance targets by taking account of market economic value added.
It is calculated from Trading Result after conditions and internal financial planning.
a deduction for tax and a charge for asset use.
Trading result is the internal management measure of profit that is the most Total Shareholder Return TSR Long-Term Incentive Plan consistent with operating profit.
Increases in trading This plan rewards Executive Directors for creating more value contribution reect the combined impact of top-line growth, for Unilevers shareholders when compared with the investment margin improvement and capital efficiency gains.
It is well returns generated by competitors.
aligned with our objective of a progressive improvement in return on invested capital and with shareholder value creation: Under this plan conditional rights over shares in NV and PLC Underlying sales growth: focus on the organic growth of are awarded annually to Executive Directors.
Unilevers turnover: and Individual business targets: tailored to each individuals The level of conditional annual award in 2006 is as follows: responsibilities to deliver certain business objectives supporting the strategy.
Individual contribution is assessed against robustly Group Chief Executive: Shares in NV and PLC to the combined set measures and targets to ensure both objectivity and value of 800 000: and stretch.
Other Executive Directors: Shares in NV and PLC to the combined value of 500 000.
Achievement of targets is measured at the end of the year and the payment takes place the following March.
Part of the annual Vesting is subject to Unilevers relative TSR performance.
TSR incentive 25% is delivered to the Executive Directors in the form measures the returns received by a shareholder, capturing both of shares in NV and PLC, which are matched by a conditional the increase in share price and the value of dividend income award of matching shares, as further described under the assuming dividends are reinvested.
Unilevers TSR performance is section on long-term incentives below.
compared with a peer group of competitors over a three-year performance period.
The TSR Long-term incentives results are compared on a single reference currency basis.
The long-term incentives for Executive Directors in 2006 consist of three elements, all of which are delivered in shares: No shares will vest if Unilever is ranked below position 11 of the TSR ranking table over the three-year period.
Between 25% and Global Performance Share Plan: 200% of the shares will vest if Unilever is ranked in the top half TSR Long-Term Incentive Plan: and of the table as shown below: Share Matching Plan linked to the annual incentive.
Vested award % of original conditional Executive Directors are required to demonstrate a significant TSR peer group ranking award that will vest personal shareholding commitment to Unilever.
Within five years 12th to 21st 0% of appointment, they are expected to hold shares worth 150% 10th or 11th 25% of their annual base salary.
This reinforces the link between the 8th or 9th 50% executives and other shareholders.
5th to 7th 100% 3rd or 4th 150% 1st or 2nd 200% Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2006 51
