Report of the Directors continued Corporate governance continued Voting rights Shareholders who together hold shares representing at least 5% To be entitled to attend and vote at NV General Meetings of the total voting rights of PLC, or 100 shareholders who hold shareholders must hold their NV shares on the record date, which on average 100 each in nominal value of PLC capital, can is set by the Directors and is not more than thirty days before the require PLC to propose a resolution at a General Meeting.
Shareholders do not need to block their shares.
NV PLC shareholders holding in aggregate one-tenth of the issued shareholders can cast one vote for each 0.16 nominal capital ordinary shares of PLC are able to convene a general meeting that they hold.
This means that they can cast one vote for each of PLC.
NV ordinary share, or NV New York Registry Share.
Shareholders can vote in person or by proxy.
Similar arrangements apply to Required majorities holders of depositary receipts issued for NV shares and the Resolutions are usually adopted at NV and PLC shareholder holders of NV preference shares see pages 41 and 42. meetings by an absolute majority of votes cast, unless there are other requirements under the applicable laws or NVs or PLCs PLC shareholders can cast one vote for each 1.4p nominal capital Articles of Association.
For example, there are special that they hold.
This means that one vote equals 9 20ths of a requirements for resolutions relating to the alteration of the share.
Shareholders can vote in person at the meeting or by proxy.
Articles of Association, the liquidation of NV or PLC and the Proxies should be submitted to the Registrars, Computershare alteration of the Equalisation Agreement see below.
Investor Services PLC, whose details can be found on page 147, at least 48 hours before the AGM.
Shareholders at the PLC 2007 A proposal to alter the Articles of Association of NV can only AGM are, however, being asked to approve a change in the be made by the Board of Directors.
Such a proposal requires the voting rights of PLCs ordinary shares designed to bring the prior approval of the meeting of the holders of the special shares.
voting arrangements into line with the consolidation of ordinary A proposal to alter the Memorandum and Articles of Association 1 shares of 3 9p approved at the 2006 AGM.
This will result in of PLC can be made either by the Board of Directors or by 1 one vote for each 3 9p of nominal capital instead of 1.4p of shareholders in the manner permitted under the United Kingdom nominal capital.
Proposals to alter the provisions in the Articles of Association of NV and PLC relating to the unity of More information on the exercise of voting rights can be found management require the prior approval of meetings of the in NVs and PLCs Articles of Association and in the respective holders of the NV special shares and the PLC deferred stock.
Copies of the Articles of Association of NV and the Memorandum and Articles of Association of PLC can be found on our website.
Holders of NV New York Registry Shares or PLC American Depositary Receipts of shares will receive a proxy form enabling Right to hold shares them to authorise and instruct ABN AMRO N. V. or Citibank, N. A. Unilever places no limitations on the right to hold NV and PLC respectively to vote on their behalf at the shareholders meeting shares.
N. V. Elma and United Holdings Limited the holders of NVs special shares, other group companies of NV which hold Foundation Agreements ordinary or preference shares, and United Holdings Limited, which owns half of PLCs deferred stock, are not permitted to vote at Equalisation Agreement General Meetings.
The Equalisation Agreement makes the position of the shareholders of NV and PLC, as far as possible, the same as if they Voting on each of the resolutions contained in the Notice of held shares in a single company.
The Agreement regulates the AGMs is conducted by poll.
The final vote is published at the mutual rights of the shareholders of NV and PLC.
Under the meetings and the outcome of the votes, including the proxy Equalisation Agreement, NV and PLC must adopt the same votes, is put on Unilevers website.
For each resolution, proxy financial periods and accounting policies.
Dividends are paid in appointment forms in 2006 provided PLC shareholders with accordance with a formula relating to the nominal values of NVs the option to direct their proxy to vote either for or against the and PLCs issued share capital.
In 2007, proxy appointment forms will replace the abstain option with a vote withhold option.
Future Since the AGMs in 2006, each NV Ordinary share represents the PLC proxy forms and voting result announcements will make it same underlying economic interest in the Unilever Group as each clear that a vote withheld is not a vote in law, and will not be PLC Ordinary share.
counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes for and against the resolution voted on.
We pay ordinary dividends for NV and PLC on the same day.
NV and PLC allocate funds for the dividend from their parts of Shareholder proposed resolutions our current profits and free reserves.
We pay the same amount Shareholders of NV may propose resolutions if they individually or on each NV share as on one PLC share calculated at the relevant together hold 1% of NVs issued capital in the form of shares or exchange rate.
For interim dividends this exchange rate is the depositary receipts for shares, or if they individually or together average rate for the quarter before we declare the dividend.
For hold shares or depositary receipts worth at least 50 million.
They final dividends it is the average rate for the year.
In arriving at the must submit these requests at least 60 days before the date of equalised amount we include any tax payable by the Company in the General Meeting, and the request will be honoured unless, in respect of the dividend, but calculate it before any tax deductible the opinion of the Boards, it is against a substantive interest of by the Company from the dividend.
Shareholders who together represent at least 10% of the issued capital of NV can also requisition Extraordinary The Equalisation Agreement provides that if one company had General Meetings to deal with specic resolutions.
losses, or was unable to pay its preference dividends, the loss or shortfall would be made up out of: Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2006 39 Report of the Directors continued Corporate governance continued the current profits of the other company after it has paid its new PLC share.
Neither company can issue or reduce capital own preference shareholders : without the consent of the other.
then its own free reserves: and then the free reserves of the other company.
The Articles of Association of NV establish that any payment under the Equalisation Agreement will be credited or debited to If either company could not pay its ordinary dividends, we would the income statement for the financial year in question.
follow the same procedure, except that the current profits of the other company would only be used after it had paid its own Under Article 2 of the Articles of Association of NV and Clause 3 ordinary shareholders and if the Directors thought this more of the Memorandum of Association of PLC, each company is appropriate than, for example, using its own free reserves.
required to carry out the Equalisation Agreement with the other.
Both documents state that the Agreement cannot be changed or So far, NV and PLC have always been able to pay their own terminated without the approval of shareholders.
For NV, the dividends, so we have never had to follow this procedure.
If we General Meeting can decide to alter or terminate the Equalisation did, the payment from one company to the other would be Agreement at the proposal of the Board.
The necessary approval subject to any United Kingdom and Dutch tax and exchange of the General Meeting is then that at least one half of the total control laws applicable at that time.
issued ordinary capital must be represented at an ordinary shareholders meeting, where the majority must vote in favour: Under the Equalisation Agreement, the two companies are and if they would be disadvantaged or the agreement is to be permitted to pay different dividends in the following exceptional terminated, at least two-thirds of the total issued preference circumstances: share capital must be represented at a preference shareholders meeting, where at least three-quarters of them must vote in If the average annual sterling euro exchange rate changed favour.
For PLC, the necessary approval must be given by the so substantially from one year to the next that to pay equal holders of a majority of all issued shares voting at a General dividends at the current exchange rates, either NV or PLC Meeting and the holders of the ordinary shares, either by would have to pay a dividend that was unreasonable that is to three-quarters in writing, or by three-quarters voting at a say, substantially larger or smaller in its own currency than the General Meeting where the majority of the ordinary shares in dividend it paid in the previous year : or issue are represented.
The governments of the Netherlands or the United Kingdom In addition, Article 3 of the PLC Articles of Association states that could in some circumstances place restrictions on the PLCs Board must carry out the Equalisation Agreement and that proportion of a companys profits which can be paid out as the other provisions of the Articles of Association are subject to it.
This could mean that in order to pay equal dividends one company would have to pay out an amount which would We are advised by counsel that these provisions oblige our Boards breach the limitations in place at the time, or that the other to carry out the Equalisation Agreement, unless it is amended or company would have to pay a smaller dividend.
terminated with the required approval of the shareholders of both companies.
If the Boards fail to enforce the Agreement, In either of these rare cases, NV and PLC could pay different shareholders can compel them to do so under Dutch and United amounts of dividend if the Boards thought it appropriate.
company paying less than the equalised dividend would put the difference between the dividends into a reserve: an equalisation A copy of the Equalisation Agreement can be found on our reserve in the case of exchange rate uctuations, or a dividend website at www.
reserve in the case of a government restriction.
The reserves would be paid out to its shareholders when it became possible or The Deed of Mutual Covenants reasonable to do so, which would ensure that the shareholders of The Deed of Mutual Covenants provides that NV and PLC and both companies would ultimately be treated the same.
their respective subsidiary companies shall co-operate in every way for the purpose of maintaining a common operating policy.
If both companies were to go into liquidation, NV and PLC would In addition, they shall exchange all relevant information about each use any funds available for shareholders to pay the prior their respective businesses the intention being to create and claims of their own preference shareholders.
Then they would maintain a common operating platform for the Unilever Group use any surplus to pay each others preference shareholders, if throughout the world.
The Deed of Mutual Covenants illustrates necessary.
After these claims had been met, they would pay out some of the information which makes up this common platform, any equalisation or dividend reserve to their own shareholders such as the mutual exchange and free use of know-how, patents, before pooling the remaining surplus.
This would be distributed trade marks and all other commercially valuable information.
to the ordinary shareholders of both companies on an equal basis.
The Deed contains provisions which allow the Directors of NV and If one company were to go into liquidation, we would apply the PLC to take any actions to ensure that the dividend-generating same principles as if both had gone into liquidation capacity of each of NV and PLC is aligned with the economic simultaneously.
interests of their respective shareholders.
These provisions also allow assets to be transferred between NV and PLC and their In principle, issues of bonus shares and rights offerings can only associated companies as dened in the Deed of Mutual be made in ordinary shares.
Again we would ensure that Covenants to ensure that assets are allocated in the most shareholders of NV and PLC received shares in equal proportions.
These arrangements are designed to create The subscription price for one new NV share would have to be a balance between the two parent companies and the funds the same, at the prevailing exchange rate, as the price for one generated by them, for the benefit of their respective sets of shareholders.
40 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2006
