Report of the Directors continued Corporate governance continued Retention period of shares Provision of information The Dutch Code recommends that shares granted to executive We consider it important to comply with all applicable statutory directors without a financial consideration must be retained for regulations on the equal treatment of shareholders and provision a period of at least five years bpp II.
In 2001 we introduced of information and communication with shareholders and other a new remuneration policy with shareholder approval which parties P IV.
3. requires our Executive Directors to build and retain a personal shareholding in Unilever equal to at least 150% of their annual Meetings of analysts and presentations to investors base pay.
We believe that this is in line with the spirit of the We have extensive procedures for handling relations with and Dutch Code.
communicating with shareholders, investors, analysts and the media see description on page 38.
The important presentations Severance pay and meetings are conducted as far as practicable in accordance It is our policy to set the level of severance payments for Directors with bpp IV.
Due to their large number and overlap in to no more than one years salary, unless the Board, at the information, some of the less important ones are not announced proposal of the Remuneration Committee, nds this manifestly in advance, made accessible to everyone or put on our website.
unreasonable given circumstances or unless otherwise dictated by applicable law bpp II.
Requirements the United Kingdom PLC is required, as a company that is incorporated in the United Regulations for transactions in securities in other Kingdom and listed on the London Stock Exchange, to state how companies it has applied the principles and how far it has complied with the The Dutch Code recommends that a director shall give periodic provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code issued in notice of any changes in his holding of securities in other Dutch 1998, as revised in 2003 the Combined Code, appended to the listed companies bpp II.
Our Share Dealing United Kingdom Listing Rules.
Code provides that Directors are required, upon request, to disclose to the compliance officer their holdings and transactions In the preceding pages we have described how we have applied in securities in other listed companies.
We believe this the Principles and the provisions in the Combined Code.
In 2006, requirement constitutes an appropriate arrangement.
Unilever complied with the Combined Code except in the following two areas: Conicts of interest In the event of a potential conict of interest, the provisions of Antony Burgmans, who before May 2005 was an Executive the Dutch Code P II.
Conicts of interest Director, is not considered to be independent.
The Nomination are not understood to include transactions and other activities Committee and the Board nominated him for election as a between companies in the Unilever Group.
Non-Executive Director in 2005 because of his thorough knowledge of Unilever and its operations.
However, with the Financing preference shares appointment of Michael Treschow as Chairman, subject to his NV issued 4%, 6% and 7% cumulative preference shares appointment as a Non-Executive Director at the AGMs, Unilever between 1927 and 1970.
Their voting rights are based on their will comply with the provision that requires the Chairman to be nominal value, as prescribed by Dutch law.
The Dutch Code independent on appointment: and recommends that the voting rights on such shares should, in any event when they are newly issued, be based on their economic Due to the requirement for Unilever to hold two AGMs for its value rather than on their nominal value bpp IV.
NV agrees respective companies on consecutive days, it may not always be with this principle but cannot unilaterally reduce voting rights of possible for all Directors, and possibly the Chairmen of the its outstanding shares.
Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, to be present at both meetings.
The Chairman therefore ensures that Anti-takeover constructions and control over the company a majority of Directors attend both meetings and that at least With reference to bpp IV.
3.9, NV has no anti-takeover one member of each Committee attends each AGM.
constructions, in the sense of constructions that are intended solely, or primarily, to block future hostile public offers for its Requirements the United States shares.
Nor does it have any constructions whose specic purpose Both NV and PLC are listed on the New York Stock Exchange and is to prevent a bidder, after acquiring 75% of the capital, from must therefore comply with such of the requirements of US appointing or dismissing members of the Board and subsequently legislation, such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, regulations altering the Articles of Association.
The acquisition through a enacted under US securities laws and the Listing Standards of the public offer of a majority of the shares in a company does not New York Stock Exchange as are applicable to foreign private under Dutch law preclude in all circumstances the continued right issuers.
In some cases the requirements are mandatory and in of the board of the company to exercise its powers.
The relevant other cases the obligation is to comply or explain.
information which NV is required to disclose in accordance with the Decree dated 5 April 2006 to implement Article 10 of Directive 2004 25 EC can be found in this document.
44 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Report of the Directors continued Corporate governance continued We have complied with the requirements concerning corporate We are required by US securities laws and the Listing Standards governance that were in force during 2006.
Attention is drawn of the New York Stock Exchange to have an Audit Committee in particular to the remit of the Audit Committee on page 37 that satisfies Rule 10A-3 under the Exchange Act and the Listing and the Report of the Audit Committee on page 63.
Standards of the New York Stock Exchange NYSE.
We are fully compliant with these requirements.
We are also required to Actions already taken to ensure compliance that are not disclose any significant ways in which our corporate governance specifically disclosed elsewhere or otherwise clear from reading practices differ from those typically followed by US companies this document include: listed on the NYSE.
In addition to the information we have given you in this document about our corporate governance the issuance of a Code of Ethics for senior financial ofcers: arrangements, further details are provided in the issuance of instructions restricting the employment of The Governance of Unilever, which is on our website at former employees of the audit rm: and www.
the establishment of a policy on reporting requirements under the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC relating to We are fully compliant with the Listing Standards of the the standards of professional conduct for US attorneys.
New York Stock Exchange applicable to foreign private issuers.
Our corporate governance practices do not signicantly differ In each of these cases, existing practices were revised and or from those followed by US companies listed on the New York documented in such a way as to conform to the new Stock Exchange.
We would also confirm that it is our practice, in accordance with The Code of Ethics applies to the senior executive, financial and our home country laws and practices, to give our shareholders the accounting ofcers and comprises the standards prescribed by the opportunity to vote on equity compensation plans.
SEC, and a copy has been posted on our website at www.
The Code of Ethics comprises an extract of the relevant provisions of Unilevers Code of Business Principles and the more detailed rules of conduct that implement it.
The only amendment to these pre-existing provisions and rules that was made in preparing the Code of Ethics was made at the request of the Audit Committee and consisted of a strengthening of the explicit requirement to keep proper accounting records.
No waiver from any provision of the Code of Ethics was granted to any of the persons falling within the scope of the SEC requirement in 2006.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2006 45
