Report of the Directors continued About Unilever Description of business The Europe region includes our operations in Western Europe Unilever is one of the worlds leading suppliers of fast moving and in Central and Eastern Europe, and in 2006 accounted for consumer goods across Foods and Home and Personal Care approximately 38% of our business on a turnover basis.
Unilevers portfolio includes some of the worlds best The Americas region includes our operations in North America known and most loved brands.
and Latin America and represented around 35% of our business.
Our Asia Africa region accounted for 27% of our business, and Strategy and long-term financial targets includes our operations in the Middle East, Turkey, Africa, Asia At the heart of Unilever's strategy is a concentration of resources and Australasia.
on areas where we have leading positions and on high growth spaces, especially in personal care, in developing and emerging Categories markets and in Vitality.
While the focus is on developing the Two category teams cover Foods and Home and Personal Care, business organically, acquisitions and disposals also have a role and are responsible for each category and the brands therein.
to play in accelerating the portfolio development.
They are fully responsible for brand development and innovation, including research and development.
Categories also lead the To execute this strategy the business has been reorganised to strategic elements of the supply chain and are accountable for simplify the management structure and to improve capabilities long-term value creation in the business, as measured by market in marketing, customer management, and research and share development, category growth, innovation metrics and development.
The result is better allocation of resources, better brand health.
execution, faster decision-making and greater focus on efficiency.
The new organisation, augmented by the successful 'One For more information about our two categories and their Unilever' project, allows us to leverage our scale both globally innovation activities during 2006 please refer to pages 20 to 22. and locally.
Functions Unilever's long-term ambition is to achieve top-third total Our five support functions Finance, HR, IT, Communications shareholder return and our targets reect this.
Over the period and Legal provide value-adding business partnership, strategic 2005-2010 we target ungeared free cash ow of 25-30 billion.
support and competitive services to the whole business especially Disposals made in the past two years, with no significant the regional and category organisations.
They are organised acquisitions to date, have reduced the cash generation over the around the model of business partners, shared services and period by just over 1 billion.
Return on invested capital is expertise teams.
targeted to increase over the 2004 base of 11%.
We expect underlying sales growth of 3-5% per annum and an operating Operating environment margin in excess of 15% by 2010 after a normal level of We have a wide and diverse set of competitors in our consumer restructuring of 0.5 to 1 percent of sales.
Many of our competitors also operate on an international scale, but others have a narrower regional or Key performance indicators local focus.
Underlying sales growth, operating margin, ungeared free cash ow, return on invested capital and total shareholder return are Competition is a normal part of business.
We aim to compete key performance indicators for the Group.
and give value to our consumers, customers and shareholders in three ways: In the Operating review on pages 13 to 22 and the Financial review on pages 23 to 32 we explain why we regard these as by continually developing new and improved products: important indicators of our progress against our strategic by sharing our innovations and concepts with our businesses objectives, describe how we calculate them, and report on the all around the world: and results of these measures for the current and preceding years.
by striving to lower the cost of our sourcing, manufacturing and distribution processes while still maintaining, and Regions improving, the quality of our products.
Three regional teams are responsible for managing Unilevers business in the regions, and for market operations.
They are We support efforts to create a more open competitive primarily responsible for winning with customers and deploying environment through the liberalisation of international trade.
brand events and innovations effectively.
The regions are fully We support the full implementation of the Single European Market accountable for the profit performance of our business, as well and inclusion in the European Union of other countries that full as growth, short-term cash ows and the in-year development the agreed criteria for membership.
Unilevers products are generally sold through its sales force and through independent brokers, agents and distributors to chain, wholesale, co-operative and independent grocery accounts, food service distributors and institutions.
Products are distributed through distribution centres, satellite warehouses, companyoperated and public storage facilities, depots and other facilities.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2006 5 Report of the Directors continued About Unilever continued We sell our products in nearly all countries throughout the world Our Home Care ranges include a series of laundry products, and manufacture in many of them.
We export a wide range of including tablets as well as traditional powders and liquids for products to countries where we do not make them.
For example, washing by hand or machine.
Tailored products including soap inside the European Union we make many of our products in only bars are available for lower-income consumers.
Our brands a few member countries, for sale in all of them.
The chosen include Comfort, Omo, Radiant, Skip, Snuggle and Surf.
Our manufacturing conguration is generally determined by an household care products are led by our Cif and Domestos brands.
optimised regional sourcing strategy which takes account of requirements for innovation, quality, service, cost and exibility.
Corporate venture activities Unilever has allocated 350 million to its venturing activities in Certain of our businesses, such as ice cream, are subject to order to create business opportunities that will help build our core significant seasonal uctuations in sales.
However, Unilever business interests in Foods and Home and Personal Care.
These operates globally in many different markets and product activities include: categories.
No individual element of seasonality is likely to be material to the results of the Group as a whole.
Unilever Technology Ventures, which invests in technology funds and start-up companies: Related party transactions Unilever Ventures, which is an early-stage business development Transactions with related parties are conducted in accordance fund for businesses from both inside and outside Unilever: and with agreed transfer pricing policies and include sales to joint Langholm Capital, which is an independent fund investing in ventures and associates.
Other than those disclosed in this report, private European companies with above-average longer-term there were no related party transactions that were material to the growth prospects.
Group or to the related parties concerned that are required to be reported in 2006 or the two preceding years.
Our employees We set great store by our people.
No matter what their level or For more information about related party transactions please refer individual responsibilities, they all make an important contribution also to note 30 on page 122. to our success.
Resources The following examples outline some of the initiatives we have instigated to help our people develop their skills, broaden their Our brands Foods experience and wherever they are in the world improve their Our Foods category manages brands in two main groups: chances of progressing within Unilever.
Savoury, dressings and spreads includes sales of soups, bouillons, Talented people are given opportunities to develop at every level.
sauces, snacks, mayonnaise, salad dressings, olive oil, margarines, However, our new senior leadership programme, launched in spreads and cooking products such as liquid margarines and the 2006, is aimed at those with potential to reach the top roles.
The remaining frozen foods businesses.
Among the leading brands are programme includes a bespoke business simulation, based on one Knorr, Hellmanns, Calv, Wish-Bone, Amora, Bertolli, our healthy of our skincare businesses.
It provides an exceptional opportunity heart Becel and Flora ranges, and our family brands including for senior managers rapidly to gain the breadth and depth of Rama, Blue Band and Country Crock.
business and leadership understanding required for our businesss most demanding roles.
Ice cream and beverages includes our sales of ice cream under the international Heart brand, including Cornetto, Magnum, We are always looking at new ways of working to drive business Carte dOr and Solero, and also Ben & Jerrys, Breyers, Klondike effectiveness.
One example is in the area of business travel which and Popsicle.
It also includes sales of tea, where our brands can be time-consuming and tiring.
Our current videoconferencing include Lipton and Brooke Bond, weight management products, equipment is being upgraded to state-of-the-art facilities at five principally Slim Fast, and nutritionally enhanced staples sold in major Unilever sites worldwide and is expected to enable us to developing markets, including our Annapurna and AdeS ranges.
These facilities mean that complete teams can communicate effectively with one another across continents Within these groups, our Unilever Foodsolutions business is a and time zones without anyone leaving the ofce making global food service business providing solutions for professional better use of everyones time and energy, and limiting time chefs and caterers.
Its results are reported within those for the spent away from home.
During 2006, as part of a graduate recruitment programme, Our brands Home and Personal Care Unilever Netherlands set an unusual work-experience challenge.
Our Home and Personal Care category manages brands in two Students spent two weeks in rural India on Hindustan Levers main groups: Project Shakti, helping women in remote areas who have set up small businesses as direct-to-consumer retailers and measuring In Personal Care, six global brands are the core of our business in the projects success.
By providing local women with training and the deodorants, skin cleansing, daily hair care and mass-market business skills, Shakti creates a new distribution channel for our skin care categories Axe, Dove, Lux, Ponds, Rexona and Sunsilk.
products while providing the women with opportunities to Other important brands include Suave, Clear, Lifebuoy and improve their income, standard of living and place in the Vaseline, together with Signal and Close Up in oral care.
It also helped open Dutch students eyes to the wide variety of activities that take place across the Unilever world.
6 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Report of the Directors continued About Unilever continued Unilever employees whose skills are honed in developing and Diversity emerging D&E markets are reaching senior positions both at Diversity in Unilever is about inclusion, embracing differences, home and abroad, and 20% of our top 123 managers are from creating possibilities and growing together for better business D&E regions.
Andina Central America, Argentina, Brazil, India, performance.
We embrace diversity in our workforce: this means Indonesia, Japan, Mexico, Pakistan, the Philippines and South giving full and fair consideration to all applicants and continuing Africa all have either local nationals as their chairmen, or development to all employees, regardless of gender, nationality, chairmen from within the D&E regions.
Furthermore, 39% of all race, creed, disability, style or sexuality.
Diversity plays a vital role individuals on international secondment are from developing or in ensuring we understand consumers needs.
The commitment to diversity is set right at the top of our Hindustan Lever, Unilevers business in India, has a Personal business.
An important legacy of our Chairman, Antony Vitality Programme which assesses individual employees body Burgmans, is that he is leaving the most diverse Unilever Board in mass, blood pressure, cholesterol and blood sugar levels.
Going forward, Group Chief Executive Patrick Cescau assistance is provided to those who have nutrition or health will lead our global diversity board that will drive the diversity issues, or exercise requirements.
Although voluntary, over strategy within the business.
10 000 employees have taken part so far and each will be followed up annually to ensure they have every opportunity Unilever is one of the worlds most culturally diverse companies to improve their health.
with 24 different nationalities represented among our top 123 managers worldwide.
Strong, effective leadership is at the heart of our transformation programme and is the key to sustaining high levels of business In 2006 we focused on practical diversity initiatives.
Our new global Standards of Leadership framework included the quarterly measurement and tracking of diversity clearly sets out the behaviours needed to align hearts and minds, against objectives and the integration of our diversity agenda inspire people to achieve excellence in strategy execution and into our people processes.
develop the skills and capabilities we need for the future.
Gender continues to be the primary focus of our diversity strategy, Maintaining health and tness can be challenging for senior as well as a way of improving business performance.
Between managers in demanding roles.
During 2006, several senior 2000 and 2006, we have increased our female management leadership teams including the Unilever Executive took part prole from 25% to 33% and most of our senior leadership in a well-being programme.
Each received their own individual teams, such as Foods, Europe, The Americas and human health and Vitality check, which was then used to design a resources include female leaders.
personal plan to enhance their habits and practices in physical activity, nutrition and mental resilience.
In 2007 a further ten Information technology leadership teams are expected to participate in a well-being Unilever IT is a global function headed by the Global Chief programme.
Information officer with a strategy to deliver simpler, more cost effective IT solutions to support the business.
Common Our total employee numbers over the last five years were as technology framework and standards for architecture, key follows: technologies, process, information and services, allow Unilever to leverage its scale.
For example, this approach is supporting Year end in thousands 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 the integration of our businesses in each country under the One Europe 44 49 52 55 60 Unilever programme, as well as the setting up of regional shared The Americas 45 47 47 50 53 service centres for back-ofce operations, which in some cases Asia Africa 90 110 124 129 134 are being outsourced.
Total 179 206 223 234 247 The development of destination IT architecture is another Of the overall reduction in numbers during 2006 of 27 000, the example of simplifying and leveraging scale.
The destination IT sale of a plantations business in India accounted for a reduction architecture is essentially a long-term view on the IT application of 18 000.
A further 3 000 resulted from the sale of the majority and technology landscape for Unilever.
This also fundamentally of our European frozen foods businesses, with the remainder of changes the way IT works with the business.
the reduction arising from other business disposals and a range of restructuring projects.
Unilever partners with a few major suppliers to develop the minimum number of non-overlapping systems needed to deliver Included in the total reported numbers for 2006 were 26 000 the business objectives.
This promotes radical simplication with part-time or seasonal employees 2005: 33 000. exibility and agility, faster implementation and reduced costs.
Intellectual property We have a large portfolio of patents and trademarks, and we conduct some of our operations under licences which are based on patents or trademarks owned or controlled by others.
We are not dependent on any one patent or group of patents.
We use our best efforts to protect our brands and technology.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2006 7 Report of the Directors continued About Unilever continued Property, plant and equipment On 15 February 2005 NV converted part of the notional value of We have interests in properties in most of the countries where the preference shares into NV ordinary shares.
The value, which there are Unilever operations.
However, none is material in the the holders of the preference shares received upon conversion, context of the Group as a whole.
The properties are used was 4.55 for each preference share.
predominantly to house production and distribution activities and as ofces.
There is a mixture of leased and owned property As a consequence of the conversion, the notional value of the throughout the Group.
There are no environmental issues preference shares was reduced to 0.05 Fl.
0.10 and pursuant to affecting the properties which would have a material impact the Articles of Association of NV the preference shares could be upon the Group, and there are no material encumbrances on our cancelled upon repayment of this remaining notional value.
Any difference between the market value of properties 4 May 2005, the Enterprise Chamber of the Amsterdam Court held by the Group and the amount at which they are included in of Appeal rejected another request of a group of holders of the balance sheet is not significant.
Please refer to the schedule preference shares who had bought their preference shares after of principal group companies and non-current investments on 24 March 2004, which was aimed to prohibit NV from cancelling page 129 and 130 and details of property, plant and equipment the preference shares.
On 10 May 2005, NVs Annual General in note 10 on page 90.
Meeting decided to cancel the preference shares and cancellation took effect on 13 July 2005.
We currently have no plans to construct new facilities or expand or improve our current facilities in a manner that is material to On 8 September 2006, the investigators published a report.
Criticisms made in this report related to how Unilever had communicated with the preference shareholders but the criticisms Laws and regulation did not extend to NVs decision to convert part of the notional Unilever businesses are governed by laws and regulations value of the preference shares into ordinary shares.
designed to ensure that products may be safely used for their intended purpose and that labelling and advertising are truthful On 8 November 2006 NV announced that it had agreed a and not misleading.
Unilever businesses are further regulated by settlement with the main parties in the legal dispute over the data protection and anti-trust legislation.
The settlement includes all former preference bodies in respect of our businesses include the European shareholders who had initiated the inquiry procedure.
Unilever Commission and the US Food and Drug Administration.
has provided 300 million in respect of the settlement.
Further information is given in note 19 on page 102.
We have processes in place to ensure that products, ingredients, manufacturing processes, marketing materials and activities The group of former preference shareholders who had bought comply with the above-mentioned laws and regulations.
their preference shares after 24 March 2004 and who are not entitled to the settlement, have requested the Enterprise Chamber Legal proceedings to rule that the report of the investigators demonstrates We are not involved in any legal or arbitration proceedings which mismanagement of NV.
They have requested an additional inquiry might lead to material loss or expenditure in the context of the into the policy and affairs of NV in the period after 24 March Group results.
Similarly we do not have any material obligations 2004.
This group of former preference shareholders has also under environmental legislation.
None of our Directors or Ofcers instituted claims with the Rotterdam District Court for nullification is involved in any legal proceedings which are material as aforesaid.
of the NV Boards decision to convert the preference shares and NVs Annual General Meeting decision to cancel the preference Preference shares shares.
The Enterprise Chamber and the Rotterdam District Court In 1999, NV issued 211 473 785 0.05 Fl.
0.10 cumulative have not yet decided on these claims.
preference shares, with a notional value of 6.58 Fl.
14.50, as an alternative to a cash dividend.
In March 2004, NV announced its On the grounds of NVs alleged attributable failure to buy back intention to convert part 6.53 equivalent to Fl.
14.40 of the the preference shares at 6.58, they also claim damages in the notional value of the preference shares, in accordance with its amount of approximately 81 million, which amount is based on Articles of Association, into NV ordinary shares in the first quarter the difference between 6.58 and 4.55, the value holders of the of 2005.
A number of holders of preference shares raised preference shares received upon conversion for each preference objections to the conversion, claiming that NV had created share.
These claims will be vigorously contested.
legitimate expectations that it would buy the preference shares back for an amount of 6.58, the amount of the cash dividend Other in 1999.
A group of holders of preference shares requested the Unilever has businesses in many countries and from time to Enterprise Chamber of the Amsterdam Court of Appeal to time these are subject to investigation by competition and other conduct an inquiry into the course of affairs surrounding the regulatory authorities.
One such matter concerns ice cream preference shares.
On 21 December 2004, the Enterprise distribution in Europe, notably the issues of outlet and cabinet Chamber ordered an inquiry: an additional request to forbid NV exclusivity.
In October 2003, the Court of First Instance in to convert the preference shares was rejected.
Luxembourg CFI ruled in favour of the European Commissions decision banning Unilevers Irish ice cream business, HB Ice Cream, 8 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Report of the Directors continued About Unilever continued from seeking freezer cabinet exclusivity for their products in the We aim to share these standards and values with our suppliers Irish market.
HB Ice Cream submitted an appeal to the European and contractors through our Business Partner Code, which sets Court of Justice in Luxembourg ECJ against the decision of the out standards on ten key points of business integrity, labour CFI.
On 28 September 2006 the ECJ dismissed the appeal.
standards, consumer safety and the environment.
Following the CFI decision freezer exclusivity in Ireland has not been enforceable from October 2003 onwards, in outlets which The long-term success of our business is intimately linked with the only have HB freezers.
From 2003 Unilever Ireland has complied vitality of the environment and communities in which we operate.
With the ECJ judgement this Each year we report on our contribution to sustainable position has now become final.
Similar consequences may apply development.
This is available online at the Environment & Society in specic European markets with equivalent structures to those section of www.
Our report describes how we are described in the Commission and CFI decisions.
There is a working in partnership to address issues such as poor nutrition possibility of claims for damages, in the event of which Unilever and hygiene, how we continue to work on reducing our will defend its position vigorously.
The case between HB Ice environmental impacts, and our contributions of 78 million to Cream and Masterfoods, which has been before the Irish Courts communities.
The strength of our commitment to sustainable since 1990 and which had been deferred pending the final development is reected in our leadership of the food industry determination of the appeal against the Commission decision, category of the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes for the eighth has been reopened at the request of Masterfoods.
It is noted that year running.
in the UK since 2000, when cabinet exclusivity was effectively abandoned following undertakings given by Unilever to the UK In our Operating review on pages 13 to 22 we give a glimpse of competition authorities, there has not been any material change the ways in which our brands are addressing consumers social in Unilevers relevant market share.
In 2006 the French competition authorities commenced an inquiry Risk management into potential competition law infringements in France involving a The following discussion about risk management activities number of consumer goods companies in the home and personal includes forward-looking statements that involve risk and care sector, including Unilever France and Lever Faberge France, uncertainties.
The actual results could differ materially from both subsidiaries of the Unilever Group.
To date, no statement those projected.
See the Cautionary Statement on the inside of objections has been lodged against either Unilever France back cover.
or Lever Faberge France and accordingly the potential financial implications, if any, of this investigation for such companies Unilevers system of risk management is outlined on page 66. cannot yet be assessed.
Responsibility for establishing a coherent framework for the Group to manage risk resides with the Boards.
The remit of the During 2004 the Federal Supreme Court in Brazil local acronym Boards is outlined on page 34.
STF announced a review of certain cases that it had previously decided in favour of taxpayers.
Because of this action we Particular risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to established a provision in 2004 for the potential repayment vary from those described in forward-looking statements within of sales tax credits in the event that the cases establishing this document, or which could impact on our ability to meet our precedents in our favour are reversed.
Since that time we have published targets, have been identied.
In this context the continued to monitor the situation and have made reductions following specic risks have been identied as areas of focus as appropriate to the amount provided.
Also during 2004 in Brazil, and in common with many other Sales and profit growth businesses operating in that country, one of our Brazilian The increasingly competitive environment, the further subsidiaries received a notice of infringement from the Federal consolidation in the marketplace and continued growth of Revenue Service.
The notice alleges that a 2001 reorganisation discounters could adversely impact our rate of sales growth and of our local corporate structure was undertaken without valid our profit margins.
In the light of this, we will continue to invest business purpose.
If upheld, the notice could result in a tax claim in selected brands and high growth market areas to ensure that in respect of prior years.
The 2001 reorganisation was comparable we deliver profitable sales growth.
Our continued sales and profit with that used by many companies in Brazil and we believe that growth depends in large part on our ability to generate and the likelihood of a successful challenge by the tax authorities is implement a stream of consumer-relevant improvements to our remote.
This view is supported by the opinion of outside counsel products.
The contribution of innovation is affected by the level of but there can be no guarantee of success on the merits.
funding that can be made available, the technical capability of the research and development functions, and the success of operating Corporate responsibility management in rolling out quickly the resulting improvements.
We seek to manage and grow our business around the world in Our focus will continue to be on developing our brands in ways a responsible and sustainable way.
The values and standards by that are distinctive and are relevant for our customers.
which we expect to be judged are set out in our Code of Business Principles.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2006 9 Report of the Directors continued About Unilever continued We have a number of large global brands, including 12 with an world, and there is a risk of downturns in consumer demand that annual turnover greater than 1 billion, which often depend on would reduce the sales of our products.
We will continue to global or regional development and supply chains.
Any adverse monitor closely performance in the most volatile markets and event affecting consumer confidence or continuity of supply of respond quickly to protect our business.
In cases of extreme social such a brand could have an impact in many markets.
The carrying disruption, protecting our people is always the priority.
value of intangible assets associated with our brands is significant, and depends on the future success of those brands.
There Price and supply of raw materials and remains a risk that events affecting one or more of our global commodities contracts brands could potentially impair the value of those brands.
Prices of raw materials and commodities increased signicantly throughout 2006, adversely impacting margin where we were As the retail market place through which our products are unable to pass on increased costs.
To mitigate such risks, and distributed continues to evolve, our growth and profitability can where appropriate, we purchase forward contracts for raw be threatened if we do not adapt our strategies and enhance our materials and commodities, almost always for physical delivery.
It is important that we continue to build Where appropriate we also use futures contracts to hedge future and deepen relationships with our customers.
Plans to raise our price movements: however, the amounts are not material.
effectiveness in the trade, where necessary, receive increasing attention at all levels.
Insurance of risks As a multinational group with diverse product offerings and Change initiatives operations in more than 100 countries, Unilever is subject to The continuing restructuring of the business which is designed to varying degrees of risk and uncertainty.
It does not take out simplify our operations and leverage our scale more effectively, insurance against all risks and retains a significant element of includes outsourcing back ofce support operations and exposure to those risks against which it does insure.
However, converging regional processes and systems, and requires it insures its business assets in each country against insurable continuing close management attention in 2007.
Building on the risks as it deems appropriate.
experiences of 2006, we will continue to manage the risks in this area diligently and ensure that there are clear action plans to Financial risks mitigate them.
Key to this is the establishment and maintenance In addition to the above, Unilever is exposed to various specic of project management processes to monitor progress against risks in connection with its financial operations and results.
milestones and targets together with appropriate communication These include the following: programmes.
The impact of movement in equity markets, interest rates and People life expectancy on net pension liabilities: Unilevers performance targets require it to have the right calibre Maintenance of group cash ows at an appropriate level: of people at all levels.
We must compete to obtain capable Exposure of debt and cash positions to changes in interest rates: recruits for the business, and then train them in the skills and Potential impact of changes in exchange rates on the Groups competencies that we need to deliver profitable growth.
At a earnings and on the translation of its underlying net assets: time of substantial change in the business there is a particular Liquidity and counterparty risks: and focus on creating alignment and energetic leadership, evidenced Risks associated with the holding of our own shares in by the senior leadership programme that was launched in 2006. connection with share-based remuneration schemes.
Corporate reputation Further information about these, including sensitivity analysis to Unilever has created a strong corporate reputation over many changes in certain of the key measures, is given in note 17 on years and many of our businesses have a high local prole.
This pages 100 and 101 and note 20 on page 105. reputation is underpinned by ensuring that all employees embrace the principles prescribed in our Code of Business Principles.
Other risks Unilever products carrying our well-known brand names are sold Unilevers businesses are exposed to varying degrees of risk and in over 100 countries.
Should we fail to meet high product safety, uncertainty related to other factors including competitive pricing, social, environmental and ethical standards in all our operations consumption levels, physical risks, legislative, scal, tax and and activities, Unilevers corporate reputation could be damaged, regulatory developments, terrorism and economic, political, and leading to the rejection of our products by consumers, damage to social conditions in the environments where we operate.
All of our brands and diversion of management time into rebuilding our these risks could materially affect the Groups business, our reputation.
turnover, operating profit, net profit, net assets and liquidity.
There may be risks which are unknown to Unilever or which are Potential economic instability currently believed to be immaterial.
Around 40% of Unilevers turnover comes from the developing and emerging economies.
We have long experience in these markets, which are also an important source of our growth.
These economies are typically more volatile than those in the developed 10 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2006
