Report of the Directors continued Corporate governance continued The Directors stop holding executive ofce on ceasing to be Senior Independent Director Directors.
Those appointed prior to 2004 retire at the latest by Our Non-Executive Directors have appointed David Simon as the age of 62.
Appointees from 2004 onwards retire at an age Senior Independent Director.
He acts as their spokesman.
The between 60 and 65, as decided by either them or Unilever.
Senior Independent Director is consulted by the Chairman on the agenda and arrangements for Board meetings.
He is also, We do not grant our Executive Directors any personal loans or in appropriate cases, a point of contact for shareholders and guarantees.
There are no family relationships between any of our Executive Tenure Directors, other key management personnel or Non-Executive Our Non-Executive Directors submit themselves for re-election Directors.
None of our Executive Directors are elected or each year.
Their nomination for re-election is subject to continued appointed under any arrangement or understanding.
Executive good performance which is evaluated by the Boards, based on Directors are to obtain approval from the Chairman for all outside the recommendations of the Nomination Committee.
Normally not more than one such Nomination Committee carefully considers each nomination for appointment should be accepted.
The Non-Executive Directors normally serve for a biographies see page 46. maximum of nine years.
Non-Executive Directors Remuneration The Non-Executive Directors share responsibility for the execution The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is determined by of the Boards duties, taking into account their specic the Boards, within the overall limit set by the shareholders at the responsibilities, which are essentially supervisory.
In particular, AGMs in 2006, and it is reported on page 61.
Details of the they comprise the principal external presence in the governance engagement of our Non-Executive Directors can be seen on the of Unilever, and provide a strong independent element.
Independence Role and Responsibility Taking into account the role of Non-Executive Directors, which is The key elements of the role and responsibilities of our Nonessentially supervisory, and the fact that they make up the key Executive Directors are: committees of the Boards, it is important that our Non-Executive Directors can be considered to be independent.
supervision of and advice to the Group Chief Executive: developing strategy with the Group Chief Executive: Our denition of independence for Directors is set out in scrutiny of performance: The Governance of Unilever.
It is derived from the applicable controls: denitions in use in the Netherlands, UK and US.
Our current reporting of performance: Non-Executive Directors are considered to be independent of remuneration of and succession planning for Executive Unilever, with the exception of Antony Burgmans.
Our Boards Directors: and reached this conclusion after conducting a thorough review of all governance and compliance.
relevant relationships of the Non-Executive Directors, and their related or connected persons.
Our Non-Executive Directors are chosen for their broad and relevant experience and international outlook, as well as A number of relationships, such as non-executive directorships, their independence.
They form the Audit Committee, the exist between various of our Non-Executive Directors and Nomination Committee, the Remuneration Committee and companies that provide banking, insurance or financial advisory the Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee services to Unilever.
Our Boards considered in each case the formerly External Affairs and Corporate Relations Committee.
number of other companies that also provide or could readily The roles and membership of these key Board committees are provide such services to Unilever, the signicance to those described on page 37.
The prole set by the Boards for the companies of the services they provide to Unilever, the roles Non-Executive Directors and the chart used for orderly of the Non-Executive Directors within those companies and succession planning can be seen on our website at the signicance of that role to our Non-Executive Directors.
It concluded that none of these relationships threaten the independence of the Non-Executive Directors concerned.
For Meetings example, the Boards have satisfied themselves that Leon Brittans The Non-Executive Directors meet as a group, without the position at UBS Investment Bank does not involve him in any way Executive Directors present, under the chairmanship of the Senior in its broking relationship with Unilever.
They have noted that Independent Director.
In 2006 they met twice as a group.
In Lynda Chalkers involvement in consultancy services for Unilever addition, the Non-Executive Directors usually meet before each had been terminated before she was elected a Non-Executive Board meeting with the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive and Director in May 2004.
The Boards have formed the view that the the Joint Secretaries.
fact that Antony Burgmans was a member of the Supervisory Board of ABN AMRO until April 2006 and that David Simon is a senior adviser of Morgan Stanley International, were not material.
36 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2006
