The Unilever Group Contents Report of the Directors Unilever N. V. NV is a public limited company registered in the Netherlands, which Chairmans report 3 has listings of shares and depositary receipts for shares on Euronext Amsterdam and About Unilever 5 of New York Registry Shares on the New York Stock Exchange.
Group Chief Executive 11 Unilever PLC PLC is a public limited company registered in England and Wales Operating review regions 13 which has shares listed on the London Stock Exchange and, as American Depositary Operating review categories 20 Receipts, on the New York Stock Exchange.
Financial review 23 The two parent companies, NV and PLC, together with their group companies, Corporate governance 33 operate as a single economic entity the Unilever Group, also referred to as Unilever Report of the Nomination Committee 48 or the Group.
NV and PLC and their group companies constitute a single reporting Report of the Remuneration Committee 49 entity for the purposes of presenting consolidated accounts.
Accordingly, the accounts Report of the Audit Committee 63 of the Unilever Group are presented by both NV and PLC as their respective consolidated accounts.
Report of the Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee 64 Basis of reporting Our accounting policies are based on International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU and UK and Dutch law.
These differ in certain respects Financial statements from accounting principles generally accepted in the United States US GAAP.
Statement of Directors responsibilities 66 Certain measures used in our reporting are not dened under either IFRS or US GAAP.
For further information about these measures, and the reasons why we believe they Auditors reports 68 are important for an understanding of the performance of the business, please refer Consolidated income statement 70 to the Operating review on page 13 and the Financial review on page 23.
Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 71 The brand names shown in italics in this report are trademarks owned by or licensed to companies within the Unilever Group.
Consolidated balance sheet 72 Consolidated cash ow statement 73 Reporting currency and exchange rates Notes to the consolidated accounts 74 Details of key exchange rates used in preparation of these accounts are given on page 128, together with Noon Buying Rates in New York for the equivalent dates.
Financial record 124 Principal group companies and Forward-looking statements non-current investments 129 This document contains certain statements that are neither reported financial results Company accounts 131 nor other historical information.
These statements are forward-looking statements, including within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
For a description of factors that could affect future results, reference should be made to the full Cautionary Statement on the inside back cover.
Shareholder information Analysis of shareholding 141 Exchange controls affecting security holders 142 Nature of the trading market 143 Dividend record 145 Financial calendar 146 Contact details 146 Website 147 Publications 147 Share registration 147 Index 148 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2006 1
