Report of the Directors continued Corporate governance continued Requirements the Netherlands Risk management and control Reference is made to page 66 where Unilevers control framework General is described.
This incorporates risk management, internal control NV is required to state in its Annual Report and Accounts whether procedures and disclosure controls and procedures.
Our it complies or will comply with the Principles P and best procedures cover financial, operational, social, strategic and practice provisions bpp of the Dutch Corporate Governance environmental risks and regulatory matters.
They are in line with Code the Dutch Code and, if it does not comply, to explain the the latest recommendations of Internal Control Revised reasons for this.
As will be clear from the preceding description of Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code published by the our governance arrangements, NV complies with almost all of the Internal Control Working Party of the Institute of Chartered principles and best practice provisions of the Dutch Code.
The Accountants in England and Wales in October 2005 The Turnbull text that follows sets out areas of non-compliance, as well as Guidance.
On pages 9 and 10 we have identied certain specic certain statements that the Dutch Code invites us to make to risks that are areas of focus in 2007.
Unilever has designed its our shareholders that are not included elsewhere in this Annual internal risk management and control systems to provide Report and Accounts.
reasonable not absolute assurance to ensure compliance with regulatory matters and to safeguard reliability of the financial Board and Committee structures reporting and its disclosures.
NV is a multinational company with activities and shareholders located all over the world.
It has a one-tier board, consisting of The Board considers that the internal risk management and both Executive and, as a majority, Non-Executive Directors.
control systems are appropriate for our business and in We achieve compliance of our board arrangements with the compliance with bpp II.
Dutch Code, which is for the most part based on the customary two-tier structure in the Netherlands, by, as far as is possible and In bpp II.
1.4 the Dutch Code invites our Board to make a practicable, applying the provisions of the Dutch Code relating to statement on our internal risk management and control systems.
members of a management board to our Executive Directors and In its report, published on 20 December 2005, the Corporate the provisions relating to members of a supervisory board to our Governance Code Monitoring Committee has made Non-Executive Directors.
Management tasks not capable of recommendations concerning the application of this best practice delegation are performed by the Board.
Reference is made to Ps II provision.
In accordance with its recommendation and in the light and III and corresponding bpps.
Reference is also made to the UK of the above, the Board believes that, as regards financial Combined Code on Corporate Governance, which is fully tailored reporting risks: to the one-tier board model see page 34. the risk management and control systems provide reasonable Role of the Chairman assurance that this Annual Report does not contain any The Dutch Code recommends that in a one-tier board the material inaccuracies: chairman should neither be, nor have been, responsible for the the risk management and control systems have worked day-to-day conduct of the business bpp III.
Before his properly in 2006: appointment as Non-Executive Chairman, Antony Burgmans was there are no indications that the risk management and control jointly responsible for the daily operations of NV and PLC.
Thus systems will not work properly in 2007: he is not independent from Unilever.
He was nominated as Nonno material failings in the risk management and control systems Executive Chairman in 2005 because of his thorough knowledge were discovered in the year under review or the current year of Unilever and its operations.
In addition to his role as Chairman, until the signing of these accounts: and, as regards financial, the Board considered his knowledge of the business to be operational, social, strategic, environmental and regulatory essential to see through the changes resulting from the structure risks: and review.
Antony Burgmans will be succeeded by Michael Treschow no material failings in the risk management and control systems as an independent Chairman at the AGMs in 2007, subject to his were discovered in the year under review.
This statement is not a statement in accordance with the As Antony Burgmans was the only Non-Executive Director who is requirements of Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
not independent from Unilever, NV complies with bpp.
Share options and awards In line with bpp II.
2.2, the awards and grants of shares and In addition to the Chairman, the Boards of NV and PLC have options to our Executive Directors are in the material cases subject a Senior Independent Director who is appointed by the Nonto performance criteria, as referred to on pages 51 and 52 of the Executive Directors and acts as their spokesperson.
Report of the Remuneration Committee.
The exception is the options over 150 NV shares granted each year to our Executive Directors under the all-employee share option plan in the Netherlands, as described on pages 117 and 118.
The Directors participation in this plan is seen as a stimulus for all employees to participate.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2006 43
