Report of the Directors continued Corporate governance continued Board evaluation of Electrolux in April 2007.
Their appointments will, should their In 2006, an independent rm, Board Consultants International nominations be approved by shareholders, bring further diversity BCI, was commissioned to carry out an evaluation of the Boards, of background and experience to the Boards.
Professor Berger, the Board committees, the Chairman and individual Directors.
Mr Murthy and Ms Nyasulu will, subject to their election as As part of the evaluation, Dr Florian Schilling from BCI conducted Directors, become members of the Corporate Responsibility interviews with all Directors, the Joint Secretaries and two former and Reputation Committee.
Directors who had retired in 2006.
He reported the outcome of the evaluation to the Chairman and the Senior Independent Biographical details for the new Non-Executive Directors are Director and to the Boards in February 2007. contained in the 2007 AGM Notices, and on our website at www.
Board support The Joint Secretaries are available to advise all Directors and Chairman and Group Chief Executive ensure that Board procedures are complied with.
They are Unilever has a separate Non-Executive Chairman and Group Chief appointed and can be removed by the Boards.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between their roles.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for leadership of the A procedure is in place to enable Directors, if they so wish, to Boards, ensuring their effectiveness and setting their agendas.
He seek independent professional advice at Unilevers expense.
is also responsible for ensuring that the Boards receive accurate, timely and clear information.
Board changes The current Directors, with their biographies, are shown on page The Group Chief Executive has been entrusted, within the 46.
All the Executive Directors held ofce throughout the year.
parameters set out in the Articles of Association of NV and PLC and The Governance of Unilever, with all the Boards powers, Leon Brittan, Lynda Chalker, Wim Dik, David Simon and Jeroen authorities and discretions in relation to the operational van der Veer were re-elected as Non-Executive Directors of NV management of Unilever.
The Group Chief Executive has the and PLC at the 2006 AGMs.
In addition, Charles Golden, Byron authority to determine which duties regarding the operational Grote, Jean-Cyril Spinetta and Kees Storm were appointed as management of the companies and their business enterprises will Non-Executive Directors.
be carried out under his responsibility by one or more Executive Directors or by one or more other persons.
This provides a basis In 2006, David Simon became our Senior Independent Director, for the Unilever Executive team UEx that reports to the Group Vice-Chairman of NV and PLC, and Chairman of our Chief Executive.
For UEx members biographies see page 47.
For Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Kees Storm became our business structure, please refer to About Unilever on page 5. a member and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Charles Golden and Byron Grote became members of the Audit Executive Directors Committee.
Jean-Cyril Spinetta became a member of the All four Executive Directors are members of the UEx: the Group Remuneration and Nomination Committee.
Chief Executive, the Chief Financial officer, the President, Europe and the President, Home and Personal Care.
Details on their At the 2006 AGMs, Bertrand Collomb, Oscar Fanjul and Hilmar responsibilities can be found in The Governance of Unilever.
Kopper retired as Non-Executive Directors.
The Executive Directors are full-time employees of Unilever.
At the 2007 AGMs all of the Executive Directors and the NonInformation about their remuneration can be found in the report Executive Directors, with the exception of Antony Burgmans, of the Remuneration Committee and on our website.
We are Lynda Chalker and Rudy Markham, who will be retiring at these currently updating our Directors service contract to take into meetings, will be nominated for re-election.
Their colleagues account recent changes in the law and best practice, for example, would like to thank Antony, Lynda and Rudy for the enormous those relating to age limits for directors.
contribution they have made to Unilever during their association with the Group.
The Remuneration Committee takes the view that the entitlement of the Executive Directors to the security of twelve months notice In addition, four new Non-Executive Directors will be proposed of termination of employment is in line both with the practice of for election at the 2007 AGMs.
These are Genevieve Berger, many comparable companies and the entitlement of other senior Narayana Murthy, Hixonia Nyasulu and Michael Treschow.
It is our policy to set the level of Genevieve Berger is a Professor of Biophysics and Medical Imaging severance payments for Directors to no more than one years at Paris University VI and Chairman of the Advisory Board Health salary, unless the Boards, at the proposal of the Remuneration for the EU Commission for Research.
Narayana Murthy is coCommittee, nd this manifestly unreasonable given circumstances founder and Chairman of Infosys Technologies Limited.
Hixonia or unless dictated by applicable law.
Nyasulu is a Non-Executive Director of Sasol Limited and Anglo Platinum and an Advisory Board Member of JP Morgan South The Executive Directors submit themselves for re-election at the Africa.
Michael Treschow, who, if appointed, will become AGMs each year.
The Nomination Committee carefully considers Unilevers new independent Chairman, is currently Chairman each nomination for reappointment.
He will be stepping down as Chairman Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2006 35
