Report of the Directors continued Corporate governance continued The Boards consider that the Executive Directorship of Byron The Audit Committee is supplied with all information necessary Grote combined with the Non-Executive Directorship of Antony for the performance of its duties by the Chief Auditor, Chief Burgmans of BP p. l. c. does not affect Dr Grotes status as Financial officer, and Deputy Chief Financial officer.
Both the independent in relation to his Non-Executive Directorship of Chief Auditor and the external auditors have direct access to the Unilever.
The Boards also consider that Jean-Cyril Spinettas Audit Committee separately from management.
position as Chairman CEO of Air France-KLM SA combined with Kees Storms Chairmanship of the Supervisory Board of KLM Royal See page 63 for the Report of the Audit Committee to the Dutch Airlines N. V. does not affect their status as independent in shareholders.
relation to their Non-Executive Directorships of Unilever.
Nomination Committee Antony Burgmans, who before May 2005 was an Executive Our Nomination Committee comprises a minimum of three Director, is not considered to be independent.
The Nomination independent Non-Executive Directors.
It is chaired by David Simon Committee and the Boards nominated him for election as a Nonand its other members are Jean-Cyril Spinetta, Jeroen van der Executive Director in 2005 because of his thorough knowledge of Veer and Antony Burgmans.
It met six times in 2006 and the Unilever and its operations.
Antony Burgmans will be succeeded members attended all meetings except that David Simon was by Michael Treschow as an independent Chairman at the AGMs in absent for one meeting.
The Committee recommends to the 2007, subject to his election as a Non-Executive Director.
Boards candidates for the positions of Director.
It also has responsibilities for succession planning and oversight of corporate None of our Non-Executive Directors are elected or appointed governance matters.
It is supplied with information by the under any arrangement or understanding.
Board committees See page 48 for the Report of the Nomination Committee The Boards have established the following committees, all to shareholders.
formally set up by Board resolution with carefully dened remits.
They are made up solely of Non-Executive Directors with the Remuneration Committee exception of the Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Our Remuneration Committee comprises three independent NonCommittee which has an Executive Director as a member, and Executive Directors.
It is chaired by David Simon and its other report regularly to the Boards.
The remits can be found on members are Jean-Cyril Spinetta and Jeroen van der Veer.
six times in 2006 and the members attended all meetings except that David Simon was absent for one meeting.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee is comprised only of independent NonThe Committee reviews Directors remuneration and is responsible Executive Directors with a minimum requirement of three.
It is for the executive share-based incentive plans.
It determines, chaired by Kees Storm, and its other members are Wim Dik, within the parameters set by our shareholders, specic Charles Golden and Byron Grote.
The Committee met five times remuneration arrangements for each of the Executive Directors, in 2006, and the members attended all meetings.
The Boards the remuneration scales and arrangements for Non-Executive have satisfied themselves that all the current members of the Directors and the remuneration of the tier of management Committee are competent in financial matters and have recent directly below the Boards.
The Committee is supplied with and relevant experience and that, for the purposes of the US information by Jan van der Bijl, Joint Secretary of Unilever.
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Kees Storm is the Audit Committees financial expert.
The Committees meetings are attended, by The detailed report of the Remuneration Committee to invitation, by the Chief Financial officer, the General Counsel, shareholders on Directors remuneration is on pages 49 to 62. the Deputy Chief Financial officer, the Chief Auditor and our external auditors.
Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee The Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee currently The Audit Committee assists the Boards in fullling their oversight comprises four Non-Executive Directors and one Executive responsibilities in respect of the integrity of Unilevers financial Director.
It is chaired by Lynda Chalker and its other members statements: risk management and internal control arrangements: are Leon Brittan, Antony Burgmans, Wim Dik and Ralph Kugler.
compliance with legal and regulatory requirements: the Following the 2007 AGMs, subject to their election, Leon Brittan performance, qualications and independence of the external will chair the Committee and its members will be Genevieve auditors: and the performance of the internal audit function.
The Berger, Ralph Kugler, Narayana Murthy and Hixonia Nyasulu.
Committee is directly responsible, subject to local laws regarding The Committee, which replaced the External Affairs and shareholder approval, for the nomination, compensation and Corporate Relations Committee, has responsibility for the oversight of the external auditors.
oversight of Unilevers conduct with regard to its corporate and societal obligations and its reputation as a responsible The Audit Committee is fully compliant with the rules regarding corporate citizen.
audit committees that are applicable in the Netherlands, UK and US.
The Committees responsibilities and powers are fully aligned See page 64 for the Report of the Corporate Responsibility and with all requirements in the UK, US and the Netherlands.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2006 37
