Report of the Directors continued Corporate governance continued Routine business committees The Boards are regularly briefed on reactions to the quarterly Committees are also set up to conduct routine business as and results announcements.
They, or the relevant Board Committee, when they are necessary.
They comprise any two of the Directors are briefed on any issues raised by shareholders that are relevant and certain senior executives and ofcers.
They administer or to their responsibilities.
implement certain matters previously agreed by our Boards or the Group Chief Executive.
The Joint Secretaries are responsible for Our shareholders can, and do, raise issues directly with the the operation of these committees.
relevant Executive Director or the Chairman and, if appropriate, a relevant Non-Executive Director or the Senior Independent Disclosures Committee Director.
The Boards have set up a Disclosures Committee which is responsible for helping the Boards ensure that financial and Both NV and PLC communicate with their respective shareholders other information that ought to be disclosed publicly is disclosed through the AGMs as well as responding to their questions and in a timely manner and that the information that is disclosed enquiries during the course of the year.
We take the views of our is complete and accurate.
The Committee comprises the shareholders into account and, in accordance with all applicable Deputy Chief Financial officer, the Joint Secretaries and the legislation and regulations, may consult them in an appropriate Group Treasurer.
way before putting major new proposals to our AGMs.
Directors Various formal matters General Meetings of shareholders The borrowing powers of NV Directors on behalf of NV are not The business to be conducted at the AGMs of NV and PLC is set limited by the Articles of Association of NV.
PLC Directors have out in the separate Notices of AGM for NV and PLC.
It includes the power to borrow on behalf of PLC up to three times the appointment of Directors, declaration approval of final dividend, adjusted capital and reserves of PLC, as dened in its Articles of appointment of external auditors, approval of changes to the Association, without the approval of shareholders any exceptions Articles of Association, and authorisation for the Boards to requiring an ordinary resolution.
allot and repurchase shares, and to restrict pre-emptive rights of shareholders.
The Articles of Association of NV and PLC do not require Directors of NV or Directors of PLC to hold shares in NV or PLC.
However, At the AGMs, a full account is given of the progress of the the remuneration arrangements applicable to our Executive business over the last year and there is a review of current issues.
Directors require our Executive Directors to build and retain a Shareholders are encouraged to attend the meetings and ask personal shareholding in Unilever equal to at least 150% of their questions, and the question-and-answer sessions form an annual base pay.
important part of the meetings.
Directors indemnification General Meetings of shareholders of NV and PLC are held at Directors indemnification, including the terms thereof, is provided times and places decided by our Boards.
NV meetings are held in for in Article 19 of NVs Articles of Association.
The power to Rotterdam and PLC meetings are held in London on consecutive indemnify directors is provided for in PLCs Articles of Association.
The notices calling the meeting normally go out more than Deeds of indemnity have been issued to all PLC Directors.
thirty days prior to the meetings and include further information Appropriate Directors and Ofcers liability insurance is in place on how to gain access to the AGMs and how to vote by proxy.
We welcome our external auditors to the AGMs and they are Directors Conicts of interest entitled to address the meetings.
We attach special importance to avoiding conicts of interest between on the one hand NV and PLC and on the other hand We are committed to efforts to establish more effective ways their Directors.
The Boards are responsible for ensuring that there of communication with our shareholders around the AGMs.
are rules in place to avoid conicts of interest by Board members.
Electronic communication is becoming an important medium for shareholders, providing ready access to shareholder information Shareholder matters and reports, and for voting purposes.
Relations with shareholders and other investors NV was one of the founders of the Dutch Shareholders We believe it is important both to explain our business Communication Channel.
NV shareholders participating in the developments and financial results to investors and to understand Dutch Shareholders Communication Channel are able to appoint their objectives.
electronically a proxy to vote on their behalf at the NV AGM and NV shareholders who wish to participate should contact their The Chief Financial officer has lead responsibility for investor bank or broker.
Shareholders of PLC in the United Kingdom can relations, with the active involvement of the Group Chief choose to receive electronic notication that the Annual Review, Executive.
They are supported by our Investor Relations Annual Report and Accounts and Notice of AGMs have been department which organises presentations for analysts and published on our website, instead of receiving printed copies, investors.
Such presentations are generally made available on our and can also electronically appoint a proxy to vote on their behalf website.
Briengs on quarterly results are given via teleconference at the AGM.
Registration for electronic communication by and are accessible by telephone or via our website.
For further shareholders of PLC can be made at information visit our website at www.
38 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2006
