Report of the Directors continued Corporate governance continued Holders of depositary receipts are entitled to dividends that are Foundation Unilever NV Trust Ofces shareholding paid on the underlying shares held by the Foundation.
Foundation NV Trust Ofces shareholding uctuates daily its holdings on 1 March 2007 were: Foundation Unilever NV Trust Ofces board The members of the board are Mr J H Schraven Chairman, NV ordinary shares of 0.16: 1 285 189 970 74.95% : Mr P P fide Koning, Prof Dr L Koopmans and Mr A A Olijslager.
NV 7% cumulative preference shares of 428.57: 9 790 Their Biographies can be found on the website of the Foundation 33.76% : www.
NV 6% cumulative preference shares of 428.57: 5 0.00% : and The Foundation reports periodically, but at least once a year, on NV 4% cumulative preference shares of 42.86: 23 0.00%.
Further information on the Foundation, its arrangements Voting by holders of depositary receipts and its activities can be found on its website at Although the depositary receipts themselves do not formally have www.
voting rights, holders of depositary receipts are in practice equated with shareholders.
Holders of depositary receipts can Margarine Union 1930 Limited: Conversion Rights attend NVs General Meetings, either personally or by proxy, and The first Viscount Leverhulme was the founder of the company will then automatically, without limitation and under all which became PLC.
When he died in 1925, he left in his will a circumstances, receive a voting proxy on behalf of the Foundation large number of PLC shares in various trusts.
to vote on the underlying shares.
When the will trusts were varied in 1983, the interests of the Holders of depositary receipts not attending a shareholders beneciaries of his will were also preserved.
Four classes of special meeting and who participate in the Dutch Shareholders shares were created in Margarine Union 1930 Limited, a Communication Channel can also issue binding voting subsidiary of PLC.
One of these classes can be converted at the instructions to the Foundation.
The Foundation is obliged end of the year 2038 into 70 875 000 PLC ordinary shares of 1 to follow these instructions.
The same applies to holders 3 9p each.
This currently represents 5.4% of PLCs issued ordinary of depositary receipts who instruct the Foundation outside capital.
These convertible shares replicate the rights which the the Shareholders Communication Channel.
descendants of the first Viscount would have had under his will.
This class of the special shares only has a right to dividends in Voting by the Foundation Unilever NV Trust Ofce specified circumstances, and no dividends have yet been paid.
Shares for which the Foundation has not granted voting proxies PLC guarantees the dividend and conversion rights of the or for which it has not received voting instructions are voted special shares.
on by the Foundation in such a way as it deems to be in the interests of the holders of the depositary receipts.
This voting Requirements and compliance general policy is laid down in the Conditions of Administration that Unilever is subject to corporate governance requirements in the apply to the depositary receipts.
Both the Articles of Association Netherlands, the UK and as a foreign private issuer in the US.
and the Conditions of Administration can be found on the In the following section we report on our compliance with the Foundations website.
corporate governance regulations and best practice codes applicable in the Netherlands and the UK and we also describe Specic provisions apply in the event that a meeting of holders of compliance with corporate governance regulations in the US.
NV 7% cumulative preference shares is convened.
Our governance arrangements are designed and structured to If a change to shareholders rights is proposed, the Foundation promote and further the interests of our companies and their will let shareholders know if it intends to vote, at least 14 days shareholders.
The Boards reserve the right, in cases where they in advance if possible.
It will do this by advertising in the press.
decide such to be conducive to the interests of the companies and the enterprise connected therewith or our shareholders, to Hitherto the majority of votes cast by ordinary shareholders at depart from that which is set out in the present and previous NV meetings have been cast by the Foundation.
Unilever and sections in relation to our corporate governance.
Further changes the Foundation have a policy of actively encouraging holders will be reported in future Annual Reports and Accounts and, of depositary receipts to exercise their voting rights in when necessary, through changes to the relevant documents NV meetings.
As appropriate, proposals for change will be put to our shareholders for approval.
Unilever considers the arrangements of the Foundation appropriate and in the interest of NV and its shareholders given Further information can be found on our website and in The the voting rights attached to the nancing preference shares and Governance of Unilever, the Boards own constitutional the relatively low attendance of the ordinary shares in its AGMs.
This describes the terms of reference of our Board Committees, including their full responsibilities.
It will be kept up to date with changes in our internal constitutional arrangements that our Boards may make from time to time and it is available on our website and upon request.
42 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2006
