50 VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Board of Directors VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 51 1.
Vedanta Resources Board of Directors management.
He received a degree in HSBC USA Inc. the New York based is chaired by Anil Agarwal.
The other Commerce from Sydenham College, arm of HSBC Holdings plc, and as members of the Board are Navin Mumbai, India and has participated in Deputy Chairman of HSBC Bank Middle Agarwal, Kuldip Kaura, Naresh the Owner President Management East, based in Dubai with responsibility Chandra, Aman Mehta, Shailendra Programme at Harvard University, USA.
for the HSBC Groups operations in the Kumar Tamotia and Euan Macdonald.
Kuldip Kaura, aged 58 H appointed Chief Executive Officer of the ExECuTIVE DIRECTORS Chief Executive Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Mr Kaura is also Managing Director of Corporation, a position he held until his 1.
Anil Agarwal, aged 53 N Sterlite and Deputy Chairman of KCM.
Mr Mehta has a degree in Executive Chairman Mr Kaura, who joined Sterlite in 2002, Economics from Delhi University.
He Mr Agarwal, who founded the Group in was managing director of HZL and now resides in Delhi and is a member of 1976, is also Chairman of Sterlite and is became the Chief Operating Officer of a number of Corporate and Institutional a director of BALCO, HZL, and Vedanta the Company at its inception.
He is also Boards in India as well as overseas.
Since 1976 the Group has a director of HZL, Vedanta Alumina and grown under his leadership, vision and KCM and has held various positions in 6.
Mr Agarwal has over 30 years operations and business management aged 66 H N experience as an industrialist.
Mr Kaura was a member Dr Tamotia, an aluminium specialist, of the board of directors of ABB India joined the board in November 2004.
Navin Agarwal, aged 45 from 1996 and was appointed Managing started his career in 1962 with an initial Deputy Executive Chairman Director and Country Manager of ABB appointment at Bhilai Steel Plant in Mr Agarwal is also Executive Vicein 1998.
Mr Kaura has a degree in Chhattisgarh.
Dr Tamotia held Chairman and director of Sterlite, Mechanical Engineering Honours from numerous positions at NALCO from Chairman of KCM and MALCO and the Birla Institute of Technology & 1984 until 1996, including Chairman and a director of each of BALCO, MALCO Sciences in Pilani and Executive Managing Director in 1993.
He joined Sterlite at its education at London Business School & President and Chief Executive Officer of inception and the Board of Vedanta IFL, Sweden.
Indian Aluminium Company Ltd from in November 2004.
Dr Tamotia has an NON-ExECuTIVE DIRECTORS Honours degree in Civil Engineering, a Mr N Agarwal is the chairman of the Masters degree in Engineering, Soil Executive Committee of Vedanta.
Naresh Chandra, aged 71 A N R Mechanics and Foundation Engineering.
capacity, he is responsible for overall Mr Chandra joined the board in May delivery of the Groups strategy, 2004.
Mr Chandra was Home Secretary 7.
Euan Macdonald, aged 66 A N R including the overall development of the in India in 1990, Cabinet Secretary from Mr Macdonald spent over 20 years with new greenand brown-field projects, in 1990 to 1992, Senior Adviser to the SG Warburg, specialising in emerging organic growth opportunities including Prime Minister of India from 1992 to market finance.
From 1995 to 1999, joint ventures and alliances, the 1995 and the Indian Ambassador to Mr Macdonald was Chairman of SBC strategic treasury and fund raising United States of America from 1996 to Warburg India, responsible for all the initiative and global investor relations, 2001.
He was Chairman of the Indian banks activities in India, and from 1999 as well as augmenting and managing Government Committee on Corporate to 2001, he was Executive Vice Chairman the top talent of the Group.
Governance & Audit from 2002 to 2003 of HSBC Securities and Capital Markets, and is currently Chairman of the India.
Mr Macdonald has a degree in Mr Agarwal has also been instrumental Committee on Civil Aviation Policy.
Mr Economics from Cambridge University in globalising Vedantas business and Chandra has a Masters degree in and a Masters degree in Finance and operations.
He was actively involved in Mathematics from Allahabad University.
International Business from Columbia the internal growth and expansion of the Business School.
Groups business in Australia and 5.
He actively led Vedantas Mr Mehta, a senior banker, joined the succesful listing on the London Stock board in November 2004 following his A Member of the Audit Committee Exchange in 2003. retirement from HSBC where he had a H Member of the Health, Safety and Environment Committee career spanning 36 years.
He held N Member of the Nominations Committee Mr Agarwal has over 20 years numerous positions, including that of R Member of the Remuneration Committee experience in strategic and operational Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Committee Chairman
