52 VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Executive Committee Expertise, knowledge and teamwork He has over 27 years of experience with Executive Committee CV Krishnan, aged 56 various companies in the engineering, The Groups Executive Committee Chief Executive Officer and mining and non-ferrous metal sectors.
is chaired by Navin Agarwal.
Its Managing Director, KCM Mr Jalan has been associated with the other members are Kuldip Kaura, Mr Krishnan is responsible for the Aditya Birla Group in various capacities Tarun Jain, TL Palani Kumar, DD Jalan, copper business in Zambia.
Mr and, from 1996 to 2000, was in charge of T Venkatesan, MS Mehta and Krishnan rejoined the Group in March commercial and financial activities at CV Krishnan.
2005 after spending 18 months with a the copper smelter business of Indonon-governmental organisation.
Prior Gulf Fertiliser Ltd. Mr Jalan is a Tarun Jain, aged 46 to that, he was the Chief Executive member of the Institute of Chartered Director of Finance, Sterlite Officer, Metals and had responsibility Accountants of India.
Mr Jain is also a director of BALCO, for the entire metals business of the MALCO, HZL and Sterlite.
Mr Krishnan has over 30 years T Venkatesan, aged 53 responsible for strategic financial experience and has held senior President of Sterlite, Copper Division matters at Group level.
Mr Jain has been positions in Larsen & Toubro, A. F. Mr Venkatesan is a director of Vedanta with Sterlite since 1984 and is a graduate Ferguson & Co, Shriram Fertilizers & Alumina with responsibility for overall of the Institute of Cost and Works Chemicals and E. I.
Prior to management of the Copper Business.
Accountants of India, a member of the joining the Group in May 1999, he was Mr Venkatesan joined Sterlite in 1999.
Institute of Chartered Accountants of the Chief Executive Officer and Prior to joining Sterlite, he was Senior India and the Institute of Company Managing Director of Essar Power.
Mr Vice President with the AV Birla Group Secretaries of India.
Krishnan has a degree in Technology in their telecommunication business, from the Indian Institute of Technology, and has held senior executive positions TL Palani Kumar, aged 56 Madras and a Masters degree in in Triveni Engineering and the Eicher Managing Director, BALCO Business Administration from the Group.
Mr Venkatesan has a degree in Mr Palani Kumar is responsible for the Indian Institute of Management, Economics from Madras University and Aluminum Business and joined the Ahmedabad.
He has attended the Global is a member of the Institute of Group in July 2003.
Prior to joining the Leadership Programme at Michigan Chartered Accountants of India.
Group, Mr Palani Kumar was the Business School, United States and has Managing Director and CEO of New completed a course in Advanced MS Mehta, aged 50 Holland Tractors India Private Ltd, Training in Industrial Management in Chief Executive Officer, which is part of the Fiat group.
Hindustan Zinc Ltd Palani Kumar also held the position of, Mr Mehta is responsible for the Zinc Executive Director and CEO of Escorts Business and joined the Group in 2000.
He previously held senior Prior to moving as CEO of HZL, he was management positions with Tube the Commercial Director Base Metals Investments of India Ltd and Asian responsible for the marketing of copper, Paints India Ltd. Mr Palani Kumar has aluminum, zinc and lead, procurement a degree in Chemical Engineering from of copper concentrate, export and the Indian Institute of Technology, tolling of zinc concentrate and coal Madras and a Masters degree in procurement.
Before joining the Group, Business Administration from the Mr Mehta was with Lloyds Steel Indian Institute of Management, Industries Ltd, where he handled wide Ahmedabad.
ranging portfolios: marketing, procurement, working capital finance DD Jalan, aged 49 and projects.
Mr Mehta has a Chief Financial Officer, Mechanical Engineering degree from Vedanta Resources MBM Engineering College and an MBA Mr Jalan joined Sterlite in 2001 as from the Indian Institute of President Australian Operations, Management, Ahmedabad.
responsible for TCM and CMT mines.
