Focusing on the Customer Targeting the most profitable customer segments We continued to target our growth to focus on our most profitable customer segments and have channelled our sales and marketing efforts towards these groups.
We have also delivered substantial customer service improvements to improve loyalty during the year.
These improvements, all aimed at making the car rental process faster, simpler and clearer, originated from employees own ideas, together with customer research and formed the basis of our pan-European Inspired Change advertising campaign.
Rapid Return Inspired by Giovanna, Catania Airport We continue to receive very positive feedback from customers, following the roll-out of Avis car-side return service Rapid Return.
The hand-held device gives the customer the ability to return their car quickly and efficiently, while receiving their final bill in a choice of eight languages.
It is currently available in over 110 locations across Europe, including all main airport and railway rental stations.
New Rental Agreement Inspired by Heinz, Stuttgart Airport The new rental agreement, now rolled out to over 1,000 rental stations across Europe, continues to provide industry-leading transparency and clarity on key rental terms and charges.
It is available in a choice of eight languages using simple customer-friendly terminology and clearly showing all charges associated with the rental.
Avis Preferred Inspired by Karine, Marseille Airport During 2006 the Avis Preferred service was relaunched to enhance customer loyalty.
Key benets include: short queuing times: pre-prepared paperwork: priority Avis Preferred counters: and a dedicated reservation line.
Members of Avis Preferred simply need to present their driving licence, collect the keys and go.
New Vehicle Category Descriptions Inspired by Ricardo, Madrid Car groups are now explained in a simple and clear way.
At a glance, customers can choose a small, medium or large vehicle, petrol or diesel, automatic or manual, and see how many people and how much luggage the car can accommodate.
Car group descriptions have been harmonised across all European countries to ensure the customer sees the same information, wherever they are.
Fuel Up Front Inspired by Nick, Manchester Airport Customers can now choose to pre-pay for a full tank of fuel at pump prices when they collect their car and then return it empty.
This option is particularly valuable for those in a hurry, eliminating the need to nd a service station and refuel their car on the way back to the rental station.
Help us to keep improving.
If you have an idea then please visit www.
