Directors Report for the year ended 31 December The Directors present their report and the audited financial Payments to creditors statements for the year ended 31 December 2006.
The Groups policy with regard to payment of suppliers is set out in the Corporate Governance report on page 29.
Principal activities and business review The principal activity of the Group is the supply of rental vehicle Financial instruments services.
A full review of the Groups activities and a report on its The Groups financial risk management objective is set out in business, strategy and likely future developments are included Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
in the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Statement and the Business Review on pages 10 to 20, incorporated in Purchase of own shares this report by reference.
The details of own shares held are included in Note 30 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Share capital Details of the share capital of the Company and changes during Substantial shareholdings the year covered by this Report are set out in Note 29 to the The details of substantial shareholdings are included in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Corporate Governance report on page 28.
Results and dividends Disclosure of information to auditors The results for the year are set out in the Consolidated Financial So far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information Statements on pages 42 to 84.
The Directors do not recommend of which the Groups auditors,  LLP are the payment of an interim or final dividend for the year 2005: nil.
unaware and each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any Directors and their interests relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups auditors The names of the Directors of the Company as at 31 December are aware of this information.
2006 and those subsequently appointed appear in the Corporate Governance report on page 26.
The Directors interests in shares Auditors and options to purchase shares, are detailed in the Remuneration  LLP have expressed their willingness Report on pages 38 and 39. to continue in ofce and a resolution to reappoint them as the Groups auditors will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Employee involvement Details of employee involvement are included in the Corporate and By order of the Board Social Responsibility Report on page 23.
Judith Nicholson Company Secretary Donations 26 February 2007 Charitable donations are detailed in the Corporate Governance report on page 29.
Land and buildings The Directors of the Group consider that the book value of land and buildings approximate to their fair value.
Post balance sheet events There are no significant events affecting the Group since year end.
A Avis Eur vis Europe plc ope plc 40 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Annual Report and Accounts 2006
