Directors Report The Directors submit their Annual Report together with the Corporate governance audited accounts of the Group and of the Company, Cookson Details are set out in the narrative below of the Companys Group plc, for the year ended 31 December 2006. corporate governance procedures and application of the The Annual Report contains certain forward-looking principles of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued statements with respect to the operations, performance and by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 the Code.
The financial condition of the Group.
By their nature, these statements Company has complied with the provisions of the Code involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can throughout the year ended 31 December 2006. cause results and developments to differ materially from those anticipated.
The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge The Board and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual Ultimate responsibility for the management of Cookson rests with Report and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these the Board of Directors.
The Board focuses primarily upon forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report should strategic and policy issues.
It approves the Groups strategy, be construed as a profit forecast.
oversees the allocation of resources and monitors the performance of the Group in pursuit of this.
Principal activities Cookson Group plc is a leading materials science company which Membership provides materials, processes and services to customers The Board currently has seven Directors, comprising the nonworldwide.
The Groups operations are formed into three divisions executive Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Ceramics, Electronics and Precious Metals.
Known in its markets Director and four non-executive Directors.
The Board considers as Vesuvius, the Ceramics division is the world leader in the each of the non-executive Directors, namely Messrs J L Hewitt, supply of advanced flow control refractory products and systems J P Oosterveld, B W Perry and J G Sussens, to be independent of to the global steel industry and a principal supplier of specialist management and free from any business or other relationship ceramic products to the glass, solar and foundry industries.
It is which could affect the exercise of their independent judgement.
also a regional leader in the US, UK and Australia in the supply The Company has reviewed the availability of the non-executive and installation of monolithic refractory linings.
The Electronics Directors and considers that each of them is able to, and in division is a leading supplier of advanced surface treatment and practice does, devote the necessary amount of time to the plating chemicals and assembly materials to the automotive, Companys business.
The Board nominates one of the nonconstruction and electronics markets.
It comprises two sectors: executive Directors to act as Senior Independent Director and Assembly Materials and Chemistry.
The Precious Metals division provide an alternative contact at Board level, other than the is a leading supplier of fabricated precious metals primarily gold, Chairman, to whom shareholder matters can be addressed.
silver and platinum to the jewellery industry in the US, UK, Mr Sussens held this position during the year.
The biographical France and Spain.
Products include alloy materials, semi-finished details of individual Directors are set out on pages 36 and 37. jewellery components and finished jewellery.
The Articles of Association of the Company require that Directors should submit themselves for re-election at least every Business review three years.
None of the Directors are required to retire and offer As required by the Companies Act 1985, the Company must themselves for re-election at this years AGM.
provide a fair review of the development and performance of the Group during 2006, its financial position at the end of the year Responsibilities and meetings and likely future developments in the Groups business, together The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it and with information on environmental matters and employees and a delegates certain matters to committees as outlined below.
The description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Board met as a full Board on nine scheduled occasions during Group.
The information which satisfies these requirements, to the 2006.
Two of these meetings were held at Cookson facilities when extent that it is not included in this report, is to be found in the the Board visited Group operations.
Board meetings may also be Chief Executives Review on pages 12 to 13: the Operating Review convened on an ad-hoc basis for non-routine business.
In addition, on pages 14 to 27: the Financial Review on pages 28 to 32: and the the Chairman and the non-executive Directors meet routinely on Corporate Social Responsibility section on pages 33 and 34: each their own without the executive Directors present and at least once of which is incorporated in this report by reference.
each year the non-executive Directors meet without the Chairman present to discuss matters such as the Chairmans performance.
Going concern Specific matters reserved for the Board include: reviewing The financial statements of the Company and the Group, Group and divisional performance: approving significant respectively, have been prepared on a going concern basis as the transactions including acquisitions, divestments and capital Directors consider that the Company and the Group have adequate expenditure: setting and approving the Groups strategy and resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
annual budget: approving the Groups financing and treasury policies: succession planning and approving Board appointments Dividends and the remuneration of the non-executive Directors.
In addition The Board is recommending a final dividend in respect of 2006 of the Board considers health, safety and environmental matters 7.0p 2005: 5.0p per ordinary share which, if approved, will be and reviews the Groups risk management processes.
paid on 11 June 2007 to shareholders on the register at 25 May The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the 2007.
An interim dividend of 3.0p per ordinary share was paid on Chief Executive has been agreed by the Board and is set out in 16 October 2006 to shareholders on the register at 29 September writing.
The Chairman leads the Board and meets routinely with 2006, making total dividends of 10.0p per ordinary share for the the Chief Executive and Group Secretary to discuss matters year 2005: 5.0p.
relating to its efficient functioning.
During the year the Chairman Cookson Group plc { 38 } Annual Report 2006 assumed the Chairmanship of Elementis plc.
His appointment was provided to the entire Board, as occurred in 2006.
During the approved by the Board.
He also serves as the Senior Independent year Directors attended external seminars and other functions Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of relevant to specific areas of their responsibility.
The Board considers that the Chairman is able to and does devote sufficient time to his duties at Cookson.
Relations with shareholders The attendance of Directors at Board and principal Committee The Company reports its financial results to shareholders twice a meetings during the year, together with the maximum number of year, with the publication of its Annual and Interim Reports.
In meetings in the period when the individual was a Board member conjunction with these announcements presentations are made to as shown in brackets, was as follows: institutional investors and analysts, copies of which are posted on the Groups website: www.
In addition, in 2006 Audit Remuneration Nominations the Company provided trading updates at the Companys AGM and Board Committee Committee Committee in advance of the interim and year-end close-periods, as well as a Chairman strategy and trading update in November 2006.
The Company maintains a regular dialogue with major institutional investors and R G Beeston 9 9 n a n a 1 1 regular updates on shareholder issues and discussions are Executive Directors provided to the Board.
Board members also receive copies of M G Butterworth 9 9 n a n a n a significant analysts notes issued on the Company.
All Directors N R Salmon 9 9 n a n a 1 1 normally attend the Companys AGM, providing shareholders with the opportunity to question them about issues relating to the Non-executive Directors Group, either during the meeting or informally afterwards.
J L Hewitt 9 9 4 4 7 7 1 1 J P Oosterveld 9 9 4 4 7 7 1 1 Board committees B W Perry 7 9 3 4 5 7 1 1 The principal committees of the Board are the Audit, J G Sussens 8 9 4 4 7 7 1 1 Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
Each committee has written terms of reference agreed by the Board.
These are Papers are provided to the Directors in advance of the relevant available to view on the Companys website.
Board or committee meeting to enable them to make further enquiries about any matters prior to the meeting should they so Audit Committee wish.
The Group Secretary oversees the distribution of these papers The Audit Committee members are the non-executive Directors, and ensures that there is an appropriate level of communication namely Mr J L Hewitt, Mr J P Oosterveld, Mr B W Perry and between the Board and its committees and between senior Mr J G Sussens.
During the year the Committee was chaired by management and non-executive Directors.
He also keeps the Board Mr Hewitt.
The Board believes Mr Hewitt possesses the relevant apprised of relevant developments in corporate governance.
financial experience, as described by the Code.
The Group Finance Director, the Group Head of Internal Audit Performance evaluation and the Companys Auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, are normally invited The Board evaluates its own performance and effectiveness and to attend meetings and other executives are invited to attend as assesses the performance of its committees and individual and when appropriate.
The Committee meets regularly with the members on an annual basis.
In 2006 the Board as a whole met Companys Auditor without any executives being present.
to review its performance and that of its committees.
The Board considered that overall it was operating effectively and that all Audit Committee report Directors continued to contribute and were committed to their The principal roles of the Audit Committee are: roles at Cookson.
assisting the Board in the discharge of its responsibilities in The performance of the Chairman was in turn reviewed by the respect of statutory and other financial reporting and in Senior Independent Director following consultation with other respect of its review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal members of the Board.
The Chairman was judged to have controls and risk management systems: performed satisfactorily.
monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function: Induction and training making recommendations to the Board on the appointment and The Group Secretary ensures that a comprehensive induction dismissal of the Auditor: programme is provided to all new Directors, including visits to approving the remuneration and terms of engagement of the manufacturing facilities, meetings with key Group executives and Auditor: introductions to the Companys principal external advisers, as monitoring and reviewing the Auditors independence, appropriate.
New Directors are also advised of their legal and objectivity and effectiveness, taking into account professional other duties and obligations as Directors of a listed company.
This and regulatory requirements: and is supplemented by reference materials, which are updated as helping to strengthen the independent position of the Auditor required, including information about the Board, the committees, by providing a direct channel of communication between it and Directors duties, procedures for dealing in the Companys shares the non-executive Directors.
and other regulatory and governance matters.
Directors are provided with details of seminars and training courses relevant to The Committee has established procedures for the receipt, their role.
They are encouraged to attend these as they consider retention and treatment of complaints received by the Company appropriate and are supported by the Company in so doing.
including accounting, internal controls, auditing matters and Where a general training need is identified, in-house training is confidential communications from employees.
Cookson Group plc { 39 } Annual Report 2006 Directors Report continued The Group Head of Internal Audit reports directly to the The Company has a policy governing the Group-wide conduct Committee Chairman and the Committee reviews and approves of non-audit work by the Auditor.
Under that policy the Auditor is the internal audit work programme for each year.
During the year prohibited from performing services where it: under review, the Committee met four times and reviewed, may be required to audit its own work: amongst other matters, the Companys published financial results: would participate in activities that would normally be internal audit reports and management control issues: the scope undertaken by management: of the external audit and its cost effectiveness: and the extent to is remunerated through a success fee structure: or which the Auditors remuneration for non-audit services might acts in an advocacy role for the Group.
affect their independence and objectivity in carrying out the audit.
More specifically, the responsibilities of the Committee were Other than the above, the Company does not impose an discharged as follows: automatic prohibition on the Auditor undertaking non-audit work.
at its meetings in July 2006 and March 2007, the Committee The Auditor is permitted to provide non-audit services that are reviewed the Companys Interim Report and Preliminary not, or are not perceived to be, in conflict with auditor Results announcement Annual Report and Accounts, independence, providing it has the skill, competence and integrity respectively.
On both occasions, the Committee received to carry out the work in the best interests of the Group.
Details of reports from the Auditor identifying any accounting or the amounts paid to the Auditor during the year for audit and judgmental issues thereon requiring its attention: other services are set out in note 8 on page 71. a quarterly report from the Group Head of Internal Audit was The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports the outcome of presented at each of the four meetings.
In addition, at the the Audit Committee meetings to the Board and the Board December 2006 meeting, the Group Head of Internal Audit receives the agenda, papers and minutes of Audit Committee submitted the functions internal audit plan for 2007: meetings.
the Auditor presented its audit plan at the October 2006 meeting: Remuneration Committee following the successful deregistration from the US Securities The Remuneration Committee members are the non-executive and Exchange Commission SEC referred to in further detail Directors, namely Mr J L Hewitt, Mr J P Oosterveld, Mr B W Perry on page 45 and the consequential cessation of the Groups SEC and Mr J G Sussens who chairs the Committee.
The Committees reporting requirements, the Committee continued to review the principal roles are to recommend and monitor the level and effectiveness of internal financial controls using an approach structure of remuneration for senior management and to set the similar to that required by the Sarbanes-Oxley regulations, appropriate remuneration for the Group Chairman, executive whilst also considering the cost-efficiency of related audit Directors and Group Secretary.
Further details of the activities of procedures: the Remuneration Committee are provided in the Directors from time to time, executives were required to make Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 51. presentations to the Committee or to the full Board on the The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee reports the identification, management and control of specific areas of risk outcome of the Remuneration Committee meetings to the Board.
which impact the Company and the Group: and as a matter of routine, the Committee was presented with Nominations Committee information on any significant litigation involving the Group.
The Nominations Committee advises the Board on appointments to, and retirements and resignations from, the Board.
The As noted above, one of the duties of the Committee is to make members of the Committee are the Group Chairman, the Chief recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of Executive and any three non-executive Directors.
A number of factors concerning the Auditor are taken meets as and when required and is chaired by the Group into account by the Committee in assessing whether to Chairman or a non-executive Director.
The Group Chairman would recommend the Auditor for re-appointment, including: not act as Chairman of the Committee where it was dealing with the quality both of reports provided to the Committee and the the appointment of his successor.
Formal meetings are held to Board and of advice given: consider standing items of business: there is also a significant the level of understanding demonstrated of the Groups level of ad hoc discussion between members of the Committee, businesses: and particularly when a recruitment exercise is taking place.
the objectivity of the Auditors views on the controls around When considering the appointment of new Directors, the the Group and its ability to coordinate a global audit, working to Committee draws up specifications, taking into consideration the tight deadlines.
existing balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and the ongoing requirements of the Group.
It utilises the The Committee has put in place safeguards to ensure that the services of external recruitment consultants to identify independence of the external audit is not compromised.
Such appropriate candidates, interviews those short-listed and then safeguards include: makes recommendations for each appointment to the full Board.
seeking confirmation that the Auditor is independent of the Care is taken to ensure that all proposed appointees have Company in its own professional judgement: and sufficient time available to devote to the role and do not have any considering all the relationships between the Auditor and the conflicts of interest.
The Nominations Committee reviews the Group, including those relating to the provision of non-audit Companys succession plans.
The Board as a whole also considers services and whether this impairs, or appears to impair, the this subject.
The Chairman of the Nominations Committee Auditors judgement or independence.
reports the outcome of the Nominations Committee meetings to the Board.
Cookson Group plc { 40 } Annual Report 2006 Finance and Share Schemes Committees include the imposition of trade barriers, changes of regulatory The Board delegates certain responsibilities on an ad hoc basis to requirements and the volatility of prices, taxes and currencies.
the Finance and Share Schemes Committees.
The Group is subject to various legal and regulatory regimes, The Finance Committee is chaired by the Group Chairman, its including those covering taxation and environmental matters.
other members being the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director The Groups businesses are subject to a variety of operational and Group Treasurer.
The Committee meets as and when required risks, the occurrence of which could result in a substantial to consider the approval of treasury-related matters.
interruption to a facility and a potential loss of customers and The Share Schemes Committees membership consists of any revenue, which may materially impact the trading results of two Directors.
It meets as and when required to undertake individual facilities, though not necessarily of the Group as a administrative matters in relation to the Companys share schemes.
The Group is exposed to possible natural catastrophe risk and possible terrorist action.
Management monitors such risks, Executive Committee and Central Executive maintaining what it considers to be adequate insurance cover and In addition to the committees of the Board described above, the adopting business practices as appropriate to mitigate exposure.
Group has an Executive Committee which supports the Chief Executive in addressing Group-wide issues and initiatives.
This New products, technology and other market risks Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and comprises the The Group supplies materials and services primarily to the steel Group Finance Director, the Group Secretary and the Chief and electronics industries on a global basis and to the jewellery Executives of each of the Groups three divisions.
Specific industry primarily in the US and Europe.
These markets and authority has been delegated to the Central Executive comprising economies are subject to cyclical changes in demand and to the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Group Secretary.
Furthermore, the markets in which The Central Executive is responsible for reviewing and approving many of the Groups businesses operate can experience rapid capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals at certain levels as changes due to the introduction of new technologies.
The Groups determined by the Board.
Responsibility for day-to-day operational continued success depends upon its ability to continue to develop management rests with the divisional Chief Executives.
and produce new and enhanced products and services on a costeffective and timely basis in accordance with customer demands.
Accountability and audit In addition, the markets for the Groups products are competitive A responsibility statement of the Directors and a statement by in terms of pricing, product and service quality, product the Auditor about its reporting responsibilities can be found on development and introduction time, customer service, financing pages 35 and 52, respectively.
The Directors fulfill the terms and other similar factors.
Cookson invests significant responsibilities set out in their statement within the context of an amounts in research and development to sustain its competitive overall control environment of central strategic direction and advantage and takes appropriate action to ensure that its cost decentralised operating responsibility.
Disclosure of information to the Auditor Legislation and regulatory risk As at the date of this report, so far as each Director of the Cooksons operations are affected by various statutes, Company is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which regulations and laws in the countries and markets in which it the Companys Auditor is unaware and each Director hereby operates.
Cookson cannot predict whether future developments confirms that he has taken all the steps that he ought to have in laws and regulations concerning its businesses will affect the taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant demands of regulatory agencies in a manner which could audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is adversely impact the Group.
Intellectual property risks Auditor The Group relies on a combination of trade secrets, patents, Resolutions for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as Auditor confidentiality procedures and agreements, and copyright and of the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine its trade mark laws to protect its proprietary rights.
If the Group fails remuneration are to be proposed at the AGM.
to or is unable to protect, maintain and enforce its existing intellectual property, it may result in the loss of the Groups Principal risks and uncertainties exclusive right to use technologies and processes which are Throughout its global operations, Cookson faces various risks, included or used in its businesses.
The Groups involvement in both internal and external, which could have a material impact on intellectual property litigation could result in significant expense, the Groups long-term performance.
Cookson manages the risks and or materially adversely affect the development of sales of the inherent in its operations in order to mitigate exposure to all challenged product or intellectual property.
All appropriate forms of risk, where practical, and to transfer risk to insurers, measures are taken to protect the Groups intellectual property where cost effective.
rights and to minimise the risk of infringement of third-party rights.
Global economic, political and operational risks Raw materials risk With operations worldwide, the Groups businesses are subject to Tin, solvents, alumina, graphite, silver and gold are among the various risks inherent in their international operations, including principal raw materials that the Group purchases.
The Groups economic, political and operational risks.
businesses may be affected by fluctuations in the price and The diverse nature of Cooksons products and services, and supply of such raw materials, although purchasing policies and customers and markets served, helps to mitigate the impact of practices seek to mitigate, where practicable, such risks and the any individual exposure to economic conditions.
Political risks Groups geographical and product diversity reduces the Cookson Group plc { 41 } Annual Report 2006 Directors Report continued dependence on any single item or supplier.
The Groups ability to Post-employment benefit plans pass on increases or decreases in the cost of raw materials to its The Group operates defined benefit pension and other postcustomers is, to a large extent, dependent upon market retirement plans, principally in the UK and US, the valuation of conditions, established market practice and terms of trade.
which reflected a deficit of 155.1 million as at 31 December 2006.
The funding level of the Groups pension plans and the Groups Environmental and health and safety risks liabilities in respect of its post-retirement healthcare plans are The Group is subject to applicable laws and regulations in all of subject to adverse change resulting from movements in the the jurisdictions in which it operates, including those relating to actuarial assumptions underlying the calculation of plan pollution, the protection of the environment, human health and liabilities, including decreasing discount rates, increasing safety, the disposal of hazardous substances and waste materials longevity of plan members and, in the case of pension plans, a and remediation of any land or water contaminated by such decline in the market value of plan investments.
Violations of legal or other regulatory requirements adverse changes in these underlying factors could materially could result in restrictions on plant operations, the imposition of impact the Groups financial position.
The Groups largest defined more stringent permitting conditions, damages, fines or other benefit pension plans are in the UK and US, each of which is sanctions.
The practices and processes of Cooksons businesses closed to new members, with the Groups largest US plan also are subject to routine inspections by internal qualified personnel being closed to further benefit accrual for existing members.
The and by external regulatory or other enforcement bodies.
Groups main pension plan is its UK plan, which had a deficit of Provision is made for identified remediation obligations related to 78.3 million at the end of 2006.
Deficit-reduction contributions contaminated sites based on a reasonable assessment of the of 26.5 million per annum in addition to the normal cash likely costs of rectification.
contributions are being made under the terms of a repayment schedule agreed with the plan Trustee in February 2006.
To Product liability risk reduce future volatility in the UK plan deficit, the UK plan Trustee, A large proportion of the Groups products are used in the with support from the Company, entered into swap arrangements manufacturing processes of the Groups industrial customers.
If a and an equity hedge in November 2006 to mitigate significantly product of the Group or of the Groups industrial customer does the impact of changes in interest rates and inflation on the UK not conform to agreed specifications or is otherwise defective, plans liabilities and volatility in the equity performance of the the Group may be subject to claims by its customers arising from plans assets.
end-product defects, injury to individuals or other such claims.
The Groups current and former businesses have used and or Compliance with covenants in debt agreements continue to use a wide range of hazardous materials, in the The Groups ability to meet the financial ratios and tests and manufacture of industrial and consumer products.
Legal claims comply with covenants contained in its current or future debt have been brought against certain Group companies by thirdagreements could be affected by a material adverse change in parties alleging that persons have been harmed by exposure to the financial position of the Group.
In the event of a default under such materials, and further claims may be brought in the future.
any of its financing arrangements, the Groups lenders could Two of the Groups subsidiaries are subject to suits in the US terminate their commitments to lend to the Group or accelerate relating to a small number of products containing asbestos the repayment of debt and declare all amounts borrowed due manufactured prior to the acquisition of those subsidiaries by and payable.
These suits also name many other product manufacturers.
To date, there have been no liability verdicts Precious metal consignment arrangements against any of these subsidiaries.
The Groups precious metal fabrication operations utilise Provision is made for amounts payable in respect of known or significant quantities of precious metals, primarily gold by value.
Management believes, taking into account legal These metals are held on consignment arrangements, details of advice received and the Groups insurance arrangements and which are given in note 27 on page 82.
The utilisation of financial provisions, that none of the currently pending or consigned precious metals is established practice in the precious potential claims will, either individually or in the aggregate, have metals industry.
Should precious metals consignors decide to a material adverse impact on the Groups financial position or reduce or withdraw the facilities for whatever reason, or require trading results.
However, the outcome of legal action is uncertain a return of the consigned metal, the Groups precious metal and there is always the risk that it may prove more costly than fabrication operations may suffer shortages of raw materials or expected and exceed the level of insurance cover and provisions may require precious metals to be supplied in a way which could made, resulting in such a material adverse impact.
materially increase Group borrowings and costs.
Warranties and liabilities relating to divestments Currency exchange rates, inflation and interest rate risk The Group has divested its interests in certain companies and The Group has no control over changes in foreign currency businesses and has given indemnifications, representations and exchange rates, or inflation and interest rates.
In the normal warranties with respect to the businesses of the divested course of business, transactions are carried out by Group companies at the time of their divestment.
Management believes companies in currencies other than their reporting currency, that sufficient provisions are in place to meet possible claims leading to transactional foreign exchange risk, although these are resulting from these indemnifications, representations and not material for the Group overall.
It is Cookson policy that warranties, however, significant liabilities arising out of these foreign currency transaction exposures that are material at an transactions may arise in future which have not been provided for.
individual operating unit level are hedged using appropriate instruments such as forward foreign exchange contracts.
While the Group attempts to manage transactional and balance sheet Cookson Group plc { 42 } Annual Report 2006 translation risks associated with currency exchange rate As part of the Boards process for reviewing the effectiveness fluctuations through its hedging and funding policies, of the system of internal control, it delegates the following fluctuations in the value of currencies in which it operates may matters to the Audit Committee to be carried out during the year: nevertheless adversely impact the Groups financial position and review of external and internal audit work plans: trading results.
The Group does not currently hedge translation consideration of reports from management and internal audit exposures arising on unremitted non-UK earnings.
on the system of internal control and any material control Where appropriate, the Group manages its interest rate weaknesses: and exposures using interest rate swap agreements or other discussions with management on the actions taken on problem instruments: however fluctuations in interest rates could areas identified by Board members, in internal audit reports or adversely impact the Groups financial results.
Significant interest in external audit management letters.
rate and currency hedging programmes require the approval of the Finance Committee of the Board.
In addition to the above, the Board considers significant financing and investment decisions concerning the Group, Credit risk including the giving of guarantees and indemnities, and monitors Cash deposits and other financial instruments give rise to credit policy and control mechanisms for managing treasury risk.
The risk, represented by the loss that would be recognised should a Board also reviews the role of insurance and other measures used counterparty fail to perform as contracted.
The counterparties to in managing risks across the Group, receives regular reports on the Groups financial instruments are reputable financial any major issues that have arisen during the year and makes an institutions and the credit rating of these counterparties is annual assessment of how the risks have changed over the period monitored on a regular basis in accordance with Board-approved under review.
Further information relating to the Groups financial At the year end, following the review by the Audit Committee risk management can be found in note 4 on pages 66 and 67 and of internal financial controls and of the processes covering other in note 36 on pages 88 to 90. controls, the Board evaluates the results of the internal control and risk management procedures conducted by senior Internal control management.
This includes a self-certification exercise by which The Directors are responsible for the establishment and they certify the effectiveness of the system of internal controls maintenance of the Groups system of internal control.
within the businesses for which they are responsible, together The Company has complied with the provisions of the Code on with their compliance throughout the year with the Groups internal control which require that the Directors review the policies and procedures.
effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls, and risk Remuneration of the Chairman and non-executive Directors management systems.
Whilst no system of internal control can The Board considers the remuneration policy for the nonprovide absolute assurance against material misstatement or executive Directors.
Non-executive Directors fees were increased loss, the Groups system is designed to provide the Directors with with effect from 1 May 2006 from 30,000 to 40,000 per reasonable assurance that problems are identified on a timely annum.
A supplementary fee is payable to the Chairman of the basis and are dealt with appropriately.
Since the date of the Audit Committee of 15,000 per annum.
The Chairman of the review, there have been no significant changes in internal Remuneration Committee receives a supplementary fee of controls or other matters which could significantly affect them.
A supplementary fee of 5,000 per annum There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and is payable to the Senior Independent Director.
No changes were managing the significant risks faced by Cookson.
Group made in 2006 to the supplementary fees payable.
management operates a risk management process designed to The Group Chairmans remuneration, which is subject to identify the key risks facing each business and reports to the Audit periodic review, is determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Committee on how those risks are being managed.
As a basis for There was no change to the Group Chairmans remuneration, this report, each of the Groups major business units produces a which was reviewed during the year.
Neither the Group Chairman, risk map which identifies their key risks and assesses the likelihood who is not an executive Director, nor the other non-executive of those risks occurring, their impact if they do occur and the Directors are members of the Groups pension plans, nor do they actions being taken to manage those risks to a desired level.
participate in the Groups incentive schemes.
The internal control system is monitored and supported by the Groups Internal Audit function, which operates on a global Legal matters basis.
This function assists management and the Board in the All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group effective discharge of their responsibility for internal control by Secretary.
There is also an agreed procedure in place for conducting reviews of Cookson businesses and reporting Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent objectively both on the adequacy and effectiveness of the system legal advice if necessary, at the Companys expense.
of internal control in place and as to whether those businesses are in compliance with applicable Group policies and procedures.
Remuneration matters The Group Head of Internal Audit is responsible for developing The Directors Remuneration Report appears on pages 46 to 51. the function, within the framework of common Group policies and standards, and for carrying out assignments in accordance with Donations an annual audit plan approved by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Donations in the UK for charitable purposes totalled 0.1m 2005: Committee receives reports from the Group Head of Internal 0.1m : and such donations throughout the Group totalled 0.1m Audit on a regular basis and reports to the Board on the results 2005: 0.1m.
In accordance with Company policy, no political of its review.
donations were made in either 2006 or 2005.
Cookson Group plc { 43 } Annual Report 2006 Directors Report continued Creditor payment policy comprises employees, former employees and an independent Each operating company in the Group is responsible for agreeing trustee.
This structure has been accepted by the members of each the terms and conditions under which business transactions with plan under the 1997 regulations concerning Member Nominated their suppliers are conducted.
It is Group policy that payments Trustees.
The administration of each plan is outsourced.
to suppliers are made in accordance with these terms, provided The Company is mindful of its obligations under the Pensions that the supplier is also complying with all relevant terms Act 2004 and of the need to comply with the guidance issued by and conditions.
In the accounts of the Company as at the Pensions Regulator.
Regular dialogue is maintained between 31 December 2006, the number of days purchases outstanding the Company and the Trustee board of the UK plans to ensure was 22 2005: 19 days.
that both Company and Trustee are apprised of the same financial and other information about the Group and the plans Employment policies which is pertinent to each being able to contribute to the A fundamental concept embodied in the Companys Code of effective functioning of the plans.
The Company currently has in Conduct is that Cooksons goals can only be met through the place a schedule of contributions, agreed with the Trustee board, efforts of its employees.
Cookson recognises that job satisfaction which aims to reduce to zero the deficit existing on the UK requires working environments that motivate employees to be defined benefit plan as at 31 December 2005 within five years productive and innovative and provide opportunities for from that date.
The adequacy of this schedule of contributions employee training and development to maximise personal will be monitored over time, so as to assess the need for it to potential and develop careers within the Group.
be modified should the deficit position change compared to Cookson is managed on a decentralised basis and within current expectations.
each division it is the responsibility of the relevant divisional All US retirement plan assets are held in trust for the Chief Executive to adopt employment policies and practices that exclusive benefit of plan participants and their beneficiaries.
An best suit the size, style and geographical location of their independent financial institution acts as the trustee.
This allows the Groups operations to respond assets are protected by law and by Federal Government competitively to changes in the marketplace and to develop and Regulation and are subject to annual audit by an independent retain a strong sense of identity whilst benefiting from being a accountant, the Internal Revenue Service and the Department of part of a major international group.
Further details of pension arrangements are given in note involvement of its employees and keeps them informed on 37 on pages 90 to 96. matters affecting them as employees and factors relevant to the performance of the Group.
Directors It is established policy throughout Cookson that decisions on Biographical information for the current Directors of the recruitment, career development, training, promotion and other Company is given on pages 36 and 37. employment-related issues are made solely on grounds of The interests of Directors and their related parties in the individual ability, achievement, expertise and conduct.
These ordinary shares of the Company, all of which are beneficial, as principles are operated on a non-discriminatory basis.
Cookson disclosed in accordance with the Companies Act 1985, are as set gives full and fair consideration to applications for employment out on page 50 and details of the Directors long-term incentive from disabled persons.
Should an employee become disabled awards are set out on page 51. during their employment with Cookson, every effort is made to enable them to continue their service with the Group.
Directors indemnities The Companys Directors are indemnified under the Companys Pensions Articles of Association.
In each country in which the Group operates, the pension arrangements in place are considered to be consistent with good Share capital employment practice in that particular area.
Independent Details of movements in the Companys issued share capital advisers are used to ensure that the plans are operated in during the year are given in note 13 on pages 109 and 110. accordance with local legislation and the rules of each plan.
As at 1 January 2006, the Companys issued equity share Group policy prohibits direct investment of pension fund assets in capital amounted to 375.5 million and comprised 190.4 million its own businesses.
Outside the UK and the US, the majority of ordinary shares of 10p with an aggregate nominal value of 19.0 pension plans in the Group are of a defined contribution nature.
million and 727.6 million deferred shares of 49p with an In 2004, the Group closed its UK defined benefit plan to new aggregate nominal value of 356.5 million.
entrants and, with effect from 1 January 2006, the Groups main On 12 January 2006, the Company held an Extraordinary US defined benefit plan was closed to new entrants.
During the General Meeting to seek shareholders approval to amend the first quarter of 2007, the Groups two largest US defined pension Companys Articles of Association to facilitate termination of its plans have ceased providing future benefit accrual, with members registration with the SEC and to effect a reduction of its share instead being provided with a broadly equivalent benefit through capital.
The Company duly gained approval to cancel and a defined contribution plan.
Benefit accrual under the Groups UK extinguish its 727.6 million deferred shares of 49p each and to defined benefit pension plan continues for those employees who cancel its share premium account.
In addition, shareholders joined prior to the closure of the plan to new entrants.
Defined approved the cancellation of six ordinary shares of 1p each, which contribution plans exist for new employees in the UK and the US.
had been retained in the Companys authorised but unissued For the Groups UK defined benefit and defined contribution share capital, following the share consolidation in May 2005. plans a Trustee board is appointed by the Company.
This Following the approval of these resolutions, the Company applied Cookson Group plc { 44 } Annual Report 2006 to the High Court to effect the cancellation of this share capital.
Authority for purchase of own shares On 15 February 2006, the High Court of Justice confirmed the At the 2006 AGM, shareholders gave the Company renewed reduction of capital of the Company.
The Order of the Court was authority to make market purchases of up to a maximum of 10% registered on 15 February 2006 and the reduction of capital was at that time of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
As at therefore effective on that date.
the date of this report, the Company has made no such purchases As at 31 December 2006, the Companys issued equity share under this authority.
The Directors believe it advisable to seek capital amounted to 19.3 million and comprised 193.4 million renewal of this authority at each AGM.
Since the year end, 111,045 ordinary shares have been issued Substantial interests as a result of exercises of options granted under the Companys As at the date of this report, the Company has been notified in share option schemes.
Resolutions giving the Directors the accordance with section 198 to section 208 of the Companies Act authority to allot further shares and make allotments of shares to 1985 or, alternatively, DTR 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency persons other than existing shareholders in certain circumstances Rules of the following interests in its issued ordinary shares: will again be proposed at the AGM.
% SEC deregistration Standard Life Group 9.81 On 21 February 2006, the Company filed a Form 15 with the Goldman Sachs Group, Inc 8.04 US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC to terminate the JPMorgan Chase & Co 5.75 SEC registration of its ordinary shares.
SEC deregistration Aviva plc 5.31 occurred 90 days after this date.
The Company is now exempt Deutsche Bank AG 5.25 from SEC reporting requirements.
Under the applicable SEC regulations, the number of Legal & General Group plc 3.49 US-resident shareholders, whether holding directly or through Barclays plc 3.19 nominees, had to be less than 300 in order for the Group to qualify for deregistration.
At an Extraordinary General Meeting By Order of the Board held on 12 January 2006, shareholders approved amendments to the Articles of Association giving the Board the ability to limit the number of US-resident shareholders.
The amended Articles allow the Board to require US-resident shareholders, whether holding directly or through nominees, to sell their shares.
Prior to filing for deregistration, the Board exercised these provisions in Richard M H Malthouse respect of a number of US-resident shareholders in order to Group Secretary decrease their total number to below 300.
Under the presently applicable SEC regulations, the number 13 March 2007 of US-resident shareholders also has to remain below 300 at each fiscal year-end to avoid re-commencement of SEC reporting and other applicable US obligations.
On 21 February 2006, the Company announced that, pursuant to the amended Articles, the Board may, from time to time, continue to require US-resident shareholders whether holding ordinary shares directly or through nominees to sell their shares in order to be satisfied that their number is less than 300 at each fiscal year-end.
The Company exercised these provisions in respect of a number of US-resident shareholders in December 2006.
On 22 December 2006, the SEC re-proposed rules that would make it easier for non-US companies to deregister and remain deregistered from the SEC.
At this time the rules continue to remain in proposal form only.
It is not clear when and in what form the SEC will finalise any such rules.
The Company will keep the position under review and in the meantime continues to comply with all existing regulations to ensure that it remains deregistered from the SEC.
Events after the balance sheet date On 1 February 2007, the sale of Monofrax Inc. to RHI AG was completed.
The purchase price of US$45m, which is subject to finalisation of the value of pension and other post-retirement obligations and working capital balances, was satisfied by the assumption by RHI AG of pension and other post-retirement obligations of US$10m, with the balance of US$35m satisfied in cash.
Cookson Group plc { 45 } Annual Report 2006
