BOARD OF DIRECTORS John Sussens Robert Beeston Jan Oosterveld Mike Butterworth John Sussens Robert Beeston Non-executive Director a, b, e Chairman c, d Appointed to the Cookson Board in May 2004 and is Joined the Cookson Board in April 2003 and was Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Senior appointed Chairman at the Companys Annual General Independent Director.
John was previously Managing Director of Misys plc Bob was the Chief Executive Officer of FKI plc from and a non-executive director of Searchspace Group 1992 to 2002 and prior to that was Managing Director Limited.
He is currently a non-executive director of of BTR Valve Group.
He is Chairman of Elementis plc and Admiral Group plc, Anglo & Overseas Trust plc and Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Phoenix IT Group plc.
Remuneration Committee of D S Smith plc.
Jan Oosterveld Mike Butterworth Non-executive Director a, b Group Finance Director d, f Appointed to the Cookson Board in June 2004.
Appointed to the Cookson Board in June 2005 and Jan spent the majority of his career at Royal Philips assumed the role of Group Finance Director in August Electronics, latterly serving as a member of the Group 2005.
He is Chairman of the Prior to joining Cookson, Mike was Group Finance Supervisory Board of Crucell N. V. and a non-executive Director of Incepta Group plc.
He previously spent five director of Continental AG, Barco N. V. and Atos Origin years as Group Financial Controller at BBA Group plc.
S. A.. Jan is also a Professor at IESE Business School in Barcelona.
Cookson Group plc { 36 } Annual Report 2006 Barry Perry Nick Salmon Jeff Hewitt Richard Malthouse Barry W Perry Nick Salmon Non-executive Director a, b Chief Executive c, d, f Appointed to the Cookson Board in January 2002.
Appointed Chief Executive in July 2004.
Barry was formerly Chairman and Chief Executive Prior to joining Cookson, Nick was Executive Vice Officer of Engelhard Corporation.
Prior to that he held President at Alstom SA.
Previously he was the CEO at senior executive positions with Rhone-Poulenc and with Babcock International plc and held earlier positions General Electric Co. Barry is a non-executive director of with GEC and China Light and Power.
Nick is a nonArrow Electronics, Inc. and Ashland Inc. executive director of United Utilities plc.
Jeff Hewitt Richard Malthouse Non-executive Director a, b Group Secretary f, g Appointed to the Cookson Board in June 2005 and is Appointed Group Secretary in 1993.
Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Richard was previously the Group Secretary of Del Jeff was previously Deputy Chairman and Group Monte Foods International.
He has held the equivalent Finance Director of Electrocomponents plc.
He is or senior company secretarial positions in Chairman of Plasmon plc and Deputy Chairman of pharmaceutical, engineering and automobile Dialight plc.
He is also Senior Independent Director of manufacturing companies.
TDG plc, a non-executive director of Technetix Group Ltd and a non-executive member of the Audit Committee of the John Lewis Partnership.
a Member of the Audit Committee b Member of the Remuneration Committee c Member of the Nominations Committee: the membership also includes any three non-executive Directors d Member of the Finance Committee e Senior Independent Director f Member of the Executive Committee g Not a member of the Board Cookson Group plc { 37 } Annual Report 2006
