Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Dipesh Shah aged 53, Mike Toms aged 52, Duncan Lewis aged 55, John Biles aged 58, Chairman non-executive N A, N, R A, N, R A, N, R Appointed non-executive Appointed as a non-executive Appointed as a non-executive Appointed as a non-executive Chairman in May 2005. director in November 2003.
He has Appointed as a non-executive chaired the Audit Committee until chairs the Remuneration chaired the Audit Committee since director in November 2003.
Group Director, Committee and is the Boards October 2005.
Non-executive Executive of the United Kingdom Planning and Regulatory Affairs Senior Independent Director.
director and chairman of the audit Atomic Energy Authority.
Nonat BAA PLC since 2001 and a Senior Advisor in committee at Charter plc, executive director of Babcock member of its executive treasury Telecommunications, Media and Chapelthorpe plc, ArmorGroup International Group PLC and committee.
Non-executive Technology to the Carlyle Group.
International plc and Hermes Oxfordshire Economic Partnership director of UK Coal PLC, a Non-executive chairman of Pensions Management Ltd. Limited.
Until late 2002 held a member of the Governing Board SINOTEL, AlanDick Ltd and Formerly Finance Director of FKI number of senior positions within of the Airports Council Euphony Holdings Ltd. Nonplc having previously been Group BP plc, latterly as Vice President International and a director of the executive director of the British Financial Director of Chubb and General Manager, Airport Property Partnership.
Non-executive director Security Plc following its demerger Acquisitions and Divestments and Formerly held the positions of and chairman of the audit from Racal Electronics Plc Racal formerly as chief executive of Chief Economist and Director of committee of CompleTel nv.
Before this he held several businesses within BP plc.
Corporate Strategy at BAA plc.
Formerly President and Chief various financial director positions Operating Officer of GTS Inc, within Racal.
He qualified as a Managing Director of Equant nv, chartered accountant with Price Chief Executive of Granada Media Waterhouse and Co. Group and held a number of managing director and chief executive positions at Cable and Wireless.
Patrick Haren aged 55, Patrick Bourke aged 49, Harry McCracken aged 56, Laurence MacKenzie aged 44, Group Chief Executive E, N Group Finance Director E Group Managing Director Managing Director Viridian Power & Energy E Electricity Infrastructure E Appointed Group Chief Executive Joined as Group Finance Director Appointed Group Managing Appointed as an executive director in February 1998.
Joined NIE as in September 2000.
Previously Director VP&E in February 2003. in March 2006.
Managing Director Chief Executive in 1992.
He is a Head of Mergers and Acquisitions Previously Managing Director NIE of NIEs Electricity Infrastructure non-executive director of Invest and then Group Treasurer at with responsibility for the Groups business including T&D and Northern Ireland, the economic Powergen plc.
He was formerly a regulated electricity businesses.
Powerteam and member of the development agency.
Previously director of Barclays fide Zoete Joined NIE in 1970 as an Executive Committee since 2003.
Director of New Business Wedd and qualified as a engineer and progressed to Joined as Managing Director of Investment with ESB in the RoI chartered accountant with Peat Corporate Planning Manager Powerteam in September 2000. and Chairman of ESB Marwick now KPMG.
prior to appointment to the Previously a general manager in International.
Board of NIE as Operations power transformer manufacturing Director in 1992. with ABB.
He qualified as a chartered accountant with Peat Marwick now KPMG.
- independent non-executive director A - member of Audit Committee E - member of Executive Committee N - member of Nomination Committee R - member of Remuneration Committee Board of Directors 7
