Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006 DIRECTORS REPORT The directors of Viridian Group PLC present their report and the Directors Group accounts for the year ended 31 March 2006.
The Board of Directors section gives details of current directors.
All of the directors held office throughout the period with the Results and Dividends exception of John Biles, who was appointed as a non-executive The results for the year ended 31 March 2006 show a profit after tax director on 23 August 2005, and Laurence MacKenzie, who was of 204.4m.
An interim dividend of 10.28p per share was paid on appointed as an executive director on 2 March 2006.
The directors recommend payment of a final and Laurence MacKenzie will seek election, and Harry McCracken dividend of 26.61p per share resulting in total dividends for the year will seek re-election, at this years AGM.
The directors beneficial interests in ordinary shares of the Company which include those of their families and those held by the trustees Principal Activities and Review of the SIP, together with details in respect of share awards under of Business Developments the PSP, CIP and options to acquire ordinary shares under the Sharesave Scheme and the Executive Share Option Scheme, are The Groups regulated energy activities of power procurement, shown in the Directors Remuneration Report.
transmission and distribution, transmission system operation and supply of electricity are carried out through its subsidiaries, NIE and The Company purchased and maintained directors and officers SONI.
The Groups unregulated energy activities are carried out liability insurance throughout the period.
through its subsidiary VP&E which comprises Energia - competitive market supply, and Huntstown - power generation.
The Group also provides specialist power utility contracting services through Research and Development unregulated subsidiaries trading as Powerteam.
The Group is committed to a programme of research and On 25 April 2005 the Group completed the disposal of its software development appropriate to its businesses.
In particular NIE, in and IT services business, Sx3, to Northgate for 155m.
The disposal conjunction with local universities and other partners, is committed resulted in a profit of 108.9m.
to research and development activities aimed at identifying the best long-term options for network development to accommodate the Reviews of the Group's activities and potential future developments Governments sustainability objectives.
are provided in the Chairman's Statement, the Group Chief Executive's Review, and the Operating and Financial Review.
Substantial Shareholdings Discussion of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group As at 12 May 2006 the Group had been notified of the following are described in the Risk Management section of the Corporate substantial shareholdings: Governance Report.
The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies, including those applied in relation to the use Number % of financial instruments, are described in the Financial Review.
Standard Life Investments 5,102,565 4.17 Legal & General Group Plc 3,959,167 3.23 Aviva plc 3,701,793 3.02 Share Capital Details of the authorised and issued share capital are given in note 29 to the accounts.
In August 2005 the Group effected a 97.9m return of capital to shareholders through a B share scheme with most shareholders electing for immediate payment 97.1m and the remainder opting for a deferred payment in April 2006 0.8m.
The return of capital was accompanied by a 9 for 10 share capital consolidation.
Directors Report 39 Equal Opportunities Auditors The Group has been pro-active in compliance with fair employment, A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as external auditors sex discrimination, equal pay, disability discrimination and race and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration will be discrimination legislation in Northern Ireland.
It regularly monitors proposed at the AGM.
its actions to promote compliance and to ensure that it provides equality of opportunity in all its employment practices.
Annual General Meeting Full details of the AGM to be held on 7 July 2006 and explanations Disability of the resolutions to be proposed at the meeting appear in the The Group has taken active steps to implement the Disability Notice of Annual General Meeting enclosed separately with Discrimination Act.
It is Group policy to provide people with this report.
disabilities equal opportunities for employment, training and career development, having regard to aptitude and ability.
Any member of staff who becomes disabled during employment is given assistance Payment of Suppliers and re-training where possible.
The Groups procurement policy is to source equipment, goods and services from a wide range of suppliers throughout the EU and beyond in accordance with commercial practices based on fairness Employee Participation and transparency.
The Group recognises the important role that The Group recognises the value of effective communication with suppliers play in its business, and works to ensure that payments employees.
There are well-established arrangements for are made to them in accordance with agreed contractual terms.
consultation and the promotion of employee relations through a framework of company councils.
A number of Group-wide consultative committees are also in place dealing with areas such as Going Concern health and safety and current ideas.
NIE and Powerteam have Based on normal business planning and control procedures, the achieved IIP accreditation.
directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going Health and Safety at Work of Employees concern basis in preparing the accounts.
The Group strives for continual improvement in safety performance through review of safe working practices and increased safety By order of the Board awareness of all employees.
Details of lost time incidents are contained in the Workplace section of the CSR Report.
Charitable and Political Donations Ian Thom Company Secretary The Groups wide-ranging sponsorship activities are described in the Registered Office Community section of the CSR Report.
Apart from sponsorship, 120 Malone Road donations to charities in the year were 49,726 2005 - 11,000.
Belfast BT9 5HT There were no contributions for political purposes.
Registered Number: NI33250 23 May 2006 40 Directors Report
