Critical Accounting Estimates The Group prepares its Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with IFRS, the Assumptions application of which often requires judgements to be made by management when There are a number of assumptions and estimates involved in calculating the net formulating the Groups financial position and results.
Under IFRS, the directors are present value of future cash flows from the Groups businesses including managements required to adopt those accounting policies most appropriate to the Groups expectations of: circumstances for the purpose of presenting fairly the Groups financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
The Group also prepares a reconciliation of the growth in EBITDA, calculated as adjusted operating profit before depreciation and Groups revenue, net profit and shareholders equity between IFRS and US GAAP.
amortisation: timing and quantum of future capital expenditure: In determining and applying accounting policies, judgement is often required in respect of items where the choice of specific policy, accounting estimate or assumption to be uncertainty of future technological developments: followed could materially affect the reported results or net asset position of the Group long term growth rates: and should it later be determined that a different choice would be more appropriate.
the selection of discount rates to reflect the risks involved.
Management considers the accounting estimates and assumptions discussed below to The Group prepares and internally approves formal ten-year plans for its businesses and be its critical accounting estimates and, accordingly, provides an explanation of each uses these as the basis for its impairment reviews.
Management uses the initial five years below.
Where it is considered that the Groups US GAAP accounting policies differ of the plans, except in markets which are forecast to grow ahead of the long term growth materially from the IFRS accounting policy, a separate explanation is provided.
In such cases, further years will be used until the forecast growth rate trends towards the long term growth rate, up to a maximum of ten years.
The discussion below should also be read in conjunction with the Groups disclosure of significant IFRS accounting policies, which is provided in note 2 to the Consolidated For mobile businesses, a long term growth rate into perpetuity has been determined as Financial Statements, Significant accounting policies and with the Summary of the lower of: differences between IFRS and US GAAP provided in note 38 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
the nominal GDP rates for the country of operation, using forecast nominal GDP rates from external sources: and Management has discussed its critical accounting estimates and associated disclosures the long term compound annual growth rate in EBITDA implied by the business with the Companys Audit Committee.
For non-mobile businesses, no growth is expected beyond managements plans for the Impairment reviews initial five year period.
Asset recoverability is an area involving management judgement, requiring assessment as to whether the carrying value of assets can be supported by the net present value of Changing the assumptions selected by management, in particular the discount rate and future cash flows derived from such assets using cash flow projections which have been growth rate assumptions used in the cash flow projections, could significantly affect the discounted at an appropriate rate.
In calculating the net present value of the future cash Groups results.
The Groups review includes the key assumptions related to sensitivity in flows, certain assumptions are required to be made in respect of highly uncertain the cash flow projections.
The following changes to the assumptions used in the impairment review would have IFRS requires management to undertake an annual test for impairment of indefinite increased decreased the combined impairment loss recognised in the year ended lived assets, and for finite lived assets, to test for impairment if events or changes in 31 March 2006 in respect of the Groups mobile operations in Germany and Italy: circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.
1 1 Increase by 2% Decrease by 2% Group management currently undertakes an annual impairment test covering goodwill bn bn and other indefinite lived assets, and also reviews finite lived assets and investments in Discount rate 2.2 2.4 associated undertakings at least annually to consider whether a full impairment review is required.
In the year to 31 March 2006, the Group has recognised impairment losses 1 Budgeted EBITDA 0.3 0.3 amounting to 23,515 million relating to the Groups mobile operations in Germany, 2 Capital expenditure 0.2 0.2 Italy and Sweden, of which 23,000 million was recognised following completion of the annual impairment test.
Long term growth rate 2.9 2.5 Notes: 1 Represents the compound annual growth rate for the initial five years of the Groups approved financial plans.
US GAAP 2 Represents capital expenditure as a percentage of revenue in the initial five years of the Groups approved plans.
Under US GAAP, the requirements for testing the recoverability of intangible assets and These assumption changes in isolation would not have resulted in an impairment loss property, plant and equipment differ from IFRS.
US GAAP requires the carrying value of in any other of the Groups continuing operations.
such assets with finite lives to be compared to undiscounted future cash flows over the remaining useful life of the primary asset of the asset group being tested for impairment, to determine if the asset or asset group is recoverable.
If the carrying value US GAAP exceeds the undiscounted cash flows, the carrying value is not recoverable and the asset Under US GAAP, the assumptions and estimates involved in reviewing for impairment are or asset group is written down to the net present value of future cash flows derived in a similar to IFRS, with the exception of the requirement to determine the primary asset of manner similar to IFRS.
For asset groups represented by the Groups operating companies, the primary asset is determined as the 3G licence, except for operating companies where no For purposes of goodwill impairment testing under US GAAP, the fair value of a reporting 3G licence has been acquired, in which case the 2G licence is the primary asset.
If the unit including goodwill is compared to its carrying value.
If the fair value of a reporting primary asset of the Groups mobile operations in Germany were the 2G rather than the unit is lower than its carrying value, the fair value of the goodwill within that reporting 3G licence, the carrying value would exceed the undiscounted cash flows and result in a unit is compared with its respective carrying value, with any excess carrying value significant impairment loss.
written off as an impairment.
The fair value of the goodwill is the difference between the fair value of the reporting unit and the fair value of the net assets of the reporting unit.
Business combinations Following the issuance of EITF Topic D-108, Use of the Residual Method to Value Goodwill only arises in business combinations.
The amount of goodwill initially Acquired Assets Other Than Goodwill, in the year ended 31 March 2005, the Group, in recognised is dependent on the allocation of the purchase price to the fair value of the respect of the indefinite lived licences in Verizon Wireless, was required to perform a identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
The determination of the fair transitional impairment test on indefinite lived intangible assets other than goodwill by value of the assets and liabilities is based, to a considerable extent, on managements comparing the carrying amount with the fair value of the asset determined on a judgement.
In the year ended 31 March 2005, the cumulative effect on net loss of adopting this standard was 6,177 million, net of taxes of 5,239 million.
Allocation of the purchase price affects the results of the Group as finite lived intangible assets are amortised whereas indefinite lived intangible assets, including goodwill, are not amortised, and could result in differing amortisation charges based on the allocation to indefinite lived and finite lived intangible assets.
On the acquisition of mobile network operators, the identifiable intangible assets may include licences, customer bases and brands.
The fair value of these assets is 26 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006 determined by discounting estimated future net cash flows generated by the asset, Property, plant and equipment assuming no active market for the assets exist.
The use of different assumptions for the Property, plant and equipment also represent a significant proportion of the asset base expectations of future cash flows and the discount rate would change the valuation of of the Group and hence the estimates and assumptions made to determine their the intangible assets.
carrying value and related depreciation are critical to the Groups financial position and performance.
IFRS On transition to IFRS, the Group has elected not to apply IFRS 3, Business Estimation of useful life Combinations, retrospectively as the difficulty in applying these requirements to the The charge in respect of periodic depreciation is derived after determining an estimate large number of business combinations completed by the Group from incorporation of an assets expected useful life and the expected residual value at the end of its life.
through to 1 April 2004 exceeded any potential benefits.
Goodwill arising before the Increasing an assets expected life or its residual value would result in a reduced date of transition to IFRS, after adjusting for items including the impact of proportionate depreciation charge in the Groups income statement.
consolidation of joint ventures, amounted to 78,753 million.
The useful lives of Group assets are determined by management at the time the asset is If the Group had elected to apply the accounting for business combinations acquired and reviewed annually for appropriateness.
The lives are based on historical retrospectively, it may have led to an increase or decrease in goodwill and increase in experience with similar assets as well as anticipation of future events, which may impact licences, customer bases, brands and related deferred tax liabilities recognised on their life, such as changes in technology.
Furthermore, network infrastructure cannot be acquisition.
depreciated over a period that extends beyond the expiry of the associated licence under which the operator provides telecommunications services.
US GAAP Historically, changes in useful lives have not resulted in material changes to the Groups For acquisitions prior to 29 September 2004, the key difference from IFRS is that for the depreciation charge.
acquisition of mobile network businesses, the excess of purchase price over the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired other than licences the residual was allocated to licences, as opposed to goodwill.
However, subsequent to this date and Cost capitalisation due to the prohibition of this method of accounting following the issuance of EITF Topic Cost includes the total purchase price and labour costs associated with the Groups own D-108 licences are valued using a direct valuation approach, with the residual being employees to the extent that they are directly attributable to construction costs, or allocated to goodwill.
For other acquisitions, the residual has been and will continue to where they comprise a proportion of a department directly engaged in the purchase or be allocated to goodwill.
Management judgement is involved in determining the appropriate internal costs to capitalise and the amounts involved.
For the year ended 31 March 2006, internal costs capitalised represented approximately 7% of expenditure Intangible assets, excluding goodwill on property, plant and equipment and computer software and approximately 1% of total Other intangible assets include the Groups aggregate amounts spent on the acquisition operating expenses.
of 2G and 3G licences, customer bases, brands, computer software and development costs.
These assets arise from both separate purchases and from acquisition as part of business combinations.
Taxation The Groups tax charge on ordinary activities is the sum of the total current and deferred The relative size of the Groups intangible assets, excluding goodwill, makes the tax charges.
The calculation of the Groups total tax charge necessarily involves a degree judgements surrounding the estimated useful lives and basis of amortisation critical to of estimation and judgement in respect of certain items whose tax treatment cannot be the Groups financial position and performance.
finally determined until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority or, as appropriate, through a formal legal process.
The final resolution of some of these At 31 March 2006, intangible assets, excluding goodwill, amounted to 16,512 million items may give rise to material profit and loss and or cash flow variances.
See Financial 2005: 16,149 million and represented 13.0% 2005: 11.0% of the Groups total assets.
The growth in complexity of the Groups structure following its rapid expansion Estimation of useful life geographically has made the degree of estimation and judgement more challenging.
The useful life used to amortise intangible assets relates to the future performance of The resolution of issues is not always within the control of the Group and it is often the assets acquired and managements judgement of the period over which economic dependent on the efficiency of the legal processes in the relevant taxing jurisdictions in benefit will be derived from the asset.
The basis for determining the useful life for the which the Group operates.
Issues can, and often do, take many years to resolve.
most significant categories of intangible assets is as follows: Payments in respect of tax liabilities for an accounting period result from payments on account and on the final resolution of open items.
As a result, there can be substantial Licences and spectrum fees differences between the tax charge in the income statement and tax payments.
The estimated useful life is, generally, the term of the licence, unless there is a presumption of renewal at negligible cost.
Using the licence term reflects the period Significant items on which the Group has exercised accounting judgement include a over which the Group will receive economic benefit.
For technology specific licences provision in respect of an enquiry from UK HM Revenue and Customs with regard to the with a presumption of renewal at negligible cost, the estimated useful economic life Controlled Foreign Companies tax legislation see note 31 to the Consolidated Financial reflects the Groups expectation of the period over which the Group will continue to Statements, legal proceedings to recover VAT in relation to 3G licence fees see receive economic benefit from the licence.
The economic lives are periodically reviewed, Contingencies on page 39 and potential tax losses in respect of a write down in the taking into consideration such factors as changes in technology.
Historically, any value of investments in Germany see note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
changes to economic lives have not been material following these reviews.
The amounts recognised in the Consolidated Financial Statements in respect of each matter are derived from the Groups best estimation and judgement, as described above.
Customer bases However, the inherent uncertainty regarding the outcome of these items means The estimated useful life principally reflects managements view of the average eventual resolution could differ from the accounting estimates and therefore impact the economic life of the customer base and is assessed by reference to customer churn Groups results and cash flows.
An increase in churn rates may lead to a reduction in the useful life and an increase in the amortisation charge.
Historically, changes to churn rates have been insufficient to impact the useful life.
Recognition of deferred tax assets The recognition of deferred tax assets is based upon whether it is more likely than not Capitalised software that sufficient and suitable taxable profits will be available in the future, against which The useful life is determined by management at the time the software is acquired and the reversal of temporary differences can be deducted.
Recognition, therefore, involves brought into use and is regularly reviewed for appropriateness.
For computer software judgement regarding the future financial performance of the particular legal entity or licences, the useful life represents managements view of expected benefits over which tax group in which the deferred tax asset has been recognised.
the Group will receive benefits from the software, but not exceeding the licence term.
For unique software products controlled by the Group, the life is based on historical Historical differences between forecast and actual taxable profits have not resulted in experience with similar products as well as anticipation of future events, which may material adjustments to the recognition of deferred tax assets.
impact their life, such as changes in technology.
Historically, changes in useful lives have not resulted in material changes to the Groups amortisation charge.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006 27 Performance Critical Accounting Estimates continued Revenue recognition and presentation Revenue from mobile telecommunications comprises amounts charged to customers in respect of monthly access charges, airtime charges, messaging, the provision of other mobile telecommunications services, including data services and information provision, fees for connecting users of other fixed line and mobile networks to the Groups network, revenue from the sale of equipment, including handsets, and revenue arising from the Groups Partner Market agreements.
Deferral period Customer connection fees, when combined with related equipment revenue, in excess of the fair value of the equipment are deferred and recognised over the expected life of the customer relationship.
The life is determined by reference to historical customer churn rates.
An increase in churn rates would reduce the customer relationship life and accelerate revenue recognition.
Historically, changes in churn rates have been insufficient to impact the expected customer relationship life.
Any excess upgrade or tariff migration fees over the fair value of equipment provided are deferred over the average upgrade or tariff migration period as appropriate.
This time period is calculated based on historical activity of customers who upgrade or change tariffs.
An increase in the time period would extend the period over which revenue is recognised.
Presentation When deciding the most appropriate basis for presenting revenue or costs of revenue, both the legal form and substance of the agreement between the Group and its business partners are reviewed to determine each partys respective role in the transaction.
Where the Groups role in a transaction is that of principal, revenue is recognised on a gross basis.
This requires turnover to comprise the gross value of the transaction billed to the customer, after trade discounts, with any related expenditure charged as an operating cost.
Where the Groups role in a transaction is that of an agent, revenue is recognised on a net basis, with turnover representing the margin earned.
Allowance for bad and doubtful debts The allowance for bad and doubtful debts reflects managements estimate of losses arising from the failure or inability of the Groups customers to make required payments.
The estimate is based on the ageing of customer accounts, customer credit worthiness and the Groups historical write-off experience.
Changes to the allowance may be required if the financial condition of the Groups customers improves or deteriorates.
An improvement in financial condition may result in lower actual write-offs.
Historically, changes to the estimate of losses have not been material to the Groups financial position and results.
28 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006
