Board of Directors and Group Management 15 11 10 9 4 6 3 5 5.
Thomas Geitner, Chief Executive Officer, New Businesses, aged 51, was appointed to Directors and Senior Management this role on 1 May 2006.
New Businesses will focus on the delivery of new revenue The business of the Company is managed by its board of directors the Board.
He was appointed to the Board in May 2000 during which Biographical details of the directors and senior management at the date of this report time he established and managed Global Products and Services.
He was responsible for are as follows: the single Vodafone brand, Vodafone live!
and Vodafone Wireless Office and the partner networks franchise.
In July 2003, he was appointed Chief Technology Officer responsible Directors for the rollout of 3G, the consolidation of data centres and service platform operations Chairman and the establishment of the Global Supply Chain organisation.
Lord MacLaurin of Knebworth, DL, aged 69, joined the Board in January 1997 and Group, he was a member of the Management Board of RWE AG.
He is Chairman of the Nominations and Governance Committee.
Lord MacLaurin was Chairman of Tesco Plc from 1985 to 1997 and has been 6.
Andy Halford, Chief Financial Officer, aged 47, joined the Board in July 2005.
Andy a director of Enterprise Oil Plc, Guinness Plc, National Westminster Bank Plc and joined Vodafone in 1999 as Financial Director for Vodafone Limited, the UK operating Whitbread Plc.
He is also a non-executive director of the investment bank The Evolution company, and in 2001 he became Financial Director for Vodafones Northern Europe, Group Plc and a member of the Supervisory Board of Heineken NV.
Lord MacLaurin will Middle East and Africa Region.
In 2002, he was appointed Chief Financial Officer of retire from the Board at the conclusion of the Companys AGM on 25 July 2006.
Upon his Verizon Wireless in the US and is currently a member of the Board of Representatives of retirement Lord MacLaurin will become an advisor to the Company and Chairman of The The Verizon Wireless partnership.
Prior to joining Vodafone, he was Group Finance Vodafone Group Foundation.
Director at East Midlands Electricity Plc.
Andy holds a bachelors degree in Industrial Economics from Nottingham University and is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Deputy Chairman and senior independent director Accountants in England and Wales.
Paul Hazen, aged 64, has been a member of the Board since June 1999 and became Deputy Chairman and senior independent director in May 2000.
He is a member of the Non-executive directors Nominations and Governance Committee.
Paul Hazen became a director of AirTouch 7.
Sir John Bond, aged 64, was appointed to the Board in January 2005 and is a Communications Inc. in April 1993.
In 2001, he retired as Chairman and Chief Executive member of the Nominations and Governance and Remuneration Committees.
Sir John Officer of Wells Fargo & Company and its principal subsidiary, Wells Fargo Bank, NA.
He is Bond is a non-executive director of Ford Motor Company.
He retired from the position of Chairman of KKR Financial Corp and Accel-KKR and is also a director of Safeway, Inc. Group Chairman of HSBC Holdings plc on 26 May 2006, after 45 years of service.
Other Willis Group Holdings Limited and Xstrata AG.
Paul Hazen will retire from the Board after previous roles include Chairman of HSBC Bank plc and director of The Hong Kong and the Companys AGM on 25 July 2006.
Shanghai Banking Corporation and HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
Previous nonexecutive directorships include the London Stock Exchange, Orange plc, British Steel plc Executive Directors and the Court of the Bank of England.
Sir John will succeed Lord MacLaurin as Chairman 3.
Arun Sarin, Chief Executive, aged 51, became a member of the Board in June 1999. of the Company on conclusion of the AGM on 25 July 2006.
He was appointed Chief Executive in July 2003 and is a member of the Nominations and Governance Committee.
Arun Sarin joined Pacific Telesis Group in San Francisco in 1984 8.
Dr Michael Boskin, aged 60, became a member of the Board in June 1999 on and has served in many executive positions in his 20 year career in telecommunications.
completion of the merger with AirTouch Communications Inc. and is Chairman of the He was a director of AirTouch Communications Inc. from July 1995 and was President Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Dr Boskin was a and Chief Operating Officer from February 1997 to June 1999.
He was Chief Executive director of AirTouch Communications Inc. from August 1996 to June 1999.
He has been Officer for the Vodafone United States and Asia Pacific region until 15 April 2000, when a Professor of Economics at Stanford University since 1971 and was Chairman of the he became a non-executive director.
He has served as a director of The Gap, Inc.
The Presidents Council of Economic Advisers from February 1989 until January 1993.
Dr Charles Schwab Corporation and Cisco Systems, Inc. and is a non-executive director of Boskin is President and CEO of Boskin & Co. an economic consulting company, and is the Court of the Bank of England.
also a director of Exxon Mobil Corporation, Shinsei Bank Limited and Oracle Corporation.
Sir Julian Horn-Smith, Deputy Chief Executive, aged 57, has been a member of the Board since June 1996.
Previously the Group Chief Operating Officer, Sir Julian was appointed Deputy Chief Executive in January 2005.
Since then, he has been responsible for Business Development, which includes delivering Vodafones product and services portfolio to Vodafones affiliates and Partner Networks and expanding and consolidating Vodafones footprint.
He is a director of China Mobile Hong Kong Limited and several of the Groups overseas operating companies, including Chairman of the Supervisory Boards of Vodafone Deutschland GmbH and Vodafone D2 GmbH.
Sir Julian is also a nonexecutive director of Lloyds TSB Group plc, Smiths Group plc and Sage Group PLC.
Sir Julian will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM on 25 July 2006 and he will become Chairman of Sage Group PLC on 1 August 2006.
Lord Broers, aged 67, joined the Board in January 1998 and is a member of the Audit 13.
Professor Jrgen Schrempp, aged 61, has been a member of the Board since May Committee and the Nominations and Governance Committee.
He is President of the 2000 and is a member of the Remuneration Committee and the Nominations and Royal Academy of Engineering and a former Vice-Chancellor of Cambridge University.
He is former Chairman of the Board of Management of He spent many years with IBM, in senior roles within the research and development DaimlerChrysler and one of the principal architects of Daimler-Benzs merger with function, and is a Fellow of the Royal Society, the Institute of Electrical Engineers and Chrysler in 1998.
He became Chairman of Daimler-Benz in 1995.
He is a non-executive the Institute of Physics.
Lord Broers is also a Foreign Associate of the US National director of the South African Coal, Oil and Gas Corporation SASOL and Compagnie Academy of Engineering, a trustee of the British Museum and Chairman of the House of Financire Richemont SA, Switzerland.
Professor Schrempp is Chairman Emeritus of the Lords Science and Technology Select Committee.
He chairs The Vodafone Group Global Business Coalition on HIV AIDS.
He has received numerous awards and has also Foundation and the Companys UK pension trustee company.
been recognised for his civic leadership and charitable contributions.
Amongst other distinctions, he is Commander of the French Legion of Honor and holds South Africas 10.
John Buchanan, aged 62, has been a member of the Board since April 2003.
He is a highest civilian award, the Order of Good Hope, conferred upon him by President Nelson member of the Audit Committee and, solely for the purposes of relevant legislation, is Mandela.
the Boards appointed financial expert on that Committee.
He retired from the board of directors of BP Plc in 2002 after six years as Group Chief Financial Officer and executive 14.
Luc Vandevelde, aged 55, joined the Board in September 2003 and is Chairman of director following a wide-ranging career with the company.
He was a member of the the Remuneration Committee.
He is Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Carrefour SA United Kingdom Accounting Standards Board from 1997 to 2001.
He is Chairman of and a director of Socit Gnrale.
He is the Founder and Managing Director of Change Smith & Nephew plc and a non-executive director of AstraZeneca PLC and BHP Billiton.
Capital Partners LLP, a private equity fund.
Luc Vandevelde was formerly Chairman of John Buchanan will succeed Paul Hazen as the Deputy Chairman and senior Marks & Spencer Group Plc and Chief Executive Officer of Promodes, and he has held independent director after the Companys AGM on 25 July 2006. senior European and international roles with Kraft General Foods.
Penny Hughes, aged 46, has been a member of the Board since September 1998 15.
Philip Yea, aged 51, became a member of the Board in September 2005 and is a and is a member of the Audit Committee.
She has particular expertise in marketing and member of the Remuneration Committee.
He is the Chief Executive Officer of 3i Group has developed experience in many human resource areas, including leadership plc, having been appointed to that role in July 2004.
Prior to joining 3i, he was Managing development, motivation and retention.
She is President of the Advertising Association, Director of Investcorp and, from 1997 to 1999, the Group Finance Director of Diageo plc a member of the advisory committee of Bridgepoint Capital Limited and a non-executive following the merger of Guinness plc, where he was Finance Director, and Grand director of Reuters Group PLC, Scandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB and The Gap, Inc. Metropolitan plc.
He has previously held non-executive roles at HBOS plc and Penny Hughes was President of Coca-Cola Great Britain and Ireland, and has been a nonManchester United plc.
executive director of Next Plc, Trinity Mirror Plc and The Body Shop Plc.
She will retire from the Board after the Companys AGM on 25 July 2006.
Appointed since 31 March 2006 Anthony Watson, aged 61, was appointed to the Board on 1 May 2006, having retired 12.
Anne Lauvergeon, aged 46, joined the Board in November 2005 and is a member from his role as Chief Executive of Hermes Pensions Management Limited, a position he of the Audit Committee.
She is Chairman of the Executive Board of AREVA, the leading had held since 2002.
Previously he was Hermes Chief Investment Officer, having been French energy company, having been appointed to that role in July 2001.
She started Managing Director of AMP Asset Management and the Chief International Investment her professional career in 1983 in the iron and steel industry and in 1990 she was Officer of Citicorp Investment Management from 1991 until joining Hermes in 1998.
He named Adviser for Economic International Affairs at the French Presidency and Deputy is Chairman of Marks & Spencer Pension Trust Ltd, the Strategic Investment Board in Chief of its Staff in 1991.
In 1995, she became a Partner of Lazard Frres & Cie, Northern Ireland and also a non-executive director of Hammerson Group Plc and Witan subsequently joining Alcatel Telecom as Senior Executive Vice President in March 1997.
She was responsible for international activities and the Groups industrial shareholdings in the energy and nuclear fields.
In 1999, she was appointed Chairman and CEO of COGEMA.
Anne Lauvergeon is currently also Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Safran and a non-executive director of Total and Suez.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006 51 Governance Board of Directors and Group Management continued Strategy Board Senior Management The Strategy Board meets two or three times per year to discuss strategy.
This is Members of the Executive Committee who are not also executive directors are regarded attended by Executive Committee members and the Chief Executive Officers of as senior managers of the Company.
the major operating companies and other selected individuals based on Strategy Board topics.
Executive Committee Chaired by Arun Sarin, this committee focuses on the Groups strategy, financial structure and planning, succession planning, organisational development and Other Board and Executive Committee members Group-wide policies.
The Executive Committee membership comprises the Executive The following members also served on the Board or the Executive Committee during the Directors, details of whom are shown on pages 50 to 51, and the senior managers who 2006 financial year: are listed below: Peter Bamford was an executive director until 7 March 2006.
Brian Clark, Group Human Resources Director, aged 57, was appointed to this position in April 2005.
He joined Vodafone in 1997 and, before his current position, was Chief Ken Hydon was an executive director until he retired on 26 July 2005.
Prior to joining Vodafone, he was Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Telkom SA Limited, South Africa.
Sir David Scholey CBE was a non-executive director until he retired on 26 July 2005.
Paul Donovan, Chief Executive Officer, EMAPA Central Europe, Middle East, Asia Pacific Pietro Guindani, Chief Executive Italy, was a member of Executive Committee until and Affiliates, aged 47, was appointed to this position on 1 May 2006.
Vodafone in 1999 as Managing Director Commercial, was appointed Chief Executive of Vodafone Ireland in 2001 and became Chief Executive Officer, Other Vodafone Fritz Joussen, Chief Executive Germany, was a member of Executive Committee until Subsidiaries in January 2005, managing fourteen of Vodafones controlled entities.
He has over fifteen years experience in the telecommunications and IT industries and has held senior roles at BT, One2One and Optus Communications and, prior to that, Jurgen von Kuczkowski was a member of the Executive Committee until he retired on marketing roles at the Mars Group, Coca Cola and Schweppes Beverages.
Warren Finegold, Chief Executive, Global Business Development, aged 49, was Shiro Tsuda, Executive Chairman and Chairman of the Board, Vodafone K. K. was an appointed to this position and joined the Executive Committee on 24 April 2006.
He was Executive Committee member until the completion of the sale of the Japanese business previously a Managing Director of UBS Investment Bank and head of its technology on 27 April 2006. team in Europe.
He is responsible for Business Development, M&A and Partner Networks.
Phil Williams was a member of the Executive Committee until he retired on 31 July 2005.
Alan Harper, Group Strategy and Business Integration Director, aged 49, joined Vodafone in 1995 as Group Commercial Director and he subsequently became Managing Director of Vodafone UK.
He was appointed to his current position in July 2000.
Prior to joining the Group, he held the post of Business Strategy Director with Mercury One2One and senior roles with Unitel and STC Telecoms.
He is also a member of the Vodafone D2 GmbH Supervisory Board and Chairman of the Vodafone UK Foundation Simon Lewis, Group Corporate Affairs Director, aged 47, joined Vodafone in November 2004.
He previously held senior roles at Centrica Plc including Managing Director, Europe and Group Director of Communications and Public Policy.
Prior to that he was Director of Corporate Affairs at NatWest Group and the Head of Public Relations at SG Warburg plc.
He was President of the Institute of Public Relations in 1997 and is a Visiting Professor at the Cardiff School of Journalism.
In 1998, he was seconded to Buckingham Palace for two years as the first Communications Secretary to the Queen.
He is a Fulbright Commissioner and a trustee of The Vodafone Group Foundation.
Tim Miles, Global Chief Technology Officer, aged 48, was appointed to this position on 1 April 2006.
He joined Vodafone New Zealand in 2001 as Director of Business Markets and was appointed Managing Director of Vodafone New Zealand in 2002.
In April 2005, he joined Vodafone UK as Chief Executive Officer before moving to his present role.
He has over twenty years experience in the IT and telecommunications industry.
Prior to joining Vodafone, he was Vice President for Global Industries, Unisys Corporation, USA and, before that, held executive positions with Data General and IBM.
Bill Morrow, Chief Executive Officer, Europe, aged 46, was appointed to this position on 1 May 2006 after ten years with the Vodafone Group.
Over the last ten years, he has held various positions, including President of Vodafone Japan, Chief Executive of Vodafone UK and President of Japan Telecom.
He has twenty-six years of experience in the telecommunications industry, holding senior leadership roles in the USA, Asia and Europe.
Bill Morrow is widely recognised for operational performance lifts, technology management and company restructuring.
Frank Rovekamp, Global Chief Marketing Officer, aged 51, was appointed to this position and joined the Executive Committee on 1 May 2006.
He joined Vodafone four years ago as Marketing Director and a Member of the Management Board of Vodafone Netherlands and later moved to Vodafone Germany as Chief Marketing Officer and a member of the Management Board.
Before joining Vodafone, Frank held roles as President and Chief Executive Officer of Beyoo and Chief Marketing Officer with KLM Royal Dutch Airlines.
Stephen Scott, Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, aged 52, was appointed Group General Counsel and Company Secretary in 1991, prior to which he was employed in the Racal Group legal department, having moved into industry in 1980 from private law practice in London.
He is a director of the Companys UK pension trustee company and of ShareGift the Orr Mackintosh Foundation Limited and is a director and trustee of LawWorks the Solicitors Pro Bono Group Limited.
52 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006
