Japan Associates SFR and Cegetel On 14 November 2003, Vodafone Holdings K. K. completed the disposal of its 100% In December 2003, in order to optimise cash flows between Cegetel Group and its interest in Japan Telecom.
The Group ceased consolidating the results of Japan Telecom shareholders, SFR was merged into Cegetel Group and this company was renamed SFR.
Receipts resulting from this transaction were 257.9 billion 1.4 The fixed line businesses, Cegetel S. A. and Tlcom Dveloppement, previously billion, comprising 178.9 billion 1.0 billion of cash, 32.5 billion 0.2 billion of controlled by SNCF, were merged to form Cegetel S. A. S. Cegetel, a company in which transferable redeemable preferred equity and 46.5 billion 0.2 billion recoverable SFR had a 65% stake, giving the Group an effective interest of 28.5% at that date.
The withholding tax, which was received during the 2005 financial year.
In October 2004, the Groups interest in SFR remained at approximately 43.9% as a result of this preferred equity was sold to the original purchaser for 33.9 billion 0.2 billion.
On 17 March 2006, the Group announced an agreement to sell its 97.7% holding in On 11 May 2005, SFR announced an agreement to merge its fixed line business, Vodafone Japan to SoftBank.
The transaction completed on 27 April 2006 for cash Cegetel, with Neuf Telecom, subject to competition and regulatory authority and consideration of approximately 1.42 trillion 6.9 billion including the repayment of employee council approvals which were received, and the transaction completed, on intercompany debt of 0.16 trillion 0.8 billion.
In addition, the Group received non- 22 August 2005.
Under the agreement, SFR purchased SNCFs 35% minority interest in cash consideration with a fair value of approximately 0.23 trillion 1.1 billion, Cegetel, according to a pre-existing contract, and then contributed 100% of the capital comprised of preferred equity and a subordinated loan.
SoftBank also assumed debt of of Cegetel to Neuf Telecom.
In return, SFR received a 28% interest in the combined 0.13 trillion 0.6 billion.
entity, Neuf Cegetel, together with a 380 million bond to be issued by Neuf Cegetel, bringing the Groups effective shareholding in Neuf Cegetel to 12.4%.
Sweden On 5 January 2006, the Group completed the disposal of its 100% interest in Vodafone Disposals Sweden to Telenor Mobile Holding AS Telenor.
Net cash proceeds after assumption During the three year period ended on 31 March 2006, the Group has also disposed of of net debt by Telenor were 970 million 678 million.
interests in a number of Group companies.
Other disposals During the 2004 financial year, the Group disposed of its interests in its associated undertakings in Mexico, Grupo Iusacell, and India, RPG Cellular.
On 26 January 2005, the Group completed the disposal of a 16.9% stake in Vodafone Egypt to Telecom Egypt, reducing the Groups effective interest to 50.1%.
while any changes to the framework would become effective following their Regulation transposition into national law, from approximately 2010 onwards.
So far, the Commission has signalled that only minor changes to the regulatory framework will be Introduction considered.
Whether the reviewed regulatory framework will increase or decrease the The Groups operating companies are generally subject to regulation governing the regulatory burden on the Group will depend on the changes being adopted by the operation of their business activities.
Such regulation typically takes the form of industry EU, the manner in which revised directives are subsequently implemented in specific law and regulation covering telecommunications services and general Member States and how the revised regulatory framework will be applied by the competition anti-trust law applicable to all activities.
Some regulation implements respective NRAs.
commitments made by Governments under the Basic Telecommunications Accord of the World Trade Organisation to facilitate market entry and establish regulatory Regulation, under the EU Framework, can only be applied to undertakings with frameworks.
The following section describes the regulatory framework and the key significant market power SMP either individually or collectively in the relevant regulatory developments in the EU and selected countries in which the Group has markets, subject to the Commissions consent.
SMP under the EU Framework accords significant interests.
Many of the regulatory developments reported in the following with the concept of dominance under existing EU competition law.
This generally section involve ongoing proceedings or consideration of potential proceedings that implies a market share of at least 40%, although other factors may also be taken into have not reached a conclusion.
Accordingly, the Group is unable to attach a specific level consideration.
The SMP threshold under the previous framework required only a 25% of financial risk to the Groups performance from such matters.
share of the relevant market.
The Commission published SMP Guidelines in July 2002, which set out principles for use by NRAs in the analysis of markets to determine if European Union undertakings have SMP under the EU Framework.
Although most Member States of the EU Member States have now implemented the EU Regulatory Framework for the communications sector the EU Framework, which Spectrum was adopted in 2002, there remain both ongoing and new infringement proceedings In September 2005, the Commission published proposals for spectrum reform across against a number of Member States for late or inadequate implementation.
the EU, including proposals to allow holders of spectrum greater flexibility on the use to which it is put, to allow holders to trade spectrum within a spectrum market and to The EU Framework consists of four principal Directives outlining matters such as the improve harmonisation of certain bands.
The Commission has proposed that these objectives to be pursued by national regulatory authorities NRAs, the way in which reforms be enacted by 2010 and has commenced a number of actions to pursue its telecommunications operators are to be licensed, measures to be taken to protect proposals, principally through the work of the Radio Spectrum Policy Group, a spectrum consumers and ensure universal provision of certain telecommunications services and policy working group comprising the Commission and Member States.
the terms and basis upon which operators interconnect and provide access to each other.
Data retention In 2005, the European Parliament passed a new Directive on the retention of electronic The EU Framework introduces a number of important changes to the previous communications data for law enforcement purposes.
Member States must now proceed framework.
It is intended to align the techniques for defining where sector specific with national implementation.
The Directive sets out the data that network operators regulation may be applied and the threshold for when such regulation can be applied and service providers must store and, if requested, make available to law enforcement with those already employed in EU competition law.
It is also intended to ensure greater authorities for the purpose of the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of consistency of approach amongst NRAs within the Member States.
All NRAs are required serious criminal offences.
The initial investment and recurring annual operating costs to to take utmost account of the list of markets which are specified by the European the Group of this data retention requirement may be material.
It depends on how it is Commission the Commission in a Recommendation when deciding which markets to implemented nationally and the extent to which the total of such costs are investigate.
The first such Recommendation was published by the Commission in compensated.
February 2003 and includes markets at a wholesale level, for voice call termination on individual mobile networks the call termination market, the wholesale national International Roaming market for international roaming the roaming market and the wholesale market for In February 2006, the Commission announced that it is proposing to enact new access and call origination the access market on public mobile networks together legislation by way of a regulation under Article 95 of the EU Treaty which would have the relevant markets.
NRAs may, with the Commissions consent, also propose immediate effect to reduce what it considers to be excessive prices charged by mobile markets not included in the Recommendation.
The Commission will periodically review network operators for international roaming services.
The Commission has concluded its the Recommendation and the Commission has said it expects to complete the first such consultation on proposals for a regulation which will include both retail price regulation review by the end of 2006.
This review may lead to an increase or a decrease in the aimed at ensuring that the costs of calls when roaming are no more than equivalent number and scope of markets subject to sector specific regulation.
Changes to the domestic calls and the regulation of wholesale prices charged between mobile Recommendation are expected to become effective at the conclusion of the review, Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006 21 Business Regulation continued operators for roaming services.
The Commission expects the regulation to become law In March 2006, the NRA published for consultation the draft analysis of the roaming during 2007.
In July 2005, the Commission, supported by the European Regulation market and found no operator to have SMP.
Group ERG, a body established under the EU Framework and comprising all EU NRAs, also called for greater transparency of roaming tariffs and in October 2005 launched a Spain website to inform the public about roaming tariffs within the EU.
The website was Legislation implementing the EU Framework was enacted in November 2003, and the updated in March 2006. main sections of secondary legislation were approved during 2004 and 2005.
Anti-trust proceedings in relation to international roaming continue.
In July 2004, the In September 2005, the NRA announced a 10.57% reduction in Vodafones mobile Commission issued a statement of objections, a document detailing its proposed termination rates, which was implemented by Vodafone Spain in November 2005.
On findings, following its investigation into the UK market for wholesale international 23 February 2006, the Spanish NRA found all mobile network operators to have SMP in roaming and, in January 2005, the Commission issued a statement of objections the call termination market and imposed obligations including non-discrimination, cost following its investigation of the German market.
In both cases, the statement of orientation and accounting separation on Vodafone Spain.
A further reduction in rates is objections was addressed to both the national mobile operating subsidiaries and to the expected on 1 September 2006.
Company and, in both cases, Vodafone has responded both in writing and in oral proceedings.
In February 2006, the NRA found that the three mobile network operators held a position of joint SMP in the access markets.
This decision was reviewed by the European The Commissions proposed findings are that Vodafone has monopoly power over its Commission and the NRA allowed to proceed.
The NRA has decided to impose a wholesale customers in both the UK and Germany.
Vodafone UK and Vodafone wholesale network access obligation at reasonable prices facilitating the entry of firms Germany are alleged to have engaged in excessive or unfair pricing.
Vodafone has appealed the decision of the NRA to find Vodafone as alleges that the abuse occurred from 1997 to at least September 2003 in the UK and holding SMP in the Spanish courts and has appealed the decision of the European from 2000 to December 2003 in Germany.
In the event the Commission finds that there Commission to allow the NRA to proceed to the Court of First Instance at Luxembourg.
has been a breach of competition law, it may impose a fine on any addressee who had committed the breach.
United Kingdom The new Communications Act, implementing the EU Framework, was enacted in July 2003.
Separately, the roaming market is one of the relevant markets in the Recommendation.
In May 2005, the ERG adopted a common position on international roaming and several The NRA conducted and concluded its review of the access market and found that no NRAs have since then commenced their reviews of the roaming market but no NRA has operator had SMP.
The NRA found that all mobile network operators have SMP in the call proposed any regulation in this market.
NRAs in Finland and Italy have concluded their termination market and required Vodafone UK to reduce its termination charge for calls market analysis and found no operator to have SMP.
The French regulator has concluded conveyed over the 2G network, with effect from September 2004, to a target average that no operator has SMP in the traditional sense but has proposed an extended charge of 5.6 pence per minute.
In December 2005, the NRA decided to maintain this definition of joint SMP which, if approved, could lead to a finding that all three French price control until 31 March 2007.
The NRA has now embarked upon consultation on operators are jointly dominant.
In addition, it has asked the Commission to take action proposals to regulate the call termination market in respect of calls conveyed over both using instruments outside of the existing Framework.
Germany The NRA has proposed that 2G mobile frequencies will be tradable in 2007.
The NRA is Germany enacted a law implementing the EU Framework in June 2004.
Vodafone assessing whether holders of 2G spectrum can use it to provide 3G services.
The NRA is Germany agreed to and subsequently reduced its mobile call termination rate with also consulting on a specific proposal to liberalise spectrum usage rights more generally.
Deutsche Telekom for incoming calls from Deutsche Telekoms network in December 2004 from14.32 eurocents to 13.2 eurocents and in December 2005 to 11.0 eurocents.
United States The NRA has found all mobile network operators to have SMP in the call termination The Federal Communications Commission FCC, the United States NRA, commenced market and has announced that it will now propose ex-ante price regulation in the a Notice of Inquiry in 2004 into the level of termination rates charged by foreign mobile absence of agreement to further reductions amongst the mobile network operators.
network operators to US international operators.
The FCC sought inputs on the status of foreign mobile termination rates, including actions taken to date by foreign regulators to In February 2004, the NRA decided to award licences for 450MHz spectrum for the address the issue.
provision of public access mobile radio services.
Vodafone Germany is appealing this decision.
The NRA plans to award spectrum via auction in the 1.7 and 2.1 GHz bands beginning in June 2006.
The NRA has concluded that it will seek to harmonise the expiry of all 2G licences in 2016 and it will extend the terms of all licences ceasing prior to this date, including the Other Mobile Operations licence held by Vodafone subject to agreement on fees.
The NRA has also decided to Subsidiaries award certain 900MHz frequencies to O2 and EPlus.
The NRA is now developing Albania proposals to license new spectrum at 2.6 GHz, often referred to as the 3G extension In March 2006, the NRA issued for consultation to the operators its analysis of the band, and is considering the auction of unused 3G spectrum at 2 GHz at the same time.
mobile market in Albania, where the NRA proposed to designate the mobile networks operators including Vodafone Albania as having SMP in two markets: the call termination Italy market and the market of mobile services to end users.
As a result, the NRA proposes Italy enacted national law implementing the EU Framework in September 2003. obligations of transparency, non-discrimination and access obligations.
The NRA may also impose retail price controls.
The NRA has concluded that all mobile network operators have SMP in the call termination market and has imposed obligations on Vodafone Italy of cost orientation, Vodafone Albania has submitted its comments and objections on the NRAs market non-discrimination and transparency.
In September 2005, Vodafone Italy reduced its analysis.
In addition, Vodafone Albania has been notified by the NCA of an investigation rates by 19% from 14.95 eurocents to 12.10 eurocents.
The NRA foresees further into alleged excessive pricing of mobile services.
In May 2006, a Parliamentary reductions to 11.20 eurocents from 1 July 2006 and by 13% below the retail prices index Investigation Commission was established to investigate the two mobile operators and on both 1 July 2007 and 1 July 2008.
Vodafone Italy has appealed the NRAs decision.
to prepare recommendations for liberalisation of the market.
The NRA concluded its review of the access market in February 2006 and found that no Australia operator had SMP but has said it will keep the market under review.
The NCA released its final decision on the regulation of mobile termination in June 2004.
In its review, it proposed that all mobile network operators have market power In March 2005, the National Competition Authority NCA in Italy conducted with respect to mobile termination and proposed a pricing principle that requires mobile unannounced inspections of the offices of mobile network operators in Italy, including call termination rates to fall from 21 Australian cents per minute to 12 Australian cents Vodafone Italy, seeking evidence of collusion following complaints by resellers and per minute.
Vodafone Australias appeal of this decision was rejected.
In addition, potential MVNOs about alleged anti-competitive conduct.
In November 2005, Vodafone Vodafone Australia lodged an access undertaking proposing alternative rates, which Italy received a further request for information from the NCA.
In February 2006, the NCA the NCA has rejected.
Vodafone Australia is now appealing that decision.
The NCA has decided to prolong the duration of the proceeding until December 2006.
If the NCA also received various requests for adjudication of disputes between Vodafone Australia were to decide that there had been a breach of competition law, it would be able to and certain other operators, the results of which will apply from the date the dispute was impose a fine on any operator who had committed the breach.
22 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006 Czech Republic Malta In February 2005, Vodafone Czech Republic was awarded a 3G licence.
There have been Legislation implementing the EU Framework in Malta was enacted during 2004.
In the one or more complaints that the award may have breached EU competition law and the call termination market, the NRA has found both mobile network operators as having Commission is investigating the award process.
SMP and has imposed obligations on Vodafone Malta of cost orientation, nondiscrimination, accounting separation and transparency.
Vodafone Malta reduced its In May 2005, a new law implementing the EU Framework came into effect.
Mobile mobile termination rates by 5% from 11.5 eurocents per minute to 10.9 eurocents per number portability was implemented in January 2006. minute in January 2006.
The NRA is consulting on proposals to find Vodafone and Go Mobile, the two Maltese mobile network operators, as having joint SMP in the access Egypt market, with obligations to offer cost based access to MVNOs and indirect access to Egypt enacted a new telecommunications law in 2003, which gave new powers to the other parties.
NRA and imposed new obligations on licensees, including obligations in relation to universal service provision.
During 2004, Vodafone Egypt finalised an agreement with Vodafone Malta and Go Mobile were awarded 3G licences in August 2005.
The third 3G the NRA that covered most of these new obligations while obtaining additional licence remains unassigned.
In October 2005, Vodafone Malta was awarded a Broadband spectrum in the 1800MHz range to facilitate business expansion.
Wireless Access frequency licence to operate a nationwide network.
In February 2005, the NRA announced proposals to award a third mobile licence.
The Number portability was implemented on 31 March 2006. licence will be technology neutral and enable both 2G and 3G services.
The licence is expected to be awarded by September 2006.
The NRA is planning to negotiate the The Netherlands award of 3G licences to the two existing mobile network operators by September 2006.
The Netherlands implemented the EU Framework during 2004.
In December 2003, Mobile number portability and national roaming are expected to be implemented in mobile network operators reached agreement with the NRA and the NCA to reduce Egypt by April 2007. mobile call termination rates on 1 December 2004 from 15.4 eurocents per minute to 13.0 eurocents per minute, and on 1 December 2005 to 11.0 eurocents per minute.
In Greece addition, the NRA has finalised its review of the call termination market and has found Greece enacted national law implementing the EU Framework in February 2006. that all operators have SMP and proposes remedies of cost orientation, nonVodafone Greece agreed to reduce its mobile termination rate from approximately discrimination and transparency.
17.0 eurocents to 14.5 eurocents per minute on 1 October 2004.
The NRA has found all firms to have SMP in the call termination market and has developed a Long Run In its review of the access market, the NRA found that no mobile network operator had Incremental Cost model LRIC model to determine cost oriented mobile call SMP.
Vodafone Greece will reduce its rate to 12.0 eurocents on 1 June 2006 and further reductions to approximately 10.0 eurocents will be made in one or more The Government is consulting on the extension or renewal of the existing 2G 900 MHz steps prior to 1 June 2007. licences which expire in 2010.
In August 2005, each of the mobile network operators was fined 500,000 for failing to New Zealand implement mobile number portability.
The NRA released a report proposing regulation of mobile termination rates, including a rate reduction of 44% from 27 New Zealand cents per minute to 15 New Zealand cents per In March 2006, the three largest mobile network operators were found by the NRA to minute and reducing further to 12 New Zealand cents per minute by 2010 2011.
These have colluded in the setting of retail SMS prices and were fined 1 million each.
proposals were submitted to the Minister for approval, who has requested the NRA to Vodafone Greece has filed an administrative appeal.
The NRA has done so and published a further position in which its key findings remain essentially unchanged.
These will now be resubmitted to the Minister.
In April 2005, the Council of State issued a judgement that base stations erected by mobile operators prior to August 2002 did not meet legal requirements.
The new law The NRA is also reviewing regulation of national roaming and co-location and disputes seeks to remedy this but also prohibits the installation of base stations in schools and submitted by Vodafone in relation to certain local interconnection services.
It has also hospitals and decreases EMF exposure limits.
recently announced a review to determine whether further regulation or changes to existing regulation are necessary to promote competition in the mobile services market.
In March 2005, Vodafone Greece was made aware of a security issue in its network.
Software foreign to the network, and capable of performing interception, had been The NRA has approved industry plans for the introduction of mobile number portability installed in the network without Vodafones knowledge.
The software was created, and has set a date of April 2007 for its introduction.
supported and maintained by an external supplier.
The foreign software was removed without delay and the Greek authorities promptly informed.
The authorities conducted The government is in the process of determining the price for renewal of 2G licences investigations and subsequently made the matter public in February 2006.
Since then, which expire in 2011. further investigations have taken place and continue.
Vodafone Greece is co-operating with the Greek authorities.
Portugal Portugal enacted national law implementing the EU Framework in February 2004.
Hungary Following its review of the call termination market, the NRA found all three mobile Hungary implemented the EU Framework in January 2004 as part of its preparations for network operators as having SMP and it has imposed obligations on Vodafone Portugal joining the EU on 1 May 2004.
In its review of the call termination market, the NRA has including cost orientation, non-discrimination, accounting separation and transparency.
proposed that all mobile network operators have SMP and has imposed obligations of Vodafone Portugal reduced its mobile termination rates in July 2005 to 13.0 eurocents cost orientation, non-discrimination, accounting separation and transparency.
Vodafone per minute and in January 2006 to 12.5 eurocents per minute.
Hungary has appealed this finding.
In May 2005, Vodafone Hungary complied with a requirement to reduce its call termination rates by 16%.
Vodafone Hungary has Vodafone Portugal has requested the renewal of its 2G licence, which is due to expire in appealed the decision.
In its review of the access market the NRA found that no mobile October 2006, and the Government has proposed terms which remain largely network operator had SMP.
unchanged from those which already apply to the licence.
Ireland Romania Regulations implementing the EU Framework were adopted in June 2003.
In December In March 2003, the NRA determined MobiFon, the Groups subsidiary in Romania, as 2005, an appeal court annulled the NRAs finding that Vodafone and O have joint SMP having SMP in the national interconnection market so, under national law, MobiFons 2 in the access market.
mobile termination rates were reduced from 12.0 US cents to 10.0 US cents.
In March 2005, the NRA granted a 3G licence to MobiFon.
In its review of the call termination market, the NRA has found that all mobile network operators have SMP.
The NRA has imposed obligations of cost orientation and nonNumber portability will be implemented in Romania during the 2007 financial year, with discrimination on all operators and accounting separation and transparency on the obligation for all mobile and fixed operators to provide number portability to Vodafone and O.
The NRA is also considering the use of price controls.
Vodafone Ireland customers no later than June 2007.
2 has agreed to reduce its rates by 11% below the retail price index per annum for the 24 months commencing January 2006.
In February 2006, the NRA withdrew a 3G licence it had awarded to Smart Telecom in November 2005.
Smart Telecom is appealing this decision.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006 23 Business Regulation continued Joint ventures Associated undertakings and investments Fiji Belgium Vodafone Fiji has been required to make wholesale and retail price reductions of Belgium implemented the EU Framework during 2005.
The NRA has commenced its between from 15% to 70% for a range of services.
In December 2005, Vodafone Fiji market reviews and in the call termination market proposes to find all operators as issued proceedings to prevent the government from issuing a second licence in breach having SMP and has commenced a process to develop a LRIC model to set rates.
The of Vodafones exclusivity rights.
proposals include decreases of mobile termination rates of each firm by around 12% every six months from July 2006 to July 2008, and confirms the existing degree of India asymmetric termination rates between the three network mobile operators.
From 1 March 2006, a new Interconnection Usage Charge regulation became effective.
Interconnection charges remained at Rs.
However, changes were made The NRA held an initial consultation on the renewal of Vodafones associated to reduce by 33% the total access deficit charge paid by operators to BSNL.
It is undertaking, Proximus, 2G licence which expires in 2010. proposed that the charge be removed by the 2008 financial year.
In January 2006, the NCA conducted unannounced inspections of the offices of In March 2006, the NRA recommended to the Department of Telecommunications that Proximus seeking evidence of anti-competitive behaviour in relation to the market for mobile number portability should be implemented by 1 April 2007. corporate customers following a complaint by a competitor.
If the NCA decides that there had been a breach of competition law, it would In November 2005, the government announced a lifting of the foreign direct investment be able to impose a fine on any operator who had committed the breach.
ceiling from 49% to 74% in the telecom sector, subject to certain preconditions.
The deadline for compliance is 2 July 2006.
China The Chinese Government is expected to award 3G licences in 2006 and to implement The Department of Telecommunications is expected to issue a new national spectrum related changes to its telecommunications regulatory framework.
The new policy is expected to include plans for allocation of 3G spectrum.
France France implemented the EU Framework during 2004.
In its review of the call termination Kenya market, the NRA concluded that all mobile network operators have SMP and imposed In March 2006, the Kenyan Government issued a new Information and Communications obligations of cost orientation, non-discrimination, accounting separation and Bill for public comment.
The new legislation will replace the Communication Act 1998, transparency.
It set a price cap for Vodafones associated undertaking, SFR, of 9.5 and is expected to be finalised before the end of 2006. eurocents per minute from 1 January 2006.
During 2006, the NRA commenced work on a new price cap for the period from 1 January 2007.
In April 2006, the NRA commenced a review of interconnection and retail prices, which may result in new interconnection and retail price regulations.
In December 2003, a French consumers association lodged a complaint with the NCA alleging collusion amongst the three French mobile operators on SMS retail pricing.
The Safaricom, Vodafones joint venture, has been given until December 2006 to relinquish NCA is still investigating this complaint.
Independently, the NRA has commenced a 2.5MHz of paired 900 MHz spectrum in return for the allocation of 1800MHz spectrum.
review of SMS termination and is consulting on proposals for wholesale price regulation It is proposed that the relinquished 900 MHz spectrum will be given to a new third and the notification of a wholesale SMS market to the Commission under the EU mobile licensee.
In September 2005, Safaricom filed an application for permanent 3G Framework.
If it proceeds, the French NRA would be the first to do so in Europe.
consultation, the NRA proposes a price cap for wholesale termination of no greater than 2.5 eurocents per minute.
In addition, following two complaints against SFR and Orange Poland France, the NRA ordered Bouygues and SFR, and Bouygues and Orange, respectively, to Legislation implementing the EU Framework in Poland, which joined the EU on 1 May reduce their symmetric wholesale SMS termination rates to 4.3 eurocents per message 2004, was enacted during 2004 and the Polish NRA has commenced its market reviews.
The NRA, in its review of the call termination market, proposes to find all mobile network operators to have SMP and to impose obligations of cost orientation, transparency and In December 2005, the NCA decided that SFR and the other mobile network operators non-discrimination.
had contravened competition law during the period from 1997 to 2003 by sharing information and during the period from 2000 to 2002 by entering into an agreement The NRA awarded a fourth 3G licence in 2005, which Polkomtel is appealing.
In aimed at stabilising the development of market shares.
SFR has been fined November 2005, the President of the NRA initiated the process to issue a new 2G 220 million.
SFR has appealed against this decision.
In January 2006, three companies submitted offers which are now under consideration.
Following the NRAs review of the access market, the NRA proposed that all three mobile network operators, including SFR, had joint SMP in the market and it proposed access Mobile number portability for contract customers was implemented by the mobile obligations as a remedy.
The proposals were notified to the Commission in April 2005 network operators in January 2006. but the NRA has subsequently withdrawn its proposals.
South Africa Switzerland A new Electronic Communications Bill was adopted by Parliament in November 2005, In April 2005, the Swiss NCA issued proposals finding that Swisscom Mobile, Vodafones and is awaiting signature of the President.
The new Bill will replace current associated undertaking, had abused a dominant position in the call termination market.
In April 2006, the NCA announced that it intends to fine Swisscom Mobile CHF489 million 216 million.
Additional interconnection disputes between Swisscom Mobile An Information Communication Technologies Black Economic Empowerment Charter and its mobile competitors are pending.
the Charter is expected to be finalised in 2006.
The Charter will set targets to evaluate a companys contribution to Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment, In July 2005, the Swiss NCA started a preliminary investigation concerning access to which is the Government policy to increase economic empowerment of historically mobile networks.
At the end of November 2005, the Swiss NRA commenced a process disadvantaged individuals in South Africa.
Targets will be set in terms of equity to award three licences for broadband wireless access and Swisscom Mobile is ownership, management and control, employment, skills development, procurement, participating in an auction which will take place in the summer of 2006. enterprise development and corporate social investment.
In May 2005, the NRA commenced an investigation to assess whether Vodacom, the Groups joint venture in South Africa, has major operator status, which is similar to SMP, in the interconnection market.
Vodacom has challenged the grounds for this investigation in court, with a hearing expected before the end of 2006.
In 2005, the NRA commenced investigations on mobile pricing and handset subsidies.
Separately, in May 2005, the NCA commenced an investigation into alleged excessive pricing of mobile termination rates.
Vodafone has been notified of the commencement of judicial review proceedings of the decision under competition law approving its acquisition of VenFin.
24 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006
