Sir Julian Horn-Smith, Deputy Chief Executive, aged 57, has been a member of 1.
Lord MacLaurin of Knebworth DL, aged 69, joined the Board in January 1997 and the Board since June 1996.
Previously the Group Chief Operating Officer, Sir Julian was became Chairman in July 1998.
He is Chairman of the Nominations and Governance appointed Deputy Chief Executive in January 2005.
Since then, he has been responsible Committee.
Lord MacLaurin was Chairman of Tesco Plc from 1985 to 1997 and has for Business Development, which includes delivering Vodafones product and services been a director of Enterprise Oil Plc, Guinness Plc, National Westminster Bank Plc and portfolio to Vodafones affiliates and Partner Networks and expanding and consolidating Whitbread Plc.
He is also a non-executive director of the investment bank The Evolution Vodafones footprint.
He is a director of China Mobile Hong Kong Limited and several Group Plc and a member of the Supervisory Board of Heineken NV.
Lord MacLaurin will of the Groups overseas operating companies, including Chairman of the Supervisory retire from the Board at the conclusion of the Companys AGM on 25 July 2006.
Upon Boards of Vodafone Deutschland GmbH and Vodafone D2 GmbH.
Sir Julian is also his retirement Lord MacLaurin will become an advisor to the Company and Chairman a non-executive director of Lloyds TSB Group plc, Smiths Group plc and Sage Group PLC.
of The Vodafone Group Foundation.
Sir Julian will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM on 25 July 2006 and he will become Chairman of Sage Group PLC on 1 August 2006.
Deputy Chairman and senior independent director 2.
Paul Hazen, aged 64, has been a member of the Board since June 1999 and became 5.
Thomas Geitner, Chief Executive Officer, New Businesses, aged 51, was appointed to Deputy Chairman and senior independent director in May 2000.
He is a member of the this role on 1 May 2006.
New Businesses will focus on the delivery of new revenue Nominations and Governance Committee.
Paul Hazen became a director of AirTouch streams beyond pure mobile.
He was appointed to the Board in May 2000 during which Communications Inc. in April 1993.
In 2001, he retired as Chairman and Chief Executive time he established and managed Global Products and Services.
He was responsible for the Officer of Wells Fargo & Company and its principal subsidiary, Wells Fargo Bank, NA.
He is single Vodafone brand, Vodafone live!
and Vodafone Wireless Office and the Partner Chairman of KKR Financial Corp and Accel-KKR and is also a director of Safeway, Inc. Willis Networks franchise.
In July 2003, he was appointed Chief Technology Officer responsible Group Holdings Limited and Xstrata AG.
Paul Hazen will retire from the Board at the end of for the rollout of 3G, the consolidation of data centres and service platform operations the Companys AGM on 25 July 2006. and the establishment of the Global Supply Chain organisation.
Prior to joining the Group, he was a member of the Management Board of RWE AG.
Arun Sarin, Chief Executive, aged 51, became a member of the Board in June 1999.
Andy Halford, Chief Financial Officer, aged 47, joined the Board in July 2005.
Andy He was appointed Chief Executive in July 2003 and is a member of the Nominations and joined Vodafone in 1999 as Financial Director for Vodafone Limited, the UK operating Governance Committee.
Arun Sarin joined Pacific Telesis Group in San Francisco in 1984 company, and in 2001 he became Financial Director for Vodafones Northern Europe, Middle East and Africa Region.
In 2002, he was appointed Chief Financial Officer of and has served in many executive positions in his 20 year career in telecommunications.
He was a director of AirTouch Communications Inc. from July 1995 and was President and Verizon Wireless in the US and is currently a member of the Board of Representatives of Chief Operating Officer from February 1997 to June 1999.
He was Chief Executive Officer the Verizon Wireless partnership.
Prior to joining Vodafone, he was Group Finance Director for the Vodafone United States and Asia Pacific region until 15 April 2000, when he became at East Midlands Electricity Plc.
Andy holds a bachelors degree in Industrial Economics a non-executive director.
He has served as a director of The Gap, Inc.
The Charles Schwab from Nottingham University and is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Corporation and Cisco Systems, Inc. and is a non-executive director of the Court of the England and Wales.
Sir John Bond, aged 64, was appointed to the Board in January 2005 and is a member of the Remuneration Committee and the Nominations and Governance Committee.
Sir John is a non-executive director of Ford Motor Company.
He retired from the position of Group Chairman of HSBC Holdings plc on 26 May 2006, after 45 years of service.
Other previous roles include Chairman of HSBC Bank plc and director of The Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation and HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
Previous non-executive directorships include the London Stock Exchange, Orange plc, British Steel plc and the Court of the Bank of England.
Sir John will succeed Lord MacLaurin as Chairman of the Company on conclusion of the AGM on 25 July 2006.
14 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 17 12 2 14 813 8.
Dr Michael Boskin, aged 60, became a member of the Board in June 1999 on 12.
Anne Lauvergeon, aged 46, joined the Board in November 2005 and is a member completion of the merger with AirTouch Communications Inc. and he is Chairman of of the Audit Committee.
She is Chairman of the Executive Board of AREVA, the leading the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Dr Boskin was French energy company, having been appointed to that role in July 2001.
She started a director of AirTouch from August 1996 to June 1999.
He has been a Professor of her professional career in 1983 in the iron and steel industry and in 1990 she was named Economics at Stanford University since 1971 and was Chairman of the Presidents Council Adviser for Economic International Affairs at the French Presidency and Deputy Chief of of Economic Advisers from February 1989 until January 1993.
Dr Boskin is President and its Staff in 1991.
In 1995, she became a Partner of Lazard Frres & Cie, subsequently CEO of Boskin & Co. an economic consulting company, and is also a director of Exxon joining Alcatel Telecom as Senior Executive Vice President in March 1997.
She was Mobil Corporation, Shinsei Bank Limited and Oracle Corporation.
responsible for international activities and the Groups industrial shareholdings in the energy and nuclear fields.
In 1999, she was appointed Chairman and CEO of COGEMA.
Lord Broers, aged 67, joined the Board in January 1998 and is a member of the Audit Anne Lauvergeon is currently also Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Safran and Committee and the Nominations and Governance Committee.
He is President of the a non-executive director of Total and Suez.
Royal Academy of Engineering and a former Vice-Chancellor of Cambridge University.
He spent many years with IBM, in senior roles within the research and development 13.
Professor Jrgen Schrempp, aged 61, has been a member of the Board since May 2000 function, and is a Fellow of the Royal Society, the Institute of Electrical Engineers and the and is a member of the Remuneration Committee and the Nominations and Governance Institute of Physics.
Lord Broers is also a Foreign Associate of the US National Academy of Committee.
He is former Chairman of the Board of Management of DaimlerChrysler and Engineering, a trustee of the British Museum and Chairman of the House of Lords Science one of the principal architects of Daimler-Benzs merger with Chrysler in 1998.
He became and Technology Select Committee.
He chairs The Vodafone Group Foundation and the Chairman of Daimler-Benz in 1995.
He is a non-executive director of the South African Coal, Companys UK pension trustee company.
Oil and Gas Corporation SASOL and Compagnie Financi` ere Richemont SA, Switzerland.
Professor Schrempp is Chairman Emeritus of the Global Business Coalition on HIV AIDS.
John Buchanan, aged 62, has been a member of the Board since April 2003.
He is a He has received numerous awards and has also been recognized for his civic leadership member of the Audit Committee and, solely for the purposes of relevant legislation, is the and charitable contributions.
Amongst other distinctions, he is Commander of the French Boards appointed financial expert on that Committee.
He retired from the Board of directors Legion of Honor and holds South Africas highest civilian award, the Order of Good Hope, of BP p. l. c. in 2002 after six years as Group Chief Financial Officer and executive director conferred upon him by President Nelson Mandela.
following a wide-ranging career with the company.
He was a member of the United Kingdom Accounting Standards Board from 1997 to 2001.
He is Chairman of Smith & Nephew plc 14.
Luc Vandevelde, aged 55, joined the Board in September 2003 and is Chairman of and a non-executive director of AstraZeneca PLC and BHP Billiton.
John Buchanan will the Remuneration Committee.
He is Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Carrefour SA succeed Paul Hazen as Deputy Chairman of the Board and the Companys senior and a director of Socit Gnrale.
He is the Founder and Managing Director of Change independent director after the Companys AGM on 25 July 2006.
Capital Partners LLP, a private equity fund.
Luc Vandevelde was formerly Chairman of Marks & Spencer Group Plc and Chief Executive Officer of Promodes, and he has held 11.
Penny Hughes, aged 46, has been a member of the Board since September 1998 and senior European and international roles with Kraft General Foods.
is a member of the Audit Committee.
She has particular expertise in marketing and has developed experience in many human resource areas, including leadership development, 15.
Philip Yea, aged 51, became a member of the Board in September 2005 and is a member motivation and retention.
She is President of the Advertising Association, a member of of the Remuneration Committee.
He is the Chief Executive Officer of 3i Group plc, having the advisory committee of Bridgepoint Capital Limited and a non-executive director of been appointed to that role in July 2004.
Prior to joining 3i, he was a Managing Director of Reuters Group PLC, Scandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB and The Gap, Inc. Penny Hughes Investcorp and, from 1997 to 1999, the Group Finance Director of Diageo plc following was President of Coca-Cola Great Britain and Ireland, and has been a non-executive director the merger of Guinness plc, where he was Finance Director, and Grand Metropolitan plc.
of Next Plc, Trinity Mirror Plc and The Body Shop Plc.
She will retire from the Board at the He has previously held non-executive roles at HBOS plc and Manchester United plc.
close of the Companys AGM on 25 July 2006.
Appointed since 31 March 2006 Anthony Watson, aged 61, was appointed to the Board on 1 May 2006, having retired from his role as Chief Executive of Hermes Pensions Management Limited, a position he had held since 2002.
Previously he was Hermes Chief Investment Officer, having been Managing Director of AMP Asset Management and the Chief International Investment Officer of Citicorp Investment Management from 1991 until joining Hermes in 1998.
He is Chairman of Marks & Spencer Pension Trust Ltd, the Strategic Investment Board in Northern Ireland and also a non-executive director of Hammerson Group Plc and Witan Investment Trust Plc.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 15
