Key Peformance Indicators The Board and the Executive Committee monitor the Groups progress against its divided by the average total customers in the period.
Churn rates stated in this Annual strategic objectives and the financial performance of the Groups operations on a regular Report are calculated for the entire financial year.
Performance is assessed against the strategy, budgets and forecasts using financial and non-financial measures.
Customer delight The Group uses a proprietary customer delight system to track customer satisfaction The following details certain of the most significant Key Performance Indicators KPIs across its controlled markets and jointly controlled market in Italy.
More information on used by the Group, their purpose, the basis of calculation and the source of the the benefits of the system are provided in Business Business Overview Products and underlying data.
Definitions of certain of the terms are provided on page 49. services Customer strategy and management on page 17.
Customer delight is measured by an index based on the results of surveys performed by Financial an external research company which cover all aspects of service provided by Vodafone The Group uses the following primary measures to assess the performance of the Group and incorporates the results of the relative satisfaction of the customers of competitors.
A number of these measures at a Group level are An overall index for the Group is calculated by weighting the results for each of the presented on an organic basis, which provides an assessment of underlying growth Groups operations based on service revenue.
excluding the effect of business acquisitions and disposals and changes in exchange rates.
Financial measures presented on an organic basis are non-GAAP financial Increased customer expectations are putting a downward pressure on customer measures.
For more information on these measures and the basis of calculation of satisfaction for the Group and many of its competitors.
Despite this trend, the Group organic growth see Non-GAAP Information on pages 47 to 48. outperformed its target for customer delight in the 2006 financial year and the index was broadly stable compared to the previous financial year.
Revenue Revenue and its growth for the Group, and its principal markets, covering the 2006 and Revenue based measures 2005 financial year, is provided in Operating Results on pages 30 to 37.
Management believes that revenue based measures provide useful information for investors regarding trends in customer revenue derived from mobile Revenue and revenue growth are used for internal performance analysis and by telecommunications services and the extent to which customers use mobile services.
investors to assess progress against outlook statements provided externally by the Group.
The data used to calculate these KPIs is derived from a number of sources.
Financial information, such as service revenue, is extracted from the Groups financial systems, whilst operational information, including customer and usage metrics, is derived from Adjusted operating profit the customer relationship management and billing systems of each of the Groups Adjusted operating profit is used by the Group for internal performance analysis as it operations.
represents the underlying operating profitability of the Groups businesses.
The measure is presented both for the Group and its principal markets, covering the 2006 and 2005 Average revenue per user ARPU financial years, in Operating Results on pages 30 to 37.
The basis of calculation, along ARPU represents the average revenue by customers over a period and is calculated as with an analysis of why the Group believes it is a useful measure, is provided in the service revenue, being total revenue excluding equipment revenue and connection fees, section titled Non-GAAP Information on pages 47 to 48. divided by the weighted average number of customers during the period.
ARPU disclosed in this Annual Report is presented on a monthly basis and represents the total Free cash flow ARPU for the financial year divided by twelve.
Free cash flow provides an evaluation of the Groups liquidity and the cash generated by the Groups operations.
The calculation of free cash flow, along with an analysis of why Voice usage the Group believes it is a useful measure, is provided in the section titled Non-GAAP Voice usage is the total number of minutes of voice use on the Groups mobile networks, Information on pages 47 to 48.
The Group has provided an outlook for free cash flow in including calls made by the Groups customers, often referred to as outgoing usage, and the 2007 financial year on page 45. calls received by the Groups customers, often referred to as incoming usage.
Messaging and data revenue Adjusted earnings per share Messaging and data revenue represent the non-voice element of service revenue.
In Adjusted earnings per share is calculated as basic earnings per share from continuing recent years, these revenues have grown at a faster rate than voice revenue as operations excluding items such as impairment losses, non-recurring amounts related to customers increasingly use these services and new products and services have been business acquisitions and disposals and changes in the fair value of equity put rights and launched.
As competition has intensified in many of the markets in which the Group similar arrangements.
The items excluded from basic earnings per share for the 2006 operates and penetration rates have increased, the ability of the Group to grow and 2005 financial years and the per share impact are detailed in note 8 to the messaging and data revenue has become an increasingly important factor, internally Consolidated Financial Statements.
Operational Costs Certain operational measures relating to customers and revenue for the Groups mobile One Vodafone telecommunications business and its principal makets, covering the 2006 and 2005 The One Vodafone initiatives are targeted at achieving savings in operating expenses financial years, are provided in Operating Results on pages 30 to 37, with the exception and capital expenditure and are discussed in more detail on pages 18 to 19.
These measures are commonly used in the mobile on performance against these targets will be disclosed in the Annual Report for the year telecommunications industry.
ending 31 March 2008, including reconciliations to amounts included in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Customers Capitalised fixed asset additions as a percentage of mobile revenue The Group highly values its customers and strives to delight them.
As a result, customer In the mobile telecommunications industry, significant investment is required to roll out based KPIs are important measures for internal performance analysis.
Management also network infrastructure in order to improve service capacity.
This performance indicator is believes that certain of these measures provide useful information for investors used by Vodafone management to compare capitalised fixed asset additions to prior regarding the success of the Groups customer acquisition and retention activities.
For periods and internal forecasts.
Management believes that this measure provides useful customer numbers and churn, the data used to calculate the KPIs is derived from the information for investors to measure the capital investment required to support revenue customer relationship management systems of each of the Groups operations.
Customer numbers This measure is calculated as capitalised fixed asset additions for the mobile The Group prepares customer numbers on a venture and proportionate basis for its telecommunications business note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements as a mobile operations.
A summary of the customer numbers on both bases is presented in percentage of the revenue of the mobile telecommunications businesses note 3 to the Business Business Overview Summary of Group mobile telecommunications Consolidated Financial Statements.
In the 2006 financial year, capitalised fixed asset businesses at 31 March 2006 on page 13. additions as a percentage of mobile revenue was 13.7% compared with 16.4% for the previous financial year.
Churn Churn represents the disconnection rate of customers in each of the Groups mobile operations.
It is calculated as the total gross customer disconnections in the period Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006 29 Performance
