Contents Mobile Telecommunications Page Local operations Business Overview 12 The Company has equity interests in 26 countries, through its subsidiary undertakings, Introduction 12 joint ventures, associated undertakings and investments.
Partner Market arrangements Mobile Telecommunications 12 extend the Groups footprint to a further 32 countries.
Non-mobile Telecommunications 19 History and Development of the Company 19 At 31 March 2006, based on the registered customers of mobile telecommunications ventures in which it had equity interests at that date, the Group had approximately 170.6 Regulation 21 million customers, calculated on a proportionate basis in accordance with the Groups percentage interest in these ventures, and 518.0 million registered venture customers.
The table on the following page sets out a summary of the Companys worldwide mobile operations at 31 March 2006 and venture customer growth in the year then ended the Business Overview 2006 financial year.
Introduction Competition Vodafone Group Plc is the worlds leading mobile telecommunications company, with a The Group faces a high degree of competition in each of its geographic markets.
It is significant presence in Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Asia Pacific and the United States subject to indirect competition from providers of other telecommunications services in through the Companys subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures, associated undertakings the domestic markets in which it operates in addition to direct competition from existing and investments.
mobile telecommunications network operators and MVNOs who do not operate a mobile telecommunications network.
There are also new types of competitors, such as The Groups mobile subsidiaries and joint venture in Italy operate under the brand name fixed line operators offering combined fixed and mobile service offerings, and internet Vodafone.
In the United States, the Groups associated undertaking operates as Verizon based companies extending their services to include telecommunications.
During the last two financial years, the Group has also entered into pressures have adversely impacted the level of customer churn, although this has been arrangements with a number of its associated undertakings and with network operators managed by reductions in tariffs and a continued focus on customer acquisition and in countries where the Group does not hold an equity stake.
Under the terms of these retention initiatives.
Partner Market agreements, the Group and its Partner Markets co-operate in the development and marketing of certain services, often under dual brand logos.
This has The Group expects that competition will continue from existing operators as well as from expanded the Groups global footprint in Europe, Asia Pacific and, most recently, South a number of new market entrants, including those arising following the award of new 3G America.
The scope of this increased competition, and the impact on the results of operations, is discussed further in Performance Risk Factors, Trends and The Group provides a wide range of voice and data mobile telecommunications services, Outlook.
including text messages SMS, picture messages MMS and other data services, and is continually developing and enhancing service offerings, particularly through third Many of Vodafones key markets are highly penetrated with over 100% penetration rates generation 3G mobile technology which is being deployed in the majority of the in some, largely due to a number of customers owning more than one subscriber Groups operations.
Services are provided to both consumers and corporate customers, identity module SIM, which is, broadly, the Groups basis for defining a customer.
The through a variety of both prepaid and contract tariff arrangements.
Group has estimated penetration rates at 31 December 2005 for its principal markets as follows: The Groups mobile services are currently offered over a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network, on which a General Packet Radio Service GPRS Market Penetration % service is also provided and, in certain operations, over a Wideband Code Division Germany 96 Multiple Access W-CDMA 3G network.
The Groups discontinued operation in Japan operated a different technology to GSM.
Where licences have been issued, the Group Italy 122 has secured 3G licences in all jurisdictions in which it operates through its subsidiary Spain 98 undertakings and continues to roll out mobile 3G network infrastructure.
Vodafone offered 3G services in 11 of its controlled operations at 31 March 2006.
UK 109 US 69 The Group is managed and organised by business and geography.
The Group has mobile and fixed line telecommunications businesses, with the latter referred to as Other Operations.
Vodafones principal mobile operations are located in Germany, Italy, Spain, A summary of the significant mobile competitors in its markets at 31 March 2006 is also the UK and the US with the Groups Other Mobile Operations covering operations in provided in the following table.
Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Asia Pacific.
In addition, there are a number of central functions which provide services to the mobile operations and allow the Group to leverage its scale and scope and manage risk effectively.
Other Operations principally consists of the Groups controlling interest in a fixed line telecommunications business in Germany.
On 1 May 2006, changes to the organisational structure were effected with the objective of focusing the Groups mobile businesses according to different market and customer requirements.
The Companys ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and the Companys ADSs are listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE.
The Company had a total market capitalisation of approximately 72 billion at 26 May 2006, making it the fifth largest company in the Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 index and the twenty second largest company in the world based on market capitalisation at that date.
Japan is classified as a discontinued operation and had 15,210,000 venture customers and14,858,000 registered proportionate customers at 31 March 2006.
2 All controlled networks and the jointly controlled network in Italy operate under the Vodafone brand, with the exception of Vodafone Romania, which operates under the dual brand Connex Vodafone.
Networks in which the Company does not have a controlling interest operate under the following brands: Belgium Proximus: China China Mobile: Fiji Vodafone: France SFR: India Airtel: Kenya Safaricom: Poland Plus GSM: South Africa Vodacom: Switzerland Swisscom Mobile: US Verizon Wireless.
3 All ownership percentages are stated as at 31 March 2006 and exclude options, warrants or other rights or obligations of the Group to increase or decrease ownership in any venture as detailed in Financial Position and Resources Liquidity and Capital Resources Option agreements Ownership interests have been rounded to the nearest tenth of one percent.
4 See page 49 for a definition of a customer.
5 Venture customer growth is for the year to 31 March 2006.
6 Prepaid customer percentages are calculated on a venture basis at 31 March 2006.
7 Includes significant MVNOs which do not operate a mobile telecommunications network.
8 Vodafone Italy is a joint venture.
9 Licensed network operator, scheduled to commence commercial service during the 2007 financial year.
10 The Groups ownership interest in Verizon Wireless is 45.0%.
However, the Groups proportionate customer base has been adjusted for Verizon Wirelesss proportionate ownership of its customer base across all its network interests of approximately 98.6%, at 31 March 2006.
In the absence of acquired interests, this proportionate ownership will vary slightly from period to period depending on the underlying mix of net additions across each of these networks.
11 This is not a full list of US network operators.
In the United States, in addition to the national operators shown, there are several regional and numerous local operators.
12 Telfort was acquired by KPN Mobile during the financial year but still operates its own network.
13 The Kenyan Government has awarded a third licence but the operator had not commenced service at 30 May 2006.
14 On 20 April 2006, the Groups ownership percentage increased to 50%.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006 13 Business Business Overview continued Partner Markets Mobile network infrastructure Partner Markets are operations in which the Group has entered into a partnership Network infrastructure is fundamental to the Group being able to provide mobile agreement with a local mobile operator, enabling a range of Vodafones global products services.
The mobile network enables the Groups customers to place and receive voice and services to be marketed in that operators territory.
The Groups Partner Market calls and allows the Group to provide other services, such as text messaging.
strategy enables the Group to implement its global services in new territories, extend its brand reach into new markets and create additional revenue without the need for equity When a voice call or data transmission is made on a mobile device, voice or data is sent investment.
from the device and transmitted by low powered radio signals to the nearest base station, which in turn is connected to the Groups network.
Each base station provides Similar agreements also exist with a number of the Groups associated undertakings.
coverage over a given geographic area, often referred to as a cell.
Cells can be as small as an individual building or as large as 20 miles across.
Each cell is equipped with its own Details of the partnership agreements in place as at 31 March 2006 are provided on the radio transmitter and receiver antenna.
This network of cells provides, within certain Groups website.
limitations, coverage over the service area.
When a customer using a mobile device approaches the boundary of one cell, the mobile network senses that the signal is Licences and network infrastructure becoming weak and automatically hands over the call to the transmission unit in the Licences next cell into which the device is moving.
The Group is dependent on the licences it holds to operate mobile telecommunications services.
Further detail on the issue and regulation of licences If the voice call or data transmission is intended for delivery to another device which is can be found in Regulation.
The table below summarises the significant licences not on the Vodafone network, the information is delivered through a public or private held by the Groups mobile operating subsidiaries and the Groups joint venture in Italy: fixed line telephone network or the internet.
Date of In a second generation 2G network, each cell contains a base station using a number Country by Licence Licence expiry Network commencement of of radio frequencies or channels.
A group of base stations is connected to a base station region type date type commercial service controller, which in turn is connected to a mobile switching centre and then via a Germany 2G December 2009 GSM GPRS June 1992 gateway support node for access to a fixed line network or the internet.
3G December 2020 W-CDMA February 2004 In a 3G network, voice or data traffic is passed through a node B, being similar to a base Italy 2G January 2015 GSM GPRS December 1995 station in a 2G network, to a radio network controller, which is then connected to a 3G December 2021 W-CDMA February 2004 mobile switching centre, similar to a 2G network.
1 Spain 2G July 2023 GSM GPRS October 1995 Base stations and node Bs form a core element of a mobile network and an insufficient 3G April 2020 W-CDMA February 2004 number of base stations can result in loss of service for customers.
In addition, the correct deployment of the right base stations is instrumental in achieving the network 2 UK 2G See note GSM GPRS December 1991 quality and coverage that are crucial to customer satisfaction.
3G December 2021 W-CDMA February 2004 2G Other mobile operators Vodafone operates 2G networks in all its mobile operating subsidiaries, principally Albania 2G June 2016 GSM August 2001 through GSM networks, offering customers services such as voice, text messaging and 3 Australia 2G June 2017 GSM GPRS September 1993 basic data services.
In addition, all of the Groups controlled networks, with the 3G October 2017 W-CDMA October 2005 exception of Albania, operate GPRS, often referred to as 2.5G.
GPRS allows mobile Czech Republic 2G November 2020 GSM GPRS March 2000 devices to be used for sending and receiving data over an internet protocol IP 4 3G February 2025 W-CDMA See note based network, enabling wireless access to data networks like the internet.
Egypt 2G May 2013 GSM GPRS November 1998 Greece 2G September 2012 GSM GPRS July 1993 The GPRS data service offering includes internet and e-mail access allowing the 3G August 2021 W-CDMA July 2004 customer to be always connected at download speeds slightly below a dial-up 5 Hungary 2G July 2014 GSM GPRS November 1999 modem.
Vodafone also offers a great variety of services on its Vodafone live!
portal, 3G December 2019 W-CDMA December 2005 such as picture and video messaging, download of ringtones, news and many other Ireland 2G December 2014 GSM GPRS March 1993 services.
3G October 2022 W-CDMA May 2003 Malta 2G September 2010 GSM GPRS July 1997 3G 3G August 2020 W-CDMA Vodafones 3G networks, operating the W-CDMA standard, provide customers with 1 Netherlands 2G February 2013 GSM GPRS September 1995 mobile broadband data access, allowing data download speeds of up to 384 kilobits per 3G December 2016 W-CDMA February 2004 second kbps, which is up to seven times faster than a dial-up modem.
Vodafone has 6 New Zealand 2G See note GSM GPRS July 1993 expanded its service offering on 3G networks with high speed internet and e-mail access, 6 3G March 2021 W-CDMA August 2005 video telephony, full track music downloads, mobile TV and other data services in Portugal 2G October 2006 GSM GPRS October 1992 addition to existing voice and data services.
7 3G January 2016 W-CDMA February 2004 Romania 2G December 2011 GSM GPRS April 1997 The Group has secured 3G licences in all jurisdictions in which it operates through its 3G March 2020 W-CDMA April 2005 subsidiary undertakings and in which such licences have been awarded to date, as well Notes: as in Italy through its joint venture.
Vodafone expects to participate in additional 3G 1 Date relates to 1800MHz spectrum licence.
Vodafone Netherlands and Vodafone Spain also have separate 900MHz spectrum licences which expire in March 2010 and February 2020, respectively.
licence allocation procedures in other jurisdictions in which it operates.
No assurances 2 Indefinite licence with a one year notice of revocation.
can be given that the Group will be successful in obtaining any 3G licences for which it 3 Date refers to 900MHz spectrum licence.
Various licences are held for 1800MHz licences, which are issued by specific regional regulators.
The earliest expires in June 2013 and the latest in March 2015. intends to apply or bid.
4 Planned for the 2007 financial year.
5 There is an option to extend this licence for seven years.
6 Vodafone New Zealand owns three GSM 900 licences 2x21MHz and one GSM1800 licence 2x15MHz.
The GSM900 Roll out of the 3G network infrastructure has continued throughout the 2006 financial licences expire in November 2011, July 2012 and September 2021.
The GSM1800 licence expires in March 2021. year across the Groups mobile operations, with additions to property, plant and 7 Portugal launched the Vodafone Mobile Connect 3G GPRS data card in February 2004, and the launch of 3G voice services took place in May 2005. equipment and computer software amounting to approximately 4.0 billion during the financial year, including approximately 1.1 billion expenditure on 3G network infrastructure.
By the end of March 2006, over 33,000 node Bs were in operation in the Groups controlled operations and the Groups joint venture in Italy.
In many of the Groups markets, Vodafone has achieved the leading position on 3G coverage and quality of service.
14 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006 High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA Products and services After successful field tests, Vodafone has started to upgrade existing 3G networks with Voice services HSDPA.
Revenue from voice services makes up the largest portion of the Groups revenue and the Group is undertaking a wide range of activities to encourage growth in the usage of these HSDPA enables data transmission speeds of up to two megabits per second Mbps in services.
In increasingly competitive local markets where value for money is an important the first phase, with up to 14.4 Mbps achievable with later releases.
This will provide consideration, improving use of existing products and developing a range of new offerings customers with faster access speeds than experienced on existing 3G networks.
for customers has helped the Group to continue to grow total voice revenue.
HSDPA is enabled through the deployment of new software in the 3G radio network and Value for money is an important factor for customers when choosing a mobile phone expanding the processing capabilities of the node B.
Significant performance benefits network and is also important in encouraging usage of services whilst maximising are achieved by using mechanisms that use the radio interface more effectively and are revenue and margins.
Two main charging or payment models exist in the mobile market further adapted to bursty packet based data traffic using IP.
A Vodafone Mobile Connect contract and prepaid.
Contract customers are usually governed by a written contract data card which supports HSDPA is available commercially, and compatible Vodafone and credit facilities are granted to them to enable access to mobile network services.
handsets will be launched in the summer of 2006. most cases, contracts have a term of 12 to 24 months with monthly payments for services and, in many of the Groups mobile operations, the option of purchasing a HSDPA has been launched commercially by a number of the Groups mobile operations, subsidised handset.
A prepaid customer pays in advance in order to gain access to voice including Germany and Portugal, and will be launched by other operating companies in and other services.
The take-up of these models in the markets in which the Group the Group during the 2007 financial year.
operates varies significantly, from the US, where the vast majority of customers are on contract plans, to Italy and Egypt, where the market is predominantly prepaid.
While HSDPA focuses on downlink network to mobile, Vodafone is also working on improving the data speeds in the uplink mobile to network to achieve speeds of up to The Group has made pricing more customer friendly and value inclusive in a number of 384kbps.
In many cases, these new price structures include large minute bundles that allow customers to talk more for longer.
These larger bundle packages and promotions have driven significant usage growth in many of the markets in which the Global services Group operates, although the price per minute is falling across most markets.
Supply chain management Handsets, network equipment, marketing and IT services account for the majority of Revenue is generated by incoming as well as outgoing calls.
Interconnect revenue is Vodafones purchases, with the bulk of these purchases from global suppliers.
The received when a customer of a fixed line or other mobile operator network calls a Groups Global Supply Chain Management GSCM team is responsible for managing Vodafone customer.
Approximately a fifth of mobile voice revenue is derived from most of the Groups relationships with these suppliers.
As GSCM has expanded its scope of activities, Vodafone has seen significant progress in The Group continues to invest in providing enhanced network coverage for services in reducing per unit capital and operational expenditures, by leveraging the Groups scale.
response to Group-wide customer feedback.
In parallel, the Group is improving network service quality to ensure that customers can use their mobile phone whenever and GSCM works with more than 250 strategic suppliers.
A consistent supplier performance wherever they want.
management process has been implemented across the Groups mobile operations and Vodafone is actively managing a growing number of key suppliers in this way.
Key Social products suppliers are evaluated across six areas, covering aspects of financial stability, Work has continued this year on making mobile services more accessible to people with technological and commercial criteria, delivery and quality management requirements special communication needs.
Vodafone has undertaken significant research to better and corporate responsibility.
This process is also being applied to consider relationships understand the levels of exclusion relating to use of mobile technology, which is helping with new suppliers, and recently several Chinese suppliers have been qualified for to inform relevant areas of the business.
business through GSCMs China Sourcing Initiative.
A new Social Investment Fund has been formed to provide incremental resources going GSCM also strives to identify best practice across the Groups mobile operations with the forward and to seed initiatives that can demonstrate high social value.
One of the aim of harmonising business processes, which will bring the benefits of further reducing initiatives likely to benefit from this is M-pesa, an innovative mobile micro-finance procurement costs and reducing time to market.
service now on trial in Kenya.
This service, run in conjunction with a local bank and Vodafones Kenyan joint venture, Safaricom, enables customers to move money in and Global suppliers are required to comply with the Groups Code of Ethical Purchasing out of accounts, between other customers and to withdraw cash, all using secure mobile which sets out the labour and environmental standards the Group expects suppliers to messaging.
The Code is based on the Groups values and international standards, including the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organisation Non-voice services Conventions on Labour Standards.
Messaging services All of the Groups mobile operations offer SMS, which allows customers to send and A business-to-business electronic commerce strategy is currently being implemented to receive text messages using mobile handsets and various other devices.
SMS usage further increase transparency and control.
In the 2006 financial year, purchases of more continued to grow in the 2006 financial year and is the largest contributor to total than 0.8 billion have been effected through e-auctions, driving significant cost savings.
MMS, which offers customers the ability to send and receive multiple media, such as pictures, music, sound, video and text, to and from other More recently, a global demand management application has been implemented as part compatible devices is also available in all Group mobile operations, with the exception of of the One Vodafone programme.
This web-based application has been developed to Albania.
MMS has enjoyed strong revenue growth in the 2006 financial year across the provide improved co-ordination of the global purchase of handsets, providing benefits Group.
such as the reduction of inventory and obsolescence risk, improved availability and improved effectiveness to allow the Group to respond better to market changes.
Vodafones mobile instant messaging service Vodafone Messenger was re-launched during November 2005 in Italy, Spain and the Netherlands and is currently available in It is the Groups policy to agree terms of transactions, including payment terms, with 11 countries.
The service has full compatibility with Microsofts MSN Messenger in order suppliers and it is the Groups normal practice that payment is made accordingly.
The to address growing customer needs for instant communications.
number of days outstanding between receipt of invoices and date of payment, calculated by reference to the amount owed to suppliers at the year end as a proportion Vodafone live!
of the amounts invoiced by suppliers during the year, was 36 days 2005: 35 days in Vodafone live!, the Groups integrated communications and multimedia proposition aggregate for the Group.
initially launched in October 2002, has continued to grow strongly.
The proposition, targeted primarily at the young adult young active fun segment, has been launched in four new markets since 31 March 2005, bringing the total number of countries now offering Vodafone live!
The new markets added in the 2006 financial year were Luxembourg, Iceland, Cyprus and South Africa.
At 31 March 2006, there were 27.1 million Vodafone live!
active devices on the Groups controlled and jointly controlled networks, with an additional 5.9 million devices connected in the Groups associated undertakings.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006 15 Business Business Overview continued Vodafone has continued to develop the Vodafone live!
proposition by offering a new As new media channels evolve, a number of Vodafone initiatives are designed to ensure range of services, content, handsets and tariffs.
The design of the Vodafone live!
portal, protection for our customers from inappropriate content, contact and commercialism.
through which customers can access a range of online services including games, These include providing supporting guidelines around the marketing of content to ringtones, news, sports and information is being continually enhanced to provide customers, signing up to the codes of practice on spam content and the development richer content and to make it easier for customers to find and purchase content.
of editorial guidelines to provide more robust parental controls.
The important ringtones market has continued to develop with mass market adoption of Vodafone Mobile Connect data cards real-tones where customers are able to purchase samples of real music recordings as First launched in April 2003, the Vodafone Mobile Connect data card provides simple and ringtones from artists signed to labels including EMI, Sony BMG Music Entertainment, secure access to existing business information systems such as email, corporate Universal Music and Warner Music.
applications, company intranets and the internet for customers on the move.
Access speeds vary depending on which technology the data card is using but typically ranges Tariff structures have been updated, with a range of messaging and content based from 384 kbps when connected to a 3G network up to 1.2 Mbps when connected to a bundles now available to customers.
These have delivered improved customer value, network enabled with HSDPA technology.
The Vodafone Mobile Connect with 3G particularly when offered in conjunction with a handset purchase.
In addition, browsing broadband data card, which utilises HSDPA technology, has been launched in five charges for accessing the mobile internet have been simplified in many markets, making markets, with other markets to follow during the 2007 financial year.
it more attractive for customers to browse the web using their mobile phones.
The Vodafone Mobile Connect 3G GPRS data card has now been rolled out across 11 23 new 2.5G phones have been added to the Vodafone live!
portfolio in the 2006 controlled markets, two joint venture markets, three associated companies markets and financial year, with an increased emphasis on exclusive and customised devices.
Vodafone Mobile Connect data cards are available in an increasing new handsets have offered improved camera capabilities, better connectivity, with a number of distribution channels.
significant proportion of devices now offering Bluetooth a wireless link function, and increased memory card storage to enable customers to save content on their devices.
During the 2006 financial year, Vodafone announced the launch of built-in 3G broadband connectivity with Acer, Dell and Lenovo notebooks.
The roll out of the Throughout the 2006 financial year, Vodafone has continued to develop standards in notebooks will further enhance the choices available to Vodafone customers for high the areas of terminals, platforms, games, digital rights management and MMS.
initiatives are expected to lead to increased speed to market and better services for customers.
The product portfolio was enhanced during the financial year with the launch of an EVDO data card allowing customers to connect with Verizon Wireless high speed data Vodafone live!
with 3G network whilst travelling in the US.
In addition, Vodafone also launched a 3G router in In November 2004, the Group launched Vodafone live!
with 3G across 13 markets, with conjunction with Cisco and Linksys, which enables mobile connectivity for groups of an initial portfolio of 10 devices.
with 3G is now available in 10 controlled employees.
markets, two joint venture markets, three associated company markets and three Partner Markets.
At 31 March 2006, there were 7.1 million devices registered on the At 31 March 2006, there were 0.7 million registered Vodafone Mobile Connect data controlled and jointly controlled networks capable of accessing the Vodafone live!
with cards in the Groups controlled and jointly controlled markets.
3G portal, and the portfolio of Vodafone live!
with 3G devices had expanded to 35.
17 new 3G phones have been added to the portfolio during the 2006 financial year.
Vodafone Wireless Office Vodafone Wireless Office offers companies the opportunity to reduce the number of An enhanced mobile experience gives Vodafone live!
with 3G customers access to a fixed desk phones they have and facilitates the move of voice minutes from the fixed to range of high quality content and communication services.
with 3G the mobile network through a solution that includes elements that can match or better customers can now experience news broadcasts, sports highlights, music videos, movie fixed line call costs, desk phone functionality and user experience.
A closed user group trailers and other video content at a quality approaching that of digital television.
tariff, allowing employees to call each other for a flat monthly fee, is a key part of the Vodafone continues to work with leading content partners, including HBO, Eurosport, offer.
Another optional element allows a customer to control their mobile phone from MTV, UEFA Champions League, Fox and Discovery, to enhance the mobile TV and film their PC or laptop.
The wide bandwidth of 3G supports access to sophisticated 3D games and the portfolio of mobile games is continually expanding.
At 31 March 2006, Vodafone Wireless Office was available in 14 markets and had over 1.5 million customers.
The 3G service also supports full track music downloads which allow customers to use their phone to listen to music, choosing from a range that currently includes more than Other business services 600,000 music tracks.
Vodafone has secured music from some of the worlds greatest Beyond the wireless enablement of notebook computers, there is an increasing demand artists through agreements with EMI, Sony BMG Music Entertainment, Universal Music, for handheld solutions that allow real-time access to email, calendar, contact and other Warner Music and other independent record labels.
Using the 3G service, customers can applications.
During 2004, Vodafone launched its BlackBerry from Vodafone also download live performance videos and stream clips direct to their mobiles.
proposition, which is now available in 11 controlled markets, two joint venture markets, three associated company markets and nine Partner Markets.
In the coming year, Vodafone will continue to enhance the music offering with the introduction of Vodafone Radio DJ, a personalised, interactive radio service streamed to There were 0.4 million BlackBerry from Vodafone customers on the Groups controlled both 3G phones and PCs.
Customers will have access to hundreds of thousands of tracks and jointly controlled networks as at 31 March 2006. and will be able to personalise radio channels to their taste.
This service will be offered on a monthly subscription, giving unlimited listening time, and is due for release in more On 21 April 2005, the Group announced the roll out of Vodafone Push email, a service than 20 countries over the next year.
providing real-time, secure and remote access to email, contacts and calendar direct to a range of business-focused mobile devices.
The service has been rolled out in six In February 2006, a deal was signed with Google giving Vodafone customers access to controlled markets, one joint venture market, two associated company markets and two the Google search engine via the Vodafone live!
The addition of the Google Partner Markets.
At 31 March 2006, the service was supported by ten global devices and search engine to be available from October 2006 will help customers access content a varied number of local devices in the controlled markets.
more easily both on-portal and on the wider mobile internet.
The agreement also sees the introduction of a new advertising based revenue stream to Vodafone live!
by Roaming services incorporating relevant sponsored links within customer search results.
The partnership When travelling abroad roaming allows mobile phone users to make and receive calls provides a future framework for other innovative collaborations between Vodafone and using another mobile network in the visited country.
The Group continued to expand its Google, bringing new opportunities to further expand consumer offerings by roaming coverage and services during the 2006 financial year.
The focus of the year, incorporating other existing Google products.
however, was to provide reduced, clearer and easier to understand prices to our customers under the Vodafone Travel Promise roaming campaign launched in Content standards May 2005.
Vodafone has continued to provide a leadership role in content standards with the launch of a global access control programme and an off-net filter.
The access control On 8 May 2006, the Group announced that average European roaming costs for programme demonstrates Vodafones commitment to deliver content responsibly and Vodafone customers will be cut by at least 40% by April 2007, when compared to the provides the capability for parents to restrict access to content that may be period from June to August 2005.
This is expected to benefit over 30 million Vodafone inappropriate for younger users.
Ensuring that the mobile needs of parents and their customers who roam every year, and will see the average cost of roaming in Europe fall children are satisfied will remain a priority during the 2007 financial year.
from over 90 eurocents per minute to less than 55 eurocents per minute.
The average 16 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006 saving was determined by calculating the expected cost per minute for all Vodafones Customer communications European customers who roam within the EU during the month of April 2007 and Communication to drive brand preference and service usage is facilitated through comparing this to the average cost per minute for all European customers who roamed various integrated advertising media including radio, television, print and outdoor sites.
within the EU during the period from June to August 2005 see Regulation.
Global advertising has been developed to communicate the brand essence and to drive revenue growth by encouraging our customers to make the most of Now.
Advertising is Vodafone also announced that it will enter into reciprocal wholesale arrangements with supported by strong sponsorship relationships, such as those with Ferrari and the UEFA any other European operator at no more than 45 eurocents per minute for voice calls Champions League, which have global exposure and allow for benefits to be realised at within the EU from October 2006.
This will enable both Vodafone and other European the local level.
Media activity is based on customer insight, and is designed to ensure a mobile operators to continue to lower the cost of roaming to customers outside of their consistent and effective brand experience across Vodafones footprint.
Customer strategy and management Vodafone Passport Vodafone uses a customer management system called customer delight to measure Vodafone Passport introduced a new roaming pricing architecture for calls made on customer satisfaction in the Groups controlled markets and the jointly controlled Vodafone and Partner Networks, enabling customers to take their home tariff abroad.
market in Italy at a local and global level.
This is a proprietary diagnostic system which The Vodafone Passport price architecture offers greater price transparency and certainty tracks customer satisfaction across all the points of interaction with Vodafone, and to customers when using roaming services abroad.
Whilst abroad, customers can make identifies the drivers of customer delight and their relative impact.
This information is calls using their domestic tariff, in some cases including free minute bundles, and used to optimise satisfaction and maximise the financial benefit from differentiated receive calls at no charge for a one-off connection fee per call.
Vodafone Passport is now available in 10 controlled markets, one joint venture market, Distribution one associated company market and one Partner Market.
By 31 March 2006, the service The Group distributes its products and services through a wide variety of direct and had attracted 5.6 million customers in the Groups controlled and jointly controlled indirect channels, with different approaches used in the consumer and business sectors.
operations and a further 0.4 million customers in one of the Groups associated undertakings and a Partner Market.
Results show that on average, customers are both Products and services are available directly to both consumer and business customers in talking more and paying less per call when abroad.
In addition, Vodafones cost per the majority of markets.
Over 1,000 stores are directly owned and managed by minute for roaming customers fell by over 30% from summer 2004 compared with Vodafone, with an additional 6,500 Vodafone branded stores.
In addition, local websites summer 2005. offer products and services online and local sales forces are in place to discuss terms with business customers.
Wholesale strategy During the year, the commercial management of the Groups business with its main The extent of indirect distribution varies between markets but may include using third roaming partners has been consolidated in order to better leverage the scale and scope party service providers, independent dealers, agencies and mass marketing.
Marketing of the Groups branded footprint.
This arrangement has successfully secured a number to third party service providers includes maintaining a competitive tariff structure, of important wholesale roaming discount agreements with other networks on behalf of providing technical and other training to their staff and providing financial incentives for the Group.
These provide cost structures that support the development of our roaming service providers, their dealers and sales people.
It also entails providing assistance on customer propositions, promote the mutual development of roaming services with our advertising campaigns and supporting the development of both specialist retail outlets Partner Markets, and deliver significant cost savings.
and programmes with multiple retailers.
Managed roaming, the network technology that automatically directs Vodafone Vodafones engagement with IT resellers and distributors has strengthened during the customers to the networks of Partner Markets, is now operating in ten markets, year, with global and local partnerships now fully operational in 12 countries across the delivering a strong Vodafone customer experience and allowing the Group to benefit Vodafone footprint.
In support of this channel capability, Vodafone has launched a from an improved cost structure.
channel marketing programme to engage with the IT reseller community via the internet.
The programme allows Vodafone marketing and communication access to the Data propositions IT channel and incentivisation for the sale of Vodafone data products.
The programme is Several actions were taken to complement Vodafone Passport by providing simplicity, operational in eight controlled markets and will be extended across the rest of the price predictability and value for money across data services.
Vodafone Group took the Vodafone footprint during the 2007 financial year.
This engagement with the IT channel initiative to reduce substantially up to 66% in some markets the cost per megabyte considerably extends Vodafones ability to sell to small and medium enterprises and for standard data usage across its controlled markets.
This move was followed by most small business customers as well as providing a key platform to support the launch of joint ventures, associated companies and Partner Markets, enabling customers to notebooks with built in 3G broadband during the coming year.
benefit from a conveniently priced data platform across a wide footprint of 30 markets.
The last few years have seen the growth of MVNOs who buy access to existing networks In addition, after pioneering flat monthly data roaming tariffs with its BlackBerry from and re-sell them to customers under a different brand name and proposition.
Where Vodafone offer in 2004, Vodafone launched a monthly bundle for its Vodafone Mobile such a relationship generates profitable use of network capacity and does not impact Connect 3G GPRS data card in August 2005, which eliminated price uncertainty and the Vodafone brand, a mobile operating subsidiary may consider entering into a further reduced the nominal cost per megabyte by over 80%.
This has significantly partnership with an MVNO.
increased usage and contributed to the revenue growth in data services seen over the 2006 financial year.
Multinational corporates MNC In April 2005, Vodafone launched the first global business unit aimed at serving a Vodafone Simply specific customer segment the multinational corporate market.
The MNC business The Vodafone Simply proposition, launched in May 2005, is predominantly targeted at unit currently serves many of the worlds largest enterprises with a differentiated global the adult personal user segment.
The integrated proposition has been developed to MNC proposition.
The sales and service teams are located across the globe, aligned with help customers who are less comfortable with mobile technology but would still like to the customers locations.
Customers of the business unit also benefit from a central access the mobile experience.
The proposition includes exclusively developed, easy to service unit to develop specific propositions and pricing specifically targeted to meet use mobile phones with uniquely developed user interfaces accompanied with tariff the needs of a global Chief Information Officer, helping to purchase, manage, monitor plans and a tailored retail and customer support experience.
and administer mobile telecommunications centrally within a global organisation.
At 31 March 2006, Vodafone Simply was available in a total of 17 markets, with 0.4 The Vodafone MNC units initial focus is on providing consistency across Vodafone million Vodafone Simply enabled devices registered on the Groups controlled and markets for existing corporate solutions, together with dedicated global customer jointly controlled networks.
service and global account management.
The MNC vision is worldwide communications made easy for global businesses.
In the year since launch, the Marketing and brand Vodafone MNC unit can offer a consistent BlackBerry from Vodafone solution in 12 Brand markets, a Master Service Agreement covering nine countries, a global helpdesk offering Brand marketing focuses on defining a superior, consistent and differentiated experience third line support to the administrator of the global accounts, account and service for our customers.
A programme has been undertaken to identify the heart of the management at a global and local level in over 20 markets with full support from a Vodafone brand, that is, Vodafones brand essence which evokes passion, technical team to implement existing solutions, and help develop tailored solutions.
dependability and a constant striving for improvement.
The brand essence has been used to bring the Vodafone brand to life for Vodafone employees, so that they can do the same for customers in every interaction.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006 17 Business Business Overview continued Summary of Group products and services One Vodafone The following table summarises the availability of the Groups most significant products The One Vodafone initiatives are aimed at achieving cost savings and enhancing and services as at 31 March 2006.
Only the markets in which Vodafone products and revenue for the Groups controlled mobile businesses and the Groups jointly controlled services are available to customers are represented below: mobile business in Italy.
The Group has previously targeted that, in the 2008 financial year, the total of operating expenses being the aggregate of payroll and other operating expenses and capitalised fixed asset additions, would be broadly similar to those for the 2004 financial year, assuming no significant changes in exchange rates and after adjusting for acquisitions and disposals.
The Group has also previously targeted mobile capitalised fixed asset additions in the 2008 financial year to be 10% of mobile revenue as a result of the initiatives.
Further, revenue enhancement initiatives were expected to deliver benefits equivalent to Country at least 1% additional revenue market share in the 2008 financial year compared with 1 Subsidiaries the 2005 financial year, which the Group is measuring in Germany, Italy, Spain and the Germany UK against its principal competitors.
Spain The Group has updated its One Vodafone targets to reflect both the new organisational UK structure and additional cost saving initiatives.
Albania Capitalised fixed asset additions are expected to be 10% of revenues in the 2008 Australia financial year for the total of the Groups Europe region and its common functions.
Egypt The Group now expects the aggregate of payroll and other operating expenses to be Greece broadly stable in the 2008 financial year when compared to the 2006 financial year for the total of the Groups Europe region and its common functions, assuming no Hungary significant changes in exchange rates, after adjusting for acquisitions and disposals, and Ireland excluding the potential impact from its New Businesses unit and any one off business restructuring costs.
Malta Netherlands The objective for the 2006 financial year has been to commence implementation of the plans outlined last year.
Significant benefits are expected in the 2007 financial year, with New Zealand the full targets expected to be met in the 2008 financial year.
Portugal The One Vodafone programme has focused on six key initiatives, as follows: Romania The network and supply chain management initiative has driven prices down over the Joint Ventures last two years in the radio network area through competitive bidding via e-auctions Fiji and standardising specifications for base stations, accessories and operating costs.
In core networks, the Group is advancing towards an all IP based network, thereby Italy simplifying and reducing the number of component parts and leading to lower costs.
South Africa Through increasing the amount of self built transmission, both through microwave links and owned dark fibre, costs are being reduced and future cost escalation will be Associates limited as the volume of data traffic grows.
France The service platforms initiative has created a shared service organisation to host the Belgium European development and operations of services.
The shared service organisation is now providing a hosting service for the Vodafone live!
portal for seven of the Groups Switzerland mobile operating subsidiaries, the Groups joint venture in Italy and two Partner Partner Markets Markets.
Other platforms are also being migrated and new services are being implemented, for the first time, solely on the shared service platform.
The Austria centralisation is designed not only to reduce costs but also to increase revenue Bahrain through reduced time to market for new products and services.
Croatia The IT initiative focuses on the two areas of data centres and application development.
For data centres, which host the servers to support billing and Cyprus customer relationship management systems, consolidation is underway, with Denmark migrations of all of the Southern European, German and Dutch data centres completed in the year, and work is progressing on the UK and Ireland data centres Estonia following the completion of the planning phase in the 2006 financial year.
The Finland remaining part of the IT effort is focused on driving efficiencies in application development and maintenance, which will continue through to 2008 and beyond.
Hong Kong Activities in both these areas are enabling the Group to leverage its global purchasing Iceland power and drive operational excellence.
Kuwait The customer management programme is focused on driving segment and value based service differentiation to improve customer satisfaction, generate revenue and Luxembourg reduce churn.
During the 2006 financial year, achievements included the launch of a Singapore common customer management service strategy, the implementation of a cross operating company network of specialised roaming customer care teams to improve Slovenia service for our roaming customers and the roll out of a number of best practice Sweden activities to a number of operating companies.
Total markets 24 17 24 26 25 12 14 13 17 The focus of the terminals programme is to provide an end to end process for Note: delivering terminals to our customers, driving benefits from scale and reduced time to 1 The following information is presented for continuing operations only.
Japan is classified as a discontinued market.
At present, the procurement of approximately four out of five handsets in the operation.
Key: Groups mobile operating subsidiaries and joint venture in Italy is negotiated globally, Available throughout the 2006 financial year providing the Group with scale advantages.
In addition, complexity in handsets is Launched in the 2006 financial year Launched since 31 March 2006 being reduced by standardising components and the move to a smaller number of technology platforms.
It is expected that these activities, together with the launch of 18 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006 Vodafone live!
with 3G Vodafone Mobile Connect data card Vodafone Mobile Connect 3G GPRS data card BlackBerry from Vodafone Vodafone Push Email Vodafone Wireless Office Vodafone Passport Vodafone Simply exclusive Vodafone branded handsets, will drive incremental revenue benefits, as well it brought together its academic partners to consolidate its academic research as cost savings, through reduced churn and higher ARPU per handset.
Finally, the focus of the roaming initiative is to transform customers roaming The R&D programme provides the Group with long term technical policy, strategy and experience, primarily through reducing barriers to usage by providing better value leadership, as well as providing technical underpinning for the Groups public policies when they travel abroad.
In addition, providing the best value inter-operator tariffs and and government relations, and is shared with all of the Groups mobile operations and consolidating certain roaming support activities are key goals of the programme.
They are able to influence the programme through working Vodafone Passport has been launched in 13 markets and over 6 million customers relationships that are designed to allow delivery of the results of the programme directly have signed up to the service at 31 March 2006.
Improvements in customer into the business units where they are needed.
satisfaction and a higher proportion of customers roaming on to Vodafone networks have been observed.
The Group expensed 206 million in the 2006 financial year on R&D, compared with Research and Development R&D 198 million in the 2005 financial year, and capitalised development costs of 10 The Groups R&D function comprises an international and multicultural team for applied million 2005: nil.
Besides the core R&D outlined above, this expenditure was incurred research in mobile telecommunications and its applications.
The majority of the Groups principally on developing new products and services, billing systems and network R&D function is undertaken through the Groups centres of excellence, located in development.
Newbury, Maastricht, Munich, California, Milan and Madrid, and in an associate centre in Paris belonging to Vodafones associated undertaking in France, SFR.
In the 2006 financial year, the R&D Centre in Tokyo was re-absorbed into the Japanese operation and Non-mobile Telecommunications ceased to engage in research and development for the Vodafone Group.
The work of the The Groups non-mobile telecommunications businesses comprise interests in Arcor, centre in California was refocused to activities where a presence in the US was essential Neuf Cegetel and Bharti Airtel Bharti, previously named Bharti Tele-Ventures.
in order to carry them out and the size of the centre reduced accordingly.
Early in 2006, the Groups R&D function was given full responsibility for intellectual property across the Arcor is the second largest fixed line telecommunications provider in Germany.
its own Germany-wide voice and data network, Arcor offers its customers a range of services for voice and data transfer, with a focus on direct access based broadband and The Groups R&D function provides technical leadership, and a programme of research internet protocol enabled virtual private network IP-VPN products.
The Groups support, into technology that will typically start to be used in the business in three years ownership interest in Arcor is 73.7% and it is accounted for as a subsidiary.
Governance is provided by the Group R&D Board which is chaired by the Group R&D Director and consists of the chief technology officers from four of the mobile The merger of Cegetel and Neuf Telecom completed on 22 August 2005, creating the operating subsidiaries, together with the heads of Future Products, Business Strategy, leading alternative operator for fixed telecommunication services in France, offering a Terminals and Technology Development.
wide range of fixed line telephone services to residential and business customers as well as special corporate services ranging from internet and customer relations management The Groups R&D function focuses on applied research that is positioned between the to internet and intranet hosting services.
The new entity, Neuf Cegetel, has the largest basic research undertaken by universities and commercial product development.
The alternative broadband network in France, with 70% population coverage.
The Groups emphasis of the Groups R&D work programme is on providing technology analysis and indirect ownership interest in Neuf Cegetel is 12.4% and it is accounted for as an vision that can contribute directly to business decisions, enabling new applications of associated undertaking.
In May 2006, the Groups indirect ownership interest increased mobile telecommunications, using new technology for new services, and research for to 15.4%.
improving operational efficiency and quality of the Groups networks.
The work programme is organised into technology research and application research.
The Bharti is an Indian based mobile fixed line telecommunications operation with three technology research is concerned with core radio, network and service enabling strategic business units: mobility, enterprise services and broadband.
It includes business modelling techniques, application of social science ownership interest in Bharti is 10% and it is accounted for as a joint venture.
and analysis of disruptive technologies.
The application research is concerned with developing new business applications of radio based technologies for commercial launch.
Both areas of research are directed to expanding business boundaries and History and Development of the Company opportunities through advances in technology, science and business practice.
The Company was incorporated under English law on 17 July 1984 as Racal Strategic Radio Limited registered number 1833679, as a subsidiary of Racal Electronics Plc, and The work of the Groups R&D function is delivered through a series of programmes with a changed its name to Racal Telecommunications Group Limited in September 1985.
In substantial number of trials, demonstrations and protoypes.
All work is set in a business September 1988, it became Racal Telecom Limited then re-registered as Racal Telecom and social context.
There is growing emphasis on work that secures intellectual property Plc, a public limited company.
In October 1988, approximately 20% of the Companys rights or can otherwise lead to Vodafone having stronger influence on the technology it capital was offered to the public.
The Company was fully demerged from Racal will deploy in the future.
In addition, the Groups R&D function provides leadership for Electronics Plc and became an independent company in September 1991, at which time funding research into health and safety aspects of mobile telecommunications and it changed its name to Vodafone Group Plc.
technical leadership for the Groups spectrum strategy.
Between 1991 and 1999, the Group consolidated its position in the United Kingdom and The main themes currently being researched are the evolution of 3G, new application enhanced its international interests through a series of transactions.
At 31 March 1999, areas for mobile communications and convergence with the internet.
The basis of the the Group had subsidiary mobile network operating companies mobile operating Groups 3G radio technology is W-CDMA and enhancements to provide a higher speed subsidiaries in six countries the UK, the Netherlands, Greece, Malta, Australia and New version, usually referred to as HSDPA, or High-Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA, are Zealand, as well as equity interests in a further seven countries, and a proportionate currently being rolled out.
The focus over the last year has been on setting scientifically mobile customer base of 10.4 million.
justifiable targets for the long term evolution of the 3G radio interface and establishing these within the industry.
Evolutions to the core network based on ubiquitous use of The Group completed a number of business transactions between 1999 and 31 March internet protocols and web services complement this, and are leading to a convergence 2003, which transformed the Company into the worlds leading international mobile of internet and mobile technologies.
Several internet based or converged services have telecommunications company.
The most significant transactions were: been prototyped and demonstrated within the Vodafone community.
Significant R&D The merger with AirTouch Communications, Inc. AirTouch, which completed on effort has also been dedicated to transferring previous research results in mobile TV to 30 June 1999.
The Company changed its name to Vodafone AirTouch Plc in June the Groups marketing and technology functions to provide the basis for the Vodafones 1999.
The combined Group had mobile operating subsidiaries in 10 countries, mobile TV programme.
Applications of mobile telecommunications to health and well adding Sweden, Portugal, Egypt and the US and equity interests in an additional being, intelligent transport systems and the digital home are also being researched.
Much of the work of the Groups R&D function is done in collaboration with others, both The acquisition of Mannesmann AG Mannesmann, which completed on 12 April within the Group and externally.
Joint R&D facilities have been set up with three major 2000.
Through this transaction the Group acquired subsidiaries in two of Europes infrastructure suppliers.
Infrastructure and handset suppliers work with the Groups R&D most important markets, Germany and Italy, and increased the Groups indirect function on many of its projects, from providing equipment for trials, through coholding in SFR, a French mobile telecommunications operator.
Subsequent to the authoring research reports, to being a partner in some of the R&D programmes.
At the acquisition, the Group sold a number of non-core businesses acquired as part of the more academic end of the spectrum of applied research, the Groups R&D function Mannesmann transaction.
Following approval by its shareholders at the Annual continues to develop relationships with a number of universities.
These relationships General Meeting AGM, the Company reverted to its former name, Vodafone Group include sponsoring research students, collaboration in European research activities, Plc, on 28 July 2000. funding specialised research centres and working with Vodafone funded chairs and readerships.
This year, the Groups R&D function hosted an Academic Conference where Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006 19 Business Business Overview continued Japan The combination of the Groups US mobile operations with those of Bell Atlantic Corporation and GTE Corporation to form the Cellco Partnership, which operates During the 2004 financial year, the Group sold its interest in Japan Telecom, as described under the name Verizon Wireless, on 10 July 2000.
The Group owns 45% of Verizon under Disposals.
In addition, J-Phone Co. Ltd was renamed Vodafone K. K. on 1 October Wireless and accounts for it as an associated undertaking.
2003 and Japan Telecom Holdings Co. Ltd. was renamed Vodafone Holdings K. K. on 10 December 2003.
The acquisition of Airtel Mvil S. A. a mobile network operator in Spain, which became a subsidiary of the Group in December 2000.
On 25 May 2004, the Groups wholly owned subsidiary, Vodafone International Holdings The acquisition of Eircell Limited, a mobile network operator in Ireland, following a B. V. announced offers for the shares not held by the Group in Vodafone Holdings K. K. public offer for shares which closed in May 2001. and Vodafone K. K. As a result of these offers, the Group increased its effective shareholding in Vodafone K. K. to 98.2% and its stake in Vodafone Holdings K. K. to 96.1% The acquisition of the Groups operations in Japan.
The Groups initial investment in for a total consideration of 2.4 billion.
On 1 October 2004, the merger of Vodafone K. K. Japan resulted from the AirTouch merger and between the date of the merger and and Vodafone Holdings K. K. was completed and the Group held a 97.7% stake in the October 2001, the Group increased its effective interest in the Japanese mobile merged company, which was renamed Vodafone K. K. Subsequently, on 1 August 2005, telecommunications company, J-Phone Co. Ltd to 69.76% through a number of shares in Vodafone K. K. were delisted from the Tokyo Stock Exchange.
The Group also acquired a 66.7% stake in the fixed line operator, Japan Telecom Co. Ltd Japan Telecom.
Vodafone K. K was subsequently sold on 27 April 2006.
Further details are provided in the By 31 March 2003, the Group controlled mobile operations in 16 countries and held section on Disposals below.
equity investments in mobile operations in a further 12 countries.
The proportionate mobile customer base was 119.7 million at that date.
Malta On 1 August 2003, the Group increased its shareholding in Vodafone Malta from 80% to 100% by purchasing Maltacom Plcs 20% interest in Vodafone Malta for cash Transactions since 31 March 2003 consideration of 30 million.
Acquisitions Subsidiary undertakings The Netherlands Turkey During the 2004 financial year, the Group increased its effective interest in Vodafone On 13 December 2005, the Group announced it had agreed to acquire substantially all Netherlands to 99.9% as a result of private transactions.
The Group has exercised its the assets and business of Telsim Mobil Telekomunikasyon Telsim from the Turkish rights under Dutch law and initiated compulsory acquisition procedures in order to Savings Deposit and Investment Fund.
The transaction was completed on 24 May 2006, acquire the remaining shares.
Following these procedures, Vodafone Netherlands will with cash paid of $4.67 billion 2.6 billion.
Telsim was consolidated as a subsidiary become a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group.
Vodafone Netherlands shares have undertaking from that date.
been fide-listed from the Euronext Amsterdam Stock Exchange.
Czech Republic and Romania Portugal On 31 May 2005, the Company announced that its wholly owned subsidiary, Vodafone Having achieved an effective interest of greater than 90% at the start of the 2004 International Holdings B. V. had completed a transaction with Telesystem International financial year, the Group implemented compulsory acquisition procedures to acquire Wireless Inc. of Canada to acquire: the remaining shares, which became effective on 21 May 2003, for a further 79.0% of the share capital of MobiFon S. A. MobiFon in Romania, increasing the consideration of 74 million.
As a result, Vodafone Portugal became a wholly owned Groups ownership in MobiFon to approximately 99.1%: and, subsidiary of the Group.
99.9% of the share capital of Oskar Mobil a. s. Oskar in the Czech Republic Sweden for cash consideration of approximately $3.5 billion 1.9 billion which was funded from Under compulsory acquisition procedures, on 15 March 2004, Vodafone Holdings the Groups cash resources.
In addition, the Group assumed approximately $1.0 billion Sweden AB obtained advanced access to an aggregate of 2,377,774 shares in Vodafone 0.6 billion of net debt.
The remaining 0.9% of MobiFon was acquired in a separate Sweden, giving the Group ownership of, and title, to these shares.
transaction in the 2006 financial year.
On 31 March 2004, the Group increased its effective interest in Vodafone Sweden to On 1 February 2006, Oskar was renamed Vodafone Czech Republic.
100% by the purchase of 1,320,000 shares which were held in treasury by Vodafone Sweden.
Egypt On 16 May 2003, the Group increased its shareholding in Vodafone Egypt from 60.0% to Vodafone Sweden was subsequently sold on 5 January 2006.
Subsequently, the Group has reduced its effective interest in Vodafone Egypt to on page 115.
Further details are provided in Performance Financial Position and Resources Option agreements and similar arrangements on page 42.
UK On 22 September 2003, the Group acquired 100% of Singlepoint 4U Limited for a Greece consideration of 417 million.
In addition, as a result of a recommended cash offer On 1 December 2003, following the purchase of a 9.433% stake in Vodafone Greece announced on 5 August 2003, the Group acquired 98.92% of Project Telecom plc, after from Intracom S. A. the Group announced a public offer for all remaining shares not held the offer was declared unconditional on 19 September 2003, and subsequently by the Group.
As a result of the offer and subsequent market purchases, the Group acquired the remaining 1.08% in November 2003, for a total consideration of 164 increased its effective interest in Vodafone Greece to 99.4% at 31 March 2004.
These businesses have been integrated into the Groups UK operations.
aggregate cash consideration paid in the 2004 financial year was 815 million.
Joint ventures Vodafone Greeces shares were delisted from the Athens and London Stock Exchanges India on 15 July 2004 and 20 August 2004 respectively.
On 18 November 2005, the Group acquired a 5.61% direct interest in Bharti from Warburg Pincus LLC and, on 22 December 2005, the Group acquired a further 4.39% effective Between 24 January 2005 and 31 March 2005, the Group acquired a further 0.4% shareholding in Bharti by subscribing for convertible debentures in Bharti Enterprises interest in Vodafone Greece through private transactions at a price equal to the price Private Limited, bringing the Groups effective shareholding in Bharti to 10.0%.
Bharti is a paid in the public offer.
national mobile operator in India which also provides fixed-line services.
The total consideration paid for these transactions was Rs.
Hungary On 10 June 2003, the Group increased its stake in Vodafone Hungary to 87.9% by South Africa On 26 January 2006, the Group announced that its offer to acquire a 100% interest in subscribing for Antennas share of an issue of C shares.
VenFin Limited VenFin had become wholly unconditional.
VenFins principal asset was In the first half of the 2005 financial year, the Group subscribed for HUF 89,301 million a 15% stake in Vodacom Group Pty Limited Vodacom and VenFin has disposed of 248 million shares in Vodafone Hungary, increasing the Groups stake to 92.8%.
On substantially all of its assets other than its stake in Vodacom for a cash consideration of 24 September 2004, the Group entered into a sale and purchase agreement to acquire R5 billion 0.5 billion to a new company owned by certain of the former shareholders the remaining 7.2% shareholding from Antenna.
This transaction completed on in VenFin.
At 31 March 2006, the Group held an effective economic interest in VenFin of 12 January 2005 with the effect that Vodafone Hungary became a wholly owned 98.7% and an effective voting interest of 99.3%.
On 20 April 2006, the Group completed subsidiary of the Group.
the compulsory acquisition of the remaining minority shareholdings in VenFin, from which date the Group holds 100% of the issued share capital of VenFin.
As a result the Group holds 50% of the share capital of Vodacom.
20 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006
