VT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006 VTG011 R&A 2006 IFC-51 13 6 06 14:18 Page 26 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW NATURE, OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGIES CURRENT AND FUTURE DEVELOPMENT AND PERFORMANCE BUSINESS DIVISION OPERATING REVIEW CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND TREASURY RESOURCES, RISKS AND RELATIONSHIPS 26 CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND TREASURY The acquisition of Touchstone Limited was funded by the to eliminate foreign exchange transaction exposure, issue of 11.2m of floating rate loan notes, repayable in provided that the benefits are not outweighed by the instalments to 12 April 2007.
The acquisition of HCTC overall cost of the borrowing.
Limited was funded entirely from the groups cash The groups transactional currency exposure arises resources.
from sales or purchases by certain operating units in currencies other than its functional currency.
It is the Treasury policies groups policy not to enter into forward contracts for The groups treasury function is responsible for managing purchases until there is a high degree of certainty.
the groups exposure to finance risks and operates in In addition, the group treasury policy is to hedge if line with policies set by the board.
The primary objectives and when a significant exposure is recognised, are to: through the use of foreign exchange instruments to Manage interest rate and foreign currency exposure manage the currency exposures on any individual transactions for which payment is anticipated.
Provide cash management Ensure the availability of cost-effective facilities to Interest rate risk finance new investment, working capital and The groups policy is to manage its cost of borrowing guarantees.
using a mix of fixed and variable rate debt.
Whilst fixed rate interest bearing debt is not exposed to cash flow The board has a conservative policy towards the interest rate risk, there is no opportunity for the group to investment of cash.
Treasury instruments are used only enjoy a reduction in borrowing costs in markets where to reduce risk.
In addition, the fair value risk inherent in The group finances its activities with a combination fixed rate borrowing means that the group is exposed to of bank loans, loan notes, finance leases and cash.
unplanned costs should debt be restructured or repaid Other financial assets and liabilities, such as trade early.
In contrast, whilst floating rate borrowings are not debtors and trade creditors, arise directly from the exposed to changes in fair value, the group is exposed groups operating activities.
The group also enters into to cash flow risk as costs increase if market rates rise.
derivative transactions, including principally interest rate VT Group has no absolute policy towards either fixed swaps and foreign currency contracts.
The purpose is to rate finance or floating rate finance.
The proportion of manage the interest rate and currency risks arising from interest rate exposure that should be fixed and the the groups operations and its sources of finance.
proportion that should be floating will be dictated by The main risks associated with the groups financial the nature and terms of the underlying asset s and assets and liabilities are set out below, together with the contract s being funded.
The exact proportion will be policies agreed by the board for their management.
determined by current economic conditions, the currency in which the debt is denominated and the purposes and Foreign currency risk duration of the debt.
The group has invested in operations outside the United Kingdom and also buys and sells goods and The group does use interest rate swaps agreed with services denominated in currencies other than sterling.
other parties to generate the desired interest profile, As a result the value of the groups non-sterling revenues, agreeing to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference purchases, financial assets and liabilities and cash flows between fixed rate and variable interest amounts calculated can be affected significantly by movements in exchange by reference to an agreed-upon notional principal.
At the rates, particularly in the US Dollar and Euro.
year end, 19% 2005: 70% of the groups borrowings were at fixed rates after taking account of interest VT Group policy is to finance, so far as practicable, rate swaps.
the costs of acquisition and new business opportunities by matching borrowings in the local currency in order VT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006 VTG011 R&A 2006 IFC-51 13 6 06 14:19 Page 27 ACQUISITIONS STRENGTHEN VTS PORTFOLIO OF SUPPORT SERVICES 27 Credit risk Individual exposures are monitored with customers C The risk of financial loss due to a counterpartys failure subject to credit limits to ensure that the groups Sam Groves, to honour its obligations arises principally in relation to exposure to bad debts is not significant.
Senior M&A transactions where the group provides goods and Manager, at VT Group policies also restrict the counterparties with which services on deferred terms, enters into derivative Group meeting derivative transactions can be contracted and funds may with Simon contracts requiring settlement by the other party be invested to those approved by the treasury team and Purchon, Sales and invests or deposits surplus cash.
Director, of the by the board, comprising banks and financial institutions recently acquired Group policies are aimed at minimising such losses, with a high credit rating.
The treasury team ensures that Lex Emergency and require that deferred terms are granted only to exposure is spread across a number of approved Services, visiting customers who demonstrate an appropriate payment one of the Met financial institutions.
police vehicle history and satisfy creditworthiness procedures.
VT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006 VTG011 R&A 2006 IFC-51 13 6 06 14:19 Page 28 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW NATURE, OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGIES CURRENT AND FUTURE DEVELOPMENT AND PERFORMANCE BUSINESS DIVISION OPERATING REVIEW CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND TREASURY CONTINUED RESOURCES, RISKS AND RELATIONSHIPS 28 Liquidity risk Excess cash used in managing liquidity is only invested The group aims to mitigate liquidity risk by managing in financial instruments exposed to insignificant risk of cash generation by its operations, applying cash changes in market value, being placed on interestcollection targets throughout the group.
Investment is bearing deposit with maturities fixed at no more than carefully controlled, with authorisation limits operating six months.
Short term flexibility is achieved by up to group board level.
In its funding strategy, the groups objective is to maintain Price risk a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility It is, and has been throughout the period under review, through the use of overdrafts, bank loans, loan notes the groups policy that no trading in derivative financial and finance leases.
To meet this objective, the groups instruments shall be undertaken.
policy is to ensure that adequate unutilised committed funding facilities are available to cover authorised capital expenditure commitments and debt due for repayment within one year.
Surplus cash is only invested in high credit rated financial institutions and in financial instruments exposed to insignificant risk of changes in market value, with not less than 50% of surplus funds available invested with maturities of three months or less.
Funds may not be invested for periods of greater than one year.
