The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Board of Directors: The Board's operational framework is underpinned by clearly defined strategies, vision and values which combine to create shareholder value through the effective use of our resources.
Mark Selway Alan Mitchelson Keith Cochrane Executive Director Executive Director Executive Director Aged 47, was appointed chief executive in June Aged 57, is a solicitor and joined the Group in Aged 42, is a chartered accountant and was 2001.
Before his appointment, he was a director March 2000 as group company secretary.
He appointed group finance director in July 2006. of Britax International plc and managing director was appointed a director in December 2001.
He was formerly group director of finance at of its automotive components division.
Following Before joining the Company, he was legal ScottishPower plc.
Before that he was with the purchase of that division by Schefenacker director and company secretary of Highland Stagecoach Group plc where he was group International AG in 2000, he became a director Distillers plc, following a number of years as finance director before becoming group of that company and executive director of a legal advisor with Trafalgar House plc.
Audit Committee Stephen King Chairman Christopher Clarke Michael Dearden Remuneration Committee Michael Dearden Chairman Christopher Clarke Professor Ian Percy Nomination Committee Sir Robert Smith Chairman Michael Dearden Professor Ian Percy Lord Robertson Mark Selway 20 Board of Directors Keith Cochrane Alan Mitchelson Steve Simone Group Operations Finance Director Corporate Services Director and Services Divisional MD Executive Committee Company Secretary Mark Selway Scot Smith From left to right Chief Executive Phil Clifton Minerals Divisional MD Valves & Controls and Defence, Stephen Bird Nuclear & Gas Divisional MD Clear Liquid Divisional MD Stephen King Sir Robert Smith Michael Dearden Non-Executive Director Chairman Non-Executive Director Aged 62, was appointed chairman in July 2002.
Aged 46, was appointed a non-executive Aged 64, was appointed a non-executive director in February 2005.
He has been group He is chairman of Scottish and Southern Energy director in February 2003.
A graduate of Oxford plc and a non-executive director of 3i Group plc, finance director of fide La Rue plc since January University, he was formerly with Burmah Castrol 2003.
He was formerly group finance director of Standard Bank Group Limited and Aegon UK plc.
plc, where he was CEO of Castrol International.
He was formerly chief executive of Morgan Midlands Electricity plc and held senior financial He is a non-executive director of Johnson roles with Seeboard plc and Lucas Industries plc.
Grenfell Asset Management, a member of the Matthey plc and Travis Perkins plc.
He was Financial Services Authority and of the Financial He was also a director of Camelot Group plc chairman of Minova International Ltd until until May 2006.
Reporting Council and chairman of Stakis plc.
Christopher Clarke Professor Ian Percy CBE Lord Robertson of Port Ellen George KT, GCMG, HonFRSE, PC Non-Executive Director Deputy Chairman & Senior NonNon-Executive Director Executive Director Aged 61, was appointed a non-executive Aged 60, was appointed a non-executive director director in 1999.
A graduate of Cambridge Aged 65, was appointed a non-executive in February 2004.
He was Secretary General of University and of the London Business School, director in 1996.
He was formerly senior partner NATO 1999-2003 and before that Secretary he was formerly a director of Samuel Montagu of accountants Grant Thornton, president of the of State for Defence 1997-99.
Lord Robertson & Co. Limited and HSBC Investment Banking.
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland is chairman of Cable and Wireless International He is a Deputy Chairman of the Competition and chairman of The Accounts Commission for Operating Board.
He is a non-executive director Commission and a non-executive director of Scotland.
He served as a member of the Treasury of Western Ferries Clyde Ltd.
He is also an Omega Insurance Holdings Ltd. and DTI Co-ordinating Committee on Audit advisor to the Royal Bank of Canada, Europe, and Accounting in 2003 and was chairman of on the Advisory Board of Englefield Capital, Companies House until December 2006.
He is senior counsellor with The Cohen Group senior non-executive director of Cala Group USA, President of Chatham House and Limited, non-executive deputy chairman of deputy chairman of TNK-BP.
Ricardo plc and chairman of Queen Margaret University, Edinburgh.
