Directors Report The directors are pleased to present their 113th annual report, Smith and Alan Mitchelson.
In addition, as he has been a nontogether with the audited financial statements, for the 52 weeks executive director for more than nine years, Professor Ian Percy is ended 29 December 2006. subject to annual re-election.
In accordance with article 97 of the articles of association of the Company, Keith Cochrane also retires Cautionary statement at the forthcoming annual general meeting and, being eligible, This annual report and financial statements have been prepared offers himself for election.
Sir Robert Smith, Alan Mitchelson and for the shareholders of the Company, as a body, and no other persons.
Professor Percy offer themselves for re-election.
The various reports contain forward looking statements that are subject to risk factors because of the nature of the sector and markets in which Directors indemnities the Group operates and reflect the knowledge and information The Company has granted indemnities to each of its directors in available at the date of the preparation of these financial statements.
respect of all losses arising out of, or in connection with, the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as directors to the extent Statements in the Chief Executives Review, the Operational permitted by the Companies Act and the Company's articles of Review and the Financial Review on divisional performance are association.
In addition, directors and officers of the Company and made on a continuing business basis, excluding discontinued its subsidiaries are covered by Directors & Officers liability insurance.
Share capital Except as otherwise stated in the Chief Executives Review, During the year, options were exercised by participants in the the Operational Review and the Financial Review, growth rates Companys share option schemes as a consequence of which and other comparative data in respect of divisional revenue and 1,328,633 ordinary shares of 12.5p each were allotted and issued.
operating profits are given on a constant exchange rate basis.
No awards under the Group Long-Term Incentive Plan vested Underlying growth using constant exchange rates is defined as a during the year.
Details of the options and awards outstanding non-GAAP measure because, unlike actual growth, it cannot be under each of the Companys share schemes at the end of the derived directly from the information in the financial statements.
year are set out in note 28 to the Group financial statements.
This measure removes the effects of currency movements, which allows us to focus on the changes in sales and expenses driven At the 2006 annual general meeting, shareholders renewed the by volume, prices and cost levels relative to the prior period.
Companys authority to make market purchases of up to 20.64m ordinary shares representing 10% of the issued share capital.
No Underlying constant exchange rate growth is calculated by shares were purchased under this authority during the 52 weeks re-translating the prior years performance at current exchange to 29 December 2006 and at the forthcoming annual general rates and adjusting for other exchange effects, including hedging.
meeting the Board will again seek shareholder approval to renew Results the annual authority for the Company to make market purchases.
The Group profit attributable to members for the 52 weeks, Substantial shareholders after taxation, amounted to 81.6m.
The Company has been notified of the following interests representing 3% or more of the issued ordinary share capital of Dividends The directors recommend a final ordinary dividend of 10.75p the Company as at 21 March 2007 excluding treasury shares : per share to be paid on 1 June 2007 to ordinary shareholders Number Percentage whose names are on the Companys register at close of business of shares Holding on 4 May 2007.
Together with the interim ordinary dividend of 3.75p per share paid on 10 November 2006, this makes Threadneedle Asset Management Holdings Limited 18,745,148 9.02% M&G Investment Management Limited 12,230,775 5.88% the total dividend for the year 14.5p.
Fidelity International Limited and FMR Corp 10,785,213 5.19% Principal activities and business review AXA Investment Managers UK Limited 10,469,815 5.04% A review of the Groups operations, principal activities, future Legal & General Investment Management Limited 8,382,291 4.03% developments, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties affecting the business and key performance Annual general meeting indicators can be found in the Chairmans Statement on pages The annual general meeting will be held on 9 May 2007.
2 to 3, the Chief Executives Review on pages 4 to 6, the A separate letter is being sent to all shareholders containing Operational Review on pages 7 to 16, the Financial Review the Notice of Meeting and the resolutions to be proposed.
on pages 17 to 19 and the Corporate Social Responsibility Going concern Report on pages 37 to 40, which are incorporated into this After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation report by reference, as well as within this report.
that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational Other reports existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to The annual report includes a separate Corporate Governance adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Statement, which is on pages 26 to 28, Audit Committee Report Charitable contributions on page 29, Nomination Committee Report on page 30 and During the year, Group companies made the following contributions: Remuneration Committee Report on pages 31 to 36. charitable being specifically health, heritage, educational and Directors community purposes 169,218 2005: 101,757.
Details of the current directors of the Company are set out on pages 20 and 21.
Chris Rickard resigned from the Board on 30 the Group made no political contributions during the period June 2006.
Keith Cochrane was appointed to the Board on 3 July 2005: nil.
The directors who retire this year by rotation are Sir Robert 22 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Audit and auditors Intellectual property So far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant audit The Group operates in a competitive market and constantly has information as defined by section 234ZA of the Companies Act to take steps to prevent misappropriation of its intellectual 1985 of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
The Group relies on a combination of patent rights, licensing arrangements and contractual arrangements Each of the directors has taken all of the steps that he ought to to establish and protect those rights, as well as occasionally have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant bringing law suits against third parties.
audit information as defined and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Industry competition The markets for many of the Groups products are fragmented and A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys highly competitive.
The Group competes against large and well auditors will be put to the forthcoming annual general meeting.
established global companies, as well as local companies, and low Principal risks cost replicators of spare parts, on the basis of price, technical Risk is inherent in our business activities and as a consequence expertise, timeliness of delivery, previous installation history and of operating a sound risk management process the Group has reputation for quality and reliability.
To remain competitive, the identified the following principal risks and uncertainties, which Group invests continuously in its manufacturing, marketing, customer it believes could have a materially adverse effect on its business, service support and distribution networks.
The diversity of operations turnover, profit, assets, liquidity, resources and reputation.
reduces the possible effect of action by a single competitor and combined with the application of Lean manufacturing ensures The nature of risk is such that no list can be comprehensive and the Groups competitive advantage is sustained.
it is possible that other risks may arise, or that risks not currently considered material may become so in the future.
Any forwardProduct liability claims looking statements in the annual report or otherwise made by The Group faces an inherent business risk of exposure to product the Group should be considered in light of these risk factors.
liability and warranty claims in the event that a failure of a product results in, or is alleged to result in, bodily injury, property The Group operates controls as described in the Corporate damage and consequential loss.
The Group maintains insurance Governance report to mitigate against these risks.
coverage for product liability claims where possible.
For warranty Economic, political and natural catastrophe risks claims not covered by insurance, warranty costs may be incurred The Group operates in 35 countries around the world including which the Group may not be able to recover.
several within Africa, Middle East, Asia and South America.
While Foreign exchange risk benefiting from the opportunities and growth in these regions, The Group sells its products in over 100 countries and has the Group is exposed to the economic, political and business risks manufacturing operations in over 15 countries with the result associated with international operations, such as sudden changes that two forms of currency risk - transaction and translational in regulation, expropriation of assets, imposition of trade barriers exposures, arise: and wage controls, limits on the export of currency and volatility of prices, taxes and currencies.
The Groups diversified geographic Transactional currency exposure arises when operating footprint mitigates against any exposure within any one country subsidiaries enter into transactions denominated in currencies in which it operates.
other than their functional currency.
Foreign exchange transaction exposures are identified and managed directly The Groups operations are exposed to varying degrees of natural by the Group's operating subsidiaries within the policies and catastrophe risk, such as earthquake and flood, as well as security guidelines established by Group Treasury.
Group Treasury risk, in the various manufacturing locations in which it operates.
enter into foreign exchange hedging transactions on behalf Where cost effective, such risks are mitigated through physical of subsidiaries in accordance with the Group's policies and measures designed to counter the impact of a catastrophe.
value of assets and associated profits are also protected by insurance.
Translational risk arises due to exchange rate fluctuations in the Market cycles translation of the results of overseas subsidiaries into sterling Over 70% of the Groups revenues are generated from the power and trading transactions in foreign currencies.
generation, oil and gas and mining sectors and its performance may be impacted by market trends across these sectors.
The The Group makes limited use of derivative financial instruments provision of both original equipment and aftermarket sales and to hedge balance sheet translation exposures.
On significant services spreads this risk together with the broad geographical acquisitions of overseas companies, borrowings are raised in the diversification of the Group.
local currency to minimise the translation risk.
It remains the Group's policy not to hedge profit and loss account Legislative risks translation exposures.
Revision of environmental legislation in various countries takes time and the Group monitors this in order to anticipate the effect Transaction exposures are hedged where deemed appropriate on its business and that of its customers.
Unforeseen legislative and where they can be reliably forecast with the use of forward changes may have an adverse impact on operations and tighter exchange rate contracts.
environmental legislation may increase manufacturing costs.
However, it can also provide opportunities to offer customers new solutions to meet the more stringent environmental standards.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2006 23 Directors Report Continued Tax Employee issues The effective rate of tax paid by the Group may be influenced Group performance depends on the skills and efforts of its by a number of factors including changes in law and accounting employees and management team across all of its businesses.
standards and the Groups overall approach to such matters, the In striving to be an employer of choice, the Group recognises results of which could increase or decrease that rate.
The Group that failing to attract new talent and retain existing expertise, seeks to manage its financial structure efficiently to minimise knowledge and skills in operations, products and infrastructure the overall tax burden on the business where practicable.
The areas such as information technology could have a negative continued ability of the Group to manage its businesses in this impact on its business.
In addition, the success of Group way cannot be guaranteed and so could affect the Groups acquisitions will depend on the Groups ability to retain financial performance.
management personnel of acquired companies.
Pensions Health & safety Estimates of the amount and timing of future funding obligations The Group operates in a number of demanding environments.
for the Groups pension plans are based on various assumptions Safe working practices are extremely important to protect everyone including, among other things, the actual and projected market on the Group's sites.
The Group has developed quality and safety performance of the pension plan assets, future long-term corporate processes within each of its businesses which are regularly audited bond yields, increased longevity of members and statutory by professional bodies and customers.
The Group operates long requirements.
In the last year, the relative improvement in equity established working practices and controls to minimise damage markets together with increased bond yields has reduced the deficit.
If the Group cannot maintain a safe place for all its The Group continually reviews this risk and takes action to mitigate employees to work this could result in a number of negative where possible.
In addition, while the Group is consulted by the outcomes to the Group including: trustees on the investment strategies of its pension plans, the fines and penalties: Group has no direct control over these matters as the trustees are directly responsible for the strategy.
loss of key customers: Acquisitions exclusion from certain market sectors deemed important for The Group has made a number of acquisitions in recent years future development of the business: and as part of its growth strategy and may make acquisitions in the damage to reputation.
While the Group identifies expected synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities prior to completing any acquisition, Group performance these benefits may not always be achieved within the anticipated In 2006, the Groups strategy was underpinned by focusing on a timescale or may not achieve all of the anticipated benefits.
number of key performance measures.
The following measures are the ones that the Board feel communicate the performance and To mitigate against this, the Group implements a vigorous due strength of the Group as a whole.
However, management use diligence process and ensures clear financial targets are in place further performance measures to run and assess the performance together with ensuring any acquisition is put through a formal of their individual divisions, rather than the Group as a whole.
The Group also has its internal 100 day plan to 1 ensure that the integration process runs as smoothly as possible.
Input - continuing operations Delivery performance 1200 1099.5 The Groups ability to meet customer delivery schedules is dependent 1000 on a number of factors including sufficient manufacturing capacity, 892.5 access to raw materials, inventory control, sufficient trained and 800 equipped employees, engineering expertise and the appropriate Up planning and scheduling of the manufacturing process.
Many of 600 23% the contracts it enters into require long lead times and therefore 400 contain clauses on on-time delivery.
Failure to deliver in accordance with customer expectation could subject the Group to financial 200 penalties, may result in damage to customer relationships and could impact on the Groups financial performance.
0 2005 2006 Managing joint venture relationships Order input is a key measure used to evaluate market trends, The Group must ensure that the selection of new joint venture establish forward sales and enable the efficient management of partners and the relationship with its partners in its existing joint production schedules.
Order input is defined as the expected ventures is managed effectively to ensure the full potential for the revenues to be generated from contractually committed joint venture is achieved.
Failure to achieve alignment of objectives orders received.
and manage relationships effectively may negatively impact the Group's financial performance.
1 Excludes joint ventures and associates: calculated at constant 2006 exchange rates.
2 Calculated at constant 2006 exchange rates.
4 Adjusted to exclude exceptional items.
24 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Input m 2 Operating margins - continuing operations Shareholder value is also generated through the payment of annual dividends to shareholders.
Our ability to sustain such payments is 12 measured against the dividend cover ratio with our current policy 10.3 9.8 being to sustain dividend cover of at least two times.
Dividend 10 9.1 9.0 cover is defined as basic earnings per share from continuing 8.3 7.9 8 operations, before exceptional items, divided by the annual 6.2 dividend per share.
2005 5.5 6 2006 Weir Production System implementation 4 The Groups goal is consistently to meet customer demand on time with the least cost method, through implementation of the 2 Weir Production System, adapted from the Toyota Production System.
By eliminating waste, quality is improved and production 0 3 Engineering Engineering Defence, Group time and costs are reduced.
The key objective is to embed the Products Services Nuclear & Gas appropriate practices across all business processes to produce just what is needed, when it is needed, in the most efficient way.
One of the Groups key objectives has been to improve business operating margins.
These are monitored on an ongoing basis.
The Group has adopted the Lean Management philosophy Operating margins are defined as operating profits expressed focusing on reduction of the Seven Wastes to improve overall as a percentage of revenues.
These are calculated before taking customer value.
These are: account of any exceptional items to focus on underlying transportation trading performance.
motion 4 Earnings per share - continuing operations overproduction 35 32.4 scrap 30 inventory 23.5 25 waiting time 20 Up the processing itself.
15 38% Due to the importance of ownership in the process, the measurement 10 of performance is by an evaluation across all Group companies comparing their current plant practice against world-class practice 5 and performance.
0 2005 2006 The evaluation involves an audit of each manufacturing site which results in the site being awarded a Lean Score.
Audits are The Group seeks to deliver long-term shareholder value as performed annually by internal peer groups.
The Lean Score for evidenced in part through the growth in underlying earnings each site is then totalled and expressed as a Group Lean Score.
Growth in underlying earnings per share is a key The results for 2005 and 2006 are as follows: measure in determining the vesting of shares under the Group's incentive schemes.
2005 2006 %age Change Underlying earnings per share is represented by profit for the 76 104 37% increase period from continuing operations, before exceptional items, divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue.
The Group Lean Scores are interpreted as follows: Dividend and dividend cover - continuing operations 0-60 score means the site needs significant improvement, action is required: 14.5 15 2.5 13.2 61-99 score means relatively good practice, but regular follow 12 2.0 up and further improvements are required: 100-150 is world-class practice where process has taken root 9 1.5 Dividend and needs to be maintained and further improved.
Up 10% The scores awarded to individual businesses are used to identify 6 1.0 improvement actions and set future targets.
3 0.5 By order of the Board 0 0.0 2005 2006 Glasgow Alan Mitchelson 21 March 2007 Secretary The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2006 25 Dividend pence Earnings per share pence Margins % Dividend cover times
