Operating and Financial Review 34 Other financial matters Other business activities Better than expected asset performance contributed The Other business segment mainly comprises head 104 million to the reduced deficit.
However, this was office, the six remaining PFI investments, a wastewater more than offset by the effect of the decline in bond treatment works in the Republic of Ireland and a few yields over the year, and allowing for increased life residual international interests.
expectancy which had the effect of increasing the deficit by 100 million and 16 million respectively.
The group continued to exit from its remaining international investments during the year, completing Anglian Water made an additional pension contribution disposals in Norway, Australia, Germany, Poland and of 7.7 million 2005: 9.4 million in March 2006 to two operations in China.
During the year the Aguas reduce the deficit, followed by a further 3.0 million paid Argentinas water and wastewater concession in Argentina in April 2006.
Future additional contributions will continue was terminated, and the groups debt obligations to to be made in line with actuarial advice.
The main Morrison schemes link with final salaries was This leaves an operating business in Brazil, and a nonbroken when it was switched to a career average earnings operating contract in China.
In addition, the group arrangement.
It was then closed to future service, continues to operate its long-term, wastewater treatment following the sale of Construction Services.
This reduced joint venture in Ireland.
the deficit by around 4 million.
It is intended that the remaining deficit in the scheme, 34.7 million, will be Pensions reduced to nil by contribution payments over the next This was the first year that AWG accounted for pensions four years.
in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
At 31 March 2006 the total deficit for the group before deferred tax The full actuarial valuations as at 31 March 2005 were was 105.0 million 2005: 216.6 million.
There are a performed on the two largest pension schemes.
The number of reasons for this reduction as explained below.
results of these valuations were available in December 2005 and have been reflected in the reported deficit at 31 The Trustees reduced pre-funding of early retirement March 2006.
This resulted in the opening deficit estimates and ill-health early retirement benefits, and reduced the being reduced by some 40 million.
allowance for cash commutation in the main Anglian Water defined benefit scheme.
This had the effect of Treasury management reducing the deficit by approximately 50 million.
Group financing, including debt, interest costs and foreign exchange, is substantially managed by a central treasury As part of the cost efficiency measures in Anglian Water, team reporting to the Group Finance Director.
Treasury and following consultation with staff and unions, it is policy continues to be focused on the efficient and planned to hold general salary increases during the effective management of cash and financial resources remainder of AMP4 in line with inflation.
This has within the group.
The central treasury function actively: had a beneficial impact on the pension deficit of some 17 million.
com 35 Secures funds and invests temporary surplus cash In 2002 AWG carried out a financial restructuring which to best advantage at minimal risk.
increased its gearing and reduced Anglian Waters Protects the groups foreign exchange and interest weighted average cost of capital.
The group issued debt in rate exposures.
the form of bonds and other financial instruments, Maintains an excellent reputation with providers secured on Anglian Waters assets.
At 31 March 2006 of finance and rating agencies.
Anglian Waters net debt to capital value ratio net debt as Monitors compliance with the groups financial defined in the Common Terms Agreement expressed as a covenants both on an actual and forecast basis.
percentage of Anglian Waters regulated capital value Promotes improvement of cash management was 79.0 per cent 2005: 80.1 per cent.
techniques, systems and controls throughout the group.
Borrowing covenants The financing within Anglian Water is secured under a AWGs board, through the Treasury Advisory Group, common terms agreement with investors.
All other group regularly reviews treasury policy, organisation and borrowings are raised or guaranteed by AWG Plc, AWG reporting to ensure continued effectiveness and relevance.
Group Limited and, in certain instances, subsidiary companies.
The central treasury function is responsible Liquidity for monitoring ongoing compliance with the groups The groups objective is to maintain flexibility and financial covenants, which principally relate to Anglian continuity of funding through access to different markets Waters ratio of net debt to Regulatory Capital Value and and debt instruments.
At 31 March 2006 the group interest coverage.
At 31 March 2006, Anglian Water was held cash, deposits and current asset investments of compliant with all covenants.
775.9 million 2005: 1,098.6 million and had undrawn committed multi-currency facilities of 683.0 million Interest rates 2005: 683.0 million.
These resources are maintained The groups policy, as agreed by the board, is to achieve to ensure liquidity and the continuation of the groups an efficient mix of funding at fixed rates of interest, investment programme.
The maturity profile of the floating rates of interest and rates indexed to retail prices.
groups borrowings is set out in note 26 of the This mix also reflects utilisation of interest rate swaps so consolidated financial statements.
as to manage the groups net exposure to interest rate and retail price variations.
Capital structure AWGs capital structure is largely driven by the The composition of the groups total borrowings, after requirements of Anglian Waters capital expenditure swaps, at the year-end was: programme, which is met by a combination of cash 31 31 flow and debt issuance.
March March 2006 2005 Indexed 43.2%29.9% Fixed 48.1%57.7% Floating 8.7%12.4% Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Operating and Financial Review 36 Other financial matters continued The change in the composition in the table on page 35 non-regulated operations, credit risk assessments are reflects the repayment of 659 million of callable bonds, generally performed and payments in advance are the repayment and amortisation of 88 million of US obtained where possible.
Dollar private placement borrowings and Sterling leases, Joint venture financing 46 million of indexation on index-linked debt and the In accordance with current accounting standards, assets issuance of 402 million of index-linked debt in April 2005. and liabilities in certain joint venture investments within the Morrison, AWG Property and the Other business The objective of this refinancing was to reduce the segments are not included on the groups balance sheet weighted average cost of capital and, as a consequence, on a gross basis.
This is because these joint ventures are the groups prospective interest costs.
accounted for on an equity basis and the groups share of assets and liabilities including debt is shown in the Foreign currency balance sheet as interests in joint ventures.
The group has minimal currency exposures resulting from overseas investments and foreign currency purchases and Following the agreement to sell two PFI projects on sales.
The group uses a range of instruments to hedge 31 March 2006, Morrison Project Investments, now part such exposures.
All hedges are undertaken for commercial of the Other business segment, had remaining equity reasons with the objective of minimising the impact of investments in six PFI projects, all of which are joint exchange rate fluctuations on net assets, profits and ventures.
The groups share of the debt within these anticipated disposal proceeds.
remaining investments was 50.8 million at 31 March 2006 2005: 79.9 million.
The groups foreign exchange exposure management policy, as agreed by the board, is to hedge material The groups share of the debt within Morrison Cleanaway transactional exposures against the reporting currency Ltd operating as CityCare, a Morrison Facilities Services by means of forward foreign exchange contracts.
joint venture, was 1.9 million at 31 March 2006 2005: 2.2 million.
Net assets are held in a number of currencies and translated at prevailing year-end exchange rates.
The resulting exposures AWG Propertys share of the debt within its joint are monitored and, at certain thresholds, are hedged venture companies at 31 March 2006 was 55.0 million by currency borrowings, cross-currency swaps, forward 2005: 96.6 million.
foreign exchange contracts or foreign exchange options.
As at 31 March 2006 the group had guaranteed debt Credit risk obligations of joint ventures and associates totalling The group's main credit risk is in relation to trade 31.8 million 2005: 43.1 million.
These are disclosed receivables and is managed by regular review of problem as contingent liabilities in note 34 of the consolidated accounts.
Due to the nature of the customer base in financial statements.
Anglian Water, credit checks are not generally performed, but the risk is spread over a very large number of individually small customer accounts.
