Operating and Financial Review 30 AWG Property AWG Property is one of Scotlands leading development and investment companies, pursuing low-risk opportunities with its joint venture partners.
It is also seeking to realise value from surplus land elsewhere in the group.
Key performance indicators Introduction AWG Property has developed a reputation as one of the leading Scottish development and investment companies.
1 Accident Frequency Rate It manages a large property portfolio, in many cases through joint ventures covering commercial development, 2006 0 residential development and property investment.
2005 0 It also has a remit to develop surplus land and property Capital employed assets owned by other parts of the group.
Mar 06 62m AWG Propertys focus on its Scottish operations has Mar 05 90m enabled the management team to attract new project partners and secure investment capital to expand its Operating cash flow financial strength within this market.
2006 27m Commercial developments 2005 3.4 m AWG Property is a specialist commercial property developer across Scotland, with extensive experience in Operating loss retail and leisure, office and business space, mixed-use, industrial and distribution markets.
2006 1.9 m 2005 13.7 m In 2005 6, AWG Property concluded 284,337 square feet of commercial contracts.
These included the new Centre 1 of Excellence for Scottish Power, the new Scottish Accidents per 100,000 hours worked headquarters for First Engineering and the first disaster recovery office for ICM in Scotland.
Residential developments An estimated 13,000 new homes a year will be required over the next five years in Scotland.
This market therefore represents a significant opportunity for AWG Property.
AWG Property provides a wide range of services and support to suit independent developers, small builders, landowners and financial institutions.
AWG Property is actively involved in all aspects of the residential business in Scotland and is currently involved in a number of projects.
co. uk 31 In September 2005 it was named preferred developer Total operating loss for AWG Property for the year was with the Scottish Agricultural College SAC to deliver 1.9 million 2005: loss of 13.7 million on a turnover a 500 acre master plan for its site in Ayr.
The improvement mainly relates to the restructuring and disposal of a Strategic land holdings number of loss-making legacy properties.
AWG Property manages some 1,589 acres of strategic land holdings across Scotland with the potential for Capital employed within AWG Property reduced from 10,000 new homes.
During 2005 6 this was expanded 90 million at 31 March 2005 to 62 million at 31 March with further purchases in residential growth areas, 2006.
This is targeted to reduce slightly in future years including Ayr, Neilston, Carluke and Longridge.
as the few remaining legacy properties are sold.
Fund launches The reduction in capital employed mainly reflects the AWG Property has launched fund initiatives in conjunction continued release of invested capital from its property with investment partners.
Its main role within these assets.
Projects completed during the year included initiatives is to manage the project development and the sale of the Great Northern Warehouse joint venture co-ordinate the funding requirements.
In some cases, in Manchester, residential and commercial properties AWG Property provides a small equity investment into in Cambuslang and the sale of residential land and these funds.
developments in the Republic of Ireland.
This has resulted in an operating cash flow of some 27 million.
Legacy contracts Following the change in strategic focus of the group With the repayment of bank facilities, debt guarantees as a result of a business review carried out in 2004, have effectively reduced further from 23 million at 31 AWG Property began realising value from its existing, March 2005 to 11 million at 31 March 2006.
share of off balance sheet debt has been managed downwards for some time and was reduced further by Group property holdings 43 per cent in the year to a new total of 55 million.
AWG Property is reviewing the surplus land and assets owned by Anglian Water.
There are currently 47 sites AWG Property continues to develop new business within being considered, ranging from 0.5 acres to 25 acres its core Scottish market.
In a successful year for commercial across the AWG portfolio.
2005 6 saw the first return on development and investment activities various deals this strategy with three sites successfully taken through were concluded, delivering a gross operating profit of various property transactions realising some 0.8 million 6.5 million in Scotland.
Further sites were also secured, of value.
including prime office development sites in Edinburgh and Glasgow.
The operating profit delivered in Scotland was Financial performance offset by losses on residual legacy properties, a number of which, as noted above, were disposed of during the year.
2006 2005 m m Turnover 35.2 26.0 Operating loss 1.9 13.7 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Operating and Financial Review 32 AWG Property continued Enhancing reputation AWG Property is a leading developer of commercial property in Scotland.
In 2005 it concluded 284,337 square feet of commercial contracts, including computer group ICMs first disaster recovery office in Scotland.
co. uk 33 Management The demand for property developments and land generally AWG Property has its own board, which consists of two continues to be strong in Scotland.
The market is AWG Plc Directors the Group Chief Executive and the underpinned by the large number of blue-chip financial Group Finance Director, the Managing Director of AWG businesses in the region and continued regional Property and six further Executive Directors.
The Managing redevelopment, for example in Cambuslang.
Residential Director oversees the day-to-day operations.
house price growth in Scotland continues to compare favourably to England.
Risks AWG Property faces a variety of business risks.
The A new strategic land tax, the Property Gain Supplement, principal risk is the economic cycle, which property will be introduced in Scotland: the timetable for developments tend to follow.
AWG Property minimises implementation is yet to be confirmed.
Although the full the risk of these cycles adversely affecting its business implications of the tax are currently being considered, it in a number of ways.
will be a prerequisite of future land purchases that they will be able to absorb the tax and remain financially viable.
The principal approach is to ensure that AWG Property has a balanced property portfolio to spread the exposure Pensions to individual market sectors, while allowing it to respond The majority of employees participated in the Morrison quickly to new opportunities.
Pension and Life Assurance Plan MPLAP.
This scheme was closed to future service on 31 March 2006 and the All projects are subject to extensive due diligence before employees were given a choice of whether to join the proceeding and are within core market sectors and group defined contribution scheme or a newly created geographical areas in which it has experience.
AWG career average earning scheme.
Property also ensures that it maintains a strong pipeline of projects at different stages of development.
Developments Outlook range from low-risk projects work with local authorities AWG Property will focus on continued development and and occupiers to larger multi-let schemes and office profitable recycling of capital employed in its core Scottish developments with established commercial partners.
market while continuing to release cash from its few remaining legacy properties.
AWGs role in the development process is designed to minimise risk.
It adopts a facilitation role in identifying Corporate responsibility the opportunity, and the client, and drawing on Working in communities established joint venture partners to deliver projects.
The AWG Property team has been involved in a number The financial risk involved in building properties is of charity projects.
One example is in Ayrshire where invariably borne by its third-party construction partners.
the team designed and painted a childrens playroom for the charity CLIC Sargent.
