Operating and Financial Review 22 Morrison is a support services business principally providing services to blue-chip utility clients and facilities management to local authorities.
Key performance indicators Introduction In 2004, AWG carried out a business review of Morrison, looking at ways to maximise shareholder value.
Having 1 Accident Frequency Rate considered all options for Morrison, it was decided to retain the business and improve its performance over 2006 0.30 a two to three-year period.
2005 0.30 Morrison began the year operating in three segments: 2 Profit margin Support Services principally Utility Services and Facilities Services, Construction Services and Project Investments.
2005 6 3.4% 2004 5 2.0% Following the sale of Construction Services and the Project Investments business, Morrison is now a dedicated Order book support service business.
Construction Services previously represented the part of the Morrison business with the Mar 06 1,424m highest inherent risk profile and lowest margin.
Sep 05 1,179m During the year, Morrison Construction Services and the Dividend contribution to group PFI business, Project Investments, were sold.
The sale generated total cash proceeds of some 42 million and 2005 6 9.3m gave rise to a book loss on disposal in the current year 2004 5 7.7m of 56.4 million, which is classified within discontinued operations.
The loss on disposal is primarily attributable 1 to 93.1 million of unamortised goodwill written off in Accidents per 100,000 hours worked 2 From support services operations, under IFRS before respect of Construction Services which arose when head office costs Morrison was acquired in 2000, net of proceeds received.
Continuing operations Morrisons support services businesses provide principally repair and maintenance and capital maintenance services to the utility and public sectors.
It operates primarily through two segments: Utility Services and Facilities Services, both of which have long-term relationships with their customers.
com 23 Morrison group chart Sold Utility Services Facilities Services Construction Services Project Investments including Highways including two Maintenance PFI projects Alpheus Other including Purac Alpheus, established in 1991, is a small process engineering company specialising in tailor-made design, build and project management services to the industrial and commercial sectors The business review in 2004 focused Morrison on As well as offering repair and maintenance services and improving its commercial and financial discipline related services, such as call centre management and by concentrating on three key objectives: tenant liaison, Facilities Services also manages local authorities capital spending programmes, such as kitchen To raise operating margins.
The market for To ensure a healthy conversion of profit to cash.
these services is considerable see page 29 under Growth To ensure that the order book is strong enough Drivers.
to sustain and grow the business profitably.
Facilities Services currently has 16 major clients.
During The business is self-financed through its own cash 2005 6 a number of contracts were won and extended generation.
Revenues are used to finance business with local authorities and housing associations including development and to pay a dividend contribution to AWG.
Tower Hamlets, Newcastle, Gateshead, Redbridge and Gloucester.
Utility Services Utility Services provides support services to 12 key Other blue-chip clients in the gas, water, electricity and Project Investments telecommunications sectors.
Its services range from As part of the Construction Services sale announced on implementing planned capital investment schemes 2 March 2006, Project Investments, the specialist Private to reactive repair and maintenance.
Finance Initiative PFI business, was also sold.
The small Project Investments team was transferred, and there is an The water and gas markets are considered to be relatively intention to transfer two early-stage PFI projects Defence mature.
The electricity and telecommunications sectors Housing Executive in Portsmouth and Highland Schools.
still provide good opportunities for expansion and increased market penetration.
As part of the sale agreement, the Project Investments team will continue to manage Morrisons remaining PFI During 2005 6 there were a number of significant concessions, with a view to divesting them at the additions to the order book, including new and appropriate time.
These will be managed outside the extended contracts.
Morrison business and are therefore no longer reported as part of Morrison.
The six remaining PFI investments Facilities Services have a book value of 7.6 million.
Facilities Services principally provides outsourced property repair and maintenance and capital investment services Purac to the public sector, typically through three to 10-year Morrison retains Purac, a process engineering, technology contracts.
and project management company serving municipal and industrial clients.
Purac operates principally in the It is one of the largest providers of social housing repair environmental sector, specialising in water and wastewater and maintenance services to local authorities in the UK, treatment.
managing more than 300,000 homes and other local authority buildings.
It also provides facilities services to a number of schools and the National Probation Service.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Operating and Financial Review 24 Order book Morrison continued Utility Services m Mar 2006 650 Sep 2005 553 Facilities Services m Mar 2006 726 Sep 2005 578 Other m Mar 2006 48 Sep 2005 48 Total m Mar 2006 1,424 Sep 2005 1,179 Financial performance During the year, Facilities Services also won a 10-year, 54 million repair and maintenance contract in Redbridge, 2006 2005 Essex.
Facilities Services now has an established presence Continuing operations m m in Scotland, the North East, the Midlands, Norfolk, Turnover 637.2 509.0 London and Essex.
Operating profit before 1 After the year-end in April 2006, Facilities Services won exceptional items 17.9 3.8 a contract with Highland Schools worth 100 million 1 2005 comparative excludes the exceptional loss on disposal of the MVM to provide maintenance services over 30 years.
Management Morrisons continuing operations, Utility Services and Structure Facilities Services, have built on the improvements seen in Morrison has its own operating board of eight directors, the first year to deliver a strong performance in the second which includes the Group Chief Executive and Group year of its business improvement programme.
Finance Director of AWG and the Managing Director and Finance Director of Morrison.
Turnover for Morrisons continuing operations as a whole increased 25.2 per cent to 637.2 million 2005: 509.0 Responsibility and control million, while operating profit before exceptional items A Managing Director has responsibility for the performance increased by 14.1 million to 17.9 million 2005: 3.8 of each of the operating divisions, which are in turn million.
Overall operating profit margin from Support supported by a small number of key head office 1 Services on the traditionally measured UK GAAP basis, employees including finance, human resources, legal and increased to 3.0 per cent 2005: 2.5 per cent.
Turnover in Utility Services increased significantly to Morrison has reinforced the commercial discipline and 405.4 million 2005: 295.0 million.
This was a financial control processes for new business tendering result of retaining and increasing work from existing and project development and management.
Operating profit also increased significantly criteria for tendering projects have been tightened, to 12.7 million 2005: 5.2 million.
focusing on core skills in geographic areas where Morrison has appropriate capability, experience or supply chain Facilities Services turnover increased 28.2 per cent to availability.
192.5 million 2005: 150.1 million, while operating profit more than doubled to 7.9 million 2005: 3.8 All new contracts must contribute to Morrisons strategic million.
Facilities Services has won a number of significant and financial targets, which are measured in terms of cash contracts in the year, including social housing maintenance generation and sustainable profit margin.
In addition, and Decent Homes capital investment work in Newcastle the risk profile of contracts must be acceptable.
and Gateshead, the full-year impact of which will be seen next year.
Key drivers of shareholder value are reported on a monthly 1 basis at a contract level.
All tenders are rigorously reviewed Operating profit margin on a UK GAAP basis includes joint venture turnover and operating profit.
and are assessed against the criteria of delivering a AWG Plc www.
com 25 sustainable improvement in profit margin for the business sectors.
Morrison has maintained an excellent safety to ensure that management can be confident that the performance over many years and has won a series of order book will deliver improving results in the future.
awards in recognition of its achievements in this area.
People Availability of skilled workers is an issue faced by all The reshaping of the business is intended to enable more companies in this sector.
To help retain its existing efficient and profitable delivery of Morrisons services.
In workforce, Morrison invests in the development of its order to realise this ambition it is vital that Morrisons employees.
Both Utility Services and Facilities Services employees are properly skilled and motivated to deliver are accredited Investors In People.
In order to help tackle the strategy.
During 2005 6 the average number of ongoing skills shortages, both divisions have been actively training days per person per annum within Morrison was involved in apprentice schemes and training the long-term 6.3 days compared to European standard set at five days.
In conjunction with a key client, Utility Services is also continuing to offer training to selected Utility Services has become the first utility services young offenders.
company in the UK to re-qualify more than 100 Gas Distribution level 1 GD1 gas engineers to the Gas In Facilities Services, a clients Direct Labour Organisation Network GNO level two qualification.
Under new DLO, involving a workforce of hundreds of employees, regulations issued by the Energy and Utility Skills Council, is often transferred en masse to Morrison.
The sensitive companies will need to comply with the new standard management of this process is critical to the smooth by 2008 to enable engineers to work on the gas network.
handover of work, subsequent efficiency and individuals job satisfaction.
This is an area in which Morrison has Morrison also works very closely with the Learning and considerable experience.
Skills Council, the Energy and Utility Sector Skills Council and regional colleges in relation to the ongoing training Commercial relationships and development of employees.
The support service businesses operate under framework contracts of typically three to 10-years duration.
Competitive environment Morrison operates in the highly competitive support Within Utility Services most contracts operate on a service sector in which there are a large number of schedule of rates basis with increases each year to allow companies offering a wide range of different services.
Each contract has it own unique set of key performance indicators KPIs agreed with the client.
These Morrison has performed strongly by concentrating on KPIs can influence the profit on the contracts.
its core skills in markets in which it has experience, competitive advantage and an established supply chain.
Facilities Services contracts tend to be on a measuredIn doing so, risk and start-up costs have been significantly term basis with a schedule of rates.
However, in recent reduced, leading to faster, more efficient operations.
years there has been a move to partnership arrangements, where the price is based on output specifications.
Both support service divisions, Utility Services and Facilities Services, have an excellent safety record, which is essential for long-term success in these competitive Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Operating and Financial Review 26 Morrison continued Growing skills Morrison Utility Services is one of the leading providers of services to the gas, water, electricity and telecommunications sectors.
Main photo: a Morrison TE Services Limited engineer installing a Next Generation Network at a clients premises in Dublin.
com 27 During the year, Utility Services acquired Dublin-based TE Services Limited, a small, specialist telecommunications contractor.
The acquisition, funded from Utility Services operating cashflow, provides Utility Services with additional skills for the telecommunications sector.
Risks Economic trends Much of Morrisons activities are operated within framework agreements with government agencies, local authorities and utility operators.
These are relatively insulated from general economic trends.
Contractual risk The majority of Morrisons contracts are with public authorities and major blue-chip clients.
Both the funding of programmes and the political support for private involvement may be subject to change.
The regulatory risks for Morrisons utility clients are cyclical.
For example, in the water industry prices are set every five years.
2005 6 is the first year of the latest Asset Management Period.
The risks relate to the operating cost targets set by the Regulator, Ofwat.
However, once the final determination is announced, the industry has considerable visibility of its targets and costs for the next five years.
As well as increasing the proportion of its work in framework contracts, Morrison spreads its contractual risk by carrying out a larger number of small, low-risk contracts.
When assessing potential contracts, emphasis is placed on whether it fits with Morrisons core skills and how close it is to Morrisons established supply chain.
Pensions Prior to the sale of Morrison Construction Services, agreement had been reached with Trustees of the largest Morrison pension scheme, Morrison Pension and Life Assurance Plan MPLAP and with a large degree of employee support following consultation, to switch from final salary to a career average accrual scheme for future service.
This maintained defined benefit provision for those employees whilst reducing the cost and risk to Inset left : switching on a 33kV circuit.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Operating and Financial Review 28 Morrison continued Following the sale of Construction Services, MPLAP closed Morrison is also running its ninth programme with the to future service accrual.
A new scheme was established to prison services Young Offenders Rehabilitation Scheme.
provide career average benefits to those scheme members Morrison employs people from this scheme as well as not part of the disposal.
working with its clients to place young people back into work.
The Facilities Services business, working on local authorities social housing, often involves a transfer of Reliance on suppliers employees under Transfer of Undertakings, Protection The business has preferred supplier relationships, which of Employment TUPE arrangements to Morrison.
The are generally not exclusive and always seek to ensure that pension provision for these employees must therefore be a balanced and stable supply chain is maintained, which equivalent to that received when employed by the local helps to deliver best value to clients.
Health and safety Morrison achieves this either by allowing employees to Health and safety considerations form a key part of remain in the Local Government Pension Scheme LGPS Morrisons operational practices.
Morrison operates safe by agreement with the local authority, or providing and reliable working practices through a policy of honesty, employees with an equivalent pension scheme through trust and sharing best practices across all business the company.
Morrison has a policy for managing such operations.
pension obligations and has specialised in developing pensions solutions with its clients.
The Accident Frequency Rate AFR within Morrison during the year was 0.30 against a target of 0.38.
A particular Skills shortages achievement during the year was in Utility Services where Morrison operates in an economic climate where skill four million hours were worked on a gas contract without shortages prevail and consequently invests heavily in any lost time through injury.
training and developing employees to their maximum potential.
Morrison has been very successful in recruiting AWGs Safety First Second Nature approach is highlighted from local communities in which it works and in in campaigns throughout Morrison, requiring that employees developing and retraining staff.
and sub-contractors participate in safety improvement.
Over the past year Morrison has employed over 200 In April 2005, Morrison was awarded the British Safety personnel from the long-term unemployed as a result Council International Safety award in recognition of of its association with Job Centre Plus.
A number are its safety performance across the Morrison business.
mature apprentices, which supports Morrisons involvement in social inclusion in the community Utility Services has become the first utility service business programmes.
in the UK to devise and implement a bespoke Institution of Occupational Safety and Health IOSH accredited training course for the utility sector.
com 29 Managing waste Excavated material is taken to a site where a machine recycles the spoil and mixes structured material for reinstatement SMR with the excavated material to create a high-quality material that can be used as backfill, sub-base or road-base.
The machine provides a consistent mix and rejects any stones or material above a certain size, ensuring a high degree of quality control with the production of the recycled material.
This has significant benefits for the company, as well as the environment, as it reduces the amount of spoil taken to landfill sites.
The cement-like SMR absorbs moisture and allows further compaction by as much as five per cent.
Using SMR also reduces pollution as lorries do not need to transport natural stone or spoil to and from site.
The Utility Services division also won the Construction penetration.
During the year Morrison acquired TE Services Sector Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents RoSPA Limited, a small telecommunications business based in sector award in April 2006 for safety, the first time the Ireland in order to offer specialised services to one of its same company has won the award two years in succession.
During the year, Alpheus, Morrisons environmental services company, and Purac won RoSPA Gold Outlook Occupational Health and Safety Awards.
Morrison will focus on the continued profitable growth and performance improvement of its support service Facilities Services is undertaking significant work in raising business, with the key objective of realising optimal standards within its local authority-derived businesses.
The health and safety management systems within Facilities Services have been accredited by the Contractors Corporate responsibility Health and Safety Assessment Scheme CHAS.
CHAS is Working in communities used by local authorities to assess the health and safety An important part of Facilities Services role in social capability of potential suppliers.
housing contracts is to engage effectively with the community.
In doing so, Morrison builds trust with During the year, Morrison Facilities Services was tenants which enables much more effective delivery of prosecuted by the Health and Safety Executive for the repair and maintenance and capital investment schemes.
incorrect removal of notifiable asbestos from a property in 2004.
Morrison pleaded guilty and was fined 32,000.
An example of investment in the community is an Morrison has chosen to use specialist asbestos subapprentice scheme that is operated by many of the social contractors to undertake this work since 31 March 2006. housing contracts.
In the London Borough of Havering, for example, there are currently four apprentices involved Growth drivers in courses learning a range of skills, including electrical The social housing sector represents a significant growth installation, carpentry and domestic plumbing installations.
Of the five million social houses Once completed, apprentices will be awarded a National in the UK, two million have so far been outsourced to the Vocational Qualification NVQ and a technical certificate.
In addition to local authorities own current spending, the Government has committed funding of 19 This community engagement is managed by dedicated billion in order to bring all social houses up to its Decent Resident Liaison Managers RLMs with support from the Homes standard by 2010. local teams.
During the year, Facilities Services created a new post of National Resident Liaison Manager to support Morrison is working in partnership with its clients to unlock and guide the network of RLMs.
this funding and the sizeable market opportunity it represents.
Managing wastes Utility Services has been given approval to use waste Utility Services is a leading company in the mature utility material as a soil stabiliser on class 2 roads by Hampshire sectors of water and gas.
In addition, the electricity sector County Council.
The structured material for reinstatement and telecommunications markets represent good was previously only permitted to be used on footways opportunities for expansion and increased market see panel above.
