Report of the Directors The Directors present their Report together with the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the year ended 31st December 2006.
Recommended offer by Barratt Developments PLC On 5th February 2007 the Board announced that it had agreed the terms of a recommended cash and share offer to be made by Barratt Developments PLC to acquire the entire issued and to be issued ordinary share capital of the Company the Offer.
At the date of the announcement the Offer valued each Wilson Bowden plc share at 2,245 pence after taking account of the Barratt Developments PLC interim dividend of 11.38 pence, which Wilson Bowden shareholders would not be entitled to receive in respect of their new Barratt shares.
Further detail on the Offer will be contained in the scheme document and prospectus, to be posted to Wilson Bowden shareholders in due course.
Principal activities of the Group The Company is a UK listed holding company of a wider group of companies whose activities principally comprise housebuilding and property development.
All Group companies operate exclusively within the United Kingdom.
The subsidiary and associated undertakings principally affecting the profits or net assets of the Group in the year are listed in note C5 to the Company financial statements.
Business review The Company is required by the Companies Act to set out in this report a fair review of the business of the Group during the financial year ended 31st December 2006 and of the position of the Group at the end of the year and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group the Business Review.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business Review can be found in the section entitled Background to the Offer from Barratt Developments PLC in the Chairmans Statement on page 1, the sections entitled David Wilson Homes, Wilson Bowden Developments and Land bank in the Group Chief Executives Review on pages 5 to 7, which provide more detailed commentaries on the business during the year together with the outlook for the future, and the section entitled Capital employed in the Group Finance Directors Review on page 11.
In addition, information in respect of the operating risks of the Group is set out in the Group Finance Directors Review on page 13.
The key performance indicators used to monitor the Groups performance are set out in the Group Chief Executives Review on pages 5 to 7.
In addition to these key performance indicators the Group also monitors non-financial key performance indicators, which include health and safety, corporate responsibility, environmental and customer care.
Details of the risks faced by the Group are set out in the Group Finance Directors Review on page 13 and the procedures by which the Group manages these risks are discussed on pages 26 and 27 of the Corporate Governance Statement.
Results and dividends The Groups profit for the year of 153.7m 2005: 150.1m has been transferred to retained earnings.
An interim dividend of 16.5p per ordinary 10p share was paid on 10th November 2006 2005: 15.0p and, pending completion and in accordance with the terms of the Offer, the Directors do not recommend the payment of a final dividend for the year ended 31st December 2006 2005: 31.5p.
Annual General Meeting Pending completion of the Offer, it is not proposed to call the twenty first Annual General Meeting of Wilson Bowden plc at this time.
If the Offer is delayed significantly, a notice of Annual General Meeting will be sent to shareholders at the appropriate time.
Executive and employee share schemes Details of ordinary shares held under option under the Wilson Bowden plc Senior Executive Share Option Scheme and the Wilson Bowden plc 2003 Savings Related Share Option Scheme, together with options granted, exercised or lapsing during the year, are shown in note 22 to the Group financial statements on pages 63 to 65.
Details of the Wilson Bowden plc Senior Executive Share Option Scheme, the Wilson Bowden plc Performance Share Plan and the Wilson Bowden plc 2003 Savings Related Share Option Scheme are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 36 and 37.
Details of the Companys ordinary shares held by the Trustee of the Wilson Bowden Employee Trust the Trust in respect of contingent future obligations under share incentive arrangements are set out in note C10 to the Company financial statements on page 74.
Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report 2006 16 Report of the Directors continued Details of the number of the Companys ordinary shares subject to awards granted under the Wilson Bowden plc Performance Share Plan, together with details of the awards granted and awards that vest under the plan are shown in note 22 to the Group financial statements on pages 63 to 65.
Fixed assets The Directors are of the opinion that the value of land and buildings included within the Groups fixed assets is in excess of book value but that the difference is not material in relation to the affairs of the Group.
Directors The names and biographical details of the Directors of the Company as at 2nd March 2007 are shown on pages 14 and 15.
Save as mentioned below, all Directors served throughout the year.
Mr G H Locke and Mrs E J Aikman were appointed to the Board on 5th July and 4th September 2006 respectively and, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, offer themselves for election at the next Annual General Meeting.
Mr N J Townsend and Mr G M Brown retired from the Board on 8th April and 31st December 2006, respectively.
The Companys Articles of Association require that one third of the Directors retire by rotation each year.
As mentioned above, it is currently not proposed to schedule an Annual General Meeting pending completion of the Offer.
However, should one be scheduled, the Directors retiring by rotation at such Annual General Meeting would be Mr P J Byrom, Dr A D Portno, and Mr I Robertson, all of whom, being eligible, would offer themselves for re-election.
Mr D E Brill, who was appointed to the Board in 1997, is proposed for re-election at the next Annual General Meeting.
Mrs E J Aikman, Mr G H Locke and Mr I Robertson have service contracts with the Company terminable upon either the Company giving twelve months notice or the Director giving six months notice.
Mr D E Brill, Mr P J Byrom and Dr A D Portno do not have service contracts with the Company.
Directors indemnities In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association each of the Companys Directors have the benefit of an indemnity under the terms of a deed with the Company.
Under the terms of the indemnity the Company has agreed to indemnify each Director to the extent permitted by law and the Companys Articles of Association in respect of all losses arising out of, or in connection with, the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as Directors of the Company and any of its subsidiaries.
Copies of these indemnities are kept at the Companys registered office and are available for inspection by any member of the Company.
The Company has also arranged an appropriate level of Directors and Officers insurance cover in respect of legal action against its Directors and Officers.
Directors and other substantial share interests The interests, as defined in the Companies Act 1985, of the Directors in the ordinary share capital of the Company are set out in the following table.
The total number of ordinary shares in which the Directors taken together were beneficially interested as at 31st December 2006 was 21,002,406 ordinary shares, excluding nonbeneficial interests in respect of 1,392,158 ordinary shares held by Mr D W Wilson, or members of his family.
Directors share interests 1st January 2006 31st December 2006 Ordinary shares of 10p each Beneficial Non-beneficial Beneficial Non-beneficial D W Wilson 30,598,766 1,216,937 20,934,779 1,392,158 I Robertson 30,663 31,233 N H Richardson 4,753 4,753 N J Townsend 45,398 retired 8th April 2006 G M Brown 29,641 29,641 retired 31st December 2006 A D Portno 2,000 2,000 Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report 2006 17 Report of the Directors continued Details of options over the ordinary share capital of the Company held by the Directors are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 36.
The Directors have no other notifiable interests in the shares of the Company or its subsidiaries.
There have been no changes in the share interests of those Directors in office at the date of this report between 31st December 2006 and 2nd March 2007.
Details of the number of the Companys ordinary shares subject to awards granted under the Wilson Bowden plc Performance Share Plan held by the Directors are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 37.
In addition to their interests in ordinary shares disclosed above, the Executive Directors are, for the purposes of the Companies Act 1985, regarded as being interested in all the 11,807 ordinary shares in the Company held by the Trustee of the Employee Benefit Trust as at 31st December 2006.
It is not expected, however, that any Executive Director will be entitled to receive from the Employee Benefit Trust a number of ordinary shares greater than those to which he is conditionally entitled under the Companys share incentive schemes.
In addition to the Directors interests disclosed above, the Company has been notified of the substantial interests shown below, held by trustees of Wilson Family Trusts.
Substantial share interests Ordinary shares of 10p each Number of shares % of issued share capital Mr A J Gillions 6,579,113 6.95 Mr C V McLeod 6,515,213 6.89 Mr H A Sinclair 6,515,213 6.89 Grant Thornton Stonehage Limited 5,099,166 5.39 Mr A J Gillions, Mr C V McLeod and Mr H A Sinclair are trustees of various Wilson Family Trusts.
These Wilson Family Trusts have, in aggregate, an interest in 6,579,113 ordinary shares.
The individual interests of each trustee in such ordinary shares held by the various Wilson Family Trusts are set out in the table above, alongside the name of each trustee.
The non-beneficial interests shown for Mr D W Wilson include 1,190,158 shares that are also included within the trustees interests.
On 1st March 2007 notifications had been received, in accordance with the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company.
Name of holder Number of shares % of issued share capital FMR Corp. and Fidelity Investments Limited 3,593,340 3.80 The Company had not been notified of any other material interests in its share capital.
No Director had, at any time during the period under review, a material interest in any contract with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Share capital Note 20 on page 61 of the Annual Report sets out details of the Companys share capital, including the number of shares issued during the period under review.
Since 31st December 2006 the Company has issued 796 ordinary shares pursuant to the exercise of options under the Wilson Bowden plc 2003 Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
During the year under review options over 549,942 shares 2005: 792,915 were granted to the Groups Directors and employees under the Companys share option schemes.
Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report 2006 18 Report of the Directors continued Financial instruments An explanation of the Groups financial risk management objectives and policies, together with details of the Groups exposure to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk appears in note 18 of the Group financial statements on page 60.
Supplier payment policy The Groups policy with regard to the payment of suppliers is to advise suppliers, when placing orders, of the Groups payment terms or, alternatively, to agree payment terms prior to order.
It is the Groups policy to pay in accordance with the agreed arrangements within the industry, which include the evaluation by surveyors of the value of work completed and retentions for remedial works.
The Company has no trade creditors and accordingly no disclosures are required with respect to trade creditors under the provisions of the Companies Act 1985 Directors Report Statement of Payment Practice Regulations 1997.
Employment, training and development It is the Groups policy that employment opportunities, training, career development and promotion should be available to all, irrespective of age, gender, ethnic origin, religion or disability.
Due consideration is always given to applications for employment, having regard to the particular aptitudes and abilities of the applicants.
Any employee who develops a disability during employment is given the opportunity to retrain for alternative employment where necessary and practicable, given the nature of the Groups activities.
The Groups human resources policies are available to all employees and include guidance on all employment matters, ethics, equal opportunities, stress management, staff benefits and training and development.
The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its employees and there are specific arrangements to keep all employees informed on matters of concern to them and to encourage their involvement in the Groups performance.
The Board is committed to ensuring that all employees are skilled, motivated and performing to the best of their ability.
All full-time staff, subject to certain criteria, have the opportunity to participate directly in the Groups success through the Wilson Bowden plc 2003 Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
The Group continues to deliver high levels of performance by investing in its employees, developing their skills, measuring and improving achievements through regular reviews and focusing on improving team effectiveness.
The development of technical, personal and managerial skills is key to the Groups success.
Combined expenditure on the Construction Industry Training Board levy and the Groups direct training budget continues to exceed 1 million per year.
In-house training consultants provide technical support and guidance, with assistance from external trainers on specialist subjects as and when required.
Health and safety The Groups Health and Safety department provides guidance and solutions to the operating businesses on all aspects of health and safety and serves to strengthen further the health and safety culture within the Group.
The Board is committed to ensuring that the Groups activities are carried out in accordance with relevant statutory provisions and all reasonable and appropriate measures are taken to avoid risk to employees or others who may be affected.
Whilst management is committed to providing a safe working environment with the appropriate working practices and training, this can only be achieved if employees equally give their commitment to a rigorous health and safety culture.
The Group continues to strive to reduce the number of reportable accidents and dangerous occurrences.
There are no prosecutions pending against the Group and there were no fatalities during the year.
Corporate and social responsibility The Board acknowledges the Groups corporate and social responsibilities and its approach to these matters is demonstrated in the Corporate Responsibility Report which the Group publishes annually to coincide with the announcement of the Interim Results.
Corporate governance The Boards Corporate Governance Statement is set out on pages 21 to 27.
Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report 2006 19 Report of the Directors continued Going concern The Group continues to place considerable emphasis on its budgeting and forecasting procedures and each month produces a forecast of trading and cash flow covering at least the forthcoming fifteen months.
Accordingly, the Group continues to have in place all the procedures and information appropriate to the going concern assessment required by the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Having reviewed the Groups resources and a range of likely trading out-turns, the Directors believe that they have reasonable grounds for stating that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and therefore to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Donations Donations during the year for educational purposes, to charity and to local causes, amounted to 72,000 2005: 26,400.
There were no political donations during the year.
Auditors Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this annual report confirms that: So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and The Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make him or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
The Companys auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and it is intended that a resolution for their re-appointment and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration will be proposed at the next Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board R G Douglas BSc Econ FCA Company Secretary 2nd March 2007 Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report 2006 20
