Board of Directors D W Wilson FCIOB Hon LLD Chairman David Wilson, who is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Building, has spent his entire career with Wilson Bowden and continues to devote virtually all of his time to the Groups affairs as its Chairman.
David concentrates on strategic and policy matters, whilst continuing to provide advice and support to the executive team led by Ian Robertson.
In 2004 David was awarded an honorary degree of Doctor of Laws from the University of Leicester, in recognition of his distinguished contribution to the built environment.
N E J Aikman BEng ACA Group Finance Director Jane Aikman, a chartered accountant with a degree in civil engineering, was appointed to the Board on 4th September 2006.
After qualifying with Ernst and Young, Jane moved into industry where she has held a number of senior finance positions in the UK and the Far East.
In 2004 Jane joined Pressac plc as Group Finance Director, becoming Acting Chief Executive Officer in October 2005.
D E Brill Independent Non-Executive David Brill was appointed to the Board in February 1997 and has chaired the Nominations Committee since January 2000.
David brings to the Board his considerable knowledge of the housebuilding industry having had a long and successful career in the sector, retiring as Managing Director of Prowting PLC in 1996.
A, N, R P J Byrom BSc FCA Independent Non-Executive Peter Byrom was appointed to the Board in November 1998 and has chaired the Audit Committee since January 2000.
Peter has had a distinguished career in merchant banking, retiring as a Director of N M Rothschild in 1996.
He is Chairman of both Domino Printing Sciences plc and Molins PLC, and is a Non-Executive Director of Rolls-Royce plc and AMEC plc.
A, N, R A J Giles Independent Non-Executive Alan Giles was appointed to the Board in October 2004.
He was Chief Executive of HMV Group plc from March 1998 until his retirement in September 2006.
Alan is also Chairman of Fat Face Limited and a NonExecutive Director of Rentokil Initial plc.
Alan was also a Non-Executive Director of Somerfield plc.
Earlier in his career Alan held senior roles with W H Smith Group plc and The Boots Company PLC.
A, N, R G H Locke ABEng Chief Executive David Wilson Homes Limited Greg Locke was appointed to the Board on 5th July 2006 and has overall responsibility for David Wilson Homes.
Greg joined the Group in 2003 as a Divisional Chairman of David Wilson Homes, rising to become Chief Executive of David Wilson Homes South in 2005.
Prior to joining the Group, Greg was a main Board Director of Redrow plc, having previously been Managing Director of South Wales and South West, before becoming Chairman of the Southern Region.
I P Lough CA Independent Non-Executive Iain Lough was appointed to the Board in September 2004.
Iain joined the board of Pilkington plc as Group Finance Director in 2002, having joined that company in 1993, and retired from that position on 31st January 2007.
Iain is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland and prior to joining Pilkington plc held a number of financial and operational positions with Imperial Chemical Industries PLC.
A, N, R Dr A D Portno CBE Senior Independent Non-Executive Tony Portno was appointed to the Board in November 1998 and his considerable experience of management in large businesses ideally equips him to act as the Boards Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
Tony has chaired the Remuneration Committee since January 2000.
He was an Executive Director of Bass PLC until he retired in 1998 and was a Non-Executive Director of Gallaher Group Plc until May 2005.
A, N, R Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report 2006 14 Board of Directors continued N H Richardson BSc MRICS Managing Director Wilson Bowden Developments Nick Richardson has overall responsibility for Wilson Bowden Developments.
The business comprises the Groups commercial property development, construction and City Homes businesses.
Nick joined Wilson Bowden Developments in 1991, was promoted to Managing Director in 1999 and joined the Group Board in June 2001.
Nick is a Non-Executive Director of Derby Cityscape Limited, a Government sponsored urban regeneration company.
I Robertson CA CCMI Group Chief Executive Ian Robertson joined the Board as Finance Director in 1994, was appointed Deputy Group Chief Executive in February 2001 and became Group Chief Executive in March 2003.
Ian has had extensive experience of senior financial management in major public companies.
Ian served as an elected member of Eastwood District Council in Renfrewshire from 1973 to 1984.
Between 1980 and 1984 he was Provost Chairman of the Council.
Ian is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland and was its President for the year 2004 5.
Ian is a member of the Financial Reporting Council.
R G Douglas BSc Econ FCA Company Secretary Robert Douglas is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales who joined the Group in September 2001 as Deputy Group Finance Director, prior to which he held a number of senior finance appointments in the industry.
Robert was appointed Group Company Secretary in March 2003 and is also a senior member of the Group Finance team.
As Company Secretary, Robert provides independent assurance to the Chairman and the Board on compliance, internal control and audit matters.
Board Committees: A Audit N Nominations R Remuneration Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report 2006 15
