Board of Directors From left to right: David Malpas CBE, Gerard Connell, Nigel Sullivan and Graeme McFaull 1 David Malpas CBE aged 66 3 Nigel Sullivan aged 39 4 Graeme McFaull aged 44 Chairman Group Human Resources Director Chief Executive David is Chairman of Allianz Dresdner Nigel joined Wincanton as Group Graeme joined Wincanton in 1994 Income Growth Investment Trust, Human Resources Director in as Finance Director of the Retail having retired as Managing Director November 2002 from Marconi plc.
Division following finance roles with of Tesco in 1997.
He became a nonPrior to that Nigel held a number of Geest, Cargill and Pepsico.
He has executive Director of Wincanton in human resources positions with held several Managing Directorships June 2001.
Nortel Networks and Rover Group.
within Wincanton since 1999, most He was appointed to the Board in recently running the UK and Ireland 2 Gerard Connell aged 48 January 2004. business since 2003.
Graeme is a Group Finance Director Fellow and Vice-President of the Gerard trained with Price Waterhouse Chartered Institute of Logistics and then worked in the City, and Transport.
becoming Managing Director of Bankers Trust and a Regional Director of Hill Samuel.
He joined Wincanton in September 2000 to help prepare the Company for demerger.
Gerard is also the Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee, Pennon Group Plc.
18 Wincanton plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 From left to right: Philip Cox, Dr Walter Hasselkus, David Edmonds CBE and Jonson Cox 5 Philip Cox aged 54 7 David Edmonds CBE aged 62 8 Jonson Cox aged 49 Nomination Committee Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director David Edmonds Philip is Chief Executive Officer David is Chairman of the Board of He became a non-executive Director David Malpas Chairman of International Power Plc, having NHS Direct and a Board member of of Wincanton in October 2005.
Graeme McFaull previously been Group Finance the Legal Services Commission.
He Jonson is currently Group Chief Director of Siebe.
He became a is a non-executive Director of Executive of AWG plc, the owner Remuneration Committee non-executive Director of Wincanton Hammerson PLC and William Hill of Anglian Water and Morrison plc.
He is Chairman of NHS Shared Previous senior positions include Philip Cox Business Services.
He is a Trustee of Chief Executive of Valpak Ltd, David Edmonds Chairman 6 Dr Walter Hasselkus aged 64 the Social Market Foundation.
Prior a business services company, Chief Walter Hasselkus Non-executive Director to 2003, he held a series of executive Operating Officer of Railtrack Group David Malpas Walter is a non-executive Director of posts in government departments plc and Managing Director of Kelda DAF Trucks NV, Chairman of the and in the NatWest Group.
He Group plc formerly Yorkshire Water Audit Committee Supervisory Board Ehlebracht AG, became a non-executive Director plc.
His early career was with Royal Jonson Cox non-executive Director of W. E. T. of Wincanton in December 2004 and Dutch Shell.
Philip Cox Chairman Holding Lux S. A. and Supervisory is the Senior Independent Director.
David Edmonds Board Member W. E. T. AG.
From Walter Hasselkus 1996 to 1998 he was a member of David Malpas the Board of Management BMW AG and Chairman and CEO Rover Group.
He became a non-executive Director of Wincanton in January 2004.
Wincanton plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 19
