Directors report The Directors present their Annual report and the audited financial Wincanton is committed to a policy of equal opportunities in employment by statements for the year ended 31 March 2006. which the Group has and continues to: Principal activities select, recruit, develop and promote the very best people basing its Wincanton is a contract logistics services business which designs, judgement solely on suitability for the job: implements and operates a range of supply chain management solutions.
ensure that all applicants and employees receive fair and equal treatment irrespective of sex, marital status, age, nationality, colour, race, ethnicity, Acquisition national origin, disability or gender reassignment: In October 2005 the Group acquired Premium Logistics for 20.3m in cash.
encourage diversity in its workforce, reflecting, where practicable, the diversity of the working population: Results and dividends maintain a working environment free from sexual and racial harassment A review of the activities of the Group during the financial year and analyses and intimidation: of revenue and profit and an indication of likely future developments are ensure that all employment conditions and job requirements reflect its presented in the Chairmans statement on pages 4 and 5 and the Business commitment to equal opportunities.
review on pages 8 to 15, which are incorporated into this Directors report by reference.
The Group profit attributable to shareholders for the financial Where people become disabled during the course of their employment, year amounted to 22.7m.
An interim dividend of 3.94p per share was paid every practical effort is made to retain their services, make adjustments and on 11 January 2006.
Subject to shareholders approval at the Annual General to provide retraining if necessary.
All employees are eligible for appropriate Meeting AGM to be held on 20 July 2006, a final dividend of 8.60p per training, career development and promotion and disabled people are not share will be paid on 11 August 2006 to those shareholders on the register treated any differently.
of members of Wincanton plc at 14 July 2006.
Under the requirements of Adopted IFRS this dividend is not provided until declared and therefore a total Political and charitable contributions of 22.9m of retained profits have been added to reserves.
In accordance with its policy, the Group made no political contributions during the year.
Donations to charities amounted to 15,000 2005: 28,000.
Policy and practice on payment of creditors The Group does not have a formal code that it follows with regard to payments Share capital and reserves to suppliers.
It agrees payment terms with its suppliers when it enters into Details of the authorised and issued share capital and reserves of the binding purchase contracts for the supply of goods and services.
Its suppliers Company are shown in note 23 to the accounts.
are, in that way, made aware of these terms.
The Group seeks to abide by these payment terms when it is satisfied that the supplier has provided the Annual General Meeting goods or services in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions.
At the AGM, the Directors of Wincanton plc will propose the following: to seek to renew the authority to disapply shareholders pre-emption rights At the year end there were 54 days 2005: 56 days purchases in the Groups in certain circumstances: to approve the Companys power to buy back a trade payables.
proportion of the Companys share capital: to allow the Directors to allot shares: and to approve the making of certain payments that may fall to be Directors classified as donations to political parties.
The current Directors of the Company are shown on pages 18 and 19.
Details of corporate governance policy are set out on pages 21 to 23.
Directors beneficial Substantial interests interests in the Companys share capital as at 31 March 2006 and the date of this At the date of this report, the Company has been notified by the following that report are set out in the Directors remuneration report on pages 24 to 27.
At the they hold a disclosable beneficial interest in 3% or more of the issued share AGM, Wincanton plc will seek the election of J Cox who was appointed during capital of the Company: the year and re-election as Directors of A D Malpas and N Sullivan who are both % resigning under the rotation provisions of the Articles.
The Company supports Legal and General Investment 3.97 their re-election.
AEGON UK plc 3.03 Employees During the year the Company did not purchase any of its own shares, except The Group uses a number of ways to provide employees with information to meet its obligations to employees under the Share Incentive Plan.
The only on matters of interest to them.
These include an Annual report to employees own shares held throughout the year were 3.5m 10 pence shares held in the dealing with Group and segmental results, an intranet, a quarterly in-house Employee Benefit Trust, which represents 2.96% of the issued share capital.
newsletter and briefing and consultative meetings.
Research and development In December 2005, a European Works Council was set up with the aim of During the year the Group was active in the development of new products bringing together employee representatives from across Europe, so that and supply chain services to support current and future customer requirements.
they can be informed and consulted by management on the Groups plans and performance.
Employee representatives are also able to meet their Going concern colleagues from other countries, exchanging information about the Group and After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation working conditions across Europe.
that the Company and the Group overall have adequate resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, these financial statements The Group has established a variety of option schemes and share incentive have been prepared on a going concern basis.
plans to align the interests of employees with those of shareholders and to support Wincanton in the development of its business objectives.
Grants of Auditors options were last made in December 2005 under the Executive Schemes to In accordance with Section 384 of the Companies Act 1985 and with corporate qualifying senior managers.
governance best practice, separate resolutions for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company and for the approval of their remuneration are to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
By order of the Board C F Phillips, Secretary Methuen Park, Chippenham, Wiltshire SN14 0WT 7 June 2006 20 Wincanton plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
