Auditors independence To ensure independence was maintained In December 2005 the Audit Committee for non-audit work the auditors put in place implemented a new policy that defines the following safeguards: the non-audit services that the auditor may Use of separate engagement directors perform.
This policy is effective from the new and teams.
financial year and will mean that the Group is compliant with the APBs Ethical Standard Use of senior independent consultation no.
The non-audit services work is split into: partners.
Work where the auditor is preferred Regular reporting to informed supplier e. g. reports on internal controls management.
or governance where they do not have No audit reliance on outputs.
to investigate their own work.
Work where the auditor is one of many Shareholder relations potential suppliers e. g. certain corporate The Group maintains regular contact finance services.
with institutional shareholders throughout the year.
To support and improve this Work where the auditor will only be used communication process the position of in exceptional circumstances and there Investor Relations Director was created and is no practical alternative e. g. assisting filled in October 2005.
This role is responsible in forecasting work.
for understanding the requirements of Work where the auditor cannot be used institutional and major investors, reporting e. g. support to the Audit Committee.
them to the Board and ensuring that these information requirements are reasonably met.
KPMG have confirmed to the Audit Committee that they were compliant with During the year the Senior Independent APBs Ethical Standards in relation to the Director and other Non Executive Directors audit engagement throughout the year.
Nonheld a number of meetings with major audit services provided in the year that could shareholders in order to develop a balanced be perceived to impact independence were: understanding of their views and concerns.
These were reported back to the Chairman The review of the Groups forecasting and the Board.
procedures announced at the time of the AGM.
All Directors, Executive and Non Executive Directors attend the AGM.
The Chairmen of Assistance with the financial modelling the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration of the Groups Optimisation Plan.
committees are available to answer questions.
Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2006 21
