Base salary and benefits Annual bonus Long-term incentives Base salary is a fixed cash sum payable The committee has developed a bonus plan No further grants of share options under the monthly in arrears.
appropriate for Executive Directors for the 1995 Senior Executive Share Option Scheme 2006 07 financial year to reinforce the will be made as the Scheme terminated at Base salary levels changed with effect strategy identified in the Optimisation Plan.
the end of its 10 year life on 25 May 2005. from 1 March 2005 following the review in Over the last 10 years the Company has June 2005 unless otherwise indicated, For 2006 07 the maximum bonus will be no issued options over 3.55% of the issued and are as follows: more than 100% of base salary for those share capital.
Executive Directors selected, at the discretion of the committee, for inclusion in the plan.
During the transition to International Financial Sir Kenneth Morrison 675,000 Measurements will be based upon profit Reporting Standards IFRS, the committee Robert Stott 650,000 before taxation and personal objectives, as will ensure that a consistent basis is used in Marie Melnyk 650,000 set out below: the measurement of performance conditions Mark Gunter 500,000 for all incentive plans.
David Hutchinson 480,000 Measures % of Bonus Potential Roger Owen 480,000 Profit before tax, The committee intends to develop a long Richard Pennycook with effect excluding exceptionals 80% term incentive plan when the new Chief from 1 February 2006 480,000 Personal objectives set Executive has been appointed and will seek by the committee 20% shareholder approval for it in due course.
Mindful of the need to set the right balance in In the event that no such plan has been Executive Directors packages, and to ensure In addition, no bonus will be payable for the adopted and approved by shareholders in the ability to attract, retain and motivate the achievement of personal objectives unless time for awards to be granted in the 2006 07 quality of management required by the the minimum profit target has been achieved.
financial year, then to fulfil promises made business, the policy is, in the future, to move The committee will determine which to Richard Pennycook at the time of his towards setting around mid-market salaries in Executive Directors will participate in the recruitment, the annual bonus award made the context of fully competitive total packages bonus plan and their level of participation.
to him for 2006 07 will include, in addition with a substantial proportion being subject to Future bonus plan design and participation to the cash element, a deferred share award.
the performance of the business and will be determined after a review to be That award will be over shares in the individuals.
The committee will have regard to conducted by the committee when the Company with a value using the average the following when reviewing salary levels: new Chief Executive has been appointed.
of the share price over the five dealing days The performance of the individual prior to making the award equal to two times concerned, together with any change in All Employee Sharesave Scheme the amount of any cash bonus he earns for responsibilities that may have occurred.
The Group also operates a Sharesave Scheme the 2006 07 financial year.
The deferred approved by HM Revenue & Customs share award will normally vest on 1 April The rates for similar roles in comparator under which all eligible employees including 2009 provided Richard Pennycook is then companies both direct retail competitors Executive Directors may be invited to still an employee of the Group.
Richard and more generally in UK based participate on similar terms.
The Scheme Pennycook will also be entitled on the vesting companies of a similar size and allows participants to save up to a maximum of his deferred share award to a payment in complexity.
of 250 each month for a fixed period of cash or shares equivalent to the dividends Avoiding where possible the automatic three or five years.
At the end of the savings which would have been payable on the ratcheting effects of following median period, individuals may use their savings plus shares during the deferral period.
or upper quartile levels of salary derived a tax free bonus to buy ordinary shares in the from comparator company analyses.
Company at a discount capped at 20% of the market price, set at the launch of the Benefits include health insurance, vehicle Scheme.
It is intended that invitations will be running costs, telephone expenses and made under the Scheme during the first half relocation expenses in connection with of the current financial year 2006 07.
Executive Directors relocating to the Yorkshire area.
Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2006 23 52 weeks ended 29 January 2006 Directors remuneration report continued Pension arrangements Marie Melnyk, Martin Ackroyd, David No contributions were paid or are payable Each Executive Director including the Hutchinson and Roger Owen joined the by any Directors under the terms of the 2 Chairman is entitled to a pension equal to 3 scheme prior to 1 June 1989.
There are no enhanced early of pensionable pay provided he or she has and Robert Stott became members retirement rights.
Post-retirement pensions served on the Board of the Group for at least subsequent to that date.
Richard Pennycook increase in line with the annual increase in 20 years at normal retirement date, which in joined the scheme after year end but his the retail price index or by 5% per annum each case is on his or her 62nd birthday.
contributions will be backdated to the compound, whichever is the lower.
commencement of his employment with the For periods of less than 20 years service, In addition to participating in the scheme, Company.
Kenneth Morrison is in receipt of pension entitlement is accrued at the rate of Richard Pennycook will receive a contribution a pension from the scheme, in addition to 1 360th of pensionable pay for each month of 10% of his base salary above the his total emoluments shown on page 26.
His of service as a Director.
This is in addition HM Revenue and Customs earnings limit.
pension amounted to 170,000 in the period.
to any entitlement built up prior to being Robert Stott will receive a pension payment appointed to the board up to a maximum In the event of death in service, a lump for service from the age of 62 based upon 2 of 3 pensionable salary at age 62. sum death benefit equal to three times the a payment of 16% of pensionable pay into Directors pensionable pay at the date of Pensionable pay is the Directors annual the scheme.
In addition, a spouses salary as at 6 April each year plus the pension equal to one quarter of the The committee will be reviewing the pension amount of profit share earned in the tax pensionable pay at the date of death will policy during the course of the year with year just ended but excluding any bonuses be paid.
If a former Director in receipt of particular reference to the impending earned under the annual bonus plan for pension dies before the fifth anniversary changes in legislation.
The committee is Executive Directors.
of his retirement a lump sum equal to the committed to following a policy of no greater The accrued pension is that which would payments he would have received over that cost to the Group of operating its pension be paid annually on retirement at 62, based period will be paid.
If a former Director who arrangements for Executive Directors as a on service to 29 January 2006. dies is survived by a spouse that spouse result of any changes felt to be necessary will continue to receive a pension equal to deal with changes in pensions legislation.
In the case of members joining the to one half of the pension payable at the However, where relevant, greater flexibility pension scheme prior to 1 June 1989 the time of death.
may be built into the pension arrangements.
pension payable is based on final pensionable Other than the Group-wide profit share pay calculated as the average of the highest The pension arrangements for the Directors scheme, pension is limited to annual salary, 3 years pensionable pay in the Directors last ensure that benefits provided are consistent the Groups new annual bonus scheme for 10 years of employment.
For members with those provided by other companies in Executive Directors is not pensionable.
joining the scheme after 31 May 1989 final the market place.
The expected cost of pensionable pay is the lower of the average providing retirement benefits to the Directors Principally as a result of the salary of the highest 3 years pensionable pay in the is assessed in accordance with the advice of increases in the year and changes in actuarial Directors last 10 years of employment and independent qualified actuaries.
The pension assumptions, increases in what is known as the maximum earnings limit which in 2005 06 arrangements include life assurance cover the pension transfer value have taken place.
is 105,600. whilst in employment, an entitlement to a These are set out in the table on page 27. pension in the event of ill health or disability and a pension for the spouse and any dependant children on death.
Profit share is included in the definition of pensionable pay for all members of the Groups pension scheme.
This element of the Directors remuneration is pensionable to ensure they receive benefits on the same basis as other members of the scheme.
24 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2006
