Directors report The Directors have pleasure in presenting The Group recognises a number of trade Auditors their report and the Groups audited financial unions and has a partnership agreement with In accordance with Sections 385 and 390A statements for the 52 weeks ended USDAW.
of the Companies Act 1985, a resolution to 29 January 2006. re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors and The Group encourages employee to authorise the Directors to set their involvement in the financial performance of Principal activity remuneration is to be proposed at the the business through profit share and savings forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The principal activity of the Group is the related share option schemes.
operation of retail supermarket stores and associated activities.
Borrowing powers Equal opportunities Equal opportunities are offered to all, The Articles of Association of the Company regardless of race, colour, nationality, ethnic Review of the year restrict the borrowings of the Company and origin, religion, sex, marital status, sexual its subsidiary undertakings to a maximum A review of the Groups activities is presented orientation, disability or age.
All applicants amount equal to twice the share capital and in the Chief Executives operating review.
and employees are treated equally in respect consolidated reserves.
of recruitment, promotion, training, pay and Result and dividend other employment policies and practices.
All Annual General Meeting The loss for the period after taxation decisions are based on merit.
Reasonable 12 ordinary and 3 special resolutions will amounted to 250.3m.
adjustments will be made to accommodate be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Under no The Directors have declared the following Details of these resolutions are set out in the circumstances will discrimination against dividends: notice of meeting.
The Directors believe each any individual or group be tolerated.
All of these resolutions is in the best interests m employees have access to confidential of the Group and recommend shareholders counselling provided by trained counsellors Paid interim dividend of to vote in favour of all of them as they intend as part of our special complaints procedure.
0.625p per share 2005: 0.625p 16.6 to do in respect of their personal beneficial The Group is conscious of its responsibility holdings of 113,248,544 ordinary shares of Proposed final dividend of to society and to the local community in the Company.
Management is required to apply all of the Groups policies fully and diligently Share capital to ensure that the highest standards are The following resolutions will be proposed at Employment policy maintained.
the Annual General Meeting: The Groups comprehensive employment Disability Resolution 13 a special resolution to policies cover recruitment, selection, retention, The Group gives full and fair consideration to renew until the close of the next Annual remuneration, education, development and applications for employment made by people General Meeting the authority given at the equality.
The harmonisation of these policies with disabilities.
Where an employee Annual General Meeting held on 26 May throughout the Group is a priority.
becomes disabled whilst in employment, 2005 for the Company to buy its ordinary every effort will be made to look at and convertible preference shares on the Employee involvement appropriate and reasonable adjustments and London Stock Exchange up to a Employees are kept as fully informed as to offer suitable employment together with maximum of 151,900,000 ordinary shares possible about the activities of the business.
of 10p each ordinary shares and This is achieved through internal publications, 1 42,061 5 4% cumulative redeemable communications programmes, notice boards, convertible preference shares of 1 each briefings, local, regional and national convertible preference shares consultative committees.
representing approximately 5.7% and 10% respectively of the issued share capital in each class of shares.
12 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2006
