Why we exist Within the WPP Group, our clients have access Our mission to companies with all the necessary marketing and To develop and manage talent: communications skills: companies with strong and distinctive cultures of their own: famous names, many of them.
to apply that talent, WPP, the parent company, complements these companies in three distinct ways.
throughout the world, First, it relieves them of much administrative work.
for the bene t of clients: Financial matters such as planning, budgeting, reporting, to do so in partnership: control, treasury, tax, mergers, acquisitions, investor relations, legal affairs and internal audit are co-ordinated to do so with pro t. centrally.
For the operating companies, every administrative hour saved is an extra hour to be devoted to the pursuit of professional excellence.
Secondly, the parent company encourages and enables operating companies of different disciplines to work together for the bene t of clients.
Such collaborations have the additional bene t of enhancing the job satisfaction of our people.
The parent company also plays an across-theetween them, WPP companies Group role in the following functions: the management have tens of thousands of of talent, including recruitment and training: in property individual clients.
They range management: and in procurement, information technology from Fortune 500 global giants and knowledge sharing.
through single-nation start-ups to the smallest of specialist charities.
And nally a relatively recent development, Diverse as they are, they have one this WPP itself can function as the 21st century equivalent thing in common: in pursuing of the full-service agency.
For some clients, predominantly their objectives, they face those with a vast geographical spread and a need for formidable competition.
marketing services ranging from advertising through Growing af uence in many parts of the world design and website construction to research and internal combined with over-capacity and over-supply in almost communications, WPP can act as a portal to provide a every signi cant consumer market have put more and single point of contact and accountability.
more power into the hands of consumers, accelerated No two clients are structured in precisely the same by technology.
Within WPPs operating companies, teams can be As always, if they are to succeed or even to tailor-made to match any and all.
survive with pro t every competitive company needs an intrinsically appealing product or service.
But that, though it remains the most fundamental of requirements, is no longer enough.
Just as competitive costermongers arrange their apples in appealing displays and polish them lovingly to catch their customers eyes, so all companies need to display their wares compellingly.
They need access to high-quality information, strategic advice and specialist communications skills.
And its in the nature of specialist and creative talent that it is unlikely to ourish within the con fines of a manufacturing or service company.
People with specialist talents work best and contribute more when recruited, trained and inspired by specialist companies.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Why we exist.
