How were doing Branding & Identity B to D Group Report by Craig Branigan left Chairman and chief executive of cer B to D Group n its first full year as WPPs branding and design group, B to D Group met with notable success.
Led by CFO Robert Horjus and myself, the group as a whole experienced added growth and stability, while the individual companies bene ted from an exchange of top talent and resources, the sharing of new business prospects and the opportunity to collaborate in order to serve clients better.
Landor achieved another record-breaking year in 2006.
A new generation of leaders, led by CEO Charlie Wrench, assumed the reins, driving Landors strategic and creative capabilities through added investment and strengthening Landors global network, most notably through the addition of a Beijing of ce.
Enterprise IG, led by CEO Simon Bolton, delivered a strong performance in 2006.
The company strengthened its offering and expanded its footprint via the addition of strategic marketing consultancy, Everystone, and Indian design agency, Ray Keshavan.
VBAT achieved a solid performance in 2006 despite challenges in its native Dutch market.
Led by chairman Eugene Bay and CEO Bob van der Lee, the company deepened its commitment to delivering a truly integrated brand development offer.
Heineken and ING remained two of VBATs top clients in 2006, in addition to supermarket chain, Laurus Super fide Boer, and premium food supplier, Wessanen.
New 2006 additions to VBATs client list included Ahold, Intergamma, Vrumona and Dutch railroad company, Nederlandse Spoorwegen.
Addison had an outstanding year, furthering its reputation as one of the worlds leading corporate reporting consultancies.
Addison won a greater range of awards than any other agency in their eld this year and a greater number than any other year in Addisons 28-year history.
Under the strong leadership of CEO Tom Robinson, Addison amassed a broader client base than its competitors, thanks in part to its differentiated position as a strategic advisor across the full WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How were doing.
How were doing Branding & Identity range of corporate communications.
On the new business front, Addison added Swiss Re, Azko Nobel and Deutsche Enterprise IG Post to an already impressive roster that includes clients Anglo American, AstraZeneca, Heineken, ING, Vodafone and WPP.
While 2006 began with a challenging start for Report by Simon Bolton right Lambie-Nairn, the company secured a number of solid Worldwide chief executive of cer wins by year end with companies such as BBC News, Enterprise IG Bloomberg, Skai Greece, AVIVA and Hotels.
LambieNairn also continued to deliver effectively as brand guardian for mobile service provider, O, securing a Gold in nterprise IGs business 2 the prestigious IPA Effectiveness Awards for their work on performance improved the brand.
Additionally, Lambie-Nairn successfully led the signi cantly during 2006, with efforts to rebrand Telefonicas Czech Republic and Slovakia healthy revenue growth and businesses under the O brand following Telefonicas recent operating margin improvement.
It was within this encouraging 2 Finally, 2006 was also a successful year for The commercial context that our Partners as the company continued to translate recent strategic vision for the network momentum into sustainable growth.
The Partners was took rm root.
highly recognized for its outstanding work, winning We are in the process of more creative awards than any other UK rm in the year, turning Enterprise IG into a stronger and more seamless including Best Identity in the Design Week awards and a network.
We are aligning our global offer and process D&AD Yellow Pencil.
Led by CEO Jim Prior, The Partners and focusing on building our reputation as Master Brand successfully diversi ed its client base and established several Builders.
Growth has come from three main sources: new signi cant on-going client relationships most notably with business: existing client relationship development: and AstraZeneca.
New client wins included Hilton Hotels, further geographic expansion of our network, which now Liverpool Victoria and Schroders Investment Management.
comprises 24 of ces in 21 countries.
In the year ahead, B to D Group will continue to Across this network we offer a diverse range of serve as a catalyst for topand bottom-line growth by services.
However, they all share a common belief that we continuing to leverage the strengths of each individual are in the business to deliver brand-driven business growth company to address the changing needs of our clients for clients.
The topic of brand has never been more closely even more effectively.
aligned with our clients business performance: we see the need for the brand challenge to sit at the heart of the commercial agenda.
This was part of the proposition that helped Enterprise IG to win signi cant new clients in 2006, including Deutsche Post, Emaar Properties, HP and Schroders.
These are all major multinational clients that have engaged Enterprise IG to support an international brand development agenda.
We also developed our relationships with a number of existing clients, including Pernod Ricard in France and the US, RBS in Ireland and the UK, Unilever in Germany and Cofco in China.
There were major developments in Asia Paci c. We reached an agreement with our joint venture partner, Ogilvy, that the network would come under the full management of Enterprise IG with all other elements of the JV unchanged.
This has led to us developing the regional network even further.
We opened two new of ces in Beijing and Jakarta to service the growing needs of How were doing WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How were doing Branding & Identity clients in these fast-developing markets.
In November, we raise the creative bar and with this in mind we hired Wally announced the acquisition of Ray Keshavan R K based in Krantz as the executive creative director for our New York Bangalore, India.
Led by the founder and creative director, operation.
We have also formed the Worldwide Creative Sujata Keshavan, R K is recognized to be one of the nest Council which is charged with the task of attracting and branding agencies in the sub-continent, handling a firstmanaging creative talent as well as the responsibility for class blend of local and multinational business.
We also developed our strategic proposition by I am con dent that, as Enterprise IG embraces 2007, bringing the London-based marketing consulting group, we have the strategy in place for the network to continue its Everystone, under the wing of Enterprise IG.
Everystone is an ambitious growth path.
experienced group of marketing strategists that work closely with clients to determine and develop accountable marketing plans.
Led by Rosi McMurray, Everystone works with clients such as Ernst & Young, HSBC and Old Mutual.
On the talent front, we made a number of key moves.
Terry Tyrrell one of the original founders of the London agency was promoted to worldwide chairman, with speci c responsibility for a number of key clients.
Crispin Jameson formerly CEO of Everystone joined as the worldwide strategy director in December.
And at the time of going to press, we were able to announce that Julia Rice formerly of MTV will join as the worldwide HR director, responsible for recruiting and retaining talent.
During the year we made signi cant strides with our creative product, and this was recognized with a number of prestigious awards.
However, our quest is to continue to WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How were doing.
How were doing Branding & Identity existing or new, our global studios bring equal amounts of enthusiasm and commitment to a wide range of challenges across our core disciplines of consumer environments, brand communications, trends and insights and industrial design.
Notable among last years projects: In retail environments we enjoyed huge success with Central Foods in Bangkok.
Our work in creating state-ofthe-art grocery retailing helped win our client the accolades of Best Food Store in Asia and the worlds third best food retailer behind Wholefoods, but ahead of Tesco and Dean & DeLuca!.
The opening last December of the Asia Games, the largest sporting event in Asia, saw the culmination of three years work creating a superb award-winning brand communication and identity program.
A world-class program that was thoroughly grounded by traditional Arab visual culture.
Our industrial design studios in the US collaborated on a brief from GE, which saw us helping to develop for General Motors the Volt concept car, revealed at the Detroit Fitch Motor Show as the car of the future.
This work was much applauded being voted best concept car in show and the most signi cant development in the US auto industry Report by Rodney Fitch above of the past 20 years.
Chairman We are not only creators but also thinkers.
Our Fitch insightful study into changing consumer attitudes towards brands was published as Generous Brands.
This paper was publicly endorsed by Jim Stenghal, CMO of P&G, as a framework for future brand engagement.
006 was another good year for Just four examples among many.
As long as we Fitch, with most of our studios continue to create programs of this quality for our clients, performing well and some so shall our reputation underpin our performance.
From a lossmaking position in 2003, we have enjoyed three successful years, with last year our best yet.
We have continued to work with valued existing clients such as Vodafone, HSBC, BAT, Liz Claiborne and GE, while growing our involvement with newer clients such as Nokia and Colgate.
2007 has started well, nowhere more so than in our most recent studio in Mumbai, which has already attracted considerable new business, particularly in retail design.
But behind good numbers stands good work and behind good work stand good people: our associates and clients.
So it is with great pride and gratitude that I take this opportunity to publicly honour both.
During a typical year, Fitch will tackle hundreds of projects for dozens of clients but, whether large or small, How were doing WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006
