Who runs WPP Members of the Board of Directors Board of Directors Philip Lader Non-executive chairman and chairman of the Nomination Committee Philip Lader Non-executive chairman Age 61 Sir Martin Sorrell Chief executive Philip Lader was appointed chairman in 2001.
The US Ambassador to the Court of St Jamess from 1997 to 2001, Paul Richardson Finance director he previously served in several senior executive roles in the US Government, including as a Member of the Presidents Mark Read Cabinet and as White House Deputy Chief of Staff.
Before Strategy director entering government service, he was executive vice president Colin Day of the company managing the late Sir James Goldsmiths Non-executive US holdings and president of both a prominent American Esther Dyson real estate company and universities in the US and Non-executive Australia.
A lawyer, he is also a Senior Advisor to Morgan Orit Gadiesh Stanley, a member of the Council of Lloyds insurance Non-executive market, a director of RAND, Marathon Oil, Rusal, AES David Komansky Corporations and Songbird Estates plc Canary Wharf, Non-executive a trustee of the Smithsonian Museum of American History and a member of the Council on Foreign Relations.
Christopher Mackenzie Non-executive Stanley Bud Morten Sir Martin Sorrell Chief executive Age 62 Non-executive: senior independent director Koichiro Naganuma Sir Martin Sorrell joined WPP in 1986 as a director, becoming Non-executive Group chief executive in the same year.
He is a nonLubna Olayan executive director of Formula One msorrell@wpp.
com Non-executive John Quelch Non-executive Paul Richardson Finance director Age 49 Jeffrey Rosen Non-executive: chairman of the Compensation Committee Paul Richardson became Group finance director of WPP in 1996 after four years with the Company as director Paul Spencer Non-executive: chairman of the Audit Committee of treasury.
He is responsible for the Groups worldwide functions in finance, information technology, procurement, property, treasury, internal audit and corporate responsibility.
Members of the Advisory Board He is also the Country Manager for Italy.
Previously he spent six years with the central financial team of Hanson PLC.
Jeremy Bullmore He is a chartered accountant and member of the Association John Jackson of Corporate Treasurers.
He is a non-executive director of Chime Communications PLC and STW Communications Group Limited in Australia, both of which are companies Company Secretary associated with the Group prichardson@wpp.
com Marie Capes Who runs WPP WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Who runs WPP Board of Directors Mark Read Strategy director Age 40 Orit Gadiesh Non-executive director Age 56 Mark Read was appointed a director in March 2005.
Orit Gadiesh was appointed a director in April 2004.
He has been WPPs director of strategy since 2002 and She is chairman of Bain & Company, Inc. and a worldis also CEO of WPP Digital.
He is a member of the renowned expert on management and corporate strategy.
He worked at WPP She holds an MBA from Harvard Business School and between 1989 and 1995 in both parent company and was a Baker Scholar.
She is a member of the International operating company roles.
Prior to rejoining WPP in 2002, Advisory Board at Haute Ecole Commerciale in France.
he was a principal at the consultancy rm of Booz-Allen She is a member of the Foundation Board for the World & Hamilton and founded and developed the company Economic Forum, and on the Board of Directors of The WebRewards in the UK mread@wpp.
com Peres Institute for Peace.
She is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations, a trustee for Eisenhower Fellowships and a member of the Business Committee of the Metropolitan Colin Day Non-executive director Age 51 Museum of Art, New York.
Colin Day was appointed a non-executive director in July 2005.
He is group finance director of Reckitt Benckiser David H Komansky Non-executive director Age 68 plc, having been appointed to its board in September 2000.
Prior to joining Reckitt Benckiser he was group finance David Komansky was appointed a director in January director of Aegis Group plc and previously held a number 2003.
He was chairman of the Board of Merrill Lynch & of senior finance positions with ABB Group plc and fide La Co, Inc, serving until his retirement on 28 April 2003.
He was a non-executive director of Imperial served as chief executive of cer from 1996 to 2002, having Tobacco plc until February 2007 and of easyJet plc until begun his career at Merrill Lynch in 1968.
Among many 30 September 2005. professional af liations, he serves as a director of Black Rock, Inc. and as a member of the International Advisory Board of the British American Business Council.
Active in Esther Dyson Non-executive director Age 55 many civic and charitable organisations, he serves on the Board of the New York Presbyterian Hospital.
Esther Dyson was appointed a director in 1999.
In 2004 she sold her 21-year-old company, EDventure Holdings, to CNET Networks, the US-based interactive media company.
Christopher Mackenzie Non-executive director Age 52 She left CNET at the end of 2006 and now operates as an independent investor and entrepreneur, again under Christopher Mackenzie was appointed a director in the name of EDventure.
She is an acknowledged deep 2000.
He is chief executive of Equilibrium, a Londonthinker in the information technology industry, and has based investor group.
He is also a board member of the been highly in uential for the past 20 years on the basis of Abdul Latif Jameel Group, KazMunaiGas Exploration & her insights into online information technology markets Production JSC and Champagne Jacquesson et Fils S. A. worldwide, including the emerging markets of Central and He served as the chief executive of financial service groups Eastern Europe and Asia.
An active investor as well as an including Brunswick Capital in Russia, Trizec Properties analyst observer, she recently participated in the sale of in the US and GE Capital Europe.
and of Medstory to Microsoft.
She sits on the boards of other IT start-ups including Boxbe US, Eventful.
US, Midentity UK, NewspaperDirect Canada, CVO Group Hungary and Yandex Russia.
She sat on the consumer advisory board of Orbitz until its sale to Cendant.
She is also active in public affairs and was founding chairman of ICANN, the domain name policy agency, from 1998 to 2000.
She currently sits on the board of the Sunlight Foundation, which advocates transparency in government and is pushing US legislators to publish their daily diaries.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Who runs WPP.
Who runs WPP Board of Directors Stanley Bud Morten Non-executive director Age 63 John Quelch Non-executive director Age 55 Bud Morten was appointed a director in 1991.
He is John Quelch was appointed a director in 1988.
He is Senior a consultant and private investor.
He is currently the Associate Dean and Lincoln Filene Professor of Business Independent Consultant to Citigroup Smith Barney with Administration at Harvard Business School.
Between 1998 responsibility for its independent research requirements.
and 2001 he was Dean of the London Business School.
He Previously he was the chief operating of cer of Punk, also serves as chairman of the Massachusetts Port Authority.
Ziegel & Co, a New York investment banking rm with a Professor Quelchs writings focus on global business practice focus on the healthcare and technology industries.
Before in emerging as well as developed markets, international that he was the managing director of the equity division of marketing and the role of the multinational corporation and Wertheim Schroder & Co, Inc. in New York.
He is a former the nation state.
He is a non-executive director of Gentiva non-executive director of Register.
com, which was sold to Health Services Inc, Inverness Medical Innovations, Inc. and a private equity rm in November 2005 and is no longer Pepsi Bottling Group Inc.
He served previously on the boards a public company.
He is also a non-executive director of of Blue Circle Industries plc, easyJet plc, Pentland Group plc The Motley Fool, Inc. which is a private company.
Koichiro Naganuma Non-executive director Age 62 Jeffrey A. Rosen Non-executive director Age 59 Koichiro Naganuma was appointed a director in February Jeffrey Rosen was appointed a director in December 2004.
He is president and group chief operating of cer of 2004.
He is a deputy chairman and managing director of Asatsu-DK, also known as ADK.
Joining the agency in Lazard.
He has over 30 years experience in international 1981, he began his career with the account service of global investment banking and corporate finance.
He is a member clients in the agency.
His mandate thereafter expanded of the Council on Foreign Relations and is President to the total operation of the group.
He replaced ADK of the Board of Trustees of the International Center of Chairman Masao Inagaki on the Board who retired upon Photography in New York.
the appointment of Mr Naganuma.
ADK is Japans third largest advertising and communications company, and ninth largest in the world.
WPP took a 20% interest Paul Spencer Non-executive director Age 57 in ADK in 1998.
Paul Spencer was appointed a director in April 2004.
He is a nancier with 20 years experience in the financial Lubna Olayan Non-executive director Age 51 management of a number of blue chip companies, including British Leyland PLC, Rolls-Royce PLC, Hanson PLC and Lubna Olayan was appointed a director in March 2005.
He served as UK chief executive Ms Olayan is the deputy chairman and chief executive of Royal & Sun Alliance PLC between 1999 and 2002. of cer of the Olayan Financing Company, a subsidiary He is the chairman of State Street Managed Pension Funds and the holding entity for the Olayan Groups operations Ltd.
He is also chairman of the Association of Corporate in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the Middle East.
Treasurers Advisory Board, NS&I National Savings, Ms Olayan is a Board Member of Saudi Hollandi Bank, a the UK government-owned retail savings institution, and publicly listed company in Saudi Arabia and a member of Sovereign Reversions Group plc.
He is also a non-executive the International Business Council of the World Economic director of Resolution Life Group plc and Nipponkoa Forum and the International Advisory Board of the Council Insurance Europe Ltd. Paul is a governor of Motability, on Foreign Relations.
She is a member of the Board of a UK charity for the disabled.
In October 2006, Ms Olayan joined the International Advisory Board of Rolls Royce.
Who runs WPP WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006
