How were doing Healthcare Communications CommonHealth Report by Matt Giegerich right President and chief executive of cer CommonHealth ommonHealths many accomplishments in 2006 have positioned us well for a strong 2007 and beyond.
From the creation of a more formal global presence, to the execution of a signi cant of ce consolidation project, from the re nement of our management and operating structures, to the expansion of our proprietary tools and techniques we are a bigger, more creative, collaborative and coordinated force in healthcare marketing than ever before.
With strength now in 15 worldwide operating divisions, CommonHealth enjoys an expansive client roster and a signi cant presence in virtually every therapeutic category, marketing discipline, media channel and audience sector.
Our organizational structure allows us to offer clients individual, specialized skills or a strategically coordinated mix of services, giving us both exibility and critical mass In fact, our network of talent became more connected in the vital, yet ever-changing healthcare marketplace.
and collaborative than ever before, with a solid threeSpeci c progress in 2006: quarters of our clients brands working with two or more Proving the clich with change comes opportunity, CommonHealth service divisions a sure sign that our we pitched, won and earned more new business than in fully integrated business model adds value.
any prior year, further diversifying our client base and Greatly advancing our industry-wide reputation, expanding our footprint in this highly competitive arena.
CommonHealth garnered signi cant critical acclaim with We are now proud to name 14 of the top 15 pharmaceutical a record 72 industry awards all acknowledging creative manufacturers as valued clients.
In response to the continued globalization of the We increasingly organized the business around our healthcare market and client base, we launched a more proprietary suite of reality-based insight tools and formalized worldwide presence in partnership with our techniques, allowing us to assemble accurate, actionable WPP sister company, Ogilvy Healthworld.
We now boast insights for our clients brands on a depth and scale to dedicated agency hubs in London and Paris with additional which none of our competitors can compare.
of ces already in development.
Based on one of our proprietary insight-mining tools, we With an eye towards better leverage of our talent, publicly released the findings of our study on the effects of improved operating ef ciencies and stronger cross-company direct-to-consumer DTC advertising on patient physician collaboration, we successfully completed the consolidation dialogue.
The surprising results of this study commanded of 12 of our 13 US-based operating divisions into one, the attention of the FDA and were subsequently submitted multi-tenant of ce campus.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How were doing.
How were doing Healthcare Communications to the federal register for consideration as the future of DTC advertising protocols are debated.
As we look forward into the ever-churning, yet ever-critical healthcare marketplace, we continue to see enormous need for communications campaigns that in uence wellness, drive disease and brand awareness and education, and improve diagnosis, prescribing, compliance and adherence.
And, with great reverence for the inherent importance of our marketplace charter, CommonHealth is committed to continuing as a leader in the healthcare marketing industry and to the passionate support of our newly-revealed mission: Compelling communications.
Grey Healthcare Group Grey Healthcare Group, one of the worlds leading healthcare marketing companies, achieved double-digit growth for the tenth year in a row in 2006.
For Grey Healthcares full report, see page 44.
Ogilvy Healthworld As the size and complexity of the healthcare category continues to increase dramatically around the world, Ogilvy Healthworld has been able to leverage its unmatched geographic reach, market expertise and strategic alignment with parent Ogilvy Worldwide.
For Ogilvy Healthworlds full report, see page 31.
Sudler & Hennessey In 2006, the Sudler & Hennessey network continued its heritage of service, creativity and delivery in the health and healthcare industries.
For Sudler & Hennesseys full report, see page 40.
How were doing WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006
