How we behave Directors report Once again, this year the Directors report includes reviews from the chairmen of three Board committees: Philip Lader, as chairman of the Company and its Nomination Committee: Paul Spencer, as chairman of the Audit Committee, and Jeffrey Rosen, as chairman of the Compensation Committee.
It also contains an analysis of the Companys compliance with statutory and regulatory requirements.
Review of the Companys governance and the Nomination Committee Dear share owner Continuing to emphasise excellence in corporate governance while sustaining the entrepreneurial character of this Company and incentivising its people continues to be fundamental to its performance.
I hope that this is apparent to share owners, given your Companys financial performance, growth and innovation as recorded in this Report.
Signi cant changes were made to the Board and the committees in 2004 and 2005, as discussed in last years Annual Report and Accounts.
2006, therefore, focused on Report by Philip Lader above the day-to-day work of the Board and the ever-increasing Chairman of the Company work of its committees.
Central were our constructive and chairman of the Nomination Committee assessment of management performance, support to key executives in their management of critical issues, and The Directors report has been prepared in accordance with English law and where applicable, endorsement of initiatives to seize major opportunities.
the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and any liability in relation to the Directors report, the report of the Compensation Committee and the financial statements is governed by English law.
During 2006, the Board and I, as chairman once again undertook a thorough assessment process, including detailed one-on-one discussions with each director, followed by a full review by the Board as a whole.
I was separately assessed by the senior independent director and the remaining non-executive directors.
This Board is comprised of knowledgeable, independent-minded individuals of considerable standing.
Yet, however wellinformed and engaged we might be, individually and collectively, we are striving to learn and bene t from the best governance practices of other public companies and to improve our own performance.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How we behave.
How we behave Directors report Share owners should be particularly interested in Similarly, the Board does not view my role as nonour Boards rigorous talent management and successionexecutive chairman to compromise my independence.
Annually, and for the last five years, While I am chairman of the Company and a senior advisor more than 100 senior managers and rising stars of the to Morgan Stanley, I intend to continue as chairman parent and operating companies, including the Group chief of the Nomination Committee and as a member of the executive, are reviewed by the non-executive directors.
In Compensation Committee to ensure continuity in their work.
this process individual strengths and developmental needs In dealing, with a variety of complex issues this are considered in depth, and potential successors for senior past year, your Board has employed tough-minded, positions are identi ed.
The non-executive directors and commercial judgement based on wide experience in its Group chief executive had a candid, speci c discussion of members respective elds.
They have sought to achieve the potential internal and external candidates to succeed him proper balance between rendering appropriate corporate in the event of his retirement or other events, but public governance oversight and championing the entrepreneurial discussion of this subject would only foster speculation spirit that has built WPP into the leading global enterprise and unhealthy competition.
The best interests of the Group it is.
I thank my Board colleagues for their dedication and require, consequently, that those deliberations and our considerable efforts.
Our colleague Howard Paster, who conclusions be kept strictly con dential.
had already made known his decision to relinquish his full The Nomination Committee, of which I am also the time executive responsibilities, did not therefore stand for chairman, has particularly been involved in assessment re-election to the Board in 2006.
For three years, Howard and succession-planning processes.
During the year, the brought wisdom and expert counsel to our Board meetings: committee met three times formally and held a number of and we are delighted to record our gratitude to him.
These sessions were attended in whole Group is fortunate indeed in that we continue to bene t or in part by the Group chief executive, the Company from his experience and advice.
Secretary and the chief talent of cer.
Throughout the past year, the Groups executives It continues to be your Companys policy to comply have continued to deal in addition to their central client fully with all relevant laws and regulations, including the and competitive challenges with ever-increasing legislative Combined Code, the US Sarbanes-Oxley requirements, and regulatory requirements, particularly in the US and the the NASDAQ rules, the new UK Companies Act 2006 UK.
Managements performance in both regards warrants and, where possible and practicable, with guidelines issued both our admiration and our appreciation.
by institutional investors and their representative bodies.
However diligent and assertive your directors and To this end, WPP executives and advisors again management have been in 2006 and continue to be, let us devoted substantial time and resource throughout 2006. never forget that clients old and new, large and small, all In the year ended 31 December 2006, in the opinion of the necessarily demanding make this business possible.
Board, WPP has again been in compliance with provisions And fundamental to the remarkable story behind this of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, among years Report to you are the 100,000 people of WPP, their other relevant benchmarks, and continues to be so.
abilities, their energies and their tenacity.
The Boards views on independence of non-executive directors have been explained in previous years Report and Philip Lader Accounts.
Let me re-iterate, nonetheless, that independence, 15 May 2007 in our opinion, should be determined not by an arbitrary standard, but on a case-by-case basis, with full disclosure to share owners of any appearance of con ict with published guidelines.
The Board continues to disagree, for example, with the notion that directors who have served for more than nine years should, for this reason alone, no longer be considered independent.
A global and especially complex business of WPPs scale bene ts enormously from the seasoned judgement and institutional knowledge of long-term directors who continue to be actively engaged in the Groups governance.
How we behave WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How we behave Directors report Review of the Audit Committee of the Companies Act 2006 and the Disclosure Transparency Rules so as to enable the directors to sign off on their Report by Paul Spencer responsibilities of disclosure to the auditors: Chairman of the Audit Committee the review and appointment of the external auditors and approval of their remuneration and terms of engagement: monitoring the external auditors independence, Dear share owner objectivity and effectiveness, taking into account relevant global professional and regulatory requirements: My colleagues on the committee during 2006 were Bud the approval and monitoring of the policy for the Morten, Jeffrey Rosen and Esther Dyson.
Esther Dyson was engagement of the external auditors in relation to the supply appointed in May 2006. of permissible non-audit services including taxation, taking Meetings of the committee, of which there were 10 into account relevant ethical and regulatory requirements.
during 2006, were also attended, in whole or in part, by the WPPs policy regarding non-audit services that may be auditors, the chairman of the Company, the Group finance provided by the Groups auditors, Deloitte, prohibits director, the director of internal audit, the Company Secretary certain categories of work in line with relevant guidance and a representative of the legal department.
Furthermore, on independence, such as ethical standards issued by the the committee received presentations from parent company Auditory Practices Board and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
department heads, such as taxation and treasury.
Other categories of work may be provided by the auditors The committees terms of reference, which are if it is appropriate for them to do so.
The provision of such regularly reviewed by the committee, are available for services and associated fees are pre-approved by the Audit inspection on the Companys website at www.
com Committee, although some speci ed categories of work may and are on display prior to and at all general meetings be delegated to the director of internal audit for pre-approval.
All fees are summarised periodically for the committee in During 2006, the committee and its members were order to assess the aggregate value of non-audit fees against formally assessed by the chairman of the Company for their audit fees.
The value of fees for 2006 is shown in note 3 on technical suitability to be members of the committee and page 155: also for the committees overall effectiveness.
monitoring accounting and legal reporting requirements, 2006 has been another important year, especially including all relevant regulations of the UK Listing given WPPs obligation to report with effect from the end Authority, the SEC, and NASDAQ with which the of 2006 on the compliance of its internal controls with the Company must comply: requirements established by the SEC pursuant to section in conjunction with Paul Richardson, the director 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act SOX.
responsible for corporate responsibility in 2006, ensuring Much of the work by the committee and several systems are in place to monitor social, environmental and Group executives has revolved around satisfying the ethical issues which may affect the Group other than requirement to be SOX-compliant by the year-end and issues which fall within the remit of the Compensation in this respect the committee is indebted to the work and Committee : and expertise of our director of internal audit, Paul Stanley, maintaining established procedures for the receipt and his team.
and treatment of concerns including accounting, audit Other work carried out by the committee in 2006 and internal audit matters, with con dential and under its terms of reference included: anonymous submissions by employees of concerns monitoring the integrity of the Companys financial relating to those issues.
statements and reviewing signi cant financial reporting I would like to thank Bud Morten, Jeffrey Rosen, judgements: Esther Dyson, Philip Lader, Paul Richardson and a number reviewing internal financial control and internal audit of parent company executives for their continued assistance activities: throughout the year.
assisting the Board in meeting its responsibilities in respect of the review and reporting on the systems and Paul Spencer key elements of risk management as they affect all of the 15 May 2007 Groups operations: advising the Board on all relevant matters concerning its disclosure obligations particularly in the light of provisions WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How we behave.
How we behave Directors report Review of the Compensation Committee During 2006, the committee held nine formal meetings and had many informal discussions.
Committee Report by Jeffrey Rosen meetings are frequently attended, in whole or in part, Chairman of the Compensation Committee by the Group chief executive, the chief talent of cer, the director of compensation and bene ts, and the Company Secretary.
We also received advice from senior executives Dear share owner and from those external advisors referred to in the Report of the Compensation Committee on page 120.
This is my first report to you as chairman of the committee My thanks and appreciation go to my colleagues on since assuming this responsibility in the middle of 2006. the committee, Philip Lader, Christopher Mackenzie and I am grateful to Bud Morten, my predecessor, for ensuring Esther Dyson, for their thoughtful contributions and for a smooth transition through his continued availability their support to me during the year.
I am also indebted to and expertise.
Bud has made an immense contribution Mark Linaugh, chief talent of cer, and Adrian Jackson, as chairman of the committee over a number of years.
director of compensation and bene ts, for the hard work I commend and thank him for this on your behalf and and attention to detail which they bring to our committees on behalf of the committee.
Our effectiveness as a committee relies on During 2006 the committee continued to implement their capable assistance.
the changes determined by the review of the Groups compensation policy in 2005.
Jeffrey Rosen We were, and continue to be, mindful of the need 15 May 2007 to maintain competitive levels of compensation at all levels in the Company, in a marketplace where talent is at a premium and where compensation levels attract considerable attention.
Our work during the year included: a review of the total compensation packages of the Groups most senior executives relative to the marketplace benchmarks: the approval of bonuses for senior executives throughout the Group: a review of the remuneration for non-executive directors of the Group, including the chairman, which was supported by advice from Towers Perrin, and making recommendations to the Board: a review of the total compensation packages of WPPs executive directors to evaluate their appropriateness in various circumstances, including termination of employment: consideration of possible amendments to the LEAP program in respect of future awards under that plan: and a review of the impact of recent changes in age discrimination legislation in the UK and pension requirements in the US.
How we behave WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006
