Who we are The fast read WPP is one of the worlds most For a quick, pre-digested, comprehensive marketing highly-compressed version communications groups.
of this Annual Report: It comprises leading companies read the next five pages.
in all these disciplines: The full story starts on page 8.
Advertising Please read that, too.
Media Investment Management Information, Insight & Consultancy Public Relations & Public Affairs Branding & Identity Healthcare Communications Direct, Digital, Promotion & Relationship Marketing Specialist Communications There are more than 100 companies within the Group and each is a distinctive brand in its own right.
Each has its own identity, commands its own loyalty, and is committed to its own, specialist expertise.
That is their individual strength.
Clients seek their talent and their experience on a brand-by-brand basis.
Between them, our companies work with over 340 of the Fortune Global 500, over onehalf of the NASDAQ 100 and over 30 of the Fortune e-50.
It is also of increasing value to clients that WPP companies can work together, as increasingly they do: providing a tailor-made range of communications services, centrally integrated.
Over 400 clients are now served in three distinct disciplines.
More than 280 clients are served in four disciplines and these clients account for over 57% of Group revenues.
Group companies now work with nearly 230 clients across six or more countries.
Collectively, 100,000 people work for WPP companies: out of 2,000 of ces in 106 countries.
Our companies and their websites are listed on pages 10 and 11.
The fast read WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Why we exist What we think Our mission The Advertising & Marketing Services Industry: China and the internet by Sir Martin Sorrell To develop and manage talent: 2006 was WPPs best year ever, measured by all metrics.
This year will be even stronger as the platform for 2008 to apply that talent, a blockbuster 12 months that will see the US presidential throughout the world, elections, the Beijing Olympics and the European Football Championships.
for the bene t of clients: In the longer term, our industry will be bolstered to do so in partnership: by globalisation and the continued growth of China and India in particular, along with other parts of Asia Paci c, to do so with pro t. Latin America, Africa, the Middle East, and Central and Eastern Europe.
Within the WPP Group, our clients have access to Manufacturing overcapacity will demand more companies with all the necessary marketing and innovation, stronger brands and greater differentiation communications skills: companies with strong and all areas in which we excel.
The digital technologies will distinctive cultures of their own: famous names, also provide big opportunities as the media landscape many of them.
fragments and consumers habits evolve.
Equally, the WPP, the parent company, complements demand for internal alignment in big companies and thus these companies in three distinct ways.
the need for internal communications combined with First, it relieves them of much administrative work.
growing retail concentration and the rapid increase in the Financial matters such as planning, budgeting, reporting, signi cance of corporate responsibility will underline control, treasury, tax, mergers, acquisitions, investor the importance of the advertising business.
relations, legal affairs and internal audit are co-ordinated The issues of government extravagance, consolidation centrally.
For the operating companies, every administrative among clients, media owners and agencies, along with hour saved is an extra hour to be devoted to the pursuit of increasing trade and price promotion, fees, procurement professional excellence.
and outsourcing, media fragmentation and super-agencies Secondly, the parent company encourages and all bring opportunities as well as threats.
enables operating companies of different disciplines to work together for the bene t of clients.
Such collaborations have Sir Martin Sorrells article begins on page 73. the additional bene t of enhancing the job satisfaction of our people.
The parent company also plays an across-theGroup role in the following functions: the management In Praise of Interior Decorators of talent, including recruitment and training: in property Or at Least Some of Them by Jeremy Bullmore management: and in procurement, information technology and knowledge sharing.
I dont know much about interior decorators and have And, nally, WPP itself can function as the 21st never directly employed one.
But it seems to me, at least century equivalent of the full-service agency.
For some from observation, that they belong to one of two categories.
clients, predominantly those with a vast geographical There are those that work from the outside in: and there spread and a need for marketing services ranging from are those that work from the inside out.
advertising through design and website construction to research and internal communications, WPP can Jeremy Bullmores essay can be read in full on act as a portal to provide a single point of contact pages 95 to 97. and accountability.
Read more about our role on page 13.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 The fast read.
How were doing Financial summary 2006 results 2006 2005 Change % Our twentyfirst year was a record one.
Our results for 2006 Billings 30,141m 26,674m 13.0 re ect the continued, steady strength of the world economy Revenue 5,908m 5,374m 9.9 positively impacting almost all disciplines and geographies.
1 Headline EBITDA 1,002m 877m 14.3 Revenues were up almost 10% to 5.9 billion.
1 Headline operating pro t 822m 721m 14.0 Operating margin was up 0.5 margin points to 14.5%.
Reported operating pro t 742m 653m 13.6 Headline PBIT before goodwill impairment write-downs, 1 Headline PBIT 859m 755m 13.8 amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible assets, Headline PBIT margin 14.5% 14.0% 0.5 share of exceptional gains of associates, interest, tax and 1 Headline PBT 766m 669m 14.5 investment gains and write-downs was up almost 14% Reported PBT 682m 592m 15.2 to 859 million.
1,3 Headline diluted earnings per share 42.0p 36.0p 16.7 Headline pro t before tax was up over 14% to 1,2, 3 Headline diluted earnings per ADR $3.87 $3.27 18.3 766 million.
Reported pro t before tax was up over Ordinary dividend per share 11.21p 9.34p 20.0 15% to 682 million.
Headline diluted earnings per 2 Ordinary dividend per ADR $1.03 $0.85 21.2 share were up almost 17% to 42.0p and reported diluted Net debt at year-end 815m 804m 1.4 earnings per share up over 18% to 35.2p.
4 Average net debt 1,214m 1,212m 0.2 Total share owner return improved, with your Ordinary share price at year-end 690.5p 629.0p 9.8 share price rising by almost 10% to 690.5p over the year ADR price at year-end $67.78 $54.00 25.5 and dividends rising 20% to 11.21p.
The share price has Market capitalisation at year-end 8,566m 7,881m 8.7 advanced a further 9% to 757.5p at the time of writing.
Based on constant currency comparisons, on a At 10 May 2007 like-for-like basis, revenues were up 5.4% for the year, Ordinary share price 757.5p up 5.0% in the first half and accelerating to 5.7% in ADR price $74.29 the second half.
This appears to have been at or above Market capitalisation 9,320m the growth in the worldwide market, with the Group Notes maintaining or increasing market share.
The financial statements have been prepared under IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards, incorporating International Accounting Standards.
1 The calculation of headline measurements of performance including Headline EBITDA, Headline operating pro t, Headline PBIT, Headline PBT and Headline earnings is shown in note 32 of the financial statements.
Sector and geographic performance 2 One American Depositary Receipt represents five ordinary shares.
These gures have been translated for convenience purposes only using the income statement exchange rates shown on page 149.
This conversion should not be construed as a representation that the pound sterling amounts actually represent, or could be converted into, US dollars at the rates indicated.
By discipline, our Media Investment Management businesses 3 Earnings per share is calculated in note 9 of the financial statements.
led the way, along with direct, internet and interactive-related 4 Average net debt is fide ned on page 182. activities and Healthcare Communications.
Advertising, Information, Insight & Consultancy, Branding & Identity and Specialist Communications, showed consistent growth.
Public Relations & Public Affairs also continued to show signi cant improvement.
Marketing services contributed 52% of our revenues in 2006.
Advertising and Media Investment Management comprised 48%.
By geography, Asia Paci c, Africa and the Middle East, Latin America and Central and Eastern Europe led the way.
Western Continental Europe, although relatively more dif cult, improved in the year.
Markets outside North America represented over 60% of our revenues, a similar level to 2005.
Our long-term objectives are: To increase the combined geographic share of revenues of Asia Paci c, Latin America, Africa and the Middle East, and Central and Eastern Europe, from around 20% to one-third: To increase the share of revenues of marketing services from 52% to two-thirds: To increase the share of more measurable marketing services such as Information, Insight & Consultancy, and direct, interactive and internet from around onethird of our revenues to 50%.
The fast read WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 1 2006 revenue by geography % Cash ow North America 39 The objective introduced in 2003 of covering outgoings UK 14 by free cash ow was achieved.
We now generate Continental Europe 26 over $1 billion per annum of cash ow available for Asia Pacific, Latin America, Africa & Middle East 21 enhancing share owner value through capital expenditure, acquisitions, dividends and share buy-backs.
Future objectives 1,2 2006 Headline PBIT by geography % We will continue to focus on our key objectives improving North America 46 operating pro ts and margins, increasing cost exibility, UK 11 using free cash ow to enhance share owner value and Continental Europe 22 improve return on capital employed, continuing to develop Asia Pacific, Latin America, Africa & Middle East 21 the role of the parent company in adding value to our clients and people, developing our portfolio in high-revenue growth areas, both geographically and functionally, and improving our creative quality and capabilities.
1 2006 revenue by sector % Outlook Advertising and Media Investment Management 48 Information, Insight & Consultancy 15 Worldwide economic conditions seem set to continue to Public Relations & Public Affairs 10 show steady growth in 2007, although concerns remain Branding & Identity, Healthcare over the Middle East, oil and commodity prices and the and Specialist Communications 27 twin fide cits of the US economy.
Although growth in the world economy continues to be led by Asia Paci c, Latin America, Africa and the Middle East, Russia and the CIS countries, even Western 1,2 Continental Europe may continue the improvement seen 2006 Headline PBIT by sector % in the second half of 2006 together with the UK, where Advertising and Media Investment Management 52 growth in the second half of 2006 was double that of the Information, Insight & Consultancy 12 first half.
Public Relations & Public Affairs 10 2007 should bene t from the build-up to the US Branding & Identity, Healthcare Presidential elections and the Beijing Olympics in 2008, and Specialist Communications 26 which, as a maxi-quadrennial year, should be a very strong one, buoyed by heavy US political advertising and the European Football Championships.
Notes 1 Percentages are calculated on a constant currency basis.
2 Headline PBIT: The calculation of Headline PBIT is set out in note 32 of the financial statements.
Our letter to share owners starts on page 18.
Our 2006 operating & financial review and financial statements are presented in full on pages 130 to 183 and at www.
com investor WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 The fast read.
Who runs WPP How we behave Non-executive chairman Corporate governance Philip Lader The Board of Directors as a whole is collectively Chairman of the Nomination Committee accountable to the Companys share owners for good Member of the Compensation Committee corporate governance and is committed to achieving compliance with the principles of corporate governance Executive directors set out in the Combined Code.
Our goal is to comply with relevant laws, regulations, Sir Martin Sorrell and guidelines such as the Combined Code, the US Chief executive Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002, the NASDAQ rules, the new UK Paul Richardson Companies Act 2006, and where possible and practicable, Finance director with the guidelines issued by Institutional Investments and Mark Read Strategy director their representative bodies.
WPP operates a system of internal control, which Non-executive directors is maintained and reviewed in accordance with the Combined Code and the guidance in the Turnbull Report Colin Day as well as the relevant provisions of the Securities Exchange Esther Dyson Act 1934 as they currently apply to the Company.
Member of the Compensation Committee In the opinion of the Board, the Company has complied Member of the Audit Committee throughout the year with the Combined Code, the Turnbull Orit Gadiesh Report and also with the relevant provisions of the David Komansky Securities Exchange Act 1934.
Member of the Nomination Committee Christopher Mackenzie Member of the Compensation Committee Corporate responsibility Member of the Nomination Committee Stanley Bud Morten Paul Richardson is the Board director responsible for Member of the Audit Committee assessing corporate responsibility practices in 2006.
Senior independent director He chairs WPPs Corporate Responsibility Committee Koichiro Naganuma which advises on policy, monitors emerging issues and Lubna Olayan co-ordinates communication among Group companies.
John Quelch WPPs five most signi cant corporate responsibility Jeffrey Rosen issues are: Chairman of the Compensation Committee The social and environmental impact of our work Member of the Audit Committee for clients.
Paul Spencer Chairman of the Audit Committee The impact of our work, including marketing ethics, compliance with marketing standards, protection of Members of the Advisory Board consumer privacy, social and cause-related marketing.
Employment, including diversity and equal opportunities, Jeremy Bullmore business ethics, employee development, remuneration, John Jackson communication and health and safety.
In 2006, WPP invested 38.2 million in training and wellbeing across Company Secretary the Group.
Social investment, including pro bono work, donations Marie Capes to charity and employee volunteering.
In 2006, our total social investment was worth 24.9 million, equivalent to Directors biographies appear 0.42% of revenue 3.7% of reported pro t before tax.
This on pages 98 to 100. includes 21.0 million in pro bono work based on the fees the bene ting organisations would have paid for our work and 3.9 million in donations.
Climate change, including the emissions from energy used in our of ces and during business travel.
Full details of our governance policies and practices, and our corporate responsibility activities, can be found on pages 103 to 117.
The fast read WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How were rewarded About share ownership Executive remuneration policy is set by WPPs WPP is quoted on the London Stock Exchange and Compensation Committee and is governed by three NASDAQ in New York.
guiding principles: Competitiveness Analysis of shareholdings Performance Alignment to share owner interests Issued share capital as at 31 December 2006: 1,240,605,187 ordinary shares, owned by 10,278 share owners.
During 2006, the Compensation Committee continued to implement the changes determined by the Share owners by geography % review of the Groups compensation policy in 2005.
The committee is mindful of the need to maintain UK 40 competitive levels of compensation with a large element US 46 dependent on performance and comprising shares as well Asia Pacific, Latin America, Africa & Middle East and Continental Europe 14 as cash, so as to align the interests of executives with those of share owners.
This is achieved by making: Single-year performance awards delivered as restricted stock awards and vesting two years after the end of the one-year performance period.
Share owners by type % Similarly, at the parent company level grants of Executive Share Awards, also vesting two years after the Institutional investors 95 end of the one-year performance period.
Employees 4 Awards of stock made on an annual basis to WPP Other individuals 1 Leaders, Partners and High Potential Groups in the form of restricted stock which vest three years after grant.
To those key executives including executive directors whose contributions transcend their day-to-day role, grants under the co-investment LEAP Plan resulting in the award of matching shares, dependent on performance, after a fiveyear performance period.
Substantial share ownership As at 10 May 2007, the Company is aware of the following Our directors remuneration and interests are set out interests of 3% or more in the issued ordinary share capital: on pages 126 to 129.
A full report from the Compensation Committee starts on page 119.
MFS Investment Management 4.76% Legal & General 4.40% WPP ESOPs 4.17% The disclosed interests of all of the above refer to the respective combined holdings of those entities and to interests associated with them.
The Company has not been noti ed of any other holdings of ordinary share capital of 3% or more.
Share owner relations WPP has a well-developed continuous program to address the needs of share owners, investment institutions and analysts, supplying a regular ow of information about the company, its strategy, performance and competitive position.
com, provides current and historical financial information including trading statements, news releases and presentations.
More information relating to share ownership can be found on pages 185 to 187.
