How were doing Agency networks Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide OgilvyOne Worldwide Ogilvy Public Relations Worldwide Ogilvy Healthworld OgilvyAction Report by Shelly Lazarus right Chairman and chief executive of cer Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide e live in interesting times.
You cannot look at any part of our business without seeing tremendous change.
The massively expanding number of ways that we can connect, coupled with the fact that the consumer is rmly in control, places a deep premium on innovation, fresh thinking and ideas.
For this reason I am deeply appreciative of how our entire company has adapted with new ways of working, award-winning creativity, and This was not surprising.
We have aggressively taken excellent financial performance.
a leadership position in the new media, as evidenced The valuable lesson our long experience in integrated by the vitality of our ongoing digital summit series, communications what we call 360 Degree Brand Verge.
Digital is evolving so fast that our capability and Stewardship has taught us is that success is not a question leadership in this area is crucial for our clients today.
of media, technology, or even integration.
In 2006 we also took steps to strengthen our Our best work is always founded on a compelling brand idea leadership position in several key markets that we have we might even say a brand ideal.
We think focusing on identi ed as sources for the highest potential growth.
big ideas gives greatest value to clients and best assures our We expanded operations in China to the next tier of key financial growth and success.
Think Dove Campaign for cities and added capability with acquisitions in internet Real Beauty, American Express My life.
IBM and real estate marketing an area of huge growth.
Innovation That Matters, BP Beyond Petroleum, Motorola We consolidated two operations in Korea to form the Moto, and Cisco The Human Network.
Diamond Ogilvy Group, creating a market leader.
We continue to rede ne advertising in the broadest We focused on growing Central Europe as a sub-region possible terms and are working in intra-disciplinary by strengthening creative and management resources.
For example, in New York and The challenges in those markets are signi cant, but so are London, the creative departments from advertising, direct the opportunities.
Our leadership there has been particularly and interactive have been combined: a positive trend that adept in setting up second agency units to handle con icts, acknowledges the lack of boundaries and hierarchy in readying us for rapid growth going forward.
This is the future of advertising.
The investment in our network yielded a strong 2006 was a year of signi cant growth.
OgilvyOne year in client acquisition.
Johnson & Johnson tapped us and OgilvyInteractive at the center of the digital to lead their Olympic sponsorship program in China.
revolution turned in extremely strong performances.
Panasonic tapped Ogilvy Latina as its region-wide agency.
How were doing WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How were doing Agency networks in Show, The London International Awards 6, NY ADDY 42, NY Festivals 23, and The One Show 12.
We were major winners at the Ef es in many markets including India, Mexico, El Salvador and in the US where Ogilvy won 10, including the Grand Ef e for Doves Campaign for Real Beauty.
This is an astounding achievement since Dove also won the Grand Prix at the Euro Ef es two years ago the first time any campaign has won that honor on two continents.
The Dove campaign was also named Global Campaign of the Year by AdvertisingAge, and BusinessWeek named it Best in Class in their annual ad roundup.
Dove is a big idea in action.
We also had a full share of Agency of the Year honors.
Winners include Ogilvy & Mather Asia Paci c as both network of the year and creative agency of the year, Argentina, Germany, Johannesburg, Hong Kong, Singapore, Mexico, and India, with India being named most creative agency for the tenth time in 11 years.
OgilvyOne Worldwide was named top company in both the direct and digital marketing categories by the prestigious Won Report.
Ogilvy PR was named the top network by PRWeek.
Ogilvy North America was named large agency of the year by BtoB Magazine and was inducted into American Business Medias Creative Excellence in Business Advertising Hall of Fame.
2006 was also a year marked by a number of major initiatives that enrich our 360 offering.
We combined all of Ogilvys sales promotion and retail companies into one global unit called OgilvyAction.
Avis, Chiquita Brands and easyJet came into Ogilvy Europe.
OgilvyAction seeks to transform consumer behavior along Other new clients included AIG, Fosters Beer, Nestl the path to purchase what it calls The Last Mile with Nutrition, Malaysian Airlines and Intel a big global win meaningful points of contact.
Most importantly because Neo@Ogilvy, our digital, direct response and search this is always the measure of network strength we marketing media group, became truly global this year.
continued to grow with existing clients such as American Neo won Kodaks global 360 media account and was Express, BAT, BP, Cisco, Coca-Cola, Kodak, Kraft, named by The Wall Street Journal as one of the five Merck, Motorola, Unilever and Yahoo!, among others.
dynamic agencies to watch in 2007.
No doubt, digital Our success with existing clients is a direct result media planning will take an increasingly central role in of our commitment to superior client management how we deliver for our clients.
through the Global Brand Community.
Our global clients We established a Branded Content and Entertainment who represent more than 50% of our income have practice which is a growing area of intense activity both high expectations and a unique set of needs.
They require online and in traditional entertainment channels.
This is no partners who understand their business profoundly and longer a sideliner to the main event.
Now our brands can be know how to drive ideas around the world.
The people the event: they can be in the game, literally, guratively or who lead these global accounts set a standard of practice virtually.
Imagination is the only limit to the possibilities.
that in uences our client engagements everywhere.
Other Ogilvy units experienced their fair share of Awards are another measure of success and a sign growth and success as well in 2006.
Ogilvy PR continued of our creative vitality.
I am particularly proud of how its pattern of strong growth, while becoming more essential consistently we win at the major awards shows and how to our 360 Degree Branding proposition.
PR has always widely the honors are distributed.
been an important discipline, but in the age of the internet, We won signi cant recognition at Cannes 37, the which offers instant fame or infamy PR is absolutely Clios 13, DMA ECHO seven including the Diamond Best vital to building and protecting brands.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How were doing.
How were doing Agency networks DMA ECHO awards in October, winning five Golds, one Silver and the Diamond Best in Show award.
The digital transformation of marketing communications continues to command media and industry attention.
At OgilvyOne, we are uniquely positioned to help our clients navigate and win in the Ogilvy Healthworld, one of the preeminent global new digital marketing age.
healthcare communications networks, is bene ting from the Verge, the OgilvyOne digital summit series, is an growth that the healthcare and pharmaceutical industries integral part of our digital thought leadership strategy.
Its reach, coupled with Ogilvys network and In 2006, there were Verge events in Mumbai, Madrid, 360 practice, has strengthened existing client relationships Seoul, Prague and New York.
The agship New York event with such industry leaders as Allergan, Merck and Wyeth.
took place in November and had a record attendance of As a company, we spent a great deal of time last year around 700 including clients, media and many bloggers.
talking about the value of ideas and our role in fostering It was webcast via Truf es, our intranet, and was accessed them.
In a cluttered world, ideas are what cut through.
Ideas are the great organizing principles.
With more moving Already in 2007, Verge events have been held in parts, more options, more opportunities, the only thing Tokyo and Toronto with planning underway for summits that will matter for our clients is to be able to get to a big in So Paulo, Dubai, London and New York once again idea, and that is the one thing that clients cannot do for towards the end of the year.
Weve also stepped up Verge themselves.
We already have the people, the creative minds, events tailored to individual clients.
These smaller and more the renegade thinkers, the artisans, poets and inventors on focused events enable us to shape content exclusively to the hand.
The question is what can we do to make the most of needs of particular client audiences, and to present speci c this asset?
How can we truly be an ideas-driven company?
This year we will be exploring new ways of working The launch of Neo@Ogilvy, our digital, direct that we hope will answer that challenge.
I can assure you of response and search marketing media division, in early one thing: we will start with David Ogilvys famous words, 2006 has been a key driver of our growth.
Neo rounds written on the walls in virtually every of ce in the network.
out our truly integrated digital marketing offering.
Compete with the surprise that The Wall Street Journal named Neo@Ogilvy immortals.
as one of the five dynamic agencies to watch in 2007.
We anticipate continued strong growth this year, fueled by an aggressive acquisition strategy, especially OgilvyOne Worldwide in search marketing capabilities.
We recently announced our first acquisition in this area Global Strategies Report by Brian Fetherstonhaugh International GSI, a leading search marketing consultancy.
Chairman and chief executive of cer The integration of Neo@Ogilvy and GSI creates an immediate marketplace advantage for clients as they embrace all types of search as a superior way to connect 2006 was another solid and successful year for OgilvyOne consumers with their brands.
At the beginning of the year, we set ambitious Our focus for 2007 will continue to be on growth.
targets for ourselves in terms of revenue growth, creative Building on our momentum from the past two years, reputation and digital thought leadership.
We delivered on we are already off to a strong start.
Our revenues grew steadily in 2006 on top of two record growth years.
We won signi cant new client Ogilvy Public Relations Worldwide assignments in every region of the world, including major victories in categories such as entertainment and leisure, Report by Marcia Silverman publishing, financial services, insurance, consumer Chief executive of cer packaged goods, airlines, hotels and telecommunications.
Our creative accomplishments in 2006 exceeded our expectations.
We won 595 local and international awards, If you want to know how well an agency does its job, topping 2005s stellar total by 20%.
For the second year ask a client or a potential client.
So Ogilvy PR was in a row, we were named the top agency network for both deeply grati ed by the results of the 2006 Agency direct and digital marketing by the Won Report and the Excellence Survey conducted by PRWeek last July.
In five key categories, as rated by 600 clients, we came In addition to our top performances at Cannes, in first, including Who Would You Likely Hire in a the Ef es, Caples, The One Show, The Clios and D&AD, Crisis and Who Would You Hire as Your Next Agency.
we also turned in another outstanding showing at the How were doing WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How were doing Agency networks It took a lot of hard work by hundreds of top professionals to achieve these rankings.
Just as importantly, it took clients who share our understanding of how mature digital technologies have fundamentally transformed communications.
Only one year after its launch, our 360 Digital In uence interactive offering has helped clients manage Looking ahead, 2007 will mark a serious this transformation by creating comprehensive strategies commitment to Latin America, as we open of ces in to engage customers or constituents in direct conversation.
Mexico City and So Paulo, Brazil.
In these nations, as For Snap-on Diagnostics, we launched a broadband TV elsewhere, we will nd success by stimulating a dialogue channel where automotive technicians can access training with customers that focuses on engaging, not talking at, videos at any time.
Other clients who have looked to us for our target audience.
digital expertise include BP, Intel and Unilever.
In this world where consumers are now always on, Ogilvy PR enjoyed continued global expansion of client Ogilvy Healthworld engagements throughout 2006, as companies looked to us to help build market share worldwide.
Report by Steve Girgenti In China, we added Bausch & Lomb, Intel and United Chief executive of cer Airlines to a roster that includes American Express, Ford, IBM and UPS.
We now have more than 300 professionals in our of ces in Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou.
As the size and complexity of the healthcare category Our presence in the rest of Asia continued growing in continues to increase dramatically around the world, importance, as we launched the Dove Campaign for Ogilvy Healthworld has been able to leverage its unmatched Real Beauty for Unilever in 12 nations, including China, geographic reach 53 of ces in 33 countries, market Indonesia, Malaysia and the Philippines.
expertise and strategic alignment with parent Ogilvy The year was also marked by steady growth in Worldwide.
We offer a full array of For the Life of the Europe.
Acquisition of the agency CPZ gave us a strong Brand services: from early-stage work in medical presence in Germany, while we inaugurated health and education, global PR and clinical trial recruitment to sports marketing disciplines in Ireland and were named professional communications, direct-to-consumer and Agency of the Year in Eastern Europe in the European patient programs, and relationship marketing.
Consultancy Report Card 2006 from The Holmes Report.
2006 was an eventful year for our US operations.
Unilever rewarded our Consumer Marketing Practice From the New York hub, the US operations directed by adding its Bertolli and Knorr brands to our portfolio, a broad array of global assignments for clients such as complementing our work for Lipton, Promise, Slimfast Amgen, AstraZeneca, Johnson & Johnson, Lilly, Merck, and Hellmanns.
Johnson & Johnson expanded our work P zer, Roche and Wyeth.
In particular, we grew our for Johnsons Baby to Europe and China, while naming existing relationships by winning Allergans breast implant us agency of record for its KY personal products.
business, Mercks Januvia, Medtronic and Du Puy Spine, Brands looked to us for crisis management during the and Wyeths Lybrel and Prestiq.
These successes gave Taco Bell e. coli outbreak, while we achieved broad positive added meaning to the companys twentieth anniversary coverage for its KFC units move to stop using trans fats.
celebration of its founding, when it was launched as Other Consumer Marketing wins included Quaker and Girgenti, Hughes, Butler and McDowell.
In Europe, we are driving the pan-European launches Our Health Care practice added a new anchor client of Champix for P zer and Sprycel for BMS.
Additional in 2006, winning the AstraZeneca respiratory franchise, European assignments include wins from Schering while growing our work for oncology therapies from Dermatology, MTM, Almirall, Janssen pain portfolio, Bristol-Meyers Squibb.
And the Social Marketing practice and the Schering World Contraception Day.
Further fueling continued its vital work in womens health with the fifth growth in Europe is our recent partnership with WPP year of The Heart Truth campaign for the National Heart, sister company CommonHealth.
The Ogilvy Healthworld Lung and Blood Institute.
Models for the Red Dress network is being used by its US-based global clients who Collection during Fashion Week included Emmylou Harris, require marketing programs in Europe.
This partnership Lindsay Lohan and Broadway legend Elaine Stritch.
will soon expand to other regions of the world.
Our Technology Practice continued to grow, adding In Asia Paci c, Australia enjoyed strong growth last global clients such as Hitachi Data Systems, Intel and year, with 11 new clients and is now the No.
5 healthcare Satyam Computer Services, all while working seamlessly specialist in the country.
In India, Ogilvy Healthworld is with other practices, such as Digital In uence, Corporate, the market leader and experiencing healthy expansion.
Consumer Marketing and Financial Communications.
In Singapore, recent regional wins include projects with Schering AG, BMS and P zer.
Expansion strategies in WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How were doing.
How were doing Agency networks part of our company.
These services are at the center of our brand experience work, and we are committed to delivering best-in-class capability.
Our suite of services has increasing relevance in todays market.
Complementing our core services of experiential, promotional, shopper and customer Japan, China, Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, Hong Kong and marketing, we offer digital capabilities, sports and the Philippines include a variety of approaches that leverage entertainment marketing and retail design.
In markets resources from the Ogilvy network along with a mix of where our presence is developing, we are growing both joint ventures and acquisitions.
organically and with new partnerships.
This commitment In Latin America, the of ce in Mexico City has extends to markets targeted for further development, experienced positive growth following the arrival of new particularly Brazil, Russia, India and China.
Important wins at Boehringer Ingelheim, We believe rmly that the most successful marketing P zer and Stiefel have been highlights of 2006.
Argentina programs today will have placed critical emphasis on the also has new leadership, and Brazil continues to expand.
Many of our clients have embraced this As proud as we are of this strong showing, we know point of view, and we are receiving strong support to the issues and opportunities surrounding the healthcare expand our customer marketing capability in all markets.
industry are dynamic and evolving.
Size and technical We have made considerable progress building capabilities alone are not enough.
The key to continued awareness of our company, understanding of the role we success is to bring innovation and fresh ideas into the play, and how to optimally engage an activation agency communication conversation with our clients.
Clients in developing true media-neutral plans.
Our focus has everywhere want big ideas: healthcare is no different, been on building business through partnerships with our and we will continue to deliver.
Ogilvy brethren, particularly those in our Global Brand Community, driving worldwide client relationships.
The good news is that we have made solid progress across OgilvyAction shared clients like American Express, BAT, Kodak, Kraft, Motorola, Nestl and Unilever.
The better news is that Report by Rick Roth we have merely scratched the surface.
While we nurture a Chief executive of cer growing independent business, we see tremendous upside in penetrating the Ogilvy client portfolio.
In the first week of 2007, we launched OgilvyAction.
2006 was a year of important developments for the Our clients applauded, our people celebrated, the industry newly-named activation arm of Ogilvy.
We are Ogilvy but we are a signi cant progress against our strategic goals through unique part of Ogilvy.
We are a company made up of a time of industry evolution, business challenges and high-energy entrepreneurial people focused on in uencing internal realignment.
how the consumer behaves in The Last Mile.
In the famous The identity of our company was perhaps the biggest words of David Ogilvy, We sell or else.
It became abundantly clear that for us to go to market as part of the Ogilvy 360 Degree promise, we needed an Ogilvy name.
Ogilvy clients are demanding more and more of the services we offer and they want those services from the Ogilvy brand.
As OgilvyAction we deliver to them seamlessly, and now, quite naturally alongside OgilvyOne, Ogilvy PR, OgilvyInteractive and Ogilvy Healthworld.
We delivered high revenue growth in the Ogilvy network.
Our focus on driving top-line business resulted in impressive year-over-year performance.
Our investments in people and services are generating big opportunities for us opportunities we are con dent will bring strong returns going forward.
Everything we do is focused on helping our clients win in what we call The Last Mile.
There isnt a day that goes by when marketers arent searching for new ways to physically connect with their consumers to in uence how they act as they approach a purchase decision.
Our eld and event marketing discipline has become the fastest-growing How were doing WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How were doing Agency networks potential of what we call digitivity the point where digital meets creativity meets connectivity.
JWT Weve done it for clients such as Ford.
Last year, we created an online documentary series, Bold Moves: The Future of Ford, that allows the world to witness the Report by Bob Jeffrey above inner workings of the auto maker as it rebuilds its North Chairman and chief executive of cer, Worldwide American business.
Digital was integral to the campaign in JWT that it allowed the automaker to communicate its ongoing story in a journalistic manner what weve termed brand journalism and gave stakeholders a way to respond.
com, where the documentary lives, t JWT, we always approach the includes point-counterpoint editorials and an area for future with equal parts, reverence e-conversations around each topic.
Innovation Most important, the work for Ford represents not just is our lifeblood, and has been an advertising idea but an idea that people can participate throughout our rich history of in.
Thats what we do, bigger and better than any other rsts: we were the first agency to network.
Weve always been an agency famous for big, establish research and account populist campaigns.
And we still are: Bold Moves for Ford: planning departments: the first Clearly Smirnoff for the Diageo brand: Play with Beauty to create ads that used sex appeal for Unilevers Lux.
and celebrity endorsements: So how is a global network such as ours better the first to develop a commercial television program: and enabled to deliver these solutions?
First and foremost the first to buy a TV roadblock.
is the key issue of pure resource.
Our size and breadth As we have done throughout our history, today we simply allows us to bring greater capability in terms of are turning what could be perceived as challenges new people, places and creative talent to solving global client media platforms, disparate consumption patterns and problems.
con icting demands on consumer time into opportunities.
To be clear, this element goes way beyond pins on The digital domain is one of those huge opportunities.
Indeed, if that were our only advantage, wed For us, its all about taking our clients con dently and quickly be trumped by local capabilities, individual market passionately into the future by tapping into the limitless agendas and the like.
What Im talking about here is WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How were doing.
How were doing Agency networks the ability to deploy the very best global thinkers at our in the US, more than one million Journey pieces have disposal and to marry them with colleagues in the trenches been sold, generating over $829 million in sales.
More in farung regions, and the ability to generate success signi cant, US jewelry retailers considered the Journey for our client with whatever is required whether its a concept to be the driving force in the market during a single global answer, the nuanced glocal solution or a Christmas season that faced very strong competition from completely tailored solution based on the unique needs of the electronics sector.
Our success with HSBC, for example, is In providing a steady stream of insights, we look to predicated on each of these factors in the markets in which move our clients businesses and ultimately ours we serve HSBC around the globe.
Through new ideas, new ways of communications, Increasingly, our clients and the industry at large new product lines, new innovations.
are recognizing the strengths of our solutions.
Under the We also intend to move forward by investing in highleadership of our worldwide chief creative of cer, Craig growth markets.
In doing so, we will help our multinational Davis, we continue to see year-over-year improvement in clients succeed by understanding and embracing the our creative product.
dramatically different cultural and operational landscapes.
Last year, the JWT group won 35 Lions at the Cannes We are well positioned to do this, as the BRIC markets are International Advertising Festival, up from 17 in 2005 and home to some of our most noteworthy talent and work.
Belying our TV-centric past, we won In 2006, JWT Brazil won six Cannes Lions, helping Lions in Television, Radio, Press, Outdoor, Media, Cyber, to make our network the highest-rated ad agency in Latin Promotion and Direct.
And, in a resounding statement that America at the awards festival.
In Russia, we have an active big ideas and big business belong together, 23 of our clients and vibrant partnership, JWT RAVI CIS.
were represented by our winning work, including Nestl, As one of Indias largest and oldest advertising Vodafone, Cadbury, Smirnoff, P zer, HSBC, Unilever, agencies we opened there in 1929, we understand the Levis, Nike, Kimberly-Clark, Wilkinson Sword, Ford, countrys complexities and have the ability to bridge whats Mazda and JetBlue.
And, in China, we are helping clients This performance helped JWT rocket up the Gunn take advantage of the countrys growing middle class and Report in 2006 from ninth place to fourth place.
To quote its purchasing power in the lead-up to the 2008 Beijing directly from the report, which honors the worlds best Olympics and well beyond.
advertising by combining the winners lists from all of the Just as having a signi cant presence in the highmajor local, regional and global ad festivals: Undoubtedly growth markets is imperative, so too is having a best-inthe biggest jump we have seen in the top half of the table class integrated offering worldwide.
This is consistent in the eight-year history of the Gunn Report.
with the rationale behind our relaunch in 2005, when we At the core of these honored ideas are actionable called for big, bold, innovative brand ideas that can live insights.
At JWT, we have always considered ourselves everywhere.
It also reinforces why, in 2004, we launched anthropologists first, advertising people second.
RMG Connect as a global CRM network, which is meant Reaf rming our commitment to consumer understanding, to support JWT in its non-traditional efforts, as well as last October we tapped Guy Murphy to become our global compete on its own credentials.
Murphy, who previously spent 14 years At JWT, we create ideas for our clients that people at BBH as planning director in both London and Singapore want to spend time with.
So, it only goes to reason that we and, most recently, as deputy chairman, is building upon plan to commit more of our time, talent and resources to our legacy in planning in 1968, our very own Stephen King identifying where people are spending more of their time founded the discipline and casting it in a modern way to and developing ideas that will reach them there, be it the inspire great business-building creative ideas.
web, their mobile devices, their video games or the next Ideas such as the one we created last year for the media platform of the future.
For our main ambition is Diamond Trading Company.
The idea was based on this: ensuring our clients success.
Our clients success is the insight that, just as diamonds stand the test of time at the heart of everything we do and why we strive for battling through the elements to be with us today stronger a constant state of evolution in todays rapidly changing, than ever so too do relationships.
Working from this consumer-controlled world.
insight, we developed Journey Diamond Jewelry, a piece with four or more diamonds of increasing size from smallest to largest that symbolizes the strengthening of a couples love over time.
Since the launch of the concept How were doing WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How were doing Agency networks Young & Rubicam Brands Y&R Wunderman VML Burson-Marsteller Landor Associates Sudler & Hennessey The Bravo Group Cohn & Wolfe Robinson Lerer & Montgomery BrandBuzz Report by Peter Stringham left Global chief executive of cer Young & Rubicam Brands t is truly a pleasure to return to Young & Rubicam Brands after six years.
Although much has changed, its core values, culture and sense of tradition are as strong as ever.
Most importantly, Young & Rubicam Brands reason for being to give clients the full range of marketing disciplines from a group of companies practiced at working together collaboratively has never been more timely.
Thirty years ago, Young & Rubicam Brands led the industry in pioneering integrated communications.
Today, in a dramatically changed environment, we are challenging ourselves to help rede ne our industry, once again, for these times.
Young & Rubicam Brands has always believed in the importance of sustaining the integrity of its individual brands, while fostering a culture and structure that makes it easy and desirable to collaborate.
We have some iconic brands, and it is our job to make sure that we are focused on the future together.
2006 showed much evidence that we are moving forward.
Hamish McLennan took over as CEO of Y&R in August 2006.
Y&R is already responding to the strong leadership that is his hallmark.
His focus on new business, WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How were doing.
How were doing Agency networks Finally, we will look to expand and enhance the capabilities of BrandAsset Valuator, our proprietary brand management tool, which has been a point of differentiation and value for our clients and us since its introduction.
BAV is constantly uncovering new relationships between consumers and brands and gives his high standards for creative product and his immediate our clients a set of metrics that inform and inspire all of attention to Y&Rs offering is bringing new energy and the work we do at Young & Rubicam Brands.
enthusiasm to every part of the agency.
The team at Wunderman, led by Daniel Morel, have continued to build on the solid base they laid in 2005, Y&R especially driven by the accelerated growth of data and online as not only future, but current, drivers of their growth.
Hamish McLennan In his second year of leadership at Burson-Marsteller, Global chief executive of cer Mark Penn saw continued improvement in pro tability and revenue growth.
His emphasis on four core strategies digital, integrated, global and strategic are shaping their In August 2006, I stepped into the role as Global CEO offering to great results.
from my previous one as head of our Australia and Landor Associates had another record-breaking New Zealand network.
Having been a member of Y&Rs year, sustaining its leadership position in brand consulting.
global network for five years already, I came to my new A new generation of leadership stepped up from within responsibilities with a healthy respect for our global the company, most notably Charlie Wrench taking on the network, an understanding of our culture, as well as with CEO role.
ideas on how we need to address the challenges our clients Cohn & Wolfe, under the leadership of Donna are facing in the short and long term.
Imperato, had another strong year.
For the first time, the 2006 has borne out the merits of our regional agency expanded to Asia and, through a new partnership structure.
EMEA achieved its best overall business with GCI, can help clients more broadly in the Americas, performance since 2000 and Australia and New Zealand across Europe and Asia.
New practices in green marketing pulled another strong year.
Our agencies in India have and digital helped to contribute to the top and bottom line.
Latin America is growing in critical Sudler & Hennessey, led by Jed Beitler, continued markets and North America, now stabilized, is beginning to deepen its relationships with some of the worlds most its resurgence.
New Yorks performance on global business prestigious pharmaceutical companies.
2006 saw important is strong: we remain focused on bringing the agency back expansion into 16 new European markets and a new to its national prominence.
Asia had its best financial operation in Mexico City.
In 2006, Eddie Gonzalez, who also runs Y&R Latin These results are, in no small part, owing to the America, took over leadership of The Bravo Group.
Eddie leadership of Massimo Costa in EMEA: of Matt McGrath presided over a restructuring of the agency, which is now in Australia and New Zealand: of Arun Nanda, in positioned to capitalize on the enormous growth of the India: of Eddie Gonzalez in Latin America: and Ambar Hispanic market in the US.
Brahmachary, who joined Y&R Asia last year with an Robinson Lerer & Montgomery remains an incredible incredible roster of accomplishments to his name.
powerhouse for strategic communications counsel and We recharged our emphasis on global clients, the services.
BrandBuzz, which began as a lab for channelbedrock of our business, by installing Gord McLean as neutral marketing, continues to build its roster of clients.
Y&Rs global managing partner, responsible for building And, nally, marketing technology company VML and delivering all the bene ts of a nely-tuned global has become a critical part of Y&R Brands since joining network to our clients.
Our ability to help our global clients in 2005.
Initially working closely with Wunderman, they is re ected in increased assignments from clients including have been repositioned to work directly with all of our Colgate, Land Rover, Bacardi, Hilton Hotels, Miller companies and clients.
This change re ects the evolution of Brewing Company, Danone, Xerox and Campbells and the digital world into a fundamental part of the media mix.
with new global wins, like Palm and LG Electronics.
In 2007, a key objective will be to reinvigorate our In 2006, we began to roll out our new strategic ability to build key global client relationships across the process, based on a critical nding we have made in our Young & Rubicam Brands.
While our individual companies proprietary BrandAsset Valuator that brands have a have been successful at growing their own businesses, quanti able value we call Energy.
Energy is tied to a we need to retool the way the companies collaborate.
brands momentum, works to boost differentiation and This will be critical to returning Young & Rubicam Brands relevance, and is also tied to stronger enterprise value.
Our to the top of the industry.
unique ability to identify, create and measure Energy in brands gives Y&R a strong competitive asset going forward.
How were doing WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How were doing Agency networks We are making digital an intrinsic part of what we do everywhere in the world, rolling out Y&R Australias model of embedded digital operations, and stepping up our acquisition strategy.
We had a good new business record in nearly every corner.
In EMEA, we had 200 client wins, including panregional clients like BT Business, Pharmaton and Novotel.
Wunderman Y&R Milan was the top new business winner in its market.
Frances new business wins contributed to a signi cant Daniel Morel turnaround in that market.
Chairman and chief executive of cer In Australia and New Zealand, Y&R won T3 and eight Federal and State government projects, Bank of New Zealand, Tower Insurance, Arnotts National Foods, 2006 was marked by an insatiable demand for all things Westpac, as well as new business from Suncorp, CUB digital.
There is no question the web is the marketing hub.
Mainstream press reported on every aspect of its explosive In Asia, Y&R won Sony Electronics Asia and rise.
Clients shifted signi cant budgets to online initiatives.
Middle East, Discovery Channel Asia, Taj Hotels With half of Wundermans activities online, we are Worldwide and the major strategic planning business building one of the worlds most powerful digital marketing for Asia Paci c Breweries worldwide.
In 2006, Wunderman ranked among added Hersheys, Caterpillar, Goodyear, Nokia and AdWeeks top Interactive agencies and an independent Brazils largest internet provider, UOL.
In North America, research rm cited Wunderman as a Strong Performer Palm and LG Electronics were added in the last quarter in The Forrester Wave.
As part of our aggressive strategy to add depth to New talent, new capabilities, better strategies our digital offering, Wunderman acquired four agencies.
have helped us improve our creative product and public Seattle-based ZAAZ, a web analytics and interactive agency, recognition of it.
In the UK, RKCR Y&Rs work for complements Wundermans relationship marketing and Marks & Spencer has gained universal press acclaim and data analytics competencies with a robust data-driven, just about every award culminating in being named digital offering.
Shaw Wunderman, the result of our UK Agency of the Year for achieving one of the most acquisition of Shaw Marketing Group, extends our digital remarkable turnarounds in retail history.
expertise to the spirits and consumer packaged goods We had six other agencies that were named Agency sectors.
In Asia, Wunderman acquired ComHaus Korea of the Year, including Y&R Israel for the seventh consecutive and SRP Corporation, forming Wunderman Korea, to year in a row.
GPY&R Melbourne, whose Big Ad was serve Microsoft.
one of the most talked about pieces of creative at Cannes, Our digital solutions emphasize what happens after was Agency of the Year in its market and ranked No.
14 customers click through to their digital destinations.
in the prestigious Gunn Report.
Y&R Argentina, which This year, Wunderman introduced After The Click, also ranked among the top 20 agencies in Gunn, is one an exclusive online service offering that increases online of the agencies leading Y&R Latin Americas ascendancy performance by as much as 35%.
to creative leadership in the region.
Y&R Malaysia was Wunderman continues to infuse the network the Grand Prix winner at the Golden Kancil awards, and with creative talent.
Wunderman named Steve Harrison Singapore, the Philippines and China won awards at both the agencys first ever worldwide creative director.
Our agency in India Key of ces also added creative talent including New York, is the most exciting creative hot shop in India, and proved its San Francisco, Mexico, Brazil, Austria, Germany, Spain mettle with 60 awards national and internationally, including and Australia.
The Wunderman network was recognized both Gold and Silver awards at Cannes.
with nearly 300 awards and of ces in Argentina, Canada, Importantly, our creative palette is becoming more France, Mexico and Portugal were rated tops in their and more diverse from Bluetooth messaging for Land respective markets.
In Europes D-A-C-H region Germany, Rover, to the hugely successful viral Stand Up campaign Austria and Switzerland, Wunderman ranked No.
2 for we created for the United Nations millennium campaign, creativity.
In the UK, Campaign named Steve Harrison to the interactive work we are doing for Telstra.
agencies are rede ning what advertising means today.
Our client roster continues to expand.
The Wunderman network added more than 10 new agency of record AOR relationships, including adidas, Caterpillar, Diageo, Kraft Foods, monster.
com, Rogers Communications, Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company.
These new clients join our long-standing global clients WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How were doing.
How were doing Agency networks such as Ford, Microsoft, Citibank, HP, Telefonica, Burger Burson-Marsteller King and Lufthansa.
2007 is off to a strong start with digital AOR wins Mark Penn for LexisNexis and Nationwide, new brand business from Worldwide chief executive of cer AstraZeneca and Abbott, and signi cant assignments in Europe from Bridgestone and the Spanish Army.
We remain con dent in our future and steadfast in our commitment to In 2006 we established DIGS as our organizing principles: digital leadership.
Digital, Integrated, Global and Strategic.
Digital is about enhancing our ability to manage the changing nature of communications and media and VML the need to help our clients manage their digital image with new products and tools.
In 2006, we had real success in Matt Anthony introducing these new capabilities to clients and we entered Chief executive of cer into a number of alliances to enhance our capabilities like digital content management and distribution.
We challenged ourselves to become more digital VML strengthened its position in 2006 as one of the internally, adding new talent around the world and worlds leading marketing technology companies.
embarking upon on a global training program so that Highlights of VMLs award-winning work in 2006 included everyone would feel as comfortable in the digital space as the redesign of burgerking.
com, Sprints Power Vision anywhere else.
Hook-up campaign, multiple online marketing campaigns We are growing our existing client relationships and across the family of brands for both Colgate-Palmolive winning new clients with an integrated arsenal of products, and Microsoft, and record-setting online sales performance services and capabilities.
We feel our capabilities, including for Intuits Turbo Tax, tax preparation software.
research, lobbying and grassroots, help us offer our clients VMLs leadership in enterprise web development was a unique package that addresses their needs in a challenging demonstrated for brands like adidas, where we integrated communications environment.
emerging technology with e-marketing to improve brand We are further aligning ourselves globally to take positioning, and delivered a company-wide online product advantage of one of our greatest differentiators: the fact catalog, localized for 26 countries in 10 languages.
VML that we are a truly global network with a single culture also launched its global redesign and new technology and heritage.
This is best embodied in our Key Client infrastructure for parent company WPPs public web site Relationship KCR program.
The KCR promise is about and Group-wide intranet a single point of global accountability and an absolute.
VMLs roster of leading client brands grew across commitment to deliver with the best people across time industries and geographies, with major new wins such as zones and practices.
In 2006, we took steps to optimize Cadbury-Schweppes, Diageo, Embarq, Hallmark Cards, our program and drive exponential growth.
Shure Electronics, SunTrust Financial, TransAmerica And, in being strategic, we are leveraging our research Retirement Management and General Electric.
capabilities with compelling, economically viable ideas, The agency expanded its global footprint, including the products and services.
A Knowledge Development team, acquisitions of Good Technology in the UK and Studiocom working with Penn, Schoen & Berland Associates our in the Americas.
2006 also brought signi cant advances strategic research and polling rm, was formed to create in VMLs proprietary technology solutions, including the primary research platforms and offer our clients consultative optimization of its web reputation tool, SEER.
services from a knowledge-based position of strength.
Our first example of this was the release of the Global Issues Index.
At the same time, our team streamlined our secondary research resources to free our analysts to devote their time to insights rather than data gathering.
The power of our DIGS approach was re ected in our financial results.
The US had the strongest year-overyear performance in many years and around the world we had double-digit revenue growth in many markets.
How were doing WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How were doing Agency networks Going forward, we will continue our dedication to Our global presence continued to expand as well.
DIGS both internally and also begin to drive it externally.
In a signi cant step toward advancing Landors strength We are developing a suite of digital products that clients in Greater China, a new Beijing of ce was established to anywhere can use and we will enter into more alliances.
work in partnership with our Hong Kong and Shanghai We will provide our clients with new ways to use our of ces.
We also leveraged several of our Key Client integrated and strategic services, including micro-targeting Relationships KCRs into new territories, expanded our and 35,000 foot thinking.
We will continue to put down new client portfolio in India, Russia, Eastern Europe and stakes in emerging markets.
We will continue our devotion Brazil and began grooming talent for future relocation to to learning and career development, introducing new our emerging market of ces.
programs and creating opportunities for our high potential We also continued to invest in the development of performers.
And we will use our greater technological our expertise areas.
Illustrating the progress of Landors connectivity to create an even stronger, global Bursoninnovation offer, Procter & Gamble embraced our Marsteller community.
Innoweek and Innoday approach as one of their best practice methodologies.
P&G now joins Diageo, PepsiCo, PMI, Coors, Entenmanns, Danone and Kraft as companies Landor Associates that count Landor as an innovation partner.
We also continued to invest in several key hires to drive our Brand Charlie Wrench Engagement practice, resulting in assignments from Citi, Chief executive of cer ITT and Akzo Nobel among others.
And our worldwide disciplines of Digital Branding, Brand Environments, Naming and Airlines were all invigorated by signi cant With another record-breaking year in 2006, Landor wins and enhanced investment.
continued its commitment to delivering brand-led business On the new business front, 2006 was exceptionally transformation.
Through enhancements to our leadership strong.
Notably, we nished the year with a remarkable team, expansion into new territories and advancement of demonstration of cross-of ce partnership, winning a tough our expertise, Landor strengthened its offer in the brand competition to be Verizon Wirelesss exclusive branding consulting market.
The addition of Wireless to our existing landline From an organizational perspective, 2006 was a year business positions Verizon as a new key client.
Additional of considerable change as a new generation of passionate new business wins included Jet Airways, The PGA, Capital and dedicated Landor leaders was elevated from within One, Brocade and Etihad Airlines.
Most notably, Phil Duncan was appointed The quality of our strategic and creative work president, Europe and Middle East and Michael Ip was was again recognized and awarded in the external appointed president, Greater China and South East Asia: marketplace in 2006.
We entered the year as Marketing Mary Zalla was promoted to managing director, Cincinnati magazines Design Agency of the Year and went on to and Chicago: Monica Magana to managing director, Mexico win the GRAMIA award for Packaging Agency of the City: Monica Au to managing director, Hong Kong: and I Year for the second year running.
We won a CiB Award took over as chief executive of cer, working alongside Craig of Excellence for our BDO Brand Engagement program, Branigan, who now serves as chairman of Landor and CEO and both Landornet and Landor.
com received top web of B to D Group.
On top of this, 44 Landorians took the awards.
Additionally, we sponsored the Economist opportunity to expand their perspective on the world by Branding Conferences in New York and Shanghai, repeated transferring to new of ces, enabling us to move energy and our Breakaway Brands Study in Fortune magazine, and ideas uidly across the globe.
published the successful industry tome, BrandSimple.
In the year ahead, we remain committed to advancing our strategic and creative capabilities, building a cohesive Landor culture across geographies and delivering irrefutable impact on our clients businesses through the generation of spectacular insights, ideas and creativity.
How were doing Agency networks Sudler & Hennessey The Bravo Group Jed Beitler Eddie Gonzalez Chairman and chief executive of cer Chairman and chief executive of cer In 2006, the Sudler & Hennessey network continued its 2006 was a pivotal year for The Bravo Group, with heritage of service, creativity and delivery in the health a turnaround in management and new business wins, and healthcare industries.
along with strong synergies created by the aligning We increased our relationships with key of competencies from different of ces.
pharmaceutical and consumer healthcare clients, including In July I became chairman and CEO of The P zer, Boehringer Ingelheim, AstraZeneca and J&J Bravo Group, in addition to my role as CEO of Y&R companies: welcomed new client relationships, including Latin America, and undertook some major restructuring Cubist, Novartis, Baxter and Schwarz: expanded its presence and positioning to capitalize on the growth of the in Europe, Asia, Latin America and the Middle East: and Hispanic market.
established new partnerships within the WPP network.
MEC Bravo was created by combining Bravos media 2006 was also another year of triumph for our planning and buying capabilities with sister company networks creative efforts with two Gold and four Silver Mediaedge:cia to provide a new offer which includes access Awards at the Rx Club: two Gold Awards at the Comprix to consumer insight and ROI, communications planning, Awards in Germany, Best in Class Awards at both the US media planning and buying, interaction, retail consultancy, MM&M Awards and the UK PMEA Awards, as well as sponsorship consultancy and activation and branded numerous Awards of Excellence and Finalist Certi cates at content and entertainment marketing services.
the Globals as well as the aforementioned ceremonies.
Bravo Miami strengthened its operations by We are fortunate to have very strong senior managers maximizing the synergies of the Young & Rubicam and to oversee our global operations.
Louisa Holland was Wunderman resources in Miami.
promoted to president and chief operating of cer of all Bravo attracted top talent, notably Julio Arrieta as of our US operations.
Massimo Vergnano returned as SVP managing partner of BravoWest: Ana Franco as group chairman of S&H EMEA.
Rob Rogers is president of account director: Monica Gutierrez as experiential director: S&H Asia Paci c in addition to his role as chief creative Carla Tesak as creative director, and Tony Sarroca as chief of cer for S&H New York.
David McLean is chairman, creative of cer.
Asia Paci c. Bruno Stucchi is global creative director.
Bravo ended the year on a high note with additional Ellen Goldman is chief financial of cer and chief operating business from existing clients including Microsoft and of cer for S&H Worldwide.
AstraZeneca and new business wins from Wrigleys and HP.
In 2006, the S&H network, in partnership with Y&R Brands companies, established of ces in Lisbon, Madrid, Helsinki, Copenhagen, Stockholm, Warsaw, Prague, Bratislava, Budapest, Bucharest, Athens, Istanbul, Vienna, Johannesburg, Geneva and Zurich.
This is in addition to our European of ces in London, Cambridge, Paris, Frankfurt, Milan, and Barcelona.
We also started a new operation in Mexico City, and partnered with WPP and Y&R Brands companies in the Latin American region for both pharma and consumer brands clients.
How were doing WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How were doing Agency networks Cohn & Wolfe BrandBuzz Donna Imperato Mike Reese Chief executive of cer President Cohn & Wolfe had another stellar year in 2006, with In 2006, BrandBuzz once again demonstrated strong signi cant growth on the top and bottom lines.
Our revenue and pro t growth, driven by gains from within reputation for brand-building public relations in each practice its current client base and continued success on the new area Consumer, Healthcare, Corporate and Technology business front.
opened many doors as clients seek innovative ways to We successfully retained the US portion of the LG build brands through a multitude of media.
Electronics business and, in the process, expanded this client assignment across all of North America.
We also For Cohn & Wolfes full report, see page 61. grew our relationship with Sanford Brands to include several international assignments.
On the new business front, BrandBuzz landed Robinson Lerer & Montgomery several major new pieces of business including Citizens Communications, Lord & Taylor, Cointreau and Genfoot.
Linda Robinson Most importantly, our work and thinking continued Chairman to be recognized in 2006.
We won our second Ef e award in as many years for our LG Mobile Phone client.
We also received client accolades and strong in-market performance In its twentyfirst year, Robinson Lerer & Montgomery, a for the work done for Dymo, Nets, LG and MSN.
New York-based strategic communications company, once Finally, we rounded out our media-neutral offering by again produced outstanding work for its clients and turned adding econometric modeling capabilities to help us further in excellent financial results.
In working with a roster of new evaluate, inform and enhance the media-neutral solutions and ongoing clients, RLM continued to build its reputation we provide our clients.
for the highest-quality strategic communications advice and services to corporate boards and senior managements.
The rm undertook key assignments in support of reputationbuilding programs, crisis management, corporate campaigns, financial transactions, restructurings and reorganizations, governance issues, CEO transitions, regulatory and public policy issues, and strategic marketing programs.
Among many high-pro le projects for RLM during 2006 were major transactions in the financial services, technology, retail and real estate sectors: a comprehensive corporate repositioning for a leading internet company: work with prominent financial services and healthcare companies on management transitions: and assistance to various clients in managing options backdating and other accounting issues, and implementing new best practices in governance.
How were doing Agency networks n 2006, Grey Global Group underwent the most signi cant transition in its 90-year history.
We completed our first full year as a WPP agency, installed a new management team and took decisive actions to sharpen Greys competitiveness in the new communications landscape.
Grey grew in both revenue and pro ts, our major client partnerships remained dynamic and growing and the quality and perception of our creative product in every discipline improved considerably.
Importantly, we engineered major changes for the future while meeting, or exceeding, all our performance benchmarks.
At year end, Edward H. Meyer retired, capping an illustrious 50-year tenure at Grey, including three decades as CEO, having built the company into one of the worlds top marketing organizations and overseen our merger with WPP.
He has our thanks and best wishes on a remarkable career.
In January, I became chairman and CEO of Grey Global Group and remain CEO of Grey Worldwide, our global advertising network.
We created a new senior management structure for the group which places creativity and total communications at the very top of our company.
Joe Celia was named vice chairman, overseeing our mandate to deliver total communications.
He continues to lead G2, our global network of premier specialized communications companies.
Tim Mellors was named vice chairman, chief creative of cer.
He is responsible for Greys creative product globally, underscoring the critical Grey Global Group importance we place on superlative creativity working in concert across all communications channels.
Grey Worldwide Grey forged a powerful total communications G2 offering in response to the needs of our major clients for big ideas that resonate across communications channels.
Grey Healthcare Group This new architecture pairs the creative expertise of Grey GCI Group Worldwide with the activation marketing expertise of G2.
A key component of this offering is a new, proprietary global strategic planning model, Brand Acceleration, that ensures the quality of our ideas and the optimum impact Report by Jim Heekin above of our communications plan.
Today, all Grey disciplines Chairman and chief executive of cer share a common strategic framework, tools and language Grey Global Group to create seamless communications across channels.
Our increasing roster of shared clients across disciplines underscores the promise and potential of this new direction.
As the convergence of media and technology and the emergence of the empowered consumer continue at warp speed, we see tremendous opportunity ahead.
Here is how Grey Global Group companies are seizing the initiative.
How were doing WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How were doing Agency networks Grey Worldwide Advertising We have put our company on the path to positive change.
All of our employees are energized to lead Last year, we introduced a new agency platform, Grey professionally by constantly pursuing new ideas and new Brand Acceleration, across our global network.
This will creative solutions to the challenges faced by our clients and accelerate both our transformation to a more collaborative the marketplace at large.
and creative culture and the potential of our clients brands through powerful creative ideas.
Grey recommitted itself to best-in-class creativity by G2 Activation Marketing establishing a Worldwide Creative Council and through the recruitment of top talent.
New creative directors were Report by Joe Celia named in the US, Brazil, the Netherlands, Denmark, Spain, Vice chairman, Grey Global Group Turkey, Finland, South Africa and China.
Globally, Grey Chairman and chief executive of cer, G2 Worldwide doubled its 2005 wins with 10 Cannes Lions and rose four places in the Gunn Report.
Grey North America has doubled its award 2006 was a milestone year for G2.
We uni ed our expertise performance in the past two years.
Grey New York in direct marketing, interactive, shopper marketing swept the Addys in 2006 with 22 Gold, 11 Silver and and branding and design, under a single, distinct brand Best of Show for Nokia.
It also won a Clio and an dedicated to activation marketing.
By the close of the year, Emmy and received the second highest number of AdAge the G2 network extended to 43 countries and 86 of ces.
The global alignment of our agencies as G2 enabled Grey EMEA tripled its awards in 2006 over 2005 us to eld a more consistent and powerful offer.
Our clients and became the first agency to win the Euro Ef es Agency want to work with global agencies that combine deep specialist of the Year honor twice.
It also had a distinguished expertise with a multidisciplinary capability to optimize their performance at the Eurobest and Epica Awards.
Grey Asiabrand communications across multiple channels.
The G2 Paci c won more awards in 2006 than in any of the last five network is designed to meet all of these needs.
years and Grey Latin America has begun to enter and win We expanded assignments across our global network important competitions.
with all of our key clients including BAT, Coca-Cola, The foundation of Grey is our long-standing Nokia, P zer and Procter & Gamble.
relationships with global clients and we expanded the G2 also added a number of new brands to our business of 18 of our top 20 clients.
The agencys vitality was client roster.
In North America, we won assignments represented in the new assignments we received from Procter from Campbells, Canon, Discover Card, MGM Mirage, & Gamble, GlaxoSmithKline, 3M, BAT, Darden Restaurants, Procter & Gamble and Shell.
Our Latin American group Diageo, Nokia and Volkswagen around the world.
secured new work from major brands including Nestl and We were proud to win such clients brands as Gerber.
In Europe, our French of ce was awarded a major SanDisk, Dardens Smokey Bones Grill, Diageos digital assignment from SNCF the French national railway Tanqueray 10 and Rang Pur Gin, Wyeths Dimetapp, network.
Our UK operation experienced notable growth Allergans Juvederm and Wellpoint in the US: Morgan with wins from Swatchs Bijoux Jewelry, ECCO, Nescaf Stanley in the UK: Deutsche Bank in Germany: China and The Royal Mail.
Germany began a new relationship Mobile and Lehman Brothers in Asia: Coca-Cola and with Masterfoods working for their Pedigree brand.
In Asia Ocean Spray in Latin America.
We have had some Paci c, we added Duracell and Gillette to our client roster important wins in 2007 from Eli Lilly, GlaxoSmithKline, in Korea, and, in China, Microsoft China, Nokia China, Procter & Gamble and Terlato Wines International.
Our Australian operation was We strengthened our global leadership with the engaged to work with Sara Lee and Research in Motion.
appointment of several topight professionals last year: Scott In 2006, G2s work continued to be recognized Hollingsworth joined us as regional director, Grey Latin throughout the world with hundreds of awards across all America: Tamara Ingram became executive managing director disciplines thanks to the talent that resides in our global of the global Procter & Gamble business, retaining her network.
It was also a year in which we recognized proven role as leader of Team P&G: Steve Lin became president leaders with broader responsibility and welcomed new and CEO, Grey Greater China: Chris Rich was appointed industry talent.
chief growth of cer, Grey Worldwide and Owen Dougherty Peter Thompson became CEO for our agency network became chief communications of cer of the group.
in Europe, Middle East and Africa.
Jonathan Dodd took up WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How were doing.
How were doing Agency networks companies DarwinGrey and s&kGrey had the greatest growth within the medical education network worldwide.
To meet the demands of the changing communications landscape, many GHG acquisitions and innovations had a strong technology focus.
We: Established Access Strategies and Managed Care, which the post of G2s director of global strategy.
Larry Kimmel brings sophisticated methodologies and tactics for gaining expanded his duties as chairman and CEO of G2 Direct & entry and favorable placement on healthcare formularies.
Digital in North America and became regional director in Expanded Acute and Specialty Care, adding substantial Latin America.
Tony Ip was promoted to lead our G2 China high-science assignments.
John Paulson joined us as the new president for Acquired Catalyst on-line, the leading pharma search our G2 Interactive unit in North America.
Masahiro Saito optimization rm, serving such blue-chip clients as P&G joined us to lead our G2 Japan operation.
We continue to invest in the capabilities and Purchased Madrid-based advertising agency technologies that will enable us to maintain our position as Comunicacion y Servicio Consultores as part of our a strategic and creative thought-leader in digital marketing.
And, as retail continues to increase in signi cance for brand Added Newton Grey to our group of contract sales manufacturers, G2 will focus on the development of our and sales training companies, which include Summit shopper marketing practice, building on our best-in-class Grey and OnCall.
expertise and work with world-class FMCG brand owners Focused on biologics and acquired Vogel-Farina, and retailers.
marketers skilled in complex specialty pharmaceuticals.
As we enter 2007, we are poised for greater success Opened Summit Grey Europe and Summit Grey with the right people, resources and structure in place.
Freiberg, new EU-based multichannel digital specialists.
We welcome the challenges that lie ahead.
Our pro bono work won the prestigious Corporate Achievement award for www.
com, the Jed Foundations website, dedicated to the mental health of Grey Healthcare Group college-age students and the prevention of suicide.
GHG also won numerous awards for our groundbreaking work Report by Lynn OConnor Vos for the Helen Keller Foundation.
President and chief executive of cer We continue to marshal every company and resource in our expanding network to align our clients closer to physicians, payers, patients, and consumers and to improve Grey Healthcare Group GHG, one of the worlds leading health outcomes.
healthcare marketing companies, achieved double-digit growth for the tenth year in a row in 2006.
Our total offer now includes a broad array of integrated pharmaceutical GCI Group marketing tools: strategic services, branding and consulting, online and of ine professional and consumer Report by Jeff Hunt advertising, medical education, access management, search Chief executive of cer optimization, medical illustration, contract sales and sales training expertise.
Last year, GHG Advertising launched P zers 2006 was a strong year for GCI Group with a focus on Exubera globally as well as Bifeprunox, a tri-promotion delivering measurable impact, world-class creative and digital with Wyeth, Solvay and Lundbeck, and Wyeths Lybrel.
media expertise all of which contributed to some of the GHG Advertising Europe gained several major assignments, most highly-contested new business wins in the industry.
opened a new of ce, and re ned new techniques in panEuropean consumer marketing and patient compliance.
For GCIs full report, see page 62.
Summit Grey opened several new of ces with both digital and oncology focuses.
GHG also expanded the oncology and specialty pharma capabilities of its medical education companies, US-based Phase Five Communications and International Meetings & Science, and both achieved dynamic growth.
GHGs European medical education companies also had an extremely strong year.
Specialty medical education How were doing WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How were doing Agency networks he year 2006 was one of reengineering and rebuilding for the United Group, with notable performances from several United companies.
Senora Rushmore United in Madrid posted another banner year, adding impressive new business gains based on work now admired globally.
The company grew in every respect and, in the 2006 annual Spanish advertising industry survey, was voted the most creative Spanish agency, the most admired Spanish agency and the agency that most respondents would like to work for.
In New York, Berlin Cameron United, under Ewen Camerons leadership, capitalized on its late-2005 win of Heineken Premium Lite, helping the launch of this new brand extension to become the US beer industrys biggest 2006 marketing success.
And, at the time of going to press, we can report that Berlin Cameron has also won Heineken USs main brand.
In addition, Berlin Cameron United won new assignments from Fiat, LVMH, Vitamin Water and Ask.
New business wins from blue chip clients such as Coca-Cola and Vodafone transformed several of our of ces, including our start-up of ce in Buenos Aires, WM United, and revitalized of ces in Norway BTS United and Italy 1861 United.
United in Paris restructured its management and added new clients.
Cole & Weber United in Seattle brought in a highly-regarded executive creative director, Todd Grant.
We are working closely with management in The Voluntarily United Group of Antwerp to strengthen the agency there.
In London, we Creative Agencies United made disappointing progress.
As a result, we have recently announced that the remaining clients and a number of key staff will be transferring to Grey London.
In due course we will look to re-enter the London market.
Report by Andy Berlin above The transition from Red Cell into United continued Chief executive of cer through the year with some of the Red Cell of ces moving and into other Group networks.
Laurence Mellman Efforts are now focused on growth and we expect Chief operating of cer prospects and performance to improve for the United Group as a whole through 2007.
As we go to press, the International Olympic Committee in Lausanne, Switzerland announced that it has appointed United for the creative development and implementation of its global integrated marketing communications campaign, following a hotly-contested competition.
How were doing Agency networks BatesAsia 141 Report by Jeffrey Yu right President BatesAsia 141 he year 2006 was one of great positive change for BatesAsia 141.
We stepped up BatesAsias integration with 141, our team of brand activation specialists.
BatesAsia and 141 work collaboratively to drive change from the brand down and from the street up.
We also embedded Hall of Fame.
In China, BatesAsia won awards for digital into our standard Heineken, from CASBAA, China 4As and China offerings, to embrace the biggest change in our industry.
141 became the regions most awarded Internally, we made our Change Point Planning an activation unit, dominating the Promotion Marketing even more robust process for developing ideas for both Awards Asia PMAA with 11 Golds and five Best in BatesAsia and 141, through our framework I. D. E. A. S. Country awards.
To help clients understand and leverage change, we A new business highlight was winning the prestigious ran Change Panels in China, India, Japan and Singapore, international assignment for Heineken Rugby World Cup covering hot issues ranging from animation fans and in a pitch against the worlds best agencies.
This is just convenience stores in Japan, to what constitutes beauty one piece of evidence that our locally-produced work in India today, and how the digital wave is transforming is appreciated globally.
We also deepened our 18-year the lives of Singaporeans.
relationship with HSBC, winning all product assignments In China, we acquired a majority share in West in Hong Kong and HSBC Direct in Taiwan, and being Chinas largest agency in Chengdu, Apex, to form appointed the agency of record in the Philippines.
In India, we have agreed to acquire a majority important wins included AIG in India and Taiwan, Cheung stake in Sercon, the countrys second largest activation unit, Kong and Macau Studio City in Hong Kong, and Visa to create 141 Sercon.
We also completed our merger with across the region.
David in Beijing, India, Indonesia and Taiwan.
In 2007, as the only Asia-devoted network of size, In Hong Kong, BatesAsia Hong Kong acquired local BatesAsia 141 aims to be as responsive as possible to PR agency, Beyond Communications, to complete our demands of business in this changing and fast-growing integrated offerings for top local and international brands region building sustainable brands with global ambition including Cheung Kong and HSBC.
One of the regions most entrepreneurial agency leaders, Digby Richards, joined us as chief operating of cer and will partner me in managing all aspects of the network.
Other senior hires included Judd Labarthe, chief strategy of cer, and Steve Llewellynn, executive creative director, 141.
In 2006, we dominated in the regions industry awards.
BatesAsia Singapore picked up the most awards at the Creative Circle with the most number of Golds.
Executive creative director Rob Gaxiola won Creative Director of the Year, awarded by the Singapore Advertising How were doing WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006
