How were rewarded Compensation Committee report on behalf of the Board his report is made by the Board, 2006 highlights prepared on its behalf and for its approval by the Compensation During the year the most signi cant issues addressed Committee.
by the committee were: The report provides the A review of the total compensation packages of the Companys statement of how Groups most senior executives relative to the market it has applied the principles of place benchmarks.
good governance set out in the The approval of bonuses for senior executives Combined Code and Schedule 7A throughout the Group.
to the Companies Act in respect A review of the remuneration for non-executive of compensation matters.
directors of the Group, including the chairman, which The report of the auditors on the financial statements was supported by advice from Towers Perrin, and making set out on pages 179 and 180 con rms that the scope recommendations to the Board.
of their report covers, where required, the disclosures A review of the total compensation packages of WPPs contained in or referred to in this report that are speci ed executive directors to evaluate their appropriateness in for their audit by the UK Listing Authority and under the various circumstances, including termination of employment.
Consideration of possible amendments to the LEAP Details of each individual directors remuneration and programme in respect of future awards under that plan.
of their bene cial holdings of the Companys shares and A review of the impact of recent changes in age share awards are set out on pages 126 and 127. discrimination legislation in the UK and pension The Company is required to submit the Compensation requirements in the US.
Committee report for share owner approval at the Annual General Meeting AGM convened for 26 June 2007 and the appropriate resolution is set out as resolution 12 in Remit of the Compensation Committee the Notice of Annual General Meeting accompanying the Annual Report and Accounts.
Under its terms of reference the committee is responsible for: Reviewing and approving the remuneration and terms of employment including any termination arrangements of executive directors and senior executives of the Company and of directors and senior executives of the operating companies.
Reviewing the Groups incentive policy and compensation plans.
Monitoring the vesting of awards under all incentive plans.
Reviewing systems implemented throughout the Group to deal with matters such as employee harassment and discrimination.
Appointing and reviewing the performance of external advisors to the committee and to the Company in relation to executive remuneration and human resource activities.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How were rewarded.
