How were doing Letter to share owners Dear share owner of a margin point after incentives and 0.4 margin points before incentives.
The rest of this letter to you is based on constant currency comparisons, which are more meaningful, given PPs twentyfirst year was a model currency movements.
On a like-for-like basis revenues were year, our best yet, with key up 5.4% for the year, up 5.0% in the first half and 5.7% measures exceeding any previous in the second half.
This appears to have been above the year.
Our performance conformed growth in the worldwide market, with the Group increasing closely to the financial model we market share.
have developed, with revenues Revenue growth was also consistently strong in rising 10% and pro ts 15%.
successive quarters, on a like-for-like basis up 4.8%, Most importantly, total 5.1%, 4.1% in the first three quarters, accelerating to share owner return improved, 7.2% in the fourth quarter, the Companys first $3 billion with your share price rising by quarter.
The momentum was maintained in the first quarter almost 10% to 690.5p over the year and dividends rising of 2007, with like-for-like revenues up 4.3% and gross 20% to 11.21p.
Pleasingly, your share price has advanced margin up 4.5%.
Our like-for-like revenue objective for a further 9% to 757.5p at the time of writing.
2007 remains 4-5%, well in line with, or above, forecasts Billings were up 13% to 30.1 billion.
Revenues for the advertising and marketing services industry and were up almost 10% to 5.9 billion.
Operating margin worldwide GNP growth.
was up half a margin point to 14.5%.
Headline EBITDA or headline earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation, which is a key metric that private equity Media Investment Management again leads growth rms use for valuing companies crossed 1 billion for the first time.
Headline PBIT that is pro t before goodwill By discipline, Media Investment Management led the way, impairment write-downs, amortisation and impairment together with Healthcare and Specialist Communications, of acquired intangible assets, share of exceptional gains of the latter particularly in direct, internet and interactive.
associates, interest, tax and investment gains and writeAdvertising, Information, Insight & Consultancy, and downs what a mouthful!
was up almost 14% to 859 Branding & Identity also registered good performances.
Headline profit before tax was up over 14% to Public Relations & Public Affairs again registered its 766 million.
strongest year since 2000, buoyed by the in uence of social profit before tax was up over 15% to 682 million.
networking and blogging on the internet.
Marketing services Headline diluted earnings per share were up almost 17% rose to over 52% of our revenues in 2006, due to strong to 42.0p and reported diluted earnings per share up over growth in Public Relations & Public Affairs and Branding 18% to 35.2p.
& Identity, Healthcare and Specialist Communications.
These results reect faster growth in almost all We are no longer purely an advertising agency.
regions North America, Continental Europe, Asia By geography, Asia Pacic, Africa and the Middle Pacic, Latin America, Africa and the Middle East East, Latin America and Central and Eastern Europe led the slower growth area being the UK.
The only laggard was the UK, with even France, was encouraging across all communications services Germany and Italy showing some improvement, to some sectors Advertising, Media Investment Management, extent due to easier comparatives.
As a result, markets Information, Insight & Consultancy, Public Relations outside North America now account for over 60% of our & Public Affairs, Branding & Identity, Healthcare revenues, as compared to 58% in 2003 and 56% in 2002. and Specialist Communications.
As in 2004 and 2005, The influence of the faster-growing markets outside North we were ring on all cylinders.
These results also reected continued improvement in productivity, with like-for-like revenues up 5.4% and average headcount on the same basis up 3.6%.
Liquidity was steady, with average net debt at on a reported basis and up only 121 million at 2006 exchange rates, with a net cash in ow of 123 million.
Operating margins improved signicantly, too, to record levels up one half How were doing WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How were doing Letter to share owners Pro ts up: cash ow strong Industry prospects Headline PBIT margins rose to 14.5% from 14.0%, in line In theory, 2006 should have been a stronger year, with the with our objective.
This was particularly encouraging, as Turin Winter Olympics, the FIFA World Cup in Germany our income statement reected our largest-ever incentive and the US Congressional elections stimulating growth.
Pre-incentive headline PBIT So it proved to be, as clients also realised, that like-formargins rose by 0.4 margin points to 18.7% from 18.3%.
like growth could be stimulated by increased spending on Incentive payments rose to 247 million, or more than four differentiation of products and services, as in 2005. margin points, from 228 million in 2005.
Total incentive The industry will probably grow at 4% in 2007, a similar payments including share-based payments were more than level to 2006, with marketing services outpacing advertising, 23% of headline operating profits before bonuses, taxes driven primarily by growth in direct, interactive and and income from associates.
Our objective remains to pay internet marketing.
out approximately 20% at maximum and 15% at target, 2007 should again be a good year, reecting excluding share option costs.
Variable staff costs freelance, the build-up to the Beijing Olympics and the 2008 US consultants and incentive payments, including share option Presidential election, in which both parties are expected to charges now account for 7.7% of revenues, almost the have well-nanced, multi-candidate elds.
In fact there is same as the peak of 7.8% in 2004.
This provides a useful already evidence that the campaign is starting early and will shock absorber for operating margins, should revenues be a long, expensive one.
2007 should see growth similar again come under pressure.
to 2006 or slightly stronger growth, with 2008 escalating As a result of all this, headline PBIT rose to 859 to 5-6%.
2008 should be a blockbuster year, not only million, well over $1 billion for the third year in a row, because of the Summer Olympics and the US elections, but up almost 16% in constant currencies.
Although 2006 also with the European Football Championship in Austria was a strong year, some of our first-generation businesses and Switzerland.
Spending beyond ones means may nally continued to suffer, and a non-cash impairment charge catch up with the US economy in 2009 and result in a reecting accelerated amortisation of goodwill of almost global slow-down.
36 million was taken, compared to 46 million in 2005.
2006 was an excellent year: 2007, we believe, can Pre-tax profits, therefore, rose by over 15% to 682 see WPP strengthen more.
The Company continues to be million, more than $1 billion for the second time, and in its most robust position since 2000.
Revenue growth, diluted headline earnings per share by almost 17% to 42p.
cost management, productivity, liquidity and balance Free cash ow was up strongly at 716 million, sheet strength all continued to improve over last year and compared to 561 million in 2005.
Excluding the cash continue to do so in 2007.
Most importantly, our talent payment for Grey in 2005, for the third year in a row, base continues to strengthen, particularly as we invest in we more than achieved our recently introduced cash ow increasing headcount in 2006 and in 2007. objective of covering all acquisition payments and share reAs for 2007 and beyond, there are two principal purchases, and managed to cover dividend payments, too.
concerns: Americas twin deficits, and Western Europes Liquidity improved as well, and your Company stagnation.
How long growth can continue when the US remains comfortably geared.
Net debt averaged government continues to run current account and scal 1.214 billion up 121 million at 2006 exchange rates.
deficits remains to be seen.
The American consumer In the first quarter of 2007, liquidity has continued to remains sluggish, and chairmen and CEOs do not strengthen, with average net debt only up 39 million to seem willing as yet to raise corporate capital spending 1.029 billion at 2007 exchange rates compared with consistently to bolster the economy, which in our view the same period in 2006.
Headline interest cover in 2006 remains patchy.
Analysts appear comfortable with The 2000 recession was stimulated by a sharp decline average net debt levels of more than twice EBITDA, or in corporate capital spending, which was then ameliorated by over 2 billion, versus our current levels of approximately stronger consumer spending.
The reverse has not happened 1.2 billion.
yet, notwithstanding the strength in corporate profitability, liquidity and margins.
profits as a proportion of GNP are at a 50-year high.
At the same time, ination stimulated by commodity price ination, in oil and steel in particular, has returned, and the dollar has weakened.
Perhaps this is an old-fashioned approach, but operating beyond ones means WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How were doing.
How were doing Letter to share owners Grey delivers Grey, which accounts for about 15% of the enlarged Company, has now been fully integrated and has brought to the Group important strategic assets and strong people.
It has a powerful planning and account handling seems perilous to us.
And a countrys currency, we think, advertising agency led by Jim Heekin, with relationships comes close to representing its stock price.
with major multinational clients of WPP.
And it is now Our second worry is that Western Europe continues raising its levels of creativity.
to stagnate, although there have been signs of improvement.
Its strong Media Investment Management capability, France, Germany, Italy and, to a lesser extent the UK, led by Alexander Schmidt-Vogel, is now fully integrated resemble a mature company in a mature industry.
There into GroupM, winning large accounts using GroupM is little top-line growth.
With healthcare and pension networks and planning and research tools.
Its public costs becoming an increasing burden, unless relative relations capability, led by Jeff Hunt, is now co-ordinating interest rates decline and growth is stimulated by further and co-operating with Cohn & Wolfe, led by Donna broadening of the European Union, for example by the Imperato.
Its very strong healthcare capability, probably our early entry of Turkey or by more liberal corporate and fastest growing, is run by Lynn OConnor Vos.
Its strong social tax policies, Western Europe may be trapped in a direct, sales promotion, interactive and internet capability, sluggish, lack-of-growth scenario, falling further behind now uniformly branded G2, is led by Joe Celia.
Social and structural costs are Geographic strengths include the US and Europe significant elements of this concern.
The recent extension including Eastern Europe in particular, with interesting of transfer of undertakings legislation in the EU TUPE, bases in Asia Pacic, Latin America, Africa and the Middle for example, represents another burden to bear.
In certain East, which are being built up further, organically and circumstances, it is possible that having won an account, by acquisition.
Grey also presents big opportunities to the winning agency would have to take on the losing team build on existing common client opportunities, and explore or pay severance.
Despite these issues, there is evidence particularly in 2005, 2006 and the early part of 2007 of a growing focus on top-line growth.
Given a low-inationary environment, Margin objectives limited pricing power and more concentrated retail distribution, clients are increasingly coming to the view that Our 2007 budgets indicate organic revenue growth of 4%, there is only one way to compete through innovation and equally balanced between first and second halves, and branding.
Promote on price and you create commodities.
skewed to greater growth in marketing services.
Operating Innovate and differentiate, you create brands and the right margins are projected to reach 15.0%.
The margin objective to demand a premium from the consumer.
There is a growing realisation that cutting costs alone 2007 should be an even better year for the industry, will not deliver growth targets promised to Wall Street stimulated by anticipation of the Beijing Olympics and and the City of London.
There is a limit to cost reduction, US Presidential election in 2008.
In February, when we but no ceiling on top-line growth at least until you reach announced our results for 2006, we gave guidance on life 100% market share.
Further reinforcing this trend, strategic beyond 15%, to 15.5% in 2008 and 16.0% in 2009 and advisors, such as management consultants like McKinsey, how we might improve further our margin to 19%, or counsel a switch in focus from costs to revenues.
This is not so outrageous as strategic plans are increasingly concentrating on managing some believe, given that our best performing companies in for growth, instead of managing for value.
each services sector already perform at a combined Group Finally, managements are just plain tired of grappling margin of 17%.
For the past three or four years, there has been an inexorable focus on cost.
It is much more fun to focus on growth perhaps Our top priorities this partially explains the recent surge in merger and acquisition activity.
Our reason for being, the justication for WPPs existence, continues to be to add value to our clients businesses and our peoples careers.
Our goal remains to be the worlds most successful provider of communications services to multinational and local companies.
To that end, we have three top strategic priorities.
How were doing WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How were doing Letter to share owners First, in the short term, having weathered the internet bust successfully, we need to build on the solid base we have established.
Our people are stronger: they are better resourced, motivated and incentivised than when we exited the last recession in the early 1990s.
The Company is also more profitable, more liquid, less leveraged and better structured.
In the most recent 2007 should be an even economic cycle, margins peaked at 14.5% and bottomed at better year for the industry, 12.3%, as opposed to 10.5% and 5.6% the previous time.
Second, in the medium term, to build upon the stimulated by anticipation of successful base we have established with the acquisitions of Young & Rubicam Brands and Grey.
At Grey, the new the Beijing Olympics and US management structure is now in place and the planned integration is now completed.
At Young & Rubicam Presidential election in 2008 Brands, our plans are also largely implemented, the one remaining task being to continue to strengthen the Y&R advertising agency.
Our third priority, in the long term or over the next five to 10 years, is to increase the combined geographic share of revenues of Asia Pacic, Latin America, Africa and the Middle East, and Central and Eastern Europe, from around 20% to one-third.
We shall also aim to increase We have been the only the share of revenues of marketing services from 52% to two-thirds: and to increase the share of more measurable FTSE 100 company to increase marketing services such as Information, Insight & its dividend by 20% per annum Consultancy, and direct, interactive and internet from around one-third of our revenues to 50%.
over the past 10 years Our six objectives Our six objectives remain as follows: First, to continue to raise operating margins to the levels of the best-performing competition.
15.0% under 2004 UK GAAP has already been achieved.
20%, or 19% under IFRS, is much tougher, but not out of the question.
BBDO, Dentsu and McCann have done so historically, although the pressure became too great in some instances.
Second, to continue to increase exibility in the cost structure.
Great strides were made in 2005 and 2006 on this.
Peak exibility historically was in 2000, at 6.6% of revenues in variable staff costs.
Now at 7.7% in 2006, 7.6% in 2005 and 7.8% in 2004, we have seen new peaks: and once again we have a sufficient shock absorber in our cost structure, if revenue growth weakens.
Third, to improve total share owner return by maximising the return on investment on the Companys 700 million or over $1 billion free cash ow.
There are broadly three alternative uses of funds: Capital expenditure, which usually approximates the depreciation cost.
Pressure here has eased as technology pricing has fallen, although we are investing more in real estate, particularly in the US, to secure greater efficiencies.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How were doing.
How were doing Letter to share owners Mergers and acquisitions, which have historically taken the lions share of free cash ow.
Here we have raised the hurdle rate on capital utilised so that our return on capital employed may be increased.
Even so, there are still interesting opportunities, particularly outside the US, where pricing remains lower and where there is a closer t with Our objective is to the Companys strategic objectives.
Private transactions remain more attractively priced at single-digit pricemaximise the added value earnings multiples.
Happily, return on capital from Grey exceeded our cost of capital in the first and second year, for our clients with their and the return from Young & Rubicam Brands, although still below the cost of capital, is rising satisfactorily.
businesses and our people Dividends or share buy-backs.
We have been the only with their careers FTSE 100 company to increase its dividend by 20% per annum over the past 10 years.
Given dividend cover of more than four times headline earnings and a dividend yield of just over 1%, we can continue to increase the dividend.
However, a rolling share buy-back program appears to offer a more significant benefit to total share owner returns, and we have boosted the target level of the share buy-back program from 2-3% of the outstanding share capital to 4-5%.
In the first quarter of 2007, we were buying back Our recruiting efforts shares at an annualised rate of over 4%.
Fourth, we will continue to enhance the throughout 2006 were contribution of the parent company.
WPP is not dedicated and especially just a holding company focused on planning, budgeting, reporting and financial issues, but a fruitful as we successfully parent company that can add value to our clients and our people.
We will continue to do this through a limited group targeted and attracted top of 250 or so people at the centre in London, New York, Hong Kong and Shanghai.
This does not mean that we seek talent within and beyond our to diminish the strength of our operating brands.
Our industry, often competing objective is to maximise the added value for our clients with their businesses and our people with their careers.
with investment banking, Many of our initiatives are possible because of the scale on which we now operate.
In the optimum use of management consulting property, in information technology and in procurement generally, we are able to achieve efficiencies that would be and private equity offers beyond the reach of any individual operating company.
But it is also clear that there is an increasing requirement for the centre to complement the operating companies in professional development and client co-ordination.
It is a relatively recent development for certain multinational marketing companies, when looking to satisfy their global communications needs, to make their initial approach not to operating companies but directly to parent companies.
Such assignments present major, and increasingly frequent, opportunities for the few groups of our size.
It is absolutely essential that we have the professional resources and the practice development capability to serve such clients comprehensively, actively and creatively.
All our clients, whether global, multinational or local, continue to focus on the quality of our thinking, co-ordination of communications, and price.
In response, we focus on talent, structure and incentives.
How were doing WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How were doing Letter to share owners People, people, people Talent and its management therefore remain the lynchpin of our reason for existence: that is what our clients pay us for.
Development of our people and the way we manage that talent is a critical driver of performance: and on that critical dimension, we continue to make significant progress.
In almost 5%, from 248 sq ft in 2004 to 236 sq ft in 2006, the creation of extremely attractive working environments, and the ratio of establishment cost to revenue has reduced with highly competitive incentives, we increasingly from 7.6% in 2004 to 7.1% in 2006, equivalent to a saving differentiate ourselves from our competitors and improve of 29 million.
We have effectively achieved the mediumthe attraction of WPP companies as destinations for talent.
term objective of a 7% establishment cost-to-revenue ratio Our quarterly reviews with the operating companies set in 2002, when the same ratio was 8.4%.
have been restructured, consequently, to give more time We have shed the surplus space taken on in recent and attention to talent and to clients.
Our recruiting efforts acquisitions, and our future priority in managing the throughout 2006 were dedicated and especially fruitful as property portfolio of approximately 18 million sq ft we successfully targeted and attracted top talent within worldwide is to ensure that the growth in additional square and beyond our industry, often competing with investment footage is less than the growth in revenues and headcount.
banking, management consulting and private equity offers.
Our new objective is to achieve greater space utilisation The war for talent is erce, and there is more to be done.
to more than offset the impact of the current surge in The blueprint for our executive development commercial property rentals worldwide.
curriculum has been completed, and our new client In procurement, we have set ourselves the goal of leadership training program has been successfully becoming the undisputed leader of procurement practice introduced.
The parent company and each of our in the global advertising and marketing services industry.
operating companies installed its own approach to With intensied internal training in this area, we have performance assessment and succession planning, aimed focused on our major markets and categories more at developing the careers of their people, improving the favourable for global, regional or country contracts such quality of feedback, coaching and mentoring they receive as IT, telecoms, facilities, travel, professional services and and providing for orderly succession.
This programs success has been demonstrated scrutinise and modify our compensation practices: both to by improvement of the non-staff costs to revenue ratio in offer competitive and justly-based rewards to our existing recent years.
people and to attract outstanding talent from elsewhere.
In Information Technology, we continue to integrate For the first time Grey was included in our performance core infrastructure support across our ofces.
As with our and assessment approach in 2005 and 2006.
Our earlier acquisition of Cordiant, Grey operations have been incentives assessment and rewards methodology have been quickly integrated into our IT platform, which has allowed enthusiastically received.
the operating companies to concentrate on client-related A communications services company must be a model IT systems development.
Convergence of transmission of excellent external and internal communications.
To that of electronic data, internet, wireless, IP and traditional end, we are broadening the understanding of the Groups voice telephony presents us with a further opportunity to vast resources through a raft of regular communications: standardise our approach to technology at the regional, our FactFiles proling Group resources companies if not global level, and to take advantage of current products: our monthly public online news bulletin, e. wire: overcapacity in many of these sectors.
our award-winning global newspaper, The WIRE: our Finally, in practice development we continue to annual Atticus Journal of original marketing thinking: develop horizontal initiatives in a focused set of highand our annual Corporate Responsibility Report.
We are potential areas across our vertical operating brands: in focusing increasingly on online communications following media investment management, healthcare, privatisation, a comprehensive redevelopment of the WPP intranet and new technologies, new faster-growing markets, internal Group website www.
communications, retail, entertainment and media, financial In property management, we continue to improve the services, and hi-tech and telecommunications.
specifically, return on our investment in real estate through the awardwe continue to invest in sharing insights and developing winning WPP Space Program, with planned investment initiatives through The Channel in media and research in property databases and systems, innovative design and and The Store in distribution and retail.
continuous review of key locations.
Better use of space has In key geographic markets we are increasingly coenabled us to hold like-for-like increase in square footage ordinating our activities through WPP Country Managers.
in our portfolio to less than 3% over the last two years, We continue to believe that increasing co-ordination is while for the same period like-for-like revenue has increased required between our brands at the country and global by over 11%.
As a result, square footage per head is down levels, as the arguments for investment in regional WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How were doing.
How were doing Letter to share owners We will expand our strong networks Ogilvy & Mather, JWT, Y&R, Grey, United, BatesAsia 141, MindShare, Mediaedge:cia, MediaCom, Research International, Millward Brown, KMR, Hill & Knowlton, Ogilvy Public Relations Worldwide, Burson-Marsteller, Cohn & Wolfe, GCI, OgilvyOne, Wunderman, management become weaker.
As our recent experience OgilvyAction, G2, CommonHealth, Sudler & Hennessey, in Italy demonstrated, however, the activities of Country Ogilvy Healthworld, Grey Healthcare, Enterprise IG, Managers must be closely aligned and monitored.
In Landor and Fitch in high-growth markets or where addition, we are appointing an increasing number of WPP their market share is insufficient.
Global Client Leaders to co-ordinate our efforts on behalf In 2006, we strengthened our position in Advertising of clients and to ensure they get maximum benefit from and Media Investment Management in the US, the UK, their relationships with WPP operating brands.
the Netherlands, Germany, South Africa, Israel, China, Furthermore, we continue to encourage internal Singapore, New Zealand and Brazil: in Information, Insight strategic alliances and promote co-operation.
Practice & Consultancy in the US, Spain, Argentina, Hong Kong development initiatives have thereby been reinforced in such and China: in Public Relations & Public Affairs in the areas as healthcare, internal communications and media US, Canada and India: in Branding & Identity in India: in and entertainment.
This has been especially important to Healthcare Communications in the US, the Netherlands, manage our portfolio of direct investments in new media, Spain and Switzerland and in direct, internet and interactive under the re-branded WPP Digital.
in the US, Germany, China and Korea.
All these initiatives are designed to ensure that We will also enhance our leadership position we, the parent company, really do and are perceived to in Information, Insight & Consultancy by further inspire, motivate, coach, encourage, support and incentivise development of our key brands with particular emphasis our operating companies to achieve their strategic and on North America, Asia Pacic and Latin America.
will accelerate our growth of panels and have established a Kantar-wide operational capability.
We will reinforce our growing position in media research through KMR, Growing our revenues which includes our investments in television audience research through IBOPE, AGBNielsen Media Research Fifth, as we move up the margin curve, we intend and Marktest, which, combined, are the market leaders to place greater emphasis on revenue growth.
We will also continue to accelerate legitimate criticism of our performance against the development of our retail and healthcare offers.
best-performing competition is our comparative In addition, we will reinforce our worldwide strength level of organic revenue growth.
2000 was a bumper year in direct and interactive marketing and research through our but unsustainable.
In 2001, we disappointingly moved back traditional channels such as OgilvyOne, Wunderman, G2, into the middle of the pack.
But there was a significant RMG Connect, Blanc & Otus and Lightspeed.
Although revival in 2002 and 2003, when we were one of only two of the early 2000-2001 compressions in financial valuations the major companies that showed revenue growth.
2004 initially offered significant opportunities, we will now was punctuated with a number of high-prole wins, also invest directly in the new channels through start-ups, resulting in the second strongest organic growth particularly as US valuations in search, for example, have performance in the industry, and 2005 and 2006 saw become prohibitive.
Other opportunities will be sought to strong growth again among the leaders in the industry.
Our practice development activities are also aimed Lastly, we will continue to develop our specialist at helping us position our portfolio in the faster-growing expertise in areas such as healthcare, retail and interactive functional and geographic areas.
So far in 2007, the and to identify new high-growth areas.
Group has made acquisitions or increased equity interests in Advertising and Media Investment Management in the US, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Russia, Brazil, Creativity remains paramount Colombia, Australia and China: in Information, Insight & Consultancy in the US and the UK: in direct, internet Our sixth objective is to improve still further the and interactive in the US and Mexico.
quality of our creative output.
Despite the growing These acquisitions continue to move us forward to importance of co-ordinated communications and our aforementioned strategic priorities: expanding the price effectiveness, the quality of the work remains market shares of our businesses in Asia Pacic, Latin and will remain paramount.
If you drew a graph plotting America, Africa and the Middle East to one-third: in creative awards as a proxy for creativity against margins marketing services to two-thirds: and in Information, for any group of agencies, there would be a very strong Insight & Consultancy, direct and interactive, to one-half.
The more awards, the stronger the margins.
How were doing WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How were doing Letter to share owners The clients procurement department fades into the background when the work is strong.
Of the three things we do strategic thinking, creative execution and coordination creative execution is undoubtedly the most important, and that means creativity in its broadest sense.
Clients look for creative thinking and output not just from advertising agencies, public relations and And nally design companies, but also from our Media Investment Management companies, MindShare, Mediaedge:cia, Great consumer goods companies never forget one MAXUS and MediaCom, and our research companies.
Millward Brown remains arguably one of our most creative However big they become, however impressive their brands.
Witness the BrandZ Top 100 Most Powerful market capitalisation and their ranking in the Fortune 500, Brands Study in the Financial Times.
their continued success is dependent not simply on top-down We will achieve this objective by stepping up our management but crucially on bottom-up marketing.
Only if training and development programs: by recruiting the nest tens of millions of individuals, day-by-day, week-by-week, external talent: by celebrating and rewarding outstanding continue to choose that tube of toothpaste, those cheese creative success tangibly and intangibly: by acquiring strong slices, that pack of pain killer, that breakfast cereal only creative companies: and by encouraging, monitoring and then will even the greatest of companies survive and prosper.
promoting our companies achievements in winning creative Exactly the same sobering truth applies to WPP.
For additional leadership in this regard, Robyn was an extremely good year for the Company and this Putter, in addition to serving as worldwide creative director Report describes and analyses our results in considerable at Ogilvy, has taken on the additional role of WPPs detail.
But we never forget that those results are made up worldwide creative head.
of tens of thousands of smaller results, from more than We are committed to achieving these objectives as a 100 companies in more than 100 countries around the substantively responsible corporate citizen of the world at world: and that we, too, are dependent for our success on large and the communities in which we operate.
the day-to-day, week-by-week invention and delivery of tens of thousands of handmade artefacts on behalf of our clients: strategic plans, research analyses and all forms The future of marketing communications each one the product of creative minds and each one crafted to meet unique and A colossal amount remains to be done challenging our speci c client needs.
It seems certain that once these As reported, the single gure for Group pro t objectives are achieved, they will be replaced by new ones.
before tax in 2006 was 682 million.
If it were possible As companies grow in size, most chairmen and CEOs to carry out a complete dissection of that single gure, become concerned that their organisations may become we would nd that it was made up of the contributions abby, slow to respond, bureaucratic and sclerotic.
of no fewer than 100,000 individuals.
These are the people Any sensible business leader aggressively resists this our clients respect and value: it is their work and their phenomenon: we all seek the benets of size and scale talent that continue to fuel the Groups progress: and it without sacrificing the suppleness and energy of a smaller gives us great pleasure, on behalf of all our share owners, rm.
And, for the first time, new technologies now make to end this letter by expressing our gratitude to them for this possible on a global platform.
WPP wants the scale and resources of the largest rm together with the heart and mind of a small one.
As a parent company, we continue to develop practical principles and policies for our companies Philip Lader charitable giving and services to the environment, Chairman education, the arts and healthcare based on best-practice guidelines.
We conservatively calculate that the WPP organisation contributed an estimated 24.9 million worth of time, skills, materials and money to social and community causes in 2006.
A summary of the Groups Sir Martin Sorrell approach to corporate responsibility can be found on Group chief executive pages 112 to 117.
This letter to share owners should be read in conjunction with and as part of the management report set out in the section headed Directors report on pages 103 to 117.
The statements made in the footnote to the Review of operations on page 141 apply equally to this letter to share owners.
How were doing WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006
