How were doing Media Investment Management GroupM MediaCom Mediaedge:cia MindShare Report by Irwin Gotlieb below Chief executive of cer GroupM roupM is WPPs global media investment management operation.
It serves as the parent company to WPP media agencies including MAXUS, MediaCom, Mediaedge:cia and MindShare.
Our primary purpose is to maximize the performance of WPPs media communications agencies on behalf of our clients, our share owners and our people by operating as a parent and collaborator in  activities such as trading, content creation, sports, digital, finance, proprietary tool development and other business-critical capabilities.
The agencies that comprise GroupM are all global operations in their own right with leading market positions.
The focus of GroupM is the intelligent application of physical and intellectual scale to bene t trading, innovation and new communication services, to bring unfair competitive advantage to our clients and our companies.
In 2006, RECMA the independent organization that measures scale and capabilities in the media sector has again ranked GroupM as the world leader in scale as well as vitality and momentum a re ection of our industryleading rate of growth.
Our capabilities include business science, consumer insight, communications and media strategy, tactical planning, trading, interactions, content development and sports and entertainment marketing.
We had another outstanding year in 2006 by any measure.
We enjoyed signi cant double-digit growth in total as each of our agencies delivered outstanding performances.
The following reports by our individual agencies spell out our record of existing client retention and new business acquisition.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How were doing.
How were doing Media Investment Management Our people deserve great credit for delivering future.
Our base of knowledge is substantially ampli ed exceptional value to their clients who include some of through a collaboration with our Kantar colleagues on the worlds most sophisticated marketers.
By working in insights, effectiveness metrics and data management.
partnership with our clients, we are leading the way in Last year, we said GroupM is fast emerging as an new thinking.
We feel even more con dent today and can GroupM is a pioneer, and pioneers are aggressive say that GroupM has proven itself to be the shaper of our in imposing change on their organizations to bring industry.
The exceptional performance of our 14,000 people improvement to the business.
We have a real passion across the world deserves great credit and acknowledgement.
to shape a better future: this passion has driven our Our mission continues to be to provide an extraordinary organization since GroupMs creation in 2003.
We continue place where their talents and aspirations can ourish and to be just as restless as we push to take advantage of the lead to great value for our clients and our stakeholders.
market leadership we have created for ourselves.
In 2006 we reinforced our management infrastructure so that we can more aggressively implement our strategies.
Rupert Day was elevated to chief operating of cer of the group.
We built regional infrastructure with Kelly Clark and Dominic Grainger assuming leadership in EMEA, John Steedman in Asia Paci c and David Byles in Latin America.
We have also now implemented consolidated leadership and structures in almost every market in which we operate.
Last year, we also went public with This Year Next Year, our ongoing publication of unique media marketplace data and forecasts.
This has been very well received in both the financial and media communities, and has reinforced our eminence in knowledgeand thought-leadership.
Weve just begun and will be expanding our offer over the next 12 months.
Our business today is approaching a signi cant in ection point.
As new media begins to mature and traditional media moves towards ubiquitous digital delivery, the capabilities of each medium will undergo positive transformation.
With digital delivery of both media and messaging, we can begin to exploit the potential of addressability, target re nement, telescoping, census level measurement and response capabilities.
We didnt build our scale for bragging rights.
In the past, we built scale to develop leverage and unparalleled marketplace knowledge and insight, as well as strong relationships with our media partners.
In the developing digital world, the greatest bene t of scale is the ability to capture data from a signi cant percentage of the worlds communication ow.
We are in a unique position to aggregate and mine the data that derives from that ow and it will surely provide both our clients and ourselves with signi cant competitive advantage.
At the same time, we are shaping the future of media.
We are positioning GroupM to ensure that our increasingly deep and sophisticated knowledge of the digital arena will fide ne how clients reach and engage with consumers.
This intelligence will also in uence how our clients form deeper and more effective relationships with consumers in the How were doing WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How were doing Media Investment Management MediaCom Report by Alexander Schmidt-Vogel left Chairman and chief executive of cer MediaCom ediaCom experienced a watershed year in 2005 that marked historical change for our global agency network as we became part of the WPP and GroupM families.
This was the year in which MediaCom planted the seeds for further development.
Our investments in talent, tools and geographical expansion, and new initiatives in all areas of MediaComs business and working processes, were the seeds we sowed to grow our global agency network.
2006 saw MediaCom harvesting the direct results of that landmark year.
New business wins and expanded client relationships attested to the strong return of our 2005 investments.
And initiatives started in 2005, such as our unique planning and implementation tool, Real World Architecture, gave our current and new clients a leg up on their competition during 2006.
We continued to build on and expand them throughout the year.
Our con dent growth was evident in all areas of our business and within our organization in 2006, and resulted in MediaComs best year ever with rm two-digit growth.
RECMA noted MediaComs robust growth in billings by naming us the second fastest-growing global agency network for billings in 2006 vs. 2005, and the third fastest-growing agency in 2006 vs. 2005.
In particular markets, such as China, Russia and Australia, this growth was especially evident, with new business wins and strong local teams pushing MediaCom to local success.
And local of ces were inundated with awards for their consistent high quality of work with, for example, South Africa being named Media Agency of the Year by both the Financial Mail and Finance Week.
Globally, MediaCom saw major wins from clients such as Volkswagen, Procter & Gamble, Nokia, Unicredit and Danone in 2006.
We are very proud of the Volkswagen win: the assignment of Volkswagens global account was the direct outcome of the strong results we have achieved WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How were doing.
How were doing Media Investment Management for VW in numerous local markets over a number of years.
In fact, many of our 2006 major wins derived from clients with whom weve had long-term relationships: an attest to MediaComs ability to grow clients business and the relationships with their consumers.
To ensure that we can serve our clients everywhere they are, 2006 also saw MediaCom completing the construction of our network in key regions such as Asia Paci c and Latin America, with targeted investments in regional and local personnel as well as in local capabilities.
These investments are already bringing about a number of positive changes.
In Asia Paci c, for example, MediaCom was one of the fastest-growing media agency networks in 2006, and both Asia Paci c and Latin America saw MediaCom winning numerous key accounts on both a regional and local level.
Our local of ces are supported by a robust international team and a set of global tools.
In 2006, we continued to invest in these worldwide assets.
We strengthened our global talent resources in areas such as ROI, consumer insights, research and business development.
We expanded our global tool palette by introducing new processes and systems within our Real World Architecture family.
MediaComs strength, and the powerful advantage we give to our clients, is based on our philosophy: People First Better Results.
Our clients value our commitment to look at their customers as individuals, and not just as consumers.
When we launched this tagline in 2004, we were alone in recognizing people and not just consumers as the key to successful media investment.
Today, the industry is abuzz with talk about the need to look at consumers as people a fact we recognized years ago.
At MediaCom, our philosophy stands substantially backed by tools and systems that make both people first and better results come alive.
Our Real World Architecture is based on this unwavering focus on people at all stages of our media investment management, and on achieving real brand success via sales.
In 2007, MediaCom is again well positioned for growth.
In the first few months of 2007, we are already seeing improved revenue versus our record-breaking year in 2006, through both expanding services to current clients and winning major new clients.
We are con dent that the building blocks set in 2006 have placed us in an opportune position to continue this growth, and we look forward to an even more successful 2007.
How were doing WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How were doing Media Investment Management Mediaedge:cia Report by Charles Courtier left Chief executive of cer Mediaedge:cia ediaedge:cia MEC came into 2006 in a con dent mood and that con dence was rewarded at the end of the year when we were named Global Media Agency of the Year, not once but twice, by AdvertisingAge and Adweek.
After a banner year in 2005, which saw our best ever series of new business wins across the network since the creation of the company, we delivered double-digit growth again.
MEC continues to grow in both size and in the breadth and depth of our capabilities, which in turn adds to and exploits GroupMs physical and intellectual scale around the world.
1 position in RECMAs Pitches and Competitiveness Report, issued in November 2006, and was quoted as taking a clear leadership position in 2006.
Our ranking is a testament to our excellent new business gains around the network and the teams that have worked relentlessly for MEC to be acknowledged as the global network leader.
In 2006 we completed the global consolidation of the Campbell Soup Company and Ikea accounts.
com across Europe: Telecom Italia in Italy, Germany and France and Schick Energizer across Asia Paci c and the Middle East.
Major wins in local markets that really moved the dial were Colgate-Palmolive and Wrigley in China, Danone in the UK, Red Bull in Mexico and DreamWorks SKG in the US.
This achievement and con dence stems from our ability to fide ne the changes taking place in our market, to adapt our business model accordingly and, in so doing, stay one step ahead of the competition.
By placing the consumer at the heart of our business we successfully repositioned MECs offering in which consumers Active Engagement with clients brands and communications channels has become the core objective.
That is the future of how we deliver and thats why the investment in the diversi cation of our business continues WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How were doing.
How were doing Media Investment Management and is increasingly where our growth is coming from.
Our business model has expanded to include capabilities MindShare dedicated to retail communications, the Hispanic audience, content creation and community activation.
Consumer empowerment continues to be driven by the digital world.
MEC invests heavily in human Report by Dominic Proctor right and technical resources, allowing us to respond to Chief executive of cer the opportunity that new media channels represent.
MindShare MEC Interaction our digital, direct and search offer is increasingly the centre of our business globally and the fastest-growing part of MEC.
We focus on a highly integrated offer as this is how consumers interact with he year 2006 proved to be media and entertainment.
another great year for In 2006, we increased the consistent breadth and MindShare.
Not just for our depth of the MEC offer around the world, and with it people but also for the growing the continued development and management of talent relationships with our clients and throughout the agency.
Our global process MEC Navigator partners around the world.
continues to enhance our communications planning and Since we started the implementation offer, bringing major bene ts to our client company in 1997 our greatest partners, around the network: competitive advantages have An approach that truly locks ideas and investment return been the strength and unity together to deliver more differentiated communications of our global network and the collaborative behaviour solutions for our clients commercial bene t. of our agencies and people.
This has never been more Fosters new behaviours internally at MEC as well as important than today because clients are demanding the externally with client and other agency partners.
apparent contradiction of specialist advice, but from an Not overly reliant on tools and studies, but prompts their integrated team.
And they want this globally.
They need use at the most appropriate and relevant times.
The focus is expert specialists to guide them through the bewildering very much on outcome and how information can be used to new opportunities, but they need this to be delivered in develop more insightful strategy and implementation.
a coherent and integrated fashion, from a variety of This commitment to communications planning and partners who otherwise spend much of their time implementation is visible across the entire network.
The competing with each other.
So we need to be strong, work we do for our clients has won multiple awards around diverse, global, and collaborative.
the world, contributing to our success locally and helping to With this in mind we wrote last year of the need to strengthen our brand through industry recognition across further diversify our services and to move much further the regions.
Clients want us to develop a much more strategic MEC had another great year in 2006.
We are focused service but still based on extremely robust execution.
In and committed to achieving even more success for our many markets we are now able to lean heavily on GroupM client partners and for ourselves in 2007. resources to ensure that the execution of plans is faultless, thus allowing us to make the journey upstream strategically.
2006 therefore saw an unprecedented number of changes in MindShares management teams as many of our most senior managers went into other senior positions in the Group.
This allowed us both to promote new managers from within and to bring in new, fresh specialist talent from outside to re ect our new diverse business model.
It is interesting to note that none of this new external leadership was recruited from direct competitors.
Rather it has been from specialist digital rms, content providers, research agencies, clients, advertising agencies, sponsorship consultancies and management consultancies.
How were doing WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How were doing Media Investment Management This deliberate policy re ects the need to have our believe that media agencies are perfectly positioned to help more diversi ed company populated by more diversi ed nd order within the chaos of the new digital revolution.
This revolution will change everything as all media becomes So there was much change in 2006, but change made addressable and all media becomes avoidable.
We will be at a time when we still have great momentum, and at a time taking a big stake in this new media economy.
when our service offering is underpinned by the enormous 2006 saw MindShares ninth consecutive year of strength of GroupM.
double-digit growth as we increased our business with Our developing strategy mirrors the changes taking key clients.
We continued to expand our agency network place elsewhere in different companies and therefore by opening new of ces and growing our population to sometimes brings us into con ict with new types of 5,700.
We won many awards in many countries and we competitor as we move more into the centre of the stage.
send congratulations to our sister agency MEC for winning Rather than just competing with other media agencies, we Global Agency of the Year.
2007 sees our tenth birthday now come up against specialist agencies in digital, content, and it is hard to nd any reason why we cannot continue ROI and sponsorship.
We come up against management to develop the business successfully if we stick to our new consultants, specialist divisions of advertising agencies, strategy.
It fide nitely remains an exciting and rewarding studios and occasionally even media owners.
This again time to be part of MindShares success.
requires us first to be strong in all the new specialist areas All thanks must go to our people, to our clients but then to collaborate with other members of the clients and to our other partners even if we sometimes compete!.
It is certainly the case that the lines between the ambitions and offerings of our clients marketing services partners are blurring.
We regard this as a good thing as we WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How were doing.
