What we think In Praise of Interior Decorators Or at Least Some of Them By Jeremy Bullmore Member of WPP Advisory Board WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 What we think.
What we think In Praise of Interior Decorators dont know much about interior A product without a distinctive identity, a face, a decorators and have never style, an attitude to life remains just that: a product.
But it brand is to become successful, and remain successful, its seems to me, at least from appeal must be unique.
It must of course work, it must do observation, that they belong to what it promises to do: because a brands function is its one of two categories.
There are first and most critical statement to the world.
But beyond those that work from the outside that, it needs clothes and someone has to choose them.
in: and there are those that work So brands, too, have need of skilled designers: exterior from the inside out.
These are often the advertising Those in the first category, agencies, design companies and brand identity consultants as youd expect, start with the outside world of design.
that are called upon for expert advice.
And the best exterior Theyve made it their business to know everything there designers, like their interior equivalents, work not from the is to know about the latest fabrics, furniture, lighting, outside in but from the inside out.
colours, textures and sophisticated sound systems.
With exceptional skill, they make a hundred different selections from this bewildering menu of alternatives and turn them Brand charisma into a single, coherent, artistic creation.
Its state-of-the-art stuff, the ultimate in contemporary chic, and the client is From the largest industrial company to the smallest bar of usually delighted.
confectionery, all brands have incipient characters.
Some By contrast, those who work from the inside out, may be weak, ill-fide ned, and inconsistent: these are the start with the client.
They study the client, listen to the struggling brands, over-dependent on price and promotion.
client, observe what the client has chosen to live with The strong brands, the pro table brands, the brands that before.
With immense sensitivity and diligence, they can weather troubled times to survive and prosper again: acquire an instinctive feel for the client.
Only then do they these are the brands that consistently deliver what the go outside: do they consciously turn to the wide world customer wants and that have the proudest, most appealing of design and make their selections not just to live in personalities.
Brands, too, can have a kind of charisma.
harmony with one another but to re ect and project their The best brand owners know all this and so do their best clients singular tastes and character.
They know that their advisers.
When choosing a wardrobe for a brand, they client is one of a kind: so if their design is to be a perfect dont simply pluck that seasons fashions from the rail: they complement, then it, too, must be one of a kind.
It may start from the inside.
They study the brand and the brands or may not be the ultimate in fashionable chic: but when competitors: they study those who use the brand and those its right, the client is not only delighted but also wholly who used to use the brand and those who never have.
comfortable: still the same person but even more so.
They observe very carefully indeed with all their senses Interior decorators who work from the outside in may and with immense sensitivity and diligence, they acquire win more awards: and will certainly win more commissions an instinctive feeling for the brands personality.
from international hotel chains and service apartments.
Only then do they go outside: do they consciously But those who work from the inside out do the more turn to the wide world of words and ideas and images and dif cult job, the more admirable job and the more music and colour and make their selections not just to sel ess job.
When visitors first see their work, they dont live in harmony with one another but to re ect and project exclaim, Oh my, Priscilla, you must give me the name of that brands speci c strengths and character.
They say, Oh, wow, Priscilla what a that their brand is one of a kind: so, if their design is to be a wonderful room!
It is the client whose reputation is first perfect t for that brand, then it, too, must be one of a kind.
to bene t: and only then, vicariously, that of the designer.
All of this, of course, in different words and different If my amateur analysis is even half-way right, all ways, has been said many times before.
Its hard to this, of course, has a great many lessons for brands.
disagree with such an analysis: commonsense and personal observation both support it.
The hard bit comes when trying to do something about it.
What we think WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 What we think In Praise of Interior Decorators Because the uncomfortable fact remains that Romance theatre soul: these are words the identi cation, creation and maintenance of brand that seldom appear in respectable, rigorous marketing personality even in these metric-conscious times documents.
They sound aky, subjective, immeasurable.
is ultimately dependent on the disciplined imagination The decisions that led to the loss of romance, and insights of talented individuals.
You cant tap in 25 theatre and soul at Starbucks were undoubtedly based calibrated brand characteristics, in rank order of salience, on serious analysis.
Economies of time and cost would and print out a full-colour, three-dimensional portrait have been scrupulously identi ed and numbers would of a brands persona.
The bottom line would have been Founders of successful companies tend to have an mentioned more than once.
Had any underling, or outside almost infallible instinct for what is appropriate for their adviser, voiced instinctive apprehension and maybe even company: from the decor of their of ces, through key murmured about the potential loss of romance, theatre or product characteristics down to the sign in the visitors car soul they would have been challenging hard fact with park.
Theres a picture in their heads against which any subjective, baseless sentiment.
It took the suggestion can be instantly checked: true to brand or courageous Mr Schultz, founder and chairman, to concede not true to brand.
Its a facility analogous to perfect pitch.
the error: and even then, since the company had continued And because theyre the founders, people will quite properly to grow and prosper, he was probably relying more on his defer to their judgements: not for them those fruitless instinctive sense of rightness than on any new data.
It wasnt, of course, a mistake for Starbucks to calculate the bene ts they could enjoy by switching to automated espresso delivery.
But it was a one-dimensional, outside-in Romance and theatre analysis and should have been checked against an insideout understanding of the brand: its culture, its personality, In February 2007, a remarkable memo appeared on the its soul all those dodgy, aky words that we inch from website starbucksgossip.
Its been con rmed as using in case were thought to be impractical romantics.
authentic and was the text of a message sent by the founder Unfortunately, when conceiving, describing and and chairman of Starbucks Corp. Howard Schultz, to his recommending a desired brand character, such words have top executives.
He wrote: Over the past 10 years, in order to be used.
They will always seem feeble and inadequate: to achieve the growth, development, and scale necessary to they will always be easy targets for the sceptical.
The wise go from less than 1,000 stores to 13,000 stores and beyond, client will forgive their use because theyre striving to do the we have had to make a series of decisions that, in retrospect, impossible: to make mere words evoke a rich complexity of have lead to the watering down of the Starbucks experience.
fact and feeling that can in the end be fully appreciated only Originally, Starbucks had all its baristas pull espresso when its been fully realised.
The rewards for such trust can shots by hand.
Then, in the interests of consistency and speed be priceless.
of service, they switched to automatic espresso machines.
But, still, of course, the client must beware.
There And in doing so, wrote Mr Schultz, We overlooked the fact is always a place for healthy scepticism.
Such trust must that we would remove much of the romance and theatre.
Again in the interests of ef ciency, they adopted Brand designers who work from the outside in who avour-locked packaging: no longer did they scoop fresh are content to apply the all-purpose fashionable with a beans from bins and grind them in front of customers.
blithe disregard for the singular brand do their trade and Wrote Mr Shultz: We achieved fresh roasted bagged their clients no service at all.
Like interior decorators, the coffee, but at what cost?
The loss of aroma perhaps the only ones to deserve real respect are those who work from most powerful non-verbal signal we had in our stores.
the inside out: who have a feel for each brand as informed With hindsight, he said, the outcome of these and and as instinctive as that of Howard Schultz for the many other well-intentioned changes was, stores that remarkable company he gave birth to.
no longer have the soul of the past.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 What we think.
