How we behave The Board of Directors The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the Details of directors remuneration and service success of the Company by directing and supervising contracts form part of the report of the Compensation the Companys policy and strategy and is responsible to Committee which commences on page 119. share owners for the Groups financial and operational As a matter of policy the Company requires all performance.
Responsibility for the development and directors to submit themselves for re-election by share implementation of Group policy and strategy and for owners at least every three years or every year in the case day-to-day management issues is delegated by the Board of those directors who held of ce for more than nine years to the Group chief executive and other executive directors.
or who are 70 years of age or over.
For the year under review, Philip Lader continued as The Board recommends that share owners vote in chairman of the Board, responsible for the leadership of favour of the Resolutions to re-elect the relevant directors, the Board.
Sir Martin Sorrell, as the Group chief executive, namely Philip Lader, Esther Dyson, Stanley Bud Morten, continued to be responsible for the development and John Quelch and Paul Richardson and sets out their reasons implementation of policy and strategy and for the day-tofor this recommendation in the Appendix to the Notice of day operations of the Group.
The biographies of the current the Annual General Meeting.
Board members appear on pages 98 to 100.
All directors are fully briefed on important developments in the various business activities which Committee meetings the Group carries out worldwide and regularly receive extensive information concerning the Groups operations, The attendance of non-executive directors at meetings of nances, risk factors and its people, enabling them to ful l the committees of the Board during 2006 was as follows: their duties and obligations as directors.
The directors are also frequently advised on regulatory and best practice Nomination Audit Compensation Committee Committee Committee requirements which affect the Groups businesses on a Philip Lader 3 n a 9 global basis, but particularly in the US and the UK.
1 Bud Morten 2 10 4 During 2006, the Board met six times formally and Christopher Mackenzie 2 n a 8 held a number of ad hoc meetings throughout the year.
With 2 Jeffrey Rosen n a 10 5 the exception of Colin Day, David Komansky, Christopher Paul Spencer n a 10 n a Mackenzie and John Quelch each absent for one meeting, 3 Esther Dyson n a 5 5 and also with the exception of Koichiro Naganuma who was 4 David Komansky 2 n a n a only able to attend one meeting, there was full attendance at 1 Retired from Compensation and Nomination Committees on 27 June 2006.
2 all formal meetings of the Board during 2006.
Appointed to Compensation Committee on 27 June 2006 and Audit Committee on 4 May 2006.
3 Appointed to Compensation Committee on 4 May 2006 and Audit Committee on 14 May 2006.
4 The Board consists of 15 directors of whom three are Appointed to Nomination Committee on 4 May 2006. executive and 11 plus the chairman are non-executive.
The Board considers that nine of the 11 non-executive directors, During 2006, the Corporate Responsibility in addition to the chairman, are independent, with John Committee, chaired by Paul Richardson, met once on Quelch and Koichiro Naganuma being the only non-executive a formal basis and had many informal discussions.
Their directors considered by the Board to be not independent.
report for 2006 commences on page 112.
The shareholdings of non-executive directors are set The Disclosure Committee is comprised of senior out on page 127.
Non-executive directors do not participate executives in the parent company, namely Group financial in the Companys pension or share option or other incentive reporting, internal audit, treasury, legal, tax, human plans, but may receive a part of their fees in ordinary shares resource and investor relations departments.
The purpose of of the Company and may participate in the Companys the Disclosure Committee is to add further assurance to the deferred compensation program.
Board and its committees in relation to the content of major The Board considers that the non-executive directors financial public statements including the Annual Report remuneration conforms with the requirements of the and Accounts.
The committee has been instrumental in Combined Code.
relation to this Annual Report and Accounts in advising The fees payable to non-executive directors represent the Audit Committee and the Board on the disclosure compensation in connection with Board and Board aspects of the Companies Act 2006 and the Disclosure and committee meetings, and where appropriate for devoting Transparency Rules so as to enable the Board to comply additional time and expertise for the bene t of the Group with all relevant provisions.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How we behave.
How we behave The Board of Directors Share owner relations Control environment The relationship with share owners, potential share owners The quality and competence of our people, their integrity, and investment analysts is given the highest priority by ethics and behaviour are all vital to the maintenance of the the Company.
Groups system of internal control.
The Company has a well-developed and continuous The Code of Business Conduct which is regularly program to address the needs of share owners, investment reviewed by the Audit Committee and the Board sets out institutions and analysts for a regular ow of information the principal obligations of all employees.
Directors and about the Company, its strategy, performance and senior executives throughout the Group are required each competitive position.
Given the wide geographic year to certify their compliance with this Code.
The WPP distribution of the Companys current and potential share Policy Book which also is regularly updated includes the owners, this programme includes regular visits to investors, Code of Business Conduct and human resource practices particularly by the Group chief executive, the Group as well as guidance on practices in many operational areas.
finance director, the deputy Group finance director and the Breaches or alleged breaches of this Code of Conduct are head of investor relations, in the UK, Continental Europe investigated by the director of internal audit and the Group and the major financial centres in North America and also general counsel.
in Asia Paci c and Latin America.
The Company provides Furthermore, the Group has an independently a quarterly trading update at the end of the first and third operated helpline, Right to Speak, for the reporting of quarters and at the Annual General Meeting currently held issues that employees feel unable to raise locally.
A number in June each year, in addition to semi-annual reporting of issues have been raised during 2006 through this required in the UK.
helpline, all of which have been investigated.
The Company ensures that it has a proper dialogue with share owners and their representative bodies in Risk assessment relation to remuneration and corporate governance matters as and when appropriate.
Risk monitoring of all of the Groups operations WPPs website, www.
com, provides current throughout the world is given the highest priority by the and historical financial information, including trading Group chief executive, the Group finance director, the statements, news releases and presentations.
chairman of the Audit Committee and the Board, as it is essential to the creation and protection of share owner value and the development of the careers of our people.
Internal control The Board realises that WPP is a service company and its ongoing prosperity depends on being able to continue to WPP operates a system of internal control, which is provide a quality service to its existing and potential clients maintained and reviewed in accordance with the Combined in a creative, ef cient and economic way.
Code and the guidance in the Turnbull Report as well as At each Board meeting, the Group chief executive Rules 13a-14 and 15 of the Securities Exchange Act 1934 presents a Brand Check review of each of the business as they currently apply to the Company.
In the opinion of operations, incorporating a risk monitor, providing the Board, the Company has complied throughout the year feedback on the business risks and details of any change in with the Turnbull Report and has also complied with the the risk pro le since the last Board meeting.
relevant provisions of the Securities Exchange Act 1934.
The Brand Check covers such issues as: The Board which receives advice from the Audit changes in political security: Committee has overall responsibility for the system of the possibility of the loss of major business eg as a result internal control and risk management in the Group and of a change of senior management at a major client : has reviewed the effectiveness of the system during the year.
loss of a key executive of the Group: In the context of the scope and complexity of this system, introduction of new legislation in an important market: the Board can only give reasonable, not absolute, assurance change in accounting or corporate governance practice.
against material misstatement or loss.
Each operating group undertakes monthly and The principal elements of internal control are quarterly procedures and day-to-day management activities described below.
to review their operations and business risks.
These are formally communicated to the Group chief executive, other How we behave WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How we behave The Board of Directors executive directors and senior executives in quarterly review At each year-end, all operating companies supply their meetings and, in turn, to the Board.
full-year financial results with such additional information The Board is rmly of the opinion that the as is appropriate.
This information is consolidated to allow monitoring of risk is strongly embedded in the culture of the Group to present the necessary disclosures for UK and the Company and of the operating companies, in a manner US GAAP reporting and International Financial Reporting which the Board considers goes beyond the Turnbull Standards IFRS including International Accounting recommendations and the requirements of Rules 13a-14 Standards IAS.
and 15 of the Securities Exchange Act 1934.
The Disclosure Committee gives further assurance that publicly-released information, including this Annual Control activities and monitoring Report, is free from material omission or misstatement.
Policies and procedures for all operating companies are set out and communicated in the WPP Policy Book, internal Sarbanes-Oxley s404 control bulletins and accounting guidelines.
The application of these policies and procedures is monitored within the As has been reported in previous years, the Group has individual businesses and by the Companys director of had plans in place for the necessary testing of its financial internal audit and the Group general counsel.
controls over financial reporting in order for WPP to Operating companies are required to maintain report in accordance with s404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and update documentation of their internal controls and effective for WPP for the first time for the 2006 year end.
This documentation incorporates an analysis A substantial amount of this testing has now been of business risks a summary of which was considered conducted in accordance with our plans.
by the Audit Committee, detailed control activities and These plans are designed to enable us to report on monitoring, together with controls over security of data s404 in respect of the disclosures in the 20-F ling our and the provision of timely and reliable information to year-end financial statements to be led in the US and, management.
IT and financial controls are also included.
consistent with these plans, we have not yet undertaken The internal audit department carried out reviews all the necessary procedures.
and testing of the documentation and the relevant controls We con rm, however, that we will report on s404 for a majority of the Group during 2006, the results of in the 2006 20-F within the required time limits.
which were reported to the Audit Committee.
Financial reporting Going concern Each operating company annually updates a three-year UK company law requires the directors to consider whether strategic plan which incorporates financial objectives.
it is appropriate to adopt the financial statements on the basis These are reviewed by the parent companys management that the Company and the Group are going concerns.
As part and are agreed with the chief executive of the relevant of its normal business practice, the Group prepares annual operating company.
and longer-term plans and in reviewing this information The Group operates a rigorous procedure for the and in particular the 2007 three-year plan and budget the development of operating company budgets which build directors believe that the Company and the Group have up the Groups budget.
During the final quarter of each adequate resources for the foreseeable future.
Therefore financial year, operating companies prepare detailed the Company and the Group continue to adopt the going budgets for the following year for review by the parent concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The Groups budget is reviewed by the Board before being adopted formally.
Operating company results are reported monthly and are reviewed locally, regionally and globally by the business groups and by Group management on a consolidated basis and ultimately by the Board.
The results are compared to budget and the previous year, with full-year forecasts prepared and updated quarterly throughout the year.
The Company reports to share owners four times a year.
How we behave The Board of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the preparation of Substantial share ownership financial statements As at 10 May 2007, the Company is aware of the following UK company law also requires the directors to prepare interests of 3% or more in the issued ordinary share capital: financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company MFS Investment Management 4.76% and the Group as at the end of the financial year and of Legal & General 4.40% the pro t or loss of the Group for that year.
In preparing WPP ESOPs 4.17% those financial statements, the directors are required to: The trustees of the ESOPs are entirely independent.
It is the Companys intention that the select suitable accounting policies and then apply total number of shares held in the ESOPs at any one time is such as may be required to satisfy outstanding incentive plan share awards but allowing for a contingency element, them consistently: eg to deal with hirings in the course of a year.
The number of shares held in the ESOPs as at 31 December 2006 was 51,134,155.
The ordinary shares and ADRs held in the ESOPs did not make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and receive the interim and final dividend paid in 2006 as they waived their respective rights.
prudent: and state whether applicable accounting standards have been The disclosed interests of all of the above refer to followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and the respective combined holdings of those entities and to explained in the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper The Company has not been noti ed of any other accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy holdings of ordinary share capital of 3% or more.
at all times the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for Election of directors safeguarding the assets of the Company and consequently for taking all possible steps for the prevention and detection Details of the directors who submit themselves for of fraud and other irregularities.
re-election to the Board are set out in the Notice of Annual In addition and in accordance with the Companies General Meeting.
Act 2006 and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules the directors con rm that so far as they are aware, there exists no relevant audit information of which the Companys Pro ts and dividends auditors are unaware and that each director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken, as a director, The pro t before tax for the year was 682.0 million in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant 2005: 592.0 million.
The directors recommend a audit information and to establish that the Companys final ordinary dividend of 7.61p 2005: 6.34p per auditors are aware of that information.
share to be paid on 9 July 2007 to share owners on the The following information, together with the register at 8 June 2007 which, together with the interim letters from the Chairman of the Nomination, Audit and ordinary dividend of 3.6p 2005: 3.0p per share paid on Compensation Committees, the statements regarding 13 November 2006, makes a total of 11.21p for the year directors responsibilities and statement of going concern 2005: 9.34p.
set out above and the directors remuneration and interests in the share capital of the Company set out on pages 126 to 129, are included in the Directors report, which also Parent company charitable donations includes the sections Letter to share owners, What we think and Operating and Financial Review.
The Company made charitable donations of 238,000 2005: 379,000.
In total WPP companies together with the parent company made an estimated 3.9 million of charitable donations in 2006.
More detailed information regarding the Groups support of charities is set out in the section dealing with corporate responsibility on pages 112 to 117.
It is the Companys policy not to make payments for political purposes.
How we behave WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How we behave The Board of Directors Group activities Auditors The principal activity of the Group continues to be the The directors will propose a resolution at the AGM to reprovision of communications services worldwide.
The appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors.
Company acts only as a parent company and does not trade.
By Order of the Board: Share capital M W Capes Company Secretary Details of share capital movements are given in note 27 15 May 2007 on pages 167 to 169.
The sections headed Letter to share owners, What we think and Operating & financial review should be read in conjunction with and as part of the section headed Directors report.
Authority for purchase of own shares At the Annual General Meeting in 2006 share owners passed a special resolution authorising the Company, in accordance with its Articles of Association, to purchase up to 125,022,397 of its own shares in the market.
In the year under review, 38.9 million shares of which 33.2 million were cancelled were purchased at an average price of 6.64 per share.
Supplier payment policy The Company has no trade creditors because it is a parent company and does not generate trading revenues.
Accordingly, no disclosure can be made of year-end trade creditor days.
However, the Groups policy is to settle the terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction, and to ensure that suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment and to abide by the terms of payment.
The average trade creditors for the Group, expressed as a number of days, were 48 2005: 49.
