How we behave Directors report Once again, this year the Directors report includes reviews from the chairmen of three Board committees: Philip Lader, as chairman of the Company and its Nomination Committee: Paul Spencer, as chairman of the Audit Committee, and Jeffrey Rosen, as chairman of the Compensation Committee.
It also contains an analysis of the Companys compliance with statutory and regulatory requirements.
Review of the Companys governance and the Nomination Committee Dear share owner Continuing to emphasise excellence in corporate governance while sustaining the entrepreneurial character of this Company and incentivising its people continues to be fundamental to its performance.
I hope that this is apparent to share owners, given your Companys financial performance, growth and innovation as recorded in this Report.
Signi cant changes were made to the Board and the committees in 2004 and 2005, as discussed in last years Annual Report and Accounts.
2006, therefore, focused on Report by Philip Lader above the day-to-day work of the Board and the ever-increasing Chairman of the Company work of its committees.
Central were our constructive and chairman of the Nomination Committee assessment of management performance, support to key executives in their management of critical issues, and The Directors report has been prepared in accordance with English law and where applicable, endorsement of initiatives to seize major opportunities.
the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and any liability in relation to the Directors report, the report of the Compensation Committee and the financial statements is governed by English law.
During 2006, the Board and I, as chairman once again undertook a thorough assessment process, including detailed one-on-one discussions with each director, followed by a full review by the Board as a whole.
I was separately assessed by the senior independent director and the remaining non-executive directors.
This Board is comprised of knowledgeable, independent-minded individuals of considerable standing.
Yet, however wellinformed and engaged we might be, individually and collectively, we are striving to learn and bene t from the best governance practices of other public companies and to improve our own performance.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How we behave.
