How were doing Specialist Communications pecialist Communications represent a group of companies Specialist Communications that provide clients with unique marketing capabilities, specialized industry expertise, and deep Report by Mary Ellen Howe below knowledge of particular audience Chief operating of cer segments.
In some cases, these Specialist Communications, North America businesses eventually choose to and af liate with one of the major Andrew Scott overleaf networks.
In other instances the Chief operating of cer businesses prefer to maximize opportunities by remaining International Specialist Communications independent.
Occasionally, businesses join Specialist Communications when it is no longer appropriate to af liate with a network for con ict or strategic reasons.
Our mission is to assist individual operating company managements to develop their full potential.
Direct, promotion, digital and interactive marketing Bridge Worldwide, a US Top 50 digital and relationship marketing agency, successfully completed its first year with WPP, posting strong organic growth with long-time Fortune 100 clients such as Procter & Gamble, that are increasingly taking advantage of the digital and relationship marketing space.
Part of this growth stems from Bridges initiatives leveraging next-generation digital experiences such as RSS, podcasts, blogs, IM, lifecoaching services, branded social networking environments, and mobile initiatives.
Bridge was also awarded several new brand relationships lling out the agencys consumer packaged goods portfolio, including ConAgra Foods Healthy Choice, Hunts, Orville Redenbacher, Chef Boyardee, Hebrew National and La Choy as well as two new brands at P&G Fixodent and Glide.
Other digital wins include expansion into new categories such as automotive FederalMogul and financial services US Bancorp.
Healthcare remains a key focus with three signi cant quanti able initiatives addressing the American obesity epidemic the consumer program tackling morbid obesity for J&Js BariatricEdge brand www.
com : a lifestyle compliance program for Abbotts diabetic nutrition brand, Glucerna www.
com : and a healthy eating and lifestyle program in partnership with the American Heart Association for ConAgra Foods Healthy Choice brand www.
Bridges creative reputation also had a solid year, winning more than 40 awards in the digital and healthcare space including two Best of Shows at the WebAwards and seven Best of Industry at the Internet Advertising Competition.
One of those Bests captured a perfect score WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How were doing.
How were doing Specialist Communications and culminated in them winning the British Video Association Agency of the Year Award in early 2007.
Warwicks focus on automotive clients saw it add Triumph Motorcycles to its client roster during 2006 to provide global creative design, production and advertising services.
Work continued for clients such as Jaguar, Land for P&Gs Noxzema brand www.
Bridge Rover, Aston Martin, Peugeot, LTI manufacturer of the was honored for its company culture as well, being named black cab and tractor manufacturer, AGCO.
9 Best Place to Work in America by the Great Place to Work Institute the same survey company that ranks the Fortune 100.
Custom media Live media and events rm MJM saw a year of strong performance and growth for its core offerings.
Important Forward saw growth from existing clients including Patek projects for long-standing clients like P zer, AstraZeneca, Philippe and B&Q, the latters expansion due to the IBM, Canon, Deloitte and GlaxoSmithKline were delivered development and launch of new projects.
Additionally, from Cape Town to Mexico City as well as across Europe Tesco rationalised its agencies, awarding a further Club to and the US.
New capabilities and talent added to the Forward.
Work in North America for the Sears Holdings teams in London, Detroit and the Mid-Atlantic Region Corporation grew with further business development in also resulted in highly innovative face-to-face programs.
consultancy and online content for Kmart.
The agency These included eld-marketing campaigns for HSBC and a also enjoyed considerable uplift in the provision of online ground-breaking training program for Fortnum & Mason content through successful cross-promotion to Ford, B&Q in the UK: brand-building initiatives for Ford: and the and Barclays a trend that is expected to continue.
sensational Red Bull Air Race held over San Francisco Bay, Spafax had an exciting year in 2006, delivering which was seen by nearly half a million people.
new interactive and on-demand entertainment and media EWA recorded another record year in 2006, projects for clients including British Airways, Singapore providing outsourced data and relationship management Airlines, American Airlines, US Airways, Virgin America, services.
Growth was boosted by new business wins Qantas, Emirates, Qatar and Air Canada.
Following the from Reebok, English Partnerships and COI, together acquisition and merger with DMX In ight, the company with additional work for existing clients including the further developed its technical and digital infrastructure Department of Health and the Training & Development with the creation of a successful digital video-encoding Agency for schools.
facility, as well as additional capacity in audio replication.
Mando Brand Assurances growth in 2006 culminated Its custom media division received a number of awards in the opening of of ces in Frankfurt and Toronto.
Major including enRoute being named Best Travel Magazine 2007 promotional campaigns won during 2006 included Unilevers by the North American Travel Journalists.
Lynx Axe, Peperami and Persil brands.
Global brands Coca-Cola and iTunes formed a joint contract with Mando to manage a major on-pack promotion.
Demographic and sector marketing Einson Freeman, a full-service consumer promotion agency, continued to score victories on the awards circuit, In real estate marketing, the general malaise and overincluding completion of a coveted Triple Crown Reggie, supply that plagued much of the US for most of 2006 proved Pro and Globe Awards for its Purell National Geographic bene cial to Pace.
Although both builders and buyers were Kids tie-in.
The agency began signi cant new projects tentative, Pace was able to substantially increase its billings, and relationships with WPP network clients including as both new and old clients turned to the rm for its wellUnilever, HSBC, IBM and Lenovo.
In addition, Einson established reputation for quick and effective solutions continues to work closely as part of integrated teams to dif cult and changing market conditions.
Continued with many sister agencies: OgilvyAction, JWT and expansion into new geographic markets, a strong showing Mediaedge:cia among others.
at The National Association of Homebuilders annual Headcount continued to grow its client base during convention, and a growing list of new and established 2006.
Activity included working with Unilever in their clients, helped Pace exceed performance expectations.
launch of AdeZ, 2006 World Cup events were organised for Youth and young adult marketing rm Geppetto Virgin Mobile and Mastercard, and the relationship with introduced the Wal-Mart brand to Americas youth via an Warner Home Video saw Headcount being a part of the integrated communications plan.
It also created a Gold launch of major titles such as Harry Potter and Superman, Reggie-winning youth program to launch Listerines Agent Cool Blue, saw Samsung launch the K5 MP3 player it helped create, developed a pipeline of new youth products for Nestl and Pepsi, and authored ground-breaking new research on young adults and global teen culture.
How were doing WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How were doing Specialist Communications The Food Group launched a culinary nutrition practice, Nutrition Culinary Consultants, further strengthening its leadership role in the food industry.
NCC will provide credible nutrition services to all facets of the food, beverage, and wellness category with its staff of registered dieticians and executive chefs.
Additionally, The Food Group continues to work with some of the Media and lm production services leading foodservice manufacturers in the nation including Kraft, TABASCO, Dannon, and the Florida Department of Metro demonstrated the breadth of its service offering to Citrus as well as leading international foodservice appliance produce web broadcasts for GSK, incorporating the design manufacturer Electrolux.
Notable 2006 wins included and staging of live events, streaming of web-broadcast assignments with PepsiCo and Dannon USA.
and design of web portals.
The events unit developed its BDG McColl, Edinburgh-based architects and roadshow business with graduate recruitment events for interior designers had another successful year with a number of blue-chip clients and corporate branding ongoing work for BPs North Sea Headquarters and the exhibitions.
The broadcast service unit continues to offer new Veterinary School for the University of Edinburgh.
end-to-end High fide nition production services, media Other projects included the strategic reorganisation and digitisation and web-streaming services.
space planning of the City of Edinburghs core estate The Farm Group continued to be a major supplier accommodating 3,000 staff, further work with Numico of post production services to the main producers of in Poland, and the delivery of Rabobanks of ces in the prime-time terrestrial television in the UK.
has included dramas such as The Trials of Tony Blair, BDGworkfutures continued to develop its offer Shameless and Wild at Heart: entertainment shows within the corporate property strategy and design sector.
including X Factor, Deal or No Deal, and Friday Night Ongoing relationships with major companies including with Jonathan Ross as well as music projects for Madonna, AON, Barclays, IBM, Honeywell and various government Robbie Williams, Kylie Minogue and Oasis.
departments were complemented by additions of new key accounts including Network Rail and Siemens UK.
Dovetail had a successful year and continued to develop its relationships within the architectural and design communities.
During 2006 it supplied of ce furniture to Hammerson, Lloyds Bank, Swiss Re, and UBS, among others.
Prospects are promising for 2007 with the appointment to manage the installation of new furniture for Deloittes London campus.
Sports marketing PRISM carried out sponsorship assignments with the Winter Olympics, NASCAR, MotoGP, NFL and Asian Marathon races.
On the Formula One circuit, clients included i-mode and Shell: PRISM created an awardwinning viral campaign for Shell, featuring Michael Schumacher.
PRISMs sponsorship consultancy business continued to expand with new assignments from Coke, AT&T and FSP sports, which augmented existing assignments from Volvo, Visa, Standard Chartered, Ford and Samsung.
Global Sportnet had a strong year in 2006 due to the strong performance of its core football media rights business.
It continued to develop its offering beyond football rights into a full-service sports marketing agency, and grew its geographical presence in Singapore and Dubai.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How were doing.
What we think WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006
