Who runs WPP Members of the Board of Directors Board of Directors Philip Lader Non-executive chairman and chairman of the Nomination Committee Philip Lader Non-executive chairman Age 61 Sir Martin Sorrell Chief executive Philip Lader was appointed chairman in 2001.
The US Ambassador to the Court of St Jamess from 1997 to 2001, Paul Richardson Finance director he previously served in several senior executive roles in the US Government, including as a Member of the Presidents Mark Read Cabinet and as White House Deputy Chief of Staff.
Before Strategy director entering government service, he was executive vice president Colin Day of the company managing the late Sir James Goldsmiths Non-executive US holdings and president of both a prominent American Esther Dyson real estate company and universities in the US and Non-executive Australia.
A lawyer, he is also a Senior Advisor to Morgan Orit Gadiesh Stanley, a member of the Council of Lloyds insurance Non-executive market, a director of RAND, Marathon Oil, Rusal, AES David Komansky Corporations and Songbird Estates plc Canary Wharf, Non-executive a trustee of the Smithsonian Museum of American History and a member of the Council on Foreign Relations.
Christopher Mackenzie Non-executive Stanley Bud Morten Sir Martin Sorrell Chief executive Age 62 Non-executive: senior independent director Koichiro Naganuma Sir Martin Sorrell joined WPP in 1986 as a director, becoming Non-executive Group chief executive in the same year.
He is a nonLubna Olayan executive director of Formula One msorrell@wpp.
com Non-executive John Quelch Non-executive Paul Richardson Finance director Age 49 Jeffrey Rosen Non-executive: chairman of the Compensation Committee Paul Richardson became Group finance director of WPP in 1996 after four years with the Company as director Paul Spencer Non-executive: chairman of the Audit Committee of treasury.
He is responsible for the Groups worldwide functions in finance, information technology, procurement, property, treasury, internal audit and corporate responsibility.
Members of the Advisory Board He is also the Country Manager for Italy.
Previously he spent six years with the central financial team of Hanson PLC.
Jeremy Bullmore He is a chartered accountant and member of the Association John Jackson of Corporate Treasurers.
He is a non-executive director of Chime Communications PLC and STW Communications Group Limited in Australia, both of which are companies Company Secretary associated with the Group prichardson@wpp.
com Marie Capes Who runs WPP WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006
