How were doing Information, Insight & Consultancy How were doing WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How were doing Information, Insight & Consultancy The Kantar Group Report by Eric Salama left Chairman and chief executive of cer The Kantar Group s anyone who has followed our industry in recent months knows, there has been a wide variation in the performance of the leading players.
Maybe this should not come as a surprise.
The strategies of the leading players differ and as always, any strategy is only as good as the degree and consistency with which it is executed.
Against this background our stakeholders employees, clients, WPP and its share owners had reasons to be satis ed with our progress in 2006.
Our financial performance was good.
On a constant currency basis, revenues grew over 11%, with like-for-like revenues up over 4%.
Headline PBIT margins increased from 10.3% to 11.1%.
Our margin performance was excellent in the light of increased price competition and procurement initiatives from clients and the fact that our margins are at higher levels than all of our major competitors in ad-hoc research TNS, Ipsos, Synovate and NOP and increased again by more than anyone else in the industry.
However, there is still signi cant opportunity for more margin improvement by addressing under-performing units, by developing more must-have offers and improving revenue growth to satisfactory levels.
Our shift to internet-based research is lowering our prices and, therefore, our revenue growth but this cannot and should not be an excuse.
Our good fourth quarter performance was helped by continued superb performance in the US and Latin America and stabilisation in the UK: we must aim to continue to gain share in the way that we did in the last few months of 2006.
It was particularly pleasing to see so much revenue growth and client impact coming from two areas: where we have Kantar-wide account directors located in our clients HQs, whose job it is to anticipate client issues and ensure that the best of Kantar is delivered to them at appropriate times: and on accounts where different Kantar businesses combine to offer clients something which they could not have done alone.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How were doing.
How were doing Information, Insight & Consultancy Clients are also discovering new needs.
Somewhat ironically, given globalisation, the key competitors for many of our global multinational clients are increasingly local.
Local retailers, regional oil players such as Caltex and Petronas, Mac a local detergent brand in South Africa and local Chinese mobile handset Financial performance aside, we also made some manufacturers are all examples of companies who have important structural changes, our clients experienced more taken share from well-established multinationals.
Rolling innovation and consistency in delivery than ever before, our out global research tools cannot come at the expense of people bene ted from greater investment in development, understanding local consumers and local competitors.
training and focus on their careers than ever before, we And, while we have done a good job in moving recruited some fantastic people from diverse backgrounds, our work to the web over 75% of our work in the US is made some good acquisitions and have further strengthened done this way, we and our clients are facing a range of our operational base.
And, in order to ensure balanced serious issues related to data collection everything from growth going forward, we have put in place a worldwide respondent fatigue issues which are driving respondent system for benchmarking and measuring our progress rates down to privacy issues in Germany there is a court against three key criteria financial overall and vs case looming which would prevent people from being competitors, employee satisfaction and client satisfaction.
approached to respond to a research interview unless they had given prior agreement.
These issues are in addition to the inevitable impact What do our clients need?
which technology and societal changes will have on the way we have to access respondents and engage with them.
Any discussion of strategic progress and achievement must Understanding consumers and predicting their behaviour begin with an understanding of what our clients need to will inevitably involve a greater use of technology and a succeed.
The good news is that clients recognise the need more consumer-centric, less siloed approach.
for better and more usable insights as a key component of their growth strategy.
But with that recognition comes a dissatisfaction with traditional ways of doing things.
Our strategy Some of what they need is not new.
They are, and have been for some time, looking for All of this leads us to a simple strategy which we have been scalable offers, more-for-less, more proactive partners, pursuing for over four years: actionable insights not just data.
As media has fragmented Innovate our offer and make it relevant to contemporary and content become more important, they have sought to client needs, deliver genuinely usable insights simply and better understand what media are driving preference and without over-engineering.
demand for their brands and how best to allocate their Develop the skills and capabilities of our people and spend.
And, as trade issues have come to the fore, they bring in people from outside the industry who have skills have put a bigger emphasis on shopper, in-store issues we dont possess.
Recognise that we cannot succeed with and multi-channel strategies.
clients unless we have the best talent pool in the industry, But there is no doubt that these agendas are sweeping appropriately engaged and focused.
through clients at a faster pace and are manifested by Develop a single Kantar operational infrastructure as a a growing number of clients who want to consolidate way of dealing with privacy, web, and data collection issues their rosters and engage in a debate about how they are while taking cost out of the system for the bene t of clients.
structured, how they work with outside partners and how Keep our multi-branded structure in order to keep they help their own research and insight departments add the specialists which our clients want and the cultures more value to their business.
We are seeing CFOs who which our people desire while developing cross-company want ROI tools and clients who are shifting their research mechanisms to ensure that clients get the best of Kantar.
Against this strategy, how are we doing?
This debate has reached the highest levels of organizations.
AG La ey, the CEO of Procter & Gamble, has been vocal in explaining his view that consumer is king, that we are scrambling to keep up with bottom-up approaches to brand building, that marketers need to let go in order to stay in touch and that as an example, traditional focus groups are inferior to immersing yourself in the lives of your consumers.
We dont think he is right about the latter we think it is about combining approaches but we need to be more vocal and demonstrate how.
How were doing WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How were doing Information, Insight & Consultancy Our structure We have begun to translate our global presence into genuine global advantage.
Four strands illustrate this: In Japan we have merged our businesses to create Japan Kantar Research JKR, a response to a unique market situation.
In creating one of the top three businesses in developing a range of e-learning solutions to facilitate more the market, merging and streamlining our offer and scalable ef cient education of client sales teams.
appointing Masanori Miyajima as our incoming CEO, Millward Brown has developed 360Link and Dynamic we believe that we will be able to focus more than before Tracking as ways of testing advertising ideas and of on the needs of local clients Japanese and multinational measuring the impact which different media have on the and deliver to them.
Its Optimor unit offers a valuable We are running global client relationships and functions service to clients in a range of brand building, licensing, sale from parts of the world where we have top talent and and acquisition units in translating a range of marketing can do so at lower cost to clients.
For example, Research actions and behaviours into financial impacts.
Dynamic International is running the Shell and Reckitt Benckiser Logic leads the way in internet-based evaluation.
global relationships from Singapore, our worldwide BAT In healthcare, we have developed and launched a range relationship is being led by IMRB in Kolkatta, while much of syndicated services which offer clients unique insights of the process re-engineering for Cokes innovation work is at affordable prices.
These include: Cancer !mpact from being handled by Research International in South Africa.
Mattson Jack: new ways of accessing the National Health Chris Robinson and his global Kantar human resources and Wellness Study from Ziment: and Mars Medical as a team have relocated to Singapore.
We already employ media tool from Kantar Media Research: all of which have 3,000 people in Asia and we are recruiting over 1,000 resonated well with clients.
How else can we ensure that we become the Kantar Operations is rolling out a suite of new products magnet for talent in Asia that we must become if we are to and technologies around data processing, scripting, coding thrive in that region?
Kantar Operations has established its Indian hub, with It is not simply by doing things better that we over 300 coders and data processors helping us reduce costs innovate.
We also have to do things differently.
As I said while maintaining the quality we expect.
last year, Research International, Added Value and Henley Centre HeadlightVision have made use of innovative presentation approaches including video and live acting to Our offer make insights come alive in the minds and hearts of clients: we have pioneered the use of creative briefs in research as We have continued to place a premium on innovation.
a way of keeping ourselves and our clients focused on what Some innovation comes from the acquisitions we have is really important in any given project.
All Global is merging with Web Survey to create into 2006 with the likes of Added Value and Research the biggest physician online panel in US Europe.
Ultimate International combining with sister creative agencies, such Consumer panel has been acquired by Lightspeed and as Ideo, Fitch, 141 and G2, to deliver a mixture of insight allows clients to gain better insights through the merging and creativity that clients love.
of actual behavioural data on how people manage their financial affairs with attitudinal research.
Foresight and Lightspeed will be able to help clients track employee Our people satisfaction globally and cost effectively.
But the majority of innovation has got to come from We tell our clients that their brands are built through our existing businesses and offers.
There have been some the quality of the interactions which they have with their notable highlights: customers and it is no different for us.
We have thousands AGBNMR has continued to roll out its digital TV of people and they each have hundreds, if not thousands, ratings offer, measuring more homes with digital PVRs of interactions with our clients.
Each one of those is an than anyone else in the world.
opportunity to understand the client better, to provoke, Cannondale has co-developed iCUBE with five of help, inspire.
Seen through that perspective, the emphasis its major clients, a unique tool which combines panel we put on training and development, on individual data with frequent shopper card data and gives clients career focus, on improving the quality of our leadership a powerful way of segmenting consumers and launching capabilities, on bringing in people with talents and skills products successfully.
which we do not have enough of, is a necessity.
Management Ventures has revamped its web offering making it easy for clients to access retailer insights from around the world in the way that suits them, while WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How were doing.
How were doing Information, Insight & Consultancy As we say in our recently launched Kantar Manifesto, times during the year when something happens which puts We value and develop passionate people who are a source things in perspective.
of inspiration, knowledge and growth and we cannot Tom Deierlein is a US reservist who volunteered succeed unless we provide a stimulating environment where for duty in Iraq.
He was badly wounded and spent a year talent thrives.
Our training and development program recuperating in hospital.
He also happens to be COO of touches thousands of people a year: our talent reviews are Dynamic Logic and someone who is very special to his taken as seriously as our financial reviews and are designed colleagues.
Thankfully, he has recently returned to work.
to align corporate and individual needs.
The net result is Sue Gardiner touched the lives of many people in that employee satisfaction and engagement scores are rising Millward Brown, Kantar and our clients.
She ran MBs though still not as consistently and as fast as we want Unilever relationship for many years and was instrumental and that client impact is increasing.
She was argumentative, stubborn, We must also recognise the need to bring in people fun, passionate and a positive in uence on all around her.
from outside as a way of bringing fresh ideas and new She died at the end of 2006 after a short illness and is ways of looking at things, of challenging ourselves and much missed.
of building capabilities we need but dont have.
As our ambition for our business and our desire to In this respect we have made exceptional progress succeed increases, let us never lose sight of the very human with people such as Sue Elms from Carat, David nature of our business.
Day from Nielsen NetRatings Mike Skypala from DunnHumby, Matthew Graham-Hyde from UBM and Paul Rodrigues from Ogilvy.
Equally pleasing has been the movement of talented people from one Kantar company to another such as Nadim Sadek from  to Research International and the smooth succession which we have seen in many companies eg Lynnette Cooke into the Ziment CEO role and Eileen Campbell into the Millward Brown CEO role.
Some thoughts in closing We deliver outstanding work to many clients some of the time and to some clients most of the time.
Our aim must be to achieve those standards for most clients most of the time.
To do so we must reward people and companies who put the interests of their clients at the centre of their world, who develop talent and who act as role models, who innovate and who succeed nancially.
This years Kantar award winners Millward Brown North America together with their operational partners, Kantar Operations and Lightspeed, Cannondale, Ziment, RI South Africa, MB South Africa, MB Columbia, Added Value US and Added Value Germany achieved that and we applaud them.
But to be really successful we must also learn from them.
Our culture is not political or ego-driven but nor is it as learning-oriented as it could be.
None of us can improve without analyzing things that go right and go wrong, learning the lessons, documenting and circulating them.
And, nally, we are a business and we do not shy away from tough decisions.
But we also spend a lot of time with colleagues whom we grow very fond of and there are How were doing WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006
