How were rewarded Compensation Committee report on behalf of the Board his report is made by the Board, 2006 highlights prepared on its behalf and for its approval by the Compensation During the year the most signi cant issues addressed Committee.
by the committee were: The report provides the A review of the total compensation packages of the Companys statement of how Groups most senior executives relative to the market it has applied the principles of place benchmarks.
good governance set out in the The approval of bonuses for senior executives Combined Code and Schedule 7A throughout the Group.
to the Companies Act in respect A review of the remuneration for non-executive of compensation matters.
directors of the Group, including the chairman, which The report of the auditors on the financial statements was supported by advice from Towers Perrin, and making set out on pages 179 and 180 con rms that the scope recommendations to the Board.
of their report covers, where required, the disclosures A review of the total compensation packages of WPPs contained in or referred to in this report that are speci ed executive directors to evaluate their appropriateness in for their audit by the UK Listing Authority and under the various circumstances, including termination of employment.
Consideration of possible amendments to the LEAP Details of each individual directors remuneration and programme in respect of future awards under that plan.
of their bene cial holdings of the Companys shares and A review of the impact of recent changes in age share awards are set out on pages 126 and 127. discrimination legislation in the UK and pension The Company is required to submit the Compensation requirements in the US.
Committee report for share owner approval at the Annual General Meeting AGM convened for 26 June 2007 and the appropriate resolution is set out as resolution 12 in Remit of the Compensation Committee the Notice of Annual General Meeting accompanying the Annual Report and Accounts.
Under its terms of reference the committee is responsible for: Reviewing and approving the remuneration and terms of employment including any termination arrangements of executive directors and senior executives of the Company and of directors and senior executives of the operating companies.
Reviewing the Groups incentive policy and compensation plans.
Monitoring the vesting of awards under all incentive plans.
Reviewing systems implemented throughout the Group to deal with matters such as employee harassment and discrimination.
Appointing and reviewing the performance of external advisors to the committee and to the Company in relation to executive remuneration and human resource activities.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How were rewarded.
How were rewarded Compensation Committee report on behalf of the Board Composition of the Compensation Committee changes in accounting, taxation, legal and regulatory practices: During 2006, the Compensation Committee comprised the governance issues relating to compensation and following who took decisions in respect of the year: the role of the committee: and Jeffrey Rosen chairman of the committee : appointed to policies for preventing employee harassment the committee as chairman on 27 June 2006: and discrimination.
S W Morten: retired on 27 June 2006: P Lader: C Mackenzie: and Principles of remuneration Esther Dyson: appointed on 4 May 2006.
No member of the committee has any personal All executive compensation at WPP is governed by financial interest other than as a share owner as three guiding principles: disclosed on page 127 in the matters to be decided by competitiveness: the committee, potential con icts of interest arising from performance: and cross-directorships or day-to-day involvement in running alignment to share owner interests.
The terms of reference for the Compensation Competitiveness Committee are available on the Companys website and will be on display as set out in the Notice of Annual Compensation packages for Group executives are reviewed General Meeting.
on a regular basis on average every 24 months.
When reviewing an executives package the committee usually consults with the Group chief executive and the Group Advisors to the Compensation Committee chief talent of cer.
In making its assessments, the committee considers The Compensation Committee regularly consults with individual and business unit performance, level of experience Group executives, particularly the Group chief executive and scope of responsibility.
It also takes into account the who was not present when matters relating to his own overall value of the package, including both xed and variable compensation or contracts were discussed and decided, elements, and focuses on the on-target level of remuneration.
the chief talent of cer and the director of compensation The competitiveness of this total package is then reviewed and bene ts.
During the year, the committee received in relation to the most appropriate benchmarks.
material assistance from Towers Perrin.
Advice was For example, for the Group chief executive three separate also received from Hammonds solicitors on legal and benchmarks for remuneration opportunities are used: governance issues relating to compensation and bene ts the most senior executive position in the Companys which arose during the course of the year.
Hammonds closest industry comparators: provide legal advice on a range of matters to the Group.
the CEO position in companies of comparable size and During 2006, advice in relation to the remuneration complexity in the UK: and of the chairman of the Company and the non-executive the CEO position in public companies of comparable directors was provided by Towers Perrin to the committee size and complexity in the US.
which advice was then passed to the Board for review The same approach is taken for the other and determination.
senior executives, including executive directors.
The Advice is received by the committee on issues Compensation Committee considers data from the latest including the following: industry surveys covering the senior positions in WPPs analysis of competitive compensation practices and operating companies.
WPP participates in the leading determination of competitive positioning: global surveys of executive remuneration in the advertising, base salary levels: market research, healthcare, public relations and public annual and long-term incentive plans and awards affairs sectors.
In addition, for heads of operating including awards made under LEAP: companies the committee considers public disclosures policy relating to WPP share ownership: for similar positions in listed companies of comparable pensions and executive bene ts: size and complexity in the relevant sector.
How were rewarded WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How were rewarded Compensation Committee report on behalf of the Board Performance The Compensation Committee continues to believe that Total Shareholder Return TSR relative to a group of All remuneration packages for senior executives, including key comparators is the most appropriate measure for executive directors, have a signi cant element which is determining long-term performance-based rewards for variable and dependent on performance as can be seen from Group executive directors, as it most closely aligns reward the chart below.
with the delivery of share owner value.
For this reason TSR is the sole measure of performance used for Renewed LEAP.
WPP has encouraged share ownership for its most Performance % senior executives, including executive directors, for many years.
For executive directors this is achieved through Sir Martin Sorrell participation in Renewed LEAP.
Other WPP Leaders Paul Richardson approximately 200 people are expected to own 40,000 WPP ordinary shares.
Mark Read There is also a need to ensure that share owner value is not diminished through the issue of new shares to satisfy Fixed Variable 020 40 60 80 100 incentive awards.
The dilution, as at 15 May 2007, was well below the 10% level acceptable to the ABI.
It is intended Notes i Fixed compensation comprises salary, pension contributions and other bene ts as disclosed in that Renewed LEAP awards, the Performance Share the table on page 126. ii Variable compensation comprises short-term incentive plans and the value of Executive Share Awards, the Executive Share Awards and Restricted Stock Awards which are also disclosed in the table on page 126 along with the expected value of the Renewed LEAP award granted in 2006 referred to in the table on page 129.
Plan awards will all be satis ed with purchased shares held iii Howard Paster was also an executive director during 2006 but retired on 27 June 2006. in the employee share ownership plans ESOPs.
Alignment to share owner interests WPP Share Incentive Scheme dilution for WPP is committed to aligning executive performance and 2002 to 2006 % reward with share owner interests.
This is achieved by providing signi cant opportunities for executives to acquire WPP 4.5 5.4 6.0 7.2 6.6 10 WPP stock, by using performance measures that are linked ABI Limit 8 to the creation of share owner value and by operating share 6 ownership goals for the most senior executives.
4 Many of our incentive plans pay out wholly or 2 0 partially in WPP stock.
As can be seen below, over half of 02 03 04 05 06 the compensation package of the executive directors was delivered in shares during 2006.
Alignment to share owner interests % Sir Martin Sorrell Paul Richardson Mark Read Cash Shares 020 40 60 80 100 Notes i Cash compensation comprises salary, pension contributions, short-term incentive plans and other bene ts as disclosed in the table on page 126. ii Share-based compensation comprises the value of Executive Share Awards which are also disclosed in the table on page 126 along with the expected value of the Renewed LEAP awards granted in 2006 referred to in the table on page 129. iii Howard Paster was also an executive director during 2006 but retired on 27 June 2006.
How were rewarded Compensation Committee report on behalf of the Board Key elements of shortand long-term remuneration Objective Participation Performance Conditions period Annual 1 Base salary To maintain package competitiveness All employees.
But salary levels are at all levels within the Group.
determined taking a number of relevant factors into account, including individual and business unit performance, level of experience, scope of responsibility and the competitiveness of total remuneration.
Cash bonus To incentivise delivery of value at all levels Approximately 10% of employees 1 year Achievement of challenging within the Group.
are eligible to receive a performance goals financial and performance bonus.
nonfinancial at the individual and business unit level.
Performance To incentivise delivery of value and to align Key operating company 1 year Achievement of challenging 2 share awards with interests of share owners.
performance goals financial and nonfinancial at operating company level.
Executive To incentivise delivery of value and to align Key parent company executives 1 year Achievement of individual annual 2 share awards with interests of share owners.
Long-Term 3 WWOP To develop a stronger ownership culture.
Employees with two years 3 years None.
Not offered to those participating in other share programs or to executive directors.
Renewed To incentivise long-term performance of the Participation offered only to those 5 years Relative TSR performance against LEAP most senior executives against the TSR of key executives currently less than a group of key communication key comparators and maximise alignment 20 people whose contributions services comparator companies, with share owner interests through a high transcend their day-to-day role, subject to a fairness review by the level of personal financial commitment.
Restricted To encourage a share ownership culture Directors and senior executives n a Typically 3-year retention period.
Stock Plan and long-term retention as well as of the operating companies and supporting recruitment.
senior executives of the parent company.
Executive To provide a tool to promote retention Occasional use only to deal with 3 years Conditions are determined at the Stock Option and recruitment.
time of grant of the award.
Plan Notes This table does not include details of previous plans, such as operating company LTIPS and PSP which are no longer used for regular grants of new awards.
1 Base salary is the only pensionable element of remuneration.
2 Awards are granted under the Restricted Stock Plan.
3 Since its first adoption in 1997, grants have been made annually under this plan and as at 31 December 2006 options under this plan had been granted to over 56,000 employees for approximately 27 million ordinary shares of the Company.
How were rewarded WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How were rewarded Compensation Committee report on behalf of the Board Policy on directors service contracts, notice periods Elements of remuneration and termination payments The principal elements of WPP executive remuneration The Companys policy on the duration of directors service were fully reviewed in 2005 and currently comprise the contracts is that none of the contracts of parent company following: executive directors contain liquidated damages provisions.
Base salaries xed : There were no payments in 2006 in respect of termination Annual incentives variable : and of employment of any executive director.
The notice periods Long-term incentives variable.
for directors are as follows: Pension contributions, life assurance, health and disability, and other bene ts are also provided.
Executive director Contract effective date Notice period Sir Martin Sorrell 1 April 2005 At will Base salary Paul Richardson 1 January 2005 12 months Mark Read 9 September 2002 6 months The Compensation Committee believes that base salary is only one element of compensation and therefore should Non-executive director Contract date only be reviewed in the context of the total compensation Philip Lader 26 February 2001 being provided to an executive.
Colin Day 25 July 2005 During 2006, the committee approved an increase to Esther Dyson 29 June 1999 Mark Reads base salary from 225,000 to 275,000.
The Orit Gadiesh 28 April 2004 implementation of this was deferred until 1 January 2007.
David Komansky 28 January 2003 With effect from 1 January 2007 Sir Martin Bud Morten 2 December 1991 Sorrells base salary has been increased from 840,000 to Lubna Olayan 18 March 2005 1,000,000.
This is the first increase to Sir Martins base John Quelch 10 July 1991 salary since September 1999.
Koichiro Naganuma 23 January 2004 Christopher Mackenzie 14 March 2000 Annual cash bonus Jeffrey Rosen 20 December 2004 Paul Spencer 28 April 2004 The annual cash bonus is paid under plans established for Notes each operating company as well as the parent company.
The notice period applicable to all non-executive directors is two months.
During 2006, the committee reviewed in detail the financial impact of a termination of Challenging performance goals are established and these employment of each of the executive directors.
must be achieved before any bonus becomes payable.
Each executives annual incentive opportunity Performance graph WPP total return to share is fide ned at a target level for the full achievement of owners relative to relevant comparators rebased objectives.
Higher awards may be paid for outstanding to 31 December 2001 performance in excess of target.
The target level for Sir Martin Sorrell is 100% of WPP 150 base salary with a maximum of up to 200%.
For Paul FTSE100 Richardson the target is 80% with a maximum of up 100 Omnicom to 120% and for Mark Read the target is 50% with a Interpublic 50 maximum of up to 75% of base salary.
In the case of the Group chief executive and other 0 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec Janparent company directors, the annual cash bonus is based 01 02 03 04 05 06 Apr 07 on Group and individual performance: one-third is based on Group financial results.
This goal For share owners information, the Companys TSR is common for all executive directors including the Group for the period from 31 December 2001 to April 2007 is chief executive for 2006 the Groups financial results were shown on this graph.
The FTSE 100 is the Index the Board very strong, with Headline PBIT increasing by almost 14% considers most relevant for the purpose of comparison to 859 million, Headline PBIT margin increasing from and Interpublic and Omnicom are shown as these are the 14.0% to 14.5% and Headline diluted earnings per share companies with whose performance that of the Company up almost 17% to 42.0 pence per share.
How were rewarded Compensation Committee report on behalf of the Board one-third is based on individual strategic objectives Share awards determined prospectively by the committee at the commencement of each year.
In the case of the Group Following the policy review undertaken in 2005, the chief executive this related to the relative financial operating company LTIPs were replaced by PSAs.
This has performance of WPP against its peer group.
For 2006 considerably simpli ed the measurement of performance WPP outperformed the peer group both in terms of EPS while at the same time increasing retention by ensuring a growth and margin improvement: and greater percentage of the bonus pool is paid in shares.
one-third is based on the achievement by the individual At the parent company the comparable change meant director of key business objectives assessed by the that no further awards were granted under the Performance committee at the end of each year.
Key business objectives Share Plan and instead ESAs are used to reward executive in 2006 for the Group chief executive included amongst directors for performance over a single year.
Performance others developing and enhancing the strategic position under these awards is against the same measures currently of the Group and Group companies in developed and fastused to determine the annual bonus payment, but in this growing geographies: implementing business and strategic case delivered entirely in the form of shares with a further initiatives in response to the transition from traditional two-year retention period.
forms of advertising and media delivery to new forms Awards are not pensionable and will be satis ed out more in uenced by the increasing importance of digital of one of the Companys ESOPs and not out of a new issue media: arranging, and continuing to monitor and develop of WPP or treasury shares.
candidates for leadership succession for a number of As a percentage of base salary, the target, maximum speci c key operating company and parent company roles: and actual awards for 2006 to executive directors were and intensifying collaboration among business leaders and as follows: the process of cross-selling between Group companies, including co-ordination on client initiatives.
Target Maximum Actual As a percentage of base salary, the target, maximum Sir Martin Sorrell 67 100 97 and actual bonuses for 2006 paid to executive directors Paul Richardson 100 133 125 were as follows: Mark Read 67 100 87 Calculated by reference to a base salary of 275,000.
Target Maximum Actual Sir Martin Sorrell 100 200 192 Renewed Leadership Equity Acquisition Plan Paul Richardson 80 120 111 Renewed LEAP Mark Read 50 75 65 Note 2006 was the third year of operation for Renewed LEAP In 2006, Mark Read elected to defer 40% of his bonus.
Calculated by reference to a base salary of 275,000. and awards were once again granted to the Groups key executives.
In some countries an opportunity exists to defer part of Under Renewed LEAP, participants have to commit the annual bonus for four years in the form of WPP shares.
to acquire and retain WPP shares investment shares in At the end of the deferral period a 25% match is applied to order to have the opportunity to earn additional WPP shares the original shares, subject to continuous employment.
The number of matching shares which a participant can receive at the end of the investment and performance period depends on the performance based on TSR of the Company measured over five financial years four years in the case of awards made in 2004.
However, the Compensation Committee also acknowledges that TSR may not always re ect the true performance of the Company and in performing its fairness review the committee may in exceptional circumstances decide to vary the number of matching shares that will vest.
Factors that the committee will consider in its fairness review of any awards will include various measures of the Groups financial performance, such as growth in revenues and in earnings per share.
How were rewarded WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How were rewarded Compensation Committee report on behalf of the Board For awards made in 2005 and 2006 the vesting schedule Retirement bene ts is as follows: All pension coverage for the Companys executive directors Rank compared to peer group Number of matching shares is currently on a fide ned contribution basis and only base 1 5 salary is pensionable under any Company retirement plan.
2 5 Details of pension contributions for the period under review 3 4.5 in respect of executive directors are set out on page 126.
4 3.5 The form and level of Company sponsored retirement 5 2.5 programs varies depending on historical practices and local Median 1.5 market considerations.
The level of retirement bene ts Below median 0 is regularly considered when reviewing total executive Notes remuneration levels.
For actual performance between these positions the match is calculated on a pro rata basis.
Participants in their first year of LEAP receive a half share match for performance below median.
For awards made in 2004 the vesting schedule is as follows: Rank compared to peer group Number of matching shares 1 4 2 4 3 3.6 4 2.8 5 2 6 1.6 Median 1.2 Below median 0 Notes For actual performance between these positions the match is calculated on a pro rata basis.
Participants in their first year of LEAP, receive a half share match for performance below median.
The comparator companies for the awards made in 2006 were: Omnicom Gfk Interpublic Aegis Publicis Taylor Nelson Sofres Havas Dentsu Ipsos Arbitron WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How were rewarded.
