Board of directors Ed Wallis Robert MacLeod Chairman, age 66 Group Finance Director, age 42 Ed Wallis was appointed a director in September 2004, taking up Robert MacLeod was appointed Group Finance Director in June 2004. the post of Chairman in January 2005.
He joined the Group as Group Financial He was the founding Chief Executive of Powergen where he also Controller in March 2003 having previously worked in a variety of held the position of Chairman before retiring in 2003.
Prior to this senior financial roles at Enterprise Oil plc.
A graduate of Cambridge he gained more than 30 years of experience working for the Central University, he trained at KPMG.
He has a wide range of other board level experience including the Chairmanship of Lucas Varity and London James Morley Transport.
He was invited to become a Companion of the British Non-Executive Director, age 57 Institute of Management in 1994 and in 1997 became a Fellow of James Morley, a Chartered Accountant, was appointed a non-executive the Royal Academy of Engineering.
In 1996 he was awarded honorary director in 2001.
He is Chief Operating officer of Primary Group doctorates by both Brunel University and Aston University.
He is Limited and is also a non-executive director of Bankers Investment Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
He was previously Finance Director at Cox Insurance Holdings plc, Arjo Wiggins Appleton plc, Guardian Royal Exchange plc and Avis Keith Clarke Europe plc.
Chief Executive, age 54 Keith Clarke was appointed a director in October 2003.
He is a He is Senior Independent Director, Chairman of the Audit Committee Chartered Architect.
He joined the Group from Skanska AB where and a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
he was Executive Vice President responsible for its activities in the UK, Poland, Czech Republic, India and China.
He has over 30 years experience in construction and engineering, having previously worked for the City of New York, Olympia and York, Trafalgar House and Kvaerner.
He was appointed non-executive Chairman of Metronet on 13 April 2005 and is a member of the National Employment Panel and Patron of the Environmental Industries Commission.
He is a member of the Nomination Committee.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2006 46 Admiral the Lord Boyce Kleinwort Benson plc from 1983 to 1986 before moving to Dillon Non-Executive Director, age 63 Read & Co. Inc. as Managing Director jointly in charge of its European Lord Boyce was appointed a non-executive director in May 2004. business.
In 1992, he joined Baring Brothers & Co. Limited as a director He has had a distinguished career in the Royal Navy and the Ministry and ran its international corporate finance activities from 1994, leaving of Defence MoD.
He qualied as a submariner in 1965, and in 1999.
He is a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
commanded three submarines and HMS Brilliant.
He attended the Royal College of Defence Studies.
Lord Boyce was promoted to Sir Peter Williams Admiral in 1995 and was Second Sea Lord and subsequently Non-Executive Director, age 61 Commander-in-Chief Fleet before becoming First Sea Lord, Sir Peter Williams was appointed a non-executive director in May Professional Head of the Royal Navy from 1998 to 2001: and Chief 2004.
He graduated from Cambridge University with an MA and of Defence Staff, Professional Head of the Armed Forces from 2001 PhD in Physics.
He initially pursued an academic career, first at Selwyn to 2003.
He was elevated to the peerage in 2003 and was appointed College, Cambridge and subsequently at Imperial College, London.
Lord Warden and Admiral of the Cinque Ports and Constable of Dover After a period with VG Instruments Limited he joined Oxford Castle in 2004.
He is a non-executive director of VT Group plc.
He became its Chief Executive in 1985 and Boyce is a director of the White Ensign Association, an Elder Brother was Chairman from 1991 until his retirement in 1999.
He is Chairman of Trinity House, a Trustee of the National Maritime Museum and of the National Physical Laboratory and a non-executive director of a member of the Council of the RNLI.
He is a member of the GKN plc.
Sir Peter was Master of St Catherines College, Oxford, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Chairman of the UKs Engineering & Technology Board, Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the National Museum of Science & Industry, Christopher Kemball President of the Institute of Physics, President of the British Association Non-Executive Director, age 59 for the Advancement of Science and President of the Association for Christopher Kemball was appointed a non-executive director in 2002.
He is currently joint Patron of WISE Women into He is Chairman of The Davis Service Group plc and a non-executive Science and Engineering.
Sir Peter was elected as fifth Chancellor of director of Control Risks Group Limited.
He is also a Vice-Chairman of the University of Leicester on 21 October 2005.
He is Chairman of Hawkpoint Partners Limited, the independent investment bank.
Most the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit and of his career has been in investment banking in Europe, Emerging Nomination Committees.
He ran the North American operations of WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2006 47
