Directors report The directors present their Annual Report on the affairs of the Directors interests and indemnities Company and the Group, together with the financial statements and Directors interests in the Company are described in the Remuneration the independent auditors report, for the year ended 31 March 2006.
These will be laid before shareholders at the Annual General Meeting AGM to be held on 6 September 2006.
Directors and ofcers of the Company and its subsidiaries have the benefit of a directors and ofcers liability insurance policy which Principal activities and business review provides appropriate cover in respect of legal actions brought against The Chairmans statement pages 4 and 5 and the Operating and its directors.
The Companys practice has always been to indemnify financial review pages 6 to 45 report on Atkins principal activities its directors in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and performance during the past year and prospects for the future.
and to the maximum extent permitted by law.
Disclosure of such The statement and review are included in this report by reference, indemnities is now required by new provisions inserted into the together with the list of the principal subsidiary undertakings and the Companies Act 1985 the Act.
During the year the Board approved countries in which they operate note 39 to the financial statements.
the grant of deeds of indemnity to all directors and these are in force as at the date of this report.
These indemnities are available for Results and dividends inspection by shareholders at the Companys registered ofce.
The Group profit after tax for the year of 56.9m 2005: 38.9m is shown in the Consolidated income statement on page 62.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnities provide cover where the director has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 11.5 pence 2005: 8.0 pence per ordinary share to be paid on 29 September 2006 Corporate governance to ordinary shareholders on the register on 25 August 2006 which, A report on corporate governance is on pages 51 to 54. together with the interim dividend of 4.5 pence paid on 27 January 2006, makes a total of 16.0 pence for the year 2005: 12.0 pence.
Corporate responsibility A summary of the Groups corporate responsibility activities is Acquisitions and disposals contained on pages 43 to 45 of the Operating and financial review.
Acquisitions and disposals made by the Group in the year are described In addition, the Group produces a separate annual report on corporate in notes 5 and 38 to the financial statements on pages 76 and 100. responsibility which includes detailed information in respect of safety and health, the environment, the community, people and suppliers.
Directors A copy of that report is sent to all shareholders and is also available Full biographical details of the Companys directors at the date of this on the Companys website www.
report are given on pages 46 and 47.
Employees The Companys Articles of Association require that one third of The Group communicates financial results and significant business directors must retire at each AGM and may be re-elected.
issues to all employees via the use of email, the intranet and in-house publications.
Feedback from employees is obtained annually via a Struan Robertson retired from the Board on 7 September 2005. condential survey.
Where appropriate, consultation with employee No directors were appointed during the year.
Lord Boyce and and union representatives takes place.
Keith Clarke will retire by rotation at the AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Employee share ownership has been encouraged over a long period.
UK employees have the opportunity to become shareholders via the The Board considers that the performance of those directors proposed Companys Share Incentive Plan.
for re-election continues to be effective and that they demonstrate a strong commitment to their role.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2006 48 The Group is committed to the fair and equitable treatment of all Share capital its employees irrespective of gender, race, age, religion, disability or Full details of the Companys authorised and issued share capital, sexual orientation.
Policies have been implemented across the Group including changes during the year, can be found in note 28 to the to ensure that this commitment is acted on in practice.
The Groups policy and practice is to encourage the recruitment and Purchase of own shares subsequent training, career development and promotion of disabled The Company is authorised to purchase its own shares in the market people on the basis of their aptitude and abilities, and the retention under authorisation given by shareholders at its AGM held in 2005. and re-training of employees who become disabled.
Although no such purchases have been made, the Company will seek to renew the authority from shareholders at its forthcoming AGM.
Business conduct policy Any shares purchased pursuant to that authority may be held as The Board is responsible for the Groups Business Conduct Policy.
treasury shares in accordance with the Companies Acquisition of The Group believes that integrity is a fundamental prerequisite for Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003. successful business relationships, both internally and externally.
Reputation, trust and confidence are essential elements which we Substantial shareholdings seek to protect and enhance to the benefit of all with whom we As of the date of this report the Company had been notied, in have a relationship.
The Group seeks to understand and meet its accordance with Sections 198 to 208 of the Companies Act 1985, of customers needs, whilst seeking continuous improvement.
the following interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company: Across the Group there are procedures in place which seek to Number of Percentage of underpin this approach.
By so doing the Group aims to meet the Name of holder ordinary shares issued capital needs of all stakeholders.
4 Employee benefit Trust 4,107,429 3.93% Barclays plc 4,056,299 3.88% Supplier payment policy Legal & General Group plc 3,830,384 3.37% The Companys policy, which is also applied by the Group, is to agree Standard Life Investments 4,288,283 4.11% terms and conditions for its business transactions with suppliers and endeavour to make payment to these terms, subject to the terms and conditions being met by suppliers.
As at 31 March 2006 creditors Save as referred to above, the directors are not aware of any person represented 21 days annual purchases 2005: 21 days.
as at the date of this report who was interested in 3.0% or more of the issued share capital of the Company or could directly or indirectly, Charitable and political donations jointly or severally, exercise control.
During the year the Group made charitable donations of 97,534 2005: 85,000, principally to local charities serving the communities in which the Group operates or charities relevant to the Groups activities.
For 2006, the Group has chosen to focus its efforts on three charities, namely RedR, WaterAid and the PSP Association.
It is the Groups policy not to make political donations, either in the UK or overseas.
The Group has no intention of making any political donations or incurring such expenditure in the future.
However, the Political Parties, Elections and Referendum Act the PPER Act defines EU Political Organisation widely.
There is still some uncertainty over which bodies are covered by the denition and what will be classied as a Donation.
The Board will therefore seek authority at the forthcoming AGM for the Company and its main trading subsidiary Atkins Ltd to make such political expenditure up to 100,000 in order to prevent inadvertent breach of the PPER Act.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2006 49 Directors report continued Statement of directors responsibilities The directors confirm that, as at the date this report was approved, Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for so far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information each financial year that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of which the auditors are unaware and they have taken all the steps of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group that they ought to have taken as directors in order to make themselves for that period.
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
In preparing those financial statements the directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
Financial information published on the website is based State that the financial statements comply with IFRS.
on legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, dissemination of financial statements that may differ from legislation unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will in other jurisdictions.
Going concern The directors confirm that they have complied with the above The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company requirements in preparing the financial statements.
and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and therefore continue to adopt The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to Auditors ensure that the financial statements comply with the Act.
They are The Companys auditors,  LLP, have also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the expressed their willingness to continue in ofce and a resolution Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and for their re-appointment and to authorise the directors to determine detection of fraud and other irregularities.
their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf Philip Davis Company Secretary 22 June 2006 Cautionary statement Under the Companies Act 1985 as amended, a companys directors report is required, among other matters, to contain a fair review by the directors of the Groups business through a balanced and comprehensive analysis of the development and performance of the business of the Group and the position of the Group at the year-end, consistent with the size and complexity of the business.
The directors report set out above, including the Chairmans statement and the Operating and financial review incorporated into it by reference the Directors report, has only been prepared for the shareholders of the Company, as a whole, and its sole purpose and use is to assist shareholders to exercise their governance rights.
In particular, the Directors report has not been audited or otherwise independently veried.
The Company and its directors and employees are not responsible for any other purpose or use or to any other person in relation to the Directors report.
The Directors report contains indications of likely future developments and other forward looking statements that are subject to risk factors associated with, among other things, the economic and business circumstances occurring from time to time in the countries, sectors and business segments in which the Group operates.
These factors include, but are not limited to, those discussed under Risks and uncertainties elsewhere in this document.
These and other factors could adversely affect the Groups results, strategy and prospects.
Forward looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions.
They relate to events and or depend on circumstances in the future which could cause actual results and outcomes to differ.
No obligation is assumed to update any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2006 50
