Babcock International Group PLC 24 Annual report and accounts 2006 Directors and Company Secretary Gordon Campbell Age 59, Chairman Mr Campbell has served on the Board since 10 October 2000 when he was appointed as Group Chief Executive, becoming Executive Chairman on 1 January 2001.
With the separation of the roles of Chief Executive and Chairman on 1 August 2003 he became part-time Chairman.
Mr Campbell is Chairman of British Nuclear Fuels plc and Chairman of Jupiter Second Split Trust plc.
He is also a non-executive Director of HSS Hire Service Group plc, Accsys Technologies plc and Jsst Securities Limited.
He was a Vice President of the Royal Academy of Engineering.
Mr Campbell was reappointed as a Director of the company at its Annual General Meeting in July 2004.
He is Chairman of the Nominations Committee of the Board.
The Rt Hon Lord Alexander Hesketh KBE Age 55, Non-Executive Deputy Chairman Lord Hesketh joined the Board on 6 October 1993 becoming non-executive Deputy Chairman on 26 April 1996.
He is Chairman of British Mediterranean Airways Limited and is also a Director of a number of other private companies.
He was Government Chief Whip in the House of Lords from 1991 to 1993 and, prior to that, was Industry Minister at the Department of Trade and Industry.
Between 1 April 2005 and 19 July 2005 he was a member of the Remuneration Committee and the Audit and Risk Committees.
Until 4 May 2005 he was a Non-Executive Director of BAE Systems plc.
He was reappointed as a Director of the company at its Annual General Meeting in July 2005 and, in accordance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, having served as a Director for more than nine years, he will be retiring and offering himself for reappointment at the companys forthcoming Annual General Meeting in July 2006.
Peter Rogers Age 58, Group Chief Executive Officer Mr Rogers joined the group as Chief Operating Officer on 1 June 2002 and was appointed to the Board on 13 June 2002.
On 1 August 2003 he became Group Chief Executive.
He is a former Director of Courtaulds plc and Acordis BV.
Mr Rogers was last reappointed as a Director of the company at its Annual General Meeting in July 2005.
William Tame Age 51, Group Finance Director Mr Tame joined the Board as Group Finance Director on 25 January 2002.
He is a former Finance Director of Scapa Group PLC and is currently a non-executive director of Carclo PLC.
Mr Tame was last reappointed as a Director of the company at its Annual General Meeting in July 2005.
John Rennocks Age 60, Independent non-executive Director: Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee and nominated Senior Independent Director Mr Rennocks joined the Board as a non-executive Director on 13 June 2002.
He is a former Finance Director of Corus Group PLC and is Chairman of Diploma Plc, and a non-executive director of Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC, JP Fleming Overseas Investment Trust PLC, Wagon PLC and Inmarsat plc.
He is Chairman of Nestor Healthcare Group PLC.
As well as being Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee, Mr Rennocks is a member of its Remuneration Committee and Nominations Committee.
He was last reappointed as a Director of the company at its Annual General Meeting in July 2005.
Dipesh Shah Age 53, Independent non-executive Director, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Mr Shah joined the Board as a non-executive Director on 15 June 1999.
He is the Chief Executive of the United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority, and is non-executive Chairman of Viridian Group PLC.
He is also a non-executive Director of Oxfordshire Economic Partnership Limited.
He was formerly Chief Executive Officer of various businesses within BP and was a member of the DTIs Renewable Energy Advisory Committee and UK Panel for European Environmental Awards.
As well as being Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Mr Shah is a member of the companys Audit and Risk, and Nominations Committees.
Sir Nigel Essenhigh GCB Age 61, Independent non-executive Director Sir Nigel Essenhigh joined the Board as a non-executive Director with effect from 4 March 2003 and is a member of the companys Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
Until his retirement from the Royal Navy in late 2002, he was First Sea Lord and Chief of Naval Staff.
He is a non-executive Director of the Defence Science and Technology Laboratory and acts as an advisor to the Northrop Grumman Corporation.
Sir Nigel was last reappointed as a Director of the company at its Annual General Meeting in July 2003 and will, therefore, in accordance with the companys Articles of Association be retiring at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the company in July 2006 where, being eligible, he will offer himself for reappointment.
Justin Crookenden Age 43, Independent non-executive Director Mr Crookenden joined the Board as a non-executive Director with effect from 1 December 2005.
As a qualified Chartered Accountant, he spent 17 years in investment banking, initially with UBS, moving to Barclays fide Zoete Wedd in 1990, which was acquired by Credit Suisse First Boston CSFB.
During his career he headed the teams responsible for International Equity Execution and UK M&A and his last role at CSFB was as Managing Director UK Investment Banking.
Mr Crookenden is a member of the companys Remuneration, Audit and Risk and Nominations Committees.
Having been appointed during the year, Mr Crookenden will, in accordance with the companys Articles of Association, offer himself for reappointment at the companys forthcoming Annual General Meeting in July 2006.
Company Secretary Albert Dungate Age 49 Mr Dungate was appointed as Group Company Secretary and General Counsel on 1 February 2002.
A solicitor, he was formerly General Counsel and Company Secretary of Arjo Wiggins Appleton PLC.
Mr Dungate is Secretary to the companys Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
