94 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Operational Review Xstrata Technology had another strong year in 2006, reflecting both high This technology is significantly increasing industry project demand, and the continued market growth of its energy the energy efficiency of minerals XTech efficient technologies.
Sales increased for each product within the Xstrata processing in a wide range of applications, technology Technology group, boosting revenue by 55% to $120 million and EBIT and is expected to continue to achieve increased to $22 million.
good growth as the product becomes established across a range of markets.
Albion Process Xstrata Technology has continued to work ISASMELT with Core Resources to market the Albion The ISASMELT business continued to Process atmospheric leach technology increase sales, with new projects won in commercially.
A second Albion Process Kazakhstan two smelters, China, Zambia Technology licence was issued to Deva and Peru, the commissioning of the Gold Ltd to treat a gold-bearing pyrite Mopani smelter in Zambia, and the concentrate from the Certej project in commissioning of Southern Perus ILO Romania.
There was strong demand for smelter in early 2007.
ISASMELT has Albion Process testwork, with 11 new established itself as the new standard work programmes initiated in 2006. copper smelting process due to its low cost, high efficiency, and record of rapid The non-core Hydrometallurgy Research plant start-ups, which results from the Laboratories were sold to Core Resources comprehensive technical transfer model in November 2006. used by Xstrata Technology.
ISASMELT plants will be treating over six million ISAMILL tonnes per annum of copper feed The IsaMILL continued to establish itself as materials early in 2007.
The Vedanta a revolutionary new grinding technology.
ISASMELT at Tuticorin in India exceeded Installations were completed for Phelps its design capacity of 300,000 tonnes IsaMILL installation at Xstratas McArthur Dodge and Anglo Platinum, and new per annum of copper during the year, River mine, Australia orders received from five different and is often reported to be the worlds companies in Australia, South Africa, lowest cost copper smelter.
LME grade A copper produced using TM ISAPROCESS Canada, New Zealand and Laos.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 | 95 Financial and Operating Data: Technology Year ended Year ended $m 31.12.06 31.12.05 Revenue 120 77 EBITDA 26 14 Depreciation & amortisation 4 4 EBIT 22 10 Capital expenditure 2 1 Net assets 46 45 Capital employed 46 45 Jameson Cell By combining the strengths of both The Jameson Cell high intensity flotation technologies, Xstrata Tankhouse machine continued to achieve strong Technology Group now offers greater take-up for coal operations, especially in depth of tankhouse design, equipment Australia and China.
The product was selection, start-up and commissioning also successful in penetrating base metals services.
The order book for 2007 2008 markets, where it can provide low cost is already heavily committed with major circuit expansions or efficiency projects in China, Africa, Eastern Europe, improvements.
A large cell was USA, Brazil, Chile and Kazakhstan.
commissioned for Zinifex at Century, and another installed for Teck Cominco at Red Dog in Alaska for commissioning in 2007.
Tankhouse Technology including ISAPROCESS The group recorded its most successful year, delivering expansion, conversion and equipment supply projects to meet the high demand to increase world refined copper capacity.
Sales increased for each product within the Xstrata Technology Major refinery conversion projects were group in 2006 completed at Saganoseki and Tamano in Japan.
Other major projects during the year included the Pasar refinery conversion expansion in the Philippines, Piedras Verdes design and equipment supply in Mexico, cathode plate supply to Guixi tankhouse expansion in China, Nkana Cobalt technology and equipment supply in Zambia, design services to the Kazzinc project in Kazakhstan.
In August, Xstrata acquired the Kidd Process technology group as part of the acquisition of Falconbridge Limited.
