16 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Business Overview & Strategy Xstratas primary strategic aim is to create superior shareholder value by growing and Strategy managing a diversified portfolio of mining and metals businesses.
Our Mission recognises Xstratas strategic objectives are: that, to continue to grow and create value over the long term, we must operate in an ethical and transparent way, through mutually beneficial partnerships with our stakeholders.
To manage an attractive portfolio Our Statement of Business Principles sets out the ethical framework for our activities.
of assets diversified by commodity, geography and currency When we enter new commodity markets, In the five years since Xstrata plc was we generally seek to gain a significant created through an initial public offering market position and currently maintain on the London Stock Exchange in 2002, top four industry positions in each of our the scale, scope, geographic spread and principal commodity markets.
In some commodity diversification of the Group instances we establish a foothold into a has been transformed through a new sector from which we seek to grow combination of incremental acquisitions, a meaningful position such as the newly organic growth projects, operational acquired nickel operations.
improvements and, most profoundly, through value accretive, companyA diversified portfolio balances the risks transforming acquisitions.
associated with specific commodity price cycles and operating locations, providing As a result of the acquisitions in 2006, the investors with more reliable and stable enlarged Xstrata is now the fifth largest cash flows.
Diversification also engenders public mining company in the world, with healthy competition for capital between a meaningful position in seven major Xstratas commodity businesses, ensuring commodity markets and operations and only the most attractive projects or projects in 19 countries.
acquisitions are approved and allocated capital.
Today, Xstrata benefits from Growth through a combination of bolt-on a very significant growth pipeline across and company-transforming acquisitions a number of commodities, allowing the remains core to Xstratas strategy.
strategic sequencing of projects and In addition, Xstrata benefits from an deployment of capital to achieve growth exceptionally strong suite of organic while maximising value creation, in line growth projects, from which significant with projected market conditions.
volume growth and superior returns can be achieved, as market conditions allow.
Following the acquisition of Falconbridge, we have gained exposure to nickel, Company-transforming acquisitions a new commodity for Xstrata, a smaller aluminium business and entry into North March 2002: $2.5 billion acquisition of Enex and Duiker coal assets and America, diversifying further the Groups London IPO commodity, currency and geographic exposure.
The portfolio of commodities June 2003: $2.95 billion acquisition of MIM Holdings Ltd, Australian coal, produced includes both exchange-traded copper, zinc mining company commodities such as copper, nickel, zinc, aluminium and lead, and commodities August 2006: $18.8 billion acquisition of Falconbridge Limited, Canadian sold through negotiated customer-supplier copper, nickel, zinc, aluminium mining group contracts, such as ferrochrome, thermal coal and coking coal.
The balance of Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 | 17 Xstratas earnings has also changed We believe that greenfield exploration In 2006, Xstrata launched its inaugural as a result of these acquisitions.
Over in new territories is most efficiently and US bond offering, and successfully 50% of EBIT in 2006 on a pro forma successfully undertaken by junior mining completed two equity raisings, protecting basis was generated by Xstrata Copper companies.
Xstrata is pursuing a successful our investment grade credit rating and alone.
While increased exposure to any strategy of partnering with junior enhancing our financial flexibility and one commodity is an inevitable exploration companies, allowing us to debt maturity profile.
consequence of rapid acquisition-led leverage each partners strengths for growth and very strong base metals mutual benefit.
In addition to existing In addition to our focus on growth, we prices in 2006, we expect the balance partnerships, an extensive portfolio of maintain a progressive dividend policy, in of our earnings growth to diversify further exploration projects was acquired from line with Xstratas profitability, and make in time, either through growth from Falconbridge, which is being simplified appropriate returns of capital to other commodity businesses, or through through disposals of some projects and shareholders, where cash generated diversification into new commodities.
the retention of options to invest or exceeds our requirements for investment or direct interests in others.
To uphold a rigorous and unwavering focus on value and To maintain and enhance our growth, identifying and securing financial strength and discipline opportunities for value creation We are committed to maintaining a Our imperative to grow the business robust balance sheet and investment grade is underpinned by an unwavering focus credit rating, ensuring access to a diverse on value creation that applies equally range of funding sources.
Xstratas efficient to growth initiatives and operational financial structure, our focus on disciplined improvements from our portfolio as it capital expenditure, strong cash does to the acquisitions of projects or management and cost control enable us other assets.
to fund ongoing capital requirements, as well as pursuing rational organic and Our strategy recognises that opportunities acquisition-led growth opportunities.
for value creation are not limited to the pursuit of quality and we have demonstrated Operators Les Dasley and Norman Finch that enhanced operational management, skimming lead slabs at Northfleet refinery, UK judicious capital investment, and the proper identification and management of risk can create significant value.
We continue to pursue an acquisition-led strategy: however, following the acquisitions made in 2006, Xstratas range of brownfield and greenfield organic growth projects has been significantly expanded across its commodity businesses.
Any future funding decisions will continue to be based, as those to date have been, on a dispassionate view of each projects potential to create value in its own right on a net present value basis, using conservative long-run commodity prices.
18 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Business Overview & Strategy To create further value through To achieve and maintain the highest To foster a high performance and ongoing portfolio optimisation, standards of health, safety and entrepreneurial culture through delivery of capital and operational environmental performance at a highly devolved structure, efficiencies and real cost reductions our operations, and to work in empowering management teams In 2006, Xstrata completed three major partnership with local communities and minimising overhead acquisitions, including the identification for mutual benefits, supporting the Xstrata differentiates itself from its of over $545 million in annual synergies, principles of sustainable development industry peers by devolving maximum and commissioned five new operations, We aim to operate a fatality, injury and responsibility and authority to its bringing on lower-cost production on illness-free business and believe that all commodity business units.
We believe this time and on budget.
work-related incidents, illnesses and directly benefits our operations by creating injuries are preventable.
Safety is an a strong sense of local ownership, where Sustainable cost reduction is an important ongoing, major focus for the Group, entrepreneurial managers are empowered driver of value creation and a measure as we strive to eliminate fatal and high and incentivised to address site-specific of the quality of our operational potential risk incidents from every aspect challenges and seize opportunities.
management and our stewardship of the of our operations.
We have made assets of our owners.
In each of the last significant investments in safety leadership, Each commodity business is fully five years, Xstrata has achieved real cost behavioural training and technological resourced to function as an independent savings from its operational cost base solutions to safety challenges in recent business and is accountable for all aspects and has outperformed its FTSE100 mining years and continue to prioritise safety as of its operations from exploration to industry peers.
In 2006, $56 million of our primary operational consideration.
post-closure remediation, within defined real cost savings were achieved in a very authority levels and within the Groups challenging environment.
We seek to drive sustainable governance framework.
improvements in efficiency across the Xstratas commodity businesses are Group, in particular in the use of natural Xstratas commodity businesses are responsible for undertaking near-mine resources and energy.
We aim to minimise supported by a small corporate centre, exploration around existing operations or the environmental impact of our split between the head office in Zug, in nearby regions, leveraging existing operations, conserve biodiversity and Switzerland and the registered office in assets, and conducting targeted greenfield operate to the highest international London, United Kingdom.
In total, the exploration at known deposits with the environmental standards.
corporate centre comprises around objective of adding to the Groups resource 40 people.
The role of the corporate base.
We believe that this exploration is an Every managed operation develops an centre is well defined, minimising the integral part of our commodity businesses annual social involvement plan in close burden of overhead.
and as such, do not maintain a central or co-operation with local communities and standalone exploration function.
In 2006, other relevant stakeholders, including We aim to attract and retain the best this strategy resulted in increased resources government, NGOs and unions.
We set people at every level of our businesses and or extensions to mine lives at nine aside a minimum of 1% of Group profit and to provide them with the resources separate projects and operations.
before tax to invest in community they require to achieve and maintain initiatives that deliver long-term benefits, our operational excellence.
We provide with the ultimate aim of leaving behind industry-leading career development stronger, sustainable communities once opportunities, competitive remuneration the mine is depleted and operations and fair and non-discriminatory cease.
In 2006, the amount set aside for workplaces.
We believe our devolved corporate social involvement was in excess management structure and supportive of $49 million.
Further details are provided environment for rational risk-taking in the Sustainable Development section offers unparalleled opportunities for on pages 96 to 100. development and entrepreneurial Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 | 19 | 19 James Beams and Jim Young at Xstrata Coals Oaky Creek mine, Australia leadership, minimising bureaucracy To conduct our business activities Xstratas adherence to the principles and and allowing every employee to play ethically and with the maximum provisions of the UK Combined Code on an active part in our success.
transparency commercially possible Corporate Governance is set out in the A key role of the corporate centre is to corporate governance report, together As set out in further detail in the ensure effective governance of our with an explanation of key governance remuneration report on pages 126 to 139 businesses, through open and regular policies and procedures.
of this report, remuneration for executive communication, by setting the Group and senior management across our governance framework in which our We prefer to own a significant stake in businesses is closely aligned with Xstratas activities take place and by measuring our operations and joint ventures and strategy to grow and create long-term performance against these principles, take management control of operations shareholder value in a sustainable manner.
As a result of the A high proportion of total remuneration acquisitions in 2006, Xstrata now also is at risk and performance-related, Xstrata is governed by a robust Board has an interest in several non-managed incorporating financial and non-financial comprising eight non-executive directors operations including Cerrejn coal, performance measures.
These and three executive directors.
The Group Collahuasi copper, Antamina copper-zinc, performance measures are determined on Executive Committee determines and as well as the Douglas-Tavistock thermal an individual basis and include absolute executes Group strategy and comprises coal joint venture.
We take an active role performance e. g. return on capital the commodity business Chief Executives, as shareholders in these operations, employed, relative performance e. g. together with the Group Chief Executive, through steering committees and other performance in comparison to peers and Chief Financial Officer and Executive governance structures, to ensure that joint non-financial performance measures General Manager, Corporate Affairs.
venture management teams align e. g. safety performance, in line with themselves with Xstratas global standards international best practice.
and business principles and to protect our shareholders interests.
