Operating and Financial Review 32 The Board Bob Scott, Chairman Charles Carey an investment banker with Schroders in London and Bob 64 is currently a non-executive director of the Charles 52 is President and Chief Executive Officer also in the mergers and acquisitions department of Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc, Jardine Lloyd of DIRECTV, Inc, a position he has held since Goldman Sachs in New York.
He received his BA Thompson Group plc, Focus DIY Group Limited and December 2003.
He also is a member of the from the University of Western Ontario, Canada in Crimestoppers Trust.
He is also a non-executive DIRECTV Inc. Board of Directors.
Lyndon currently serves on the boards of Aber director of Swiss Reinsurance Company, Zurich.
Bob CEO, Charles oversees the operations and strategic Diamond Corporation which is listed in Toronto, retired as Group Chief Executive of CGNU plc direction of the DIRECTV Inc. companies, which Weetabix Limited, J. Choo Limited, Wagamama now Aviva in 2001, having previously held the include DIRECTV Inc. in the US and DIRECTV Latin Group Limited, Orangina B. V. Materne SAS and same position with CGU plc and General Accident America.
Prior to joining DIRECTV Inc. he was Burtons Foods Limited.
Lyndon chairs the plc, where he had been a director since 1992.
He Co-Chief Operating Officer of News Corp. and Nomination Committee and was appointed to the was also chairman of the Association of British President and Chief Executive Officer of Sky Global Remuneration Committee in November 2005.
Insurers in 2000-2001, having been a board Networks until his resignation in January 2002.
He member for four years and he was a member of the also served as Chairman and Chief Executive Lord Powell of Bayswater Presidents Committee of the CBI from 1998-2000.
Officer of the Fox Television Group until 2001.
In Lord Powell 64 is Chairman of Louis-Vuitton Moet addition to serving on the DIRECTV Group Board Hennessy LVMH in the UK and of Safinvest Limited.
John Condron, Chief Executive Officer and News Corp. Board, Charles is also a member He is a Director of a number of international John 56 began his career with Yell, then a part of of the Board of Directors of British Sky Broadcasting companies including Caterpillar, Textron, LVMH, BT, in 1980 as a member of the marketing team.
He is a graduate of Colgate University Schindler Group, Mandarin Oriental Hotel Group, was appointed as Marketing and Sales Controller and Harvard Business School.
Charles is a member Northern Trust Global Services and British in 1987 and in 1992 took on additional responsibility of the Remuneration and Nomination committees.
He is President of the as Managing Director of Yellow Pages Sales Ltd, the China-Britain Business Council, Chairman of the wholly-owned sales subsidiary.
John was appointed John Coghlan Oxford University Business School and Chairman of as Managing Director of the Yellow Pages Group in John 48 is former Deputy Chief Executive and Atlantic Partnership.
He is a cross-bench member of 1994 and continued as CEO of the Yell Group on Group Finance Director of Exel plc.
Prior to joining the House of Lords and Chairman of the All-Party its sale by BT in 2001.
He led the move into the US Exel Ocean Group plc in 1995, he qualified as a Group on Entrepreneurship.
Lord Powell is our with the purchase of Yellow Book USA in 1999 and chartered accountant in 1982 and worked for Arthur Senior Independent Director and a member of the the very successful flotation of Yell Group plc in Andersen for eight years before joining Tomkins plc, Audit Committee.
John is a graduate of Queens University, where he spent seven years in various financial Belfast and in the past has served as a Chairman roles.
He is a director of the Freight Transport Richard Hooper of the Directory Publishers Association, Chairman of Association.
John chairs the Audit Committee and is Richard 66 is currently Chairman of Informa plc, a the Jurors for the EFQMs European Quality Awards a member of the Nomination Committee.
member of the Advisory Panel to Waste Recycling and was a member of the Governments Advisory Group, and an independent assessor to the Committee on Advertising.
As well as being an Joachim Eberhardt Department of Culture, Media and Sport on public Executive Director of the Board he is also a member Joachim 42 is currently the Executive Vice President appointments.
He stood down from the Board of of the Nomination Committee.
of Global Sales, Marketing and Service for Ofcom, the regulator of the communications DaimlerChrysler Motors LLC in the US.
Until 1June industry, in December 2005 at the end of his term John Davis, Chief Financial Officer 2003 he was President and CEO of DaimlerChrysler as Deputy Chairman and Chairman of the Content John 44 has been Chief Financial Officer of Yell UK Limited, a position he held since November 1999.
Richard was a member of the Radio Group plc since 2000.
He previously held senior He is currently a non-executive director of a number Authority from 1990 to 1994, and was Chairman of positions within Pearson plc, where he was latterly of DaimlerChrylser owned subsidiaries.
Joachim has the Radio Authority between 2000 and 2003.
Group Finance Director of the FT Group, and Emap a Masters degree from the Academy for Richard started his career in the 1960's, as a radio plc, which he joined in 1989, where he was Director Administration and Economics in Stuttgart, Germany and television producer at the BBC.
Since then he of Corporate Finance and Treasury between 1995 and an MBA from New York University Stern School has been involved in many different aspects of the and 1997.
John is a Chartered Accountant, having of Business.
Joachim is Chairman of communications industry.
Previous directorships qualified at  and has a the Remuneration Committee and also sits on the include non-executive director of MAI plc 1993 to Masters in Management from the Stanford Audit Committee.
1996, non-executive director of United News & Graduate School of Business.
He was appointed Media 1996 to 1997, non-executive director of a non-executive director of Informa plc in Lyndon Lea Superscape plc 2000 to 2002 and non-executive October 2005.
Lyndon 37 is a founding partner of Lion Capital Chairman of IMS Group plc 1997 to 2002. and is responsible for its management.
Prior to founding Lion Capital in 2004 he was a partner of Hicks, Muse, Tate & Furst, whose European business he co-founded in 1998.
Previously, he served at Glenisla, which was the European affiliate of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co.
Prior to that, he was Yell Group plc Annual Report 2006 Operating and Financial Review 33 John Condron Bob Scott John Davis Charles Carey John Coghlan Joachim Eberhardt Lyndon Lea Lord Powell of Bayswater Richard Hooper Yell Group plc Annual Report 2006
