Business group reviews Operating and financial review Electronics, Intelligence & Support The Electronics, Intelligence & Support business 1 group, with 31,700 employees and headquartered in the US, is a provider of defence and aerospace systems, sub-systems and services.
It comprises two operating groups: Electronics & Integrated Solutions and Customer Solutions.
During 2006, Electronics, Intelligence & Financial highlights 2 Support achieved EBITA of 429m 2005 1 Organic sales growth of 6% over 2005 324m on sales of 4,007m 2005 3,697m and generated an operating Return on sales improved to 9.2% excluding one-off accounting gain 3 cash inflow of 273m 2005 323m.
2 Good conversion of EBITA to operating cash flow 2 2006 EBITA includes a 61m accounting gain relating to a revision to pension benefits arising from changes to the 2006 2005 2004 calculation of final pensionable salaries.
1 Sales 4,007m 3,697m 3,063m A one-off cash contribution of $100m 2 54m was made to the principal US EBITA 429m 324m 256m pension fund at the end of the year.
Return on sales 10.7% 8.8% 8.4% The Ship Repair business of United 3 Cash inflow 273m 323m 190m Defense, acquired in June 2005, contributed 1 1 full year sales of 316m 2005 164m Order intake 4,311m 3,659m 3,310m 2 and EBITA of 23m 2005 15m.
1 Order book 3.4bn 3.5bn 3.1bn Electronics & Integrated Solutions E&IS E&IS designs, develops and produces Key points electronic systems and sub-systems for Strong demand for electronic warfare systems a wide range of military and commercial applications.
The business focuses on Key support solutions business wins five primary capabilities: electronic warfare Group-wide capabilities combined to win FastTrack contract EW, including information operations: communications, with emphasis on Key Federal information technology solutions awards 6 integrated C4ISR and tactical networking: avionics, flight and engine controls: sensor Looking forward systems, providing remote sensing technology, mission sub-systems and Defence spending in the US continues to be robust for the near term, however fiscal pressures missile seekers: and intelligence systems.
may make the budget environment more challenging in subsequent years.
Customers will need to balance priorities to equip effectively the current fighting force, whilst developing capabilities E&IS delivered the first EW system for the Joint Strike Fighter F-35 Lightning II aircraft to transform the future force.
and received funding for the systems Low BAE Systems will continue to focus on offering tailored, mission-enabling support solutions Rate Initial Production.
E&IS also delivered and lifecycle services to the US defence, intelligence, Federal and civilian markets.
the first production digital EW system for the US Air Force F-22A Raptor.
Current The business is positioned to capitalise on recent organisational and integration actions production quantities are for 183 aircraft, to reduce costs.
Reducing costs will make the business more competitive and enable further taking F-22A production through to 2011. investment in new business opportunities to drive top-line growth.
The National  Agency selected E&IS to lead the team to develop a web-based surveillance and targeting system, Global Net-Centric Surveillance and Targeting, which will rapidly identify battlefield targets to speed decision-making by intelligence analysts and military personnel.
4 2,5 1 including share of equity accounted investments Share of Group sales Share of Group EBITA 2 earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense 3 net cash inflow from operating activities after capital 28% 32% expenditure net and financial investment, and dividends from equity accounted investments 4 before elimination of intra-group sales 5 excluding HQ and other businesses 6 Command, Control, Communications and Computing, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance 14 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 BAE Systems continues to hold a leadership Armys Tobyhanna Depot in Pennsylvania requirements and goals.
BAE Systems IT position in the development of Advanced to enhance communications and electronics was also successful in 100% of its Threat Infrared Countermeasure ATIRCM lifecycle management and with the US Air recompetes in 2006. systems.
In 2006, E&IS began phase three Forces Open Air Logistics Center, Utah, TSS won the US Air Force Space Commands of a Department of Homeland Security to support aircraft sustainment.
potential 12-year, $509m 260m contract programme to develop a commercial version Customer Solutions for operation and maintenance of the Solid TM of the ATIRCM system, JETEYE, which Customer Solutions comprises three State Phased Array Radar Systems at five seeks to defeat the threat of shoulder-fired businesses: radar sites worldwide.
The US Army Space anti-aircraft missiles.
and Missile Defense Commands Future BAE Systems Information Technology IT BAE Systems was selected to develop the Warfare Center signed an agreement with active inceptor system for the US Armys Technology Solutions and Services TSS BAE Systems worth up to $482m 246m under the Concepts and Operations for UH-60M Black Hawk helicopter programme.
BAE Systems Ship Repair Space and Missile Defense Integration The Black Hawk will be the first production BAE Systems IT capabilities include Capabilities contract.
helicopter to combine active inceptor enterprise-wide managed IT operations, technology with a fly-by-wire system that BAE Systems Ship Repair provides a full mission-critical application development saves weight and provides pilots with array of ship repair services in support of and lifecycle support information analysis intuitive tactile cues for easier aircraft US Navy vessels.
In 2006, the Ship Repair and assured delivery.
TSS provides services handling and reduced workload.
business was awarded a service contract including system engineering and technical for guided missile cruiser class ships home BAE Systems is the worlds leading supplier assistance, system and sub-system ported in Norfolk, Virginia, potentially valued of hybrid propulsion systems for urban transit integration, operations and maintenance.
New orders received in 2006 totalled Ship Repair is the USs leading non-nuclear multi-option contract was awarded for repair 415 HybriDrive propulsion systems.
ship repair company and also provides and maintenance of all US Navy surface conversion and modernisation services, E&IS is a supplier of state-of-the-art infrared, ships home ported in Hawaii, potentially principally in the home ports of the US Navy.
millimetre-wave, and laser technologies valued at $270m 138m.
for missile seekers, guided munitions and Customer Solutions integrates target designators.
Using a BAE Systems communications systems, builds and seeker, the THAAD Terminal High Altitude maintains precision tracking radars, and Area Defense missile system successfully is one of the largest service providers to detected and intercepted an incoming the US Navy.
The business is also a leader ballistic missile target.
This demonstration in air and missile defence systems and is of a bullet hitting a bullet was a key one of the worlds largest manufacturers milestone in the development of this of explosives.
defence against missile-borne weapons During 2006, significant contract wins were of mass destruction.
secured, underpinning the future growth in The US Army fully funded the Thermal the Customer Solutions business.
Weapon Sight TWS at $285m 146m BAE Systems was awarded a prime contract, with full production to produce and deliver worth approximately $250m 128m, 29,600 units by mid-2008.
In 2006, more from the Department of Homeland Security than 4,500 TWS units were delivered on time to improve efficiency and reduce IT costs.
or ahead of schedule to meet critical fielding.
The business also received an estimated To increase focus on through-life product $250m 128m award from the US Army and logistics support, E&IS opened its first under the Information Technology Enterprise Readiness & Sustainment centre adjacent to Solution 2 Services contract.
This contract Robins Air Force Base, Georgia.
E&IS also provides IT services to support the Armys enterprise information infrastructure signed partnership agreements with the US Terminal High Altitude Area Defence THAAD Common Missile Warning System CMWS Transatlantic partnership delivers on a FastTrack BAE Systems is responsible for the Under a CMWS contract, potentially By leveraging its experience and expertise development of the infrared seeker head worth $1.4bn 0.7bn, the US Army has found around the world, the BAE Systems on the THAAD missile system.
The THAAD the flexibility to order at various times FastTrack team demonstrated speed, agility missile system is designed to defend any number of systems.
E&IS increased and Group-wide collaboration to win a new against attacks from short and mediumproduction from 30 to 50 systems contract with the US Navy valued at up range ballistic missiles.
Here assemblers a month to outfit all US Army helicopters to $450m 230m over seven years.
at BAE Systems in Nashua, New Hampshire, in Afghanistan and Iraq.
Under this contact, BAE Systems will install a THAAD seeker forward ring reengineer and remanufacture aircraft parts assembly into a vibration test fixture.
to optimise the US militarys ageing aircraft.
