Business group reviews Operating and financial review Customer Solutions & Support The Customer Solutions & Support CS&S business 1 group, with 14,600 employees, provides partnered, through-life support solutions and capability to the UK MoD and manages the Groups business in Saudi Arabia and Australia.
2 During 2006, CS&S achieved EBITA Financial highlights 1 of 477m 2005 419m on sales Sales growth of 9% over 2005 of 3,180m 2005 2,923m and 3 generated an operating cash inflow Return on sales maintained at c. 15% of 289m 2005 850m.
Cash flow includes 130m incurred on Saudi infrastructure Saudi Arabia BAE Systems has a major presence in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia where it acts as 2006 2005 2004 prime contractor for the UK government-to- 1 government defence agreement.
Over the Sales 3,180m 2,923m 2,856m last two decades the programme has 2 EBITA 477m 419m 497m included the provision of aircraft, associated hardware, support, infrastructure and Return on sales 15.0% 14.3% 17.4% manpower training for the Royal Saudi 3 Cash inflow 289m 850m 1,102m Air Force RSAF.
On 21 December 2005 1 Order intake 4,367m 3,280m 3,543m the UK and Saudi Arabian governments 1 signed an Understanding Document Order book 6.0bn 5.0bn 4.6bn outlining plans to modernise the Saudi armed forces.
Modernisation activities are Key points now underway.
Under the terms of the signed document, Typhoon aircraft will Tornado ATTAC agreement signed in the UK replace Tornado Air Defence Variant aircraft Kingdom of Saudi Arabia modernisation programme underway and others currently in service with the RSAF.
Detailed negotiations are continuing Investment in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia continues to progress the Understanding Document Australian Hawk support contract secured towards a contract for the delivery of Typhoon aircraft.
Looking forward Around 4,600 people are employed by the Group in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, CS&S will continue to seek to sustain its long-term presence in Saudi Arabia through developing of whom more than half are Saudi nationals.
new business and delivering on current support commitments.
The business is continuing to develop its CS&S will continue to work with the UK customer to provide smarter, more integrated support presence in Saudi Arabia and is helping to and capability solutions on customer bases.
Development of these solutions will be underpinned develop a greater indigenous capability in by the migration of the Availability Transformation: Tornado Aircraft Contract ATTAC model to the Kingdom.
The security of employees other future UK platforms.
is the highest priority and progress on new residential and office facilities as well as increased security measures continues.
Occupation of the first new residential compound and new office facilities began on schedule in late 2006.
Performance on the Saudi support programme in 2006 has progressed well.
Margins have stabilised following increased indigenous Saudi content in repair and overhaul work.
4 2,5 1 including share of equity accounted investments Share of Group sales Share of Group EBITA 2 earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense 3 net cash inflow from operating activities after capital 22% 35% expenditure net and financial investment, and dividends from equity accounted investments 4 before elimination of intra-group sales 5 excluding HQ and other businesses 20 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 United Kingdom In support of the Hawk programme a bid However, in January 2007, it was announced In the UK, CS&S continued to develop its was submitted to provide availability support that this programme was to be awarded to successful partnering arrangement with the to the RAFs TMk1 aircraft.
the competing consortium led by QinetiQ.
UK MoDs Defence Logistics Organisation An extension to the existing Nimrod Integrated The business was unsuccessful in its bid focusing on through-life capability management Support contract was received in June.
for an integrated through-life support and value for money in line with the UKs contract to support the Victoria Class Defence Industrial Strategy DIS.
In the naval domain, the reactivation of A key message from DIS is the need for three ex-Royal Navy frigates for the Chilean Australia investment in supply chain skills, capabilities Navy is progressing.
The handover and CS&S Australia performed well in 2006 and technologies.
BAE Systems has commissioning of Almirante Cochrane on securing a number of contracts and established a supply chain capability project 22 November was a significant milestone in strengthening its position as a through-life to further develop its suite of high-quality capability partner to the Australian the programme.
The first of a series of support processes across the business.
Memoranda of Understanding with the In air support, performance under the customer with respect to delivering a Negotiations for a five-year A$343m Tornado Combined Maintenance and support solution for the vessels was signed 138m support contract for the Upgrade contract remains strong with in October.
Australian Hawk Lead-In Fighter aircraft 11 aircraft returned to front-line service since contract award in December 2005. were successfully completed, and the The naval joint ventures performed well.
business is also a key supplier in providing BAE Systems has 50% interests in Fleet In December, the Tornado ATTAC contract a new airborne early warning system to Support Limited FSL and Flagship Training was signed.
The contract offers a full South Korea.
In parallel with the naval base Tornado availability service for the next review announced by the UK Secretary of ten years with an initial value of 947m.
State for Defence in September 2006, FSL ATTAC will deliver reduced costs and has been involved in a number of costincreased operational efficiencies with saving initiatives.
improved aircraft availability to the front-line.
In October, FSL signed a Memorandum of Experience of the ATTAC bid is being used Understanding MoU between FSL, DML and to progress a similar availability contract Babcock and the Minister of Defence for the Harrier aircraft, with negotiations Procurement in support of the Surface Ship on an initial risk reduction package well advanced.
The Harrier Joint Upgrade and Support Alliance.
This activity will develop Maintenance Programme at RAF Cottesmore throughout 2007 to jointly identify a more is already helping to meet urgent operational effective model for the support of surface requirements for the front-line in Afghanistan ships with projected savings of 90m while at the same time maintaining the GR9 per year.
The results of the UK MoD naval base In September, the in-service date for the review are expected in 2007.
Harrier GR9 upgrade was achieved on The delivery of high-quality training solutions schedule.
The GR9 upgrade is carried out in continues, primarily through FTL which, a partnered arrangement with the UK MoD building on the strong partnering based at RAF Cottesmore.
The programme relationship with the Royal Navy, was has delivered cost savings and reduced awarded a 45m contract for the planning aircraft downtime from 52 to 35 weeks and delivery of a number of courses for during the upgrade.
existing and future naval personnel.
The ATTAC model should also provide the FTL formed part of the MC3 Training bid for blueprint for future support arrangements the Defence Training Review programme.
Ship reactivation Tornado ATTAC Saudi Arabia BAE Systems is prime contractor for BAE Systems is to provide availability BAE Systems home market strategy in the reactivation of former Royal Navy support to the Tornado platform for the Saudi Arabia is focused on the warships for overseas customers Royal Air Force RAF, known as ATTAC development of indigenous industrial including preparation of the vessels Availability Transformation: Tornado capabilities in-country to strengthen the and training of crews.
ATTAC will see Groups long-term presence in an BAE Systems partnering with the UK important and successful market.
MoD and the RAF, reflecting the aims and objectives of the UKs Defence Industrial Strategy.
