Operating and financial review Key Performance Indicators KPIs The Board uses a range of financial and non-financial performance indicators, reported on a periodic basis, to measure the Groups performance over time.
These include: In addition to the above, long-term contracts employees are aware of our ethical Financial metrics: are managed through the application standards and issues or concerns are To measure growth of the business: of mandated business processes at being raised and addressed.
Also, to Order intake represents the value of the operational level.
These processes measure how successful our ethics funded orders received from customers include the reporting of consistent metrics training is in ensuring that all employees in the period: related to matters such as schedule and are aware of the Groups ethical standards cost performance, risk mitigation and and policies see page 36 : and Order book represents the balance of customer satisfaction.
These metrics unexecuted, funded orders received from Workplace employee opinion surveys and are consistently used by the Board and customers: and demographic information : to monitor the operational management in the review opinions of our employees as part of the Sales represents the amounts derived of contract performance.
development of a high performance culture from the provision of goods and services, across the Group and to increase diversity and includes the Groups share of equity Non-financial metrics: and broaden the culture to drive innovation accounted investments sales.
The Board recognises its responsibilities and performance see page 36.
To measure performance of the business: to the Groups shareholders, employees, 1 The Board continues to adopt a progressive Underlying EBITA is used by the Group customers and suppliers, the wider community approach in the development of appropriate for internal performance analysis as and to the environment.
The following Group-wide metrics such that performance a measure of operating profitability indicators are used by the Board and the is monitored in a comparable and comparable over time: Corporate Responsibility Committee to monitor transparent way.
the application of mandated policies and Return on sales represents underlying procedures with the objective of meeting the 1 EBITA divided by sales, expressed as Groups responsibilities in these areas: a percentage: and Health and safety management injuries Operating business cash flow represents and lost days : to minimise risk across net cash flow from operating activities our operations and drive continual after capital expenditure net and financial performance improvement see page 36 : investment and dividends from equity accounted investments.
Environment energy and water consumption, waste generation and Further explanation of these Group financial greenhouse gas emissions : to ensure KPIs for the years ending 31 December operational efficiency, regulatory 2006 and 2005 are included on pages 26 compliance and minimising environmental to 30 within the financial review.
In addition, impact see page 36 : individual business group financial KPIs are included within the business group reviews Ethics number of issues raised and on pages 14 to 24. investigated : to demonstrate that 1 Since the adoption of IFRS the directors have 2 2 Order intake and order book bn Sales and return on sales bn and % calculated underlying earnings before amortisation 14 10.0 40 and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs 13 9.5 and taxation expense underlying EBITA to eliminate 30 the impact of an acquisition accounting entry required 12 9.0 to remove the profit in acquired inventory.
This allows 11 8.5 20 the contribution from acquired businesses to be 10 8.0 assessed on a consistent basis from the date of 10 9 7.5 acquisition.
This adjustment did not impact the results for 2006 2005 44m.
order intake order book sales return on sales 2 2 Underlying EBITA m Operating business cash flow m 1,250 2,500 1,140 2,000 1,030 1,500 920 1,000 Further historical financial information is presented 810 on pages 124 and 125.
