Business group reviews Operating and financial review Programmes The Programmes business group, with 17,900 1 employees and based in the UK, comprises the Groups air systems, naval ships and submarines activities, with the UK Ministry of Defence its principal customer.
2 During 2006, Programmes achieved EBITA Financial highlights 1 of 167m 2005 133m on sales of Sales growth of 4% over 2005 2,927m 2005 2,819m and generated 3 an operating cash inflow of 173m Margin further improved 2005 285m.
2 EBITA up 26% Air Systems Good cash performance The Air Systems group is responsible for delivering five major programmes: Typhoon, 2006 2005 2004 Nimrod MRA4, Hawk, F-35 Lightning II JSF 1 and Autonomous Systems & Future Sales 2,927m 2,819m 2,219m Capability Air.
2 EBITA 167m 133m 10m Deliveries of Typhoon aircraft to the air Return on sales 5.7% 4.7% 0.5% forces of the four partner nations continued 3 with a further 40 aircraft delivered in the Cash inflow 173m 285m 442m year.
BAE Systems continues to provide 1 Order intake 2,772m 2,101m 5,264m support to the UKs Royal Air Force RAF 1 Order book 12.1bn 12.3bn 13.0bn training and operational build up, with aircraft operating in three squadrons in the UK.
Negotiations to establish ongoing integrated Key points logistics support contracts continue.
In Good schedule and cost adherence addition, the UK MoD has awarded an initial contract combining scheduled maintenance Programmes transitioning from development to production work with upgrade activity.
Hawk and Nimrod production orders secured Final assembly of the first of 236 Tranche 2 UAV technology agreements secured aircraft is underway, in addition to the first of 18 aircraft for Austria.
Looking forward Further export possibilities are being pursued, including the supply of Typhoon The future of Programmes is closely linked to UK MoD funding both to meet future aircraft to Saudi Arabia.
requirements of the UKs armed forces and to subsequently generate export business.
During the year the UK MoD awarded the For Air Systems, growth in the short term is dependent upon anticipated higher activity, Nimrod MRA4 production contract, signalling as UK development programmes move to production, and on potential Hawk and Typhoon renewed confidence in the programme and export sales.
in the capability the aircraft will deliver.
The design and development programme Naval Ships expects to be involved in the implementation of the Defence Industrial Strategy is on target to achieve the product maturity in the maritime sector.
Growth prospects include the UKs Future Carrier CVF programme contained within the production bid and the MARS Military Afloat Reach and Sustainability programme.
Activities are now concentrated The Submarines business is expected to grow with increased activity on the Astute programme in developing, jointly with the customer, an and the anticipated build of a major block of the Future Carrier.
Completion of pricing of boats innovative support solution for the first five 2 and 3 and securing orders for Astute boats 4 to 7 is key in retaining the necessary skill base years of service.
in order to design and build the next-generation nuclear deterrent submarine.
Development of the UKs Hawk Advanced Jet Trainer proceeded to plan and helped secure the production order for 28 Hawk Mk128 aircraft from the UK MoD.
Hawk is well 4 2,5 1 including share of equity accounted investments Share of Group sales Share of Group EBITA 2 earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense 3 net cash inflow from operating activities after capital 21% 13% expenditure net and financial investment, and dividends from equity accounted investments 4 before elimination of intra-group sales 5 excluding HQ and other businesses 18 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 positioned to meet continued market The business is focused on working with the to this work has been to prepare full cost, demand for training aircraft, including UK MoD to deliver the SUAV E and Taranis schedule and programme inputs in existing Hawk customers who wish to demonstration contracts to establish the support of the UK MoD Main Gate Review upgrade their fleet.
role of UAVs UCAVs in the future force mix for the approval of the whole programme.
and transitioning the HERTI demonstration BAE Systems, holding significant All six Hawk aircraft for Bahrain were system into a production programme.
responsibilities across the total CVF delivered on time, the India contract is scope of work, is committed to working proceeding to plan, with the first flight of Naval Ships with the other alliance partners to secure an Indian Hawk achieved in December, The second of the originally contracted a successful outcome.
and 15 aircraft have been delivered Landing Ship Dock Auxiliary ships, RFA to South Africa.
Cardigan Bay, was handed over in August.
The arbitration process over the acceptance The contract was expanded as the UK MoD of the three offshore patrol vessels for BAE Systems is partnered with Lockheed contracted to Naval Ships the responsibility Brunei continues.
Martin and Northrop Grumman on the JSF for completion of the final vessel, Lyme Bay, programme, having responsibility for the A letter of intent was signed with the together with class design and warranty design and manufacture of the rear fuselage government of Malaysia for two frigates.
and empennage and for the supply of Negotiations continue to convert this certain air vehicle systems.
With four Type 45 ships in various stages agreement into a contract.
of production, a high level of activity The first flight of the System Development Submarines and resource load has been reached.
and Demonstration aircraft was achieved The construction of the first of class boat, To meet this demand, over 500 new staff in December.
Astute, is largely completed with the test joined the business in 2006, largely in and commissioning activities now the 2007 will see the substantial completion production areas.
of the detailed design for each of the Whilst the major focus remains on the F-35 variants and the acceleration of the The Astute programme continued its setting-to-work and commissioning of the manufacture and delivery of major units improved performance with nine of its ten Type 45 first of class, Daring, in readiness for the remaining development aircraft in key milestones achieved in the year, eight for sea trials in the second half of 2007, the System Development and Demonstration being achieved ahead of plan and one excellent progress was made on the second phase of the programme.
Low rate initial behind plan.
The remaining milestone was and third ships, with build efficiency targets production is expected to commence in achieved early in 2007.
The launch of met or exceeded.
Discussions between the UK and Astute has been brought forward by three US governments on appropriate levels of Milestone achievements continue to plan months to June 2007. technology sharing on the JSF programme and these, combined with successful riskProductivity improvements are being progressed during the year.
reducing system integration work in the addressed through innovative build Maritime Integration Support Centre, have The medium-altitude long-endurance strategies.
These include increased use enabled initial profit recognition on the Unmanned Air Vehicle UAV system HERTI of modular assembly and vertical outfitting programme in 2006. was unveiled in 2006 and the ASTRAEA of full sections, in addition to investment programme was launched a multi-faceted The Group is currently working with the in facilities, simplification of processes, UK programme working towards creating customer to restructure the existing contract systems and design to reduce cost.
These the right conditions for operating unmanned around a new six ship proposal to provide a measures are aimed at reducing the cost of aircraft in UK airspace.
cost-effective solution that ensures timely production following the first of class boat.
delivery of agreed capability across the Risk reduction activities were completed class under a jointly managed risk profile.
for the Strategic Unmanned Air Vehicle This is expected to conclude in mid-2007.
Experiment SUAV E project with the UK The Carrier Alliance has established a set MoD and, in December, a follow-on technology demonstration programme, Taranis, to support of contracts with the various alliance MoD evaluation of unmanned air combat partners for the demonstration phase of the vehicle technologies, was secured.
One of the key components Typhoon development programme Astute class submarine reducing costs Unmanned Air Vehicle UAV capability The Typhoon development programme BAE Systems is actively looking at ways The UK Defence Industrial Strategy continued through the year with a series to work in partnership with its supply highlighted the importance of developing of releases of UK Paveway II Laser Guided chain.
The Submarines business has set UAV capability within the UK industrial base.
Bombs, demonstrating its ability to perform up a suppliers club which, together with BAE Systems has developed, built and flight the air-to-ground role a step towards innovative build strategies, is helping to tested UAV demonstration systems in as ensuring that Typhoon provides the drive down costs on the Astute programme.
little as six months, only a quarter of the cornerstone of NATOs defence capability time usually needed.
