Business group reviews Operating and financial review Integrated Systems & Partnerships The Integrated Systems & Partnerships business group, with 10,500 1 employees, is a portfolio of high-technology defence systems businesses comprising the wholly-owned Integrated System Technologies and Underwater Systems, together with a 37.5% interest in the pan-European MBDA joint venture, a 20.5% interest in Saab of Sweden and a 50% interest in the Gripen International joint venture.
During 2006, Integrated Systems Financial highlights 2 & Partnerships achieved EBITA of 113m 1 Results reflect further portfolio restructuring in the year 2005 109m on sales of 1,748m 2005 1,834m and generated an operating cash Margin further improved to 6.5% 3 inflow of 158m 2005 17m.
This result follows the significant restructuring of the Groups portfolio of European defence businesses in 2005.
2006 2005 2004 In August the Group disposed of its wholly- 1 owned Atlas Elektronik business for 149m Sales 1,748m 1,834m 2,022m 103m, generating a profit on disposal 2 EBITA 113m 109m 95m of 3m.
Return on sales 6.5% 5.9% 4.7% In addition to its main businesses, the 3 Cash inflow 158m 17m 59m results of which are explained in more 1 detail below, the Group has a 25% interest Order intake 1,655m 1,516m 1,756m in Selex Sensors and Airborne Systems SpA.
1 Order book 5.8bn 5.9bn 7.0bn This is subject to a put option at an agreed value of 268m exercisable by BAE Systems Key points in the three-month period from the beginning of June 2007 and a call option by European portfolio restructuring complete Finmeccanica at any time to August 2007.
Major Insyte communication systems wins in UK Integrated System Technologies Insyte The Insyte business completed its first full MBDA programme milestones achieved year of trading as a wholly owned subsidiary.
Saabs acquisition of Ericsson Microwave Systems complete Order book grew primarily on receipt of the FALCON Increment A contract 267m.
Looking forward FALCON will provide the British armed forces with a new mobile, high-capacity, secure Implementation of the UKs Defence Industrial Strategy DIS is material to the UK activities information system infrastructure at the of the Integrated Systems & Partnerships business group.
operational and tactical levels of command.
Growth is anticipated from the Insyte business, building on the UK naval systems market The business secured its first significant position and recent success in land systems.
national security contract in 2006 and was contracted as the mission system For Underwater Systems, the follow-on activities from DIS will play an important role in shaping prime contractor on the CVF programme the future position of the business.
and was also awarded the T93 Radar The announcement in 2006 by the UK MoD of the creation of Team CW Complex Weapons Replacement contract to support the UK led by MBDA represented a significant step forward in the implementation of DIS in this sector.
The business has a number of key programmes.
Sampson radar, the Command Management System and Long Range Radar Development and Production contracts for the Type 45 destroyers, and the Seawolf Midlife Upgrade for Type 22 and 23 destroyers all achieved their key milestones in the year.
4 2,5 1 including share of equity accounted investments Share of Group sales Share of Group EBITA 2 earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense 3 net cash inflow from operating activities after capital 12% 8% expenditure net and financial investment, and dividends from equity accounted investments 4 before elimination of intra-group sales 5 excluding HQ and other businesses 22 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 Underwater Systems MBDA has been selected by the UK MoD order from the Swedish government for the The Sting Ray lightweight torpedo main to lead the UKs Complex Weapons sector continued development of the Gripen system.
production order for the UK MoD is under the Defence Industrial Strategy, The acquisition of Ericsson Microwave progressing on schedule with the second working with the UK MoD to develop Systems for SEK3.75bn 280m was batch of torpedoes being accepted in a Strategic Partnering Agreement which completed on 1 September.
This acquisition December 2006. will underpin the sovereign UK capability added radar and sensor operations to in complex weapons technologies, design, The Archerfish product was selected as Saabs existing portfolio in the areas of development and manufacturing for the the Common Mine Clearance Neutraliser defence, aviation, space and civil security.
It is anticipated that 2007 will see for the US Navy and is to be used on three this work brought to fruition.
Saabs order book at the end of the year different programmes.
Important progress has been made Talisman, which is a Group-funded Gripen International 50% during the year on MBDAs development Unmanned Underwater Vehicle, achieved The first Gripen test aircraft arrived in South programmes.
Significant milestones included what is believed to be a world first by Africa and has commenced the integration the successful air-launched demonstration launching and controlling another weapon and development test programme.
Deliveries firings of the new Meteor beyond visual while itself operating at a distance from of aircraft to Hungary commenced in the range air-to-air missile, the first system the mother ship.
This successful test was year and the contractual offset obligations qualification of the Franco-Italian observed by potential customers.
to both Hungary and the Czech Republic Aster PAAMS E naval air defence system are being met.
The business continues discussions with and qualification firings of the SAMP T the UK MoD on a long-term partnering land-based system.
In addition, the PAAMS agreement to sustain capability for the programme for the Royal Navys Type 45 longer term.
destroyer is now progressing through integration and testing following deliveries MBDA 37.5% of the Sampson radar.
MBDA also achieved MBDA performed well with increases in development successes with the first firing 2 both sales and EBITA as 4,000 missiles of the new Exocet Block 3 coastal attack were produced and delivered, including missile, completion of development of the the Storm Shadow and Scalp airborne Marte Mk2 S helicopter-launched anti-ship cruise missiles, Mica air-to-air weapon, weapon and Milan ER anti-armour missile.
Exocet anti-ship missile, and the Taurus cruise missile.
The new Customer Service The acquisition of the German missile & Support division also reported successful company LFK was completed in March sales and orders in the year.
Financial performance of the acquired A number of export orders were secured business has exceeded expectations in the year, including a 450m 303m to date.
order from the UAE Exocet Blocks 2 and 3, a contract from Saudi Arabia for the Mistral Saab 20.5% air defence system, an order from India for Sales rose by 9% to SEK21bn 1.55bn, the ATAM missile system for the new ALH of which 65% is attributable to sales helicopter, as well as orders from Chile for outside Sweden.
Operating income rose the new Seawolf Block 2 naval missile and to SEK1,745m 129m, producing an Exocet.
Domestic orders remained strong operating margin after restructuring costs underpinned by the Aster PAAMS of 8.3%.
Order intake is substantially programme, a contract from France for the improved compared with 2005, mainly new Scalp Naval cruise missile and an order attributable to the SEK5.5bn 411m order from Germany for the Pars 3 next-generation from Pakistan for an airborne surveillance anti-armour weapon for the Tiger helicopter.
system together with a SEK1bn 75m Technology delivered to the battlefield Talisman launches a world first FALCON is a mobile, high-capacity Talisman, the BAE Systems developed information infrastructure that brings unmanned underwater vehicle UUV, has the latest all-internet protocol technology achieved its latest capability breakthrough, to the battlefield.
It is a rapidly deployable, by becoming the first UUV to successfully truck-mounted system that allows troops fire and control weapons at sea during trials.
and battlefield commanders to communicate Talisman is an example of BAE Systems quickly, securely and reliably with each approach to rapid prototyping, with other and with other levels of command.
concurrent design, development and testing.
