Strategy Operating and financial review Strategy Delivering on our strategy Our Group strategy is to deliver sustainable growth in shareholder value by being the premier global defence and aerospace company.
We deliver this through our group strategic objectives, business portfolio actions and integrated business plans.
The five group strategic objectives are owned by the Executive Committee and apply across the Group.
The business portfolio actions are championed by the relevant Executive Committee members and are delivered by the businesses either separately or jointly.
Group strategy To deliver sustainable growth in shareholder value by being the premier global defence and aerospace company Group strategic objectives Continue to embed a high-performance culture across the Company Further enhance our programme execution capabilities Increase sharing of expertise, technology and best practice between our global businesses Develop a partnership approach to meet our customer requirements Develop our capabilities in emerging growth markets Business portfolio actions Establish in the Grow our business Implement the home Grow our global land Grow our export Grow our global UK sustainably in the United States market strategy and systems business business from our support, solutions profitable through-life both organically grow in the Kingdom home markets and services businesses in and via acquisitions of Saudi Arabia businesses Air, Land and Sea Integrated business plans Financial metrics detailed on page 25 of sales, order intake and order book are used by the Board in measuring business growth.
Return on sales, underlying EBITA and operating business cash flow are used to measure performance of the business.
These metrics directly underpin the Group strategic objectives and business portfolio actions above.
10 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 Group strategy Business portfolio actions Two new actions have been introduced.
The significant progress made in 2006 The drive to build sustainable, profitable, Building on a relationship that spans several has been reflected by the evolution of our through-life businesses in the air, land and decades we will pursue opportunities to Group strategy.
We have refocused our sea sectors of the UK market continues, grow our business in the Kingdom of Saudi strategy to be to deliver sustainable growth building on the good progress last year.
Our focus will be the transition in shareholder value by being the premier We continue to seek growth in the US of the relationship from one of an export global defence and aerospace company through continuing to target above-market market to the implementation of a home where previously the emphasis was just organic growth from the Groups established market strategy.
This recognises the renewed business activities, and by looking for valueemphasis on growing our six home markets Export sales are an important source of enhancing acquisitions.
UK, US, Australia, Saudi Arabia, South growth for the Group and we look to generate Africa and Sweden and on generating Following our success in recent years in export business from our home markets.
exports from these established home establishing a global land systems business markets.
We will also now consider we continue to pursue growth opportunities opportunities in new high-growth markets.
We have reviewed and updated the Group The Group will continue to target growth strategic objectives.
We have also made a in support, solutions and services activity in number of changes to the business portfolio our global markets, reflecting the increasing actions to reflect recent progress.
focus of customers to procure capability on a through-life basis.
Customers requirements increasingly demand the ability to offer through-life The sale of the Groups 20% interest in and capability solutions.
We now identify Airbus successfully delivered the action of portfolio actions that, consistent with maximising the value from our Airbus stake our customers requirements, will support and that action has now been removed.
the delivery of our strategy.
Increasingly Good progress made in 2006 to address businesses must find ways to work together non-core activities within the Group through across traditional business boundaries business disposals has enabled this action to deliver these actions.
our businesses may now support more than one portfolio action.
The updated actions also reflect the Groups revised organisational structure.
Working with the customer Type 45 BAE Systems worked closely with the UK The new-generation Type 45 destroyer will MoD to develop Hawk, a highly capable deliver leading-edge capability whilst cutting advanced jet trainer, to train pilots for operating costs by 37%.
Daring was launched next generation combat aircraft such as on 1 February 2006 and Dauntless launch Typhoon and the F-35 Lightning II.
Hawk has the very latest navigation and avionics systems enabling future combat pilots to experience features previously only available on front-line aircraft.
com 11 Strategy Markets Operating and financial review Markets Our global markets The defence industry in the UK and US has consolidated over recent years resulting in 1 Global defence procurement expenditure continued fewer, larger, defence companies.
The nature of the defence industry today is such that to rise with a 7% real increase among the 15 largest many of these industry constituents are military nations.
With customers in over 100 countries suppliers, customers and partners as well as competitors.
and strong positions in the UK, US, Australia, BAE Systems is one of the worlds leading Saudi Arabia, South Africa and Sweden, BAE Systems defence companies and is one of only is well placed for further growth in both new and four companies with global defence sales in excess of $20bn.
It is Europes largest established defence markets.
defence company and ranks number seven within the US defence industry.
BAE Systems is reliant upon the levels of funding committed by the domestic governments of the countries in which the Groups operations are based and those to which the Group exports.
United States The Groups US business now delivers over US$9bn 5bn of annual sales and employs approximately 40,000 people in 36 states.
BAE Systems is both a prime contractor to the US government and a supplier of major sub-systems to the other large prime contractors.
The Group is a market leader in the provision of electronic warfare systems, many of which have application on airborne programmes.
BAE Systems has a substantial business supporting network systems and BAE Systems home markets IT for US government agencies and provides 1 last available data 2005 technical support services to the US Navy, US Army, NASA and the FAA.
In land systems, the Group is one of the two largest suppliers Global defence spend Global equipment market BAE Systems market position Forecast defence expenditure by major region 2007 forecast defence procurement Top 10 defence companies in 2006 US$ billions at constant 2007 prices US$ billions at constant 2007 prices Defence revenue US$ billion 1,200 2 40 US 106 1,000 Rest of World Europe 59 800 Europe 600 20 Rest of World accessible 65 400 US 200 2 including supplemental budget, excluding Reseach Technology Development & Engineering 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 The US represents around 45% The US accounts for over 45% of 1.
General Dynamics of the total forecast global defence forecast total global procurement 2.
EADS spend including equipment, in 2007.
Halliburton Source: BAE Systems internal analysis Source: BAE Systems internal analysis Source: Defense News 12 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 of armoured vehicles in the US and the of the industrial strategy is the formation strategy, we continue to make substantial wider accessible global market.
of long-term partnering agreements between investments in the Kingdom, establishing industry and the UK Ministry of Defence a major industrial footprint with a growing The US defence market accounts for over MoD.
A good start has been made in in-Kingdom technical capability enabling 45% of global defence spending and implementing such agreements and other the Group to satisfy many of our Saudi remains one of BAE Systems key markets, elements of DIS.
customers needs from on-shore companies.
offering programme scale and high levels of investment in research and development.
BAE Systems now has a well-established, Industrialisation is a key feature in this US defence spending has increased growing and successful through-life capability market and the commitment to Typhoon will substantially over recent years, including the business in the air sector working closely with allow us to build on the established Tornado Procurement and Research and Development the UK MoD and the Royal Air Force.
We also see opportunities budgets from which the defence industry has also been made in the land systems for new business in other areas.
derives much of its business.
This high sector with the development of a similar Rest of World level of funding is expected to sustain armoured vehicle through-life partnership.
In addition to its strong positions in the UK, further growth in the near term, but with Despite a substantial forward programme US and Kingdom of Saudi Arabia markets, a levelling out anticipated towards the end of new equipment requirements, the UK BAE Systems has a significant presence of the decade.
defence procurement budget has been in the other important markets of Australia, In addition to the underlying defence spend, pacing inflation with only limited real growth.
the US market has seen large supplemental BAE Systems has successfully grown its BAE Systems Australian business continues budget allocations to fund overseas participation in UK defence support activity to secure contracts and strengthen its operations.
This supplemental spend which has, in turn, generated savings for the position as a through-life capability partner includes the cost of resetting equipment to customer that are being passed through to the Australian Defence Force.
South Africa combat readiness following heavy operational to enhance equipment procurement.
is another market that continues to offer use.
BAE Systems has benefited from this For some years the UK government has opportunity, while our businesses in Sweden funding, which is expected to continue in encouraged competition in the defence continue to perform well both in home the near term but then reduce as current market from off-shore suppliers and, despite markets and in securing export opportunities.
overseas deployments of armed forces the Groups strong presence in the UK, decrease.
Although growth in US defence We continue to evaluate ways to develop the market remains highly competitive.
spending is expected to slow, the Group is in-country presence in markets which are well placed to support the US Department The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia forecast to have significant and growing of Defenses likely continued emphasis on Saudi Arabia has been an important market defence expenditure and which want to force sustainment and readiness.
for BAE Systems for many decades and develop a significant local defence industry.
there are significant new opportunities We have focused on a small group of United Kingdom to both continue, and strengthen, this countries, including India, which meet BAE Systems is the largest defence prime relationship into the future.
contractor in the UK with strong positions in the design, development, manufacture A key growth opportunity is the Groups role and support of air, land and sea systems.
in supporting the partnership between the The Group also provides command and governments of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia communications infrastructure.
Business is and the UK in updating the capability of the generated in other defence markets around Kingdoms armed forces.
We are committed to assisting the Kingdom in developing its the globe through the export of UK-derived defence industrial base and the training weapon system programmes, subject to and up-skilling of its workforce.
BAE Systems is pursuing a strategy to The publication in December 2005 by the transition our Saudi business from a UKUK government of its Defence Industrial Strategy DIS was significant in shaping centric export sales operation to a significant the future UK defence market.
In line with this Sharing between our global businesses Investing in Australia Delivering next-generation products The 57mm Mk 110 Mod 0 Naval Gun BAE Systems is developing strategic The RG33 series was developed to System has currently been selected capabilities to enhance its support of meet the growing requirement for highly for both versions of the US Navys the Australian Defence Force by investing survivable, flexible mine-protected wheeled Littoral Combat Ship and as the main in fast jet support and autonomous vehicles.
BAE Systems design teams in armament to go aboard the US Coast systems capabilities.
CS&S Australia South Africa and the US applied the latest Guards National Security Cutter.
The is responsible for delivering effective in collaborative design systems and tools system is currently manufactured in through-life support to the Royal to rapidly prototype and produce the first Sweden, but plans are underway to Australian Air Forces Hawk Lead-In RG33 family vehicle in a 6x6 configuration.
transfer assembly to a US facility.
