Directors report Corporate Governance Directors report The directors of BAE Systems plc present their Office of Fair Trading undertakings Within this policy framework the treasury report, together with the financial statements, As a consequence of the merger between departments principal responsibilities are: for the year ended 31 December 2006.
British Aerospace and the former GECto manage the Groups core funding Marconi Electronics Systems businesses Principal activities and liquidity: in 1999, the Company is required to comply BAE Systems is a group delivering, through with undertakings given to the Secretary of to manage exposure to interest rate its wholly owned subsidiaries and equity State for Trade and Industry.
Compliance movements: accounted investments, a full range of with the undertakings is monitored by an products and services for air, land and naval to manage exposure to foreign currency independent compliance officer.
Further forces, as well as advanced electronics, movements: information regarding the undertakings information technology solutions and and the contact details of the compliance to control and monitor bank credit risk customer support services.
Further details officer may be obtained through the Company and credit capacity utilisation: and of the principal activities of the Group and Secretary at the Companys registered office.
likely future developments in the business to manage the Groups relationship with are set out in the operating and financial Corporate governance debt capital market investors, banks and review on pages 2 to 40.
Disclosures on the application of the principles rating agencies.
and compliance with the provisions of the Prior to the sale of its equity accounted The treasury department transacts with an UKs Combined Code can be found on investment in Airbus on 13 October 2006 extensive range of counterparty banks and pages 44 to 47. the Group was involved in the design and financial institutions, and adopts a systematic manufacture of commercial aircraft.
Treasury policy approach to the control and monitoring of The Groups treasury activities are overseen counterparty credit risk.
A credit limit is Business Review by the Treasury Review Management allocated to each counterparty with reference The information provided in the operating and Committee TRMC.
Two executive directors are to its relevant credit rating.
For internal credit financial review on pages 2 to 40 reports on members of the TRMC, including the Group risk purposes, all transactions are marked-tothe activities during the year, post balance Finance Director who chairs the committee.
market and the resultant exposure is sheet events and likely future developments.
The TRMC also has representatives with allocated against the credit limit.
The information in this review constitutes legal and taxation expertise.
the business review required under the The Company, through its internal audit Companies Act and forms part of this The Group operates a centralised treasury department, monitors compliance against Directors' Report.
department that is accountable to the TRMC the principal policies and guidelines for managing treasury activities in accordance including the utilisation of credit and any Research and development with the framework of treasury policies and exceptions found are reported to the TRMC.
The Group is engaged in a significant guidelines approved by the Board.
An Further disclosure on financial instruments programme of research and development overriding policy is that trading in financial is set out in note 32 to the Group accounts.
in support of the platforms, systems and instruments for the purpose of profit services that it provides to its customers.
Supplier payment policy generation is prohibited, with all financial The programme covers a wide range of It is Group policy that each business unit is instruments being used solely for risk work and includes performance innovations, in compliance with local best practice in the management purposes.
improvements to manufacturing techniques, country of operation in respect of supplier and technology to improve the through-life Other key policies are: payment policies.
Agreed payment schedules support of products.
A particular priority is are maintained provided that the supplier to maintain a balance between continuity research and development into systems complies with all relevant terms and conditions.
of funding and flexibility through the use integrating both platforms and other systems It is Group policy that changes to the agreed of borrowings with a range of maturities, and also the horizontal integration of payment schedule are only made with the currencies and fixed floating rates of systems.
The development and demonstration prior agreement of the supplier.
interest reflecting the Group risk profile: of capabilities in networked systems, and The average number of days credit provided enabling interoperability, is an important area to maintain adequate undrawn committed in 2006 by suppliers was 37 days 2005 of focus in both the UK and US.
research is undertaken through partnerships to mitigate the exposure to interest rate with the academic sector and in the Companys fluctuations on borrowings and deposits by Advanced Technology Centre and Systems utilising interest rate swaps, interest rate Engineering Innovation Centre.
Application options and forward rate agreements: and of this research is managed by the Groups business units through business focused to hedge all material firm transactional research and development programmes.
exposures as well as to manage anticipated Customers fund directly much of the neareconomic cash flows over the medium term.
term product development work undertaken by the Company.
Note 4 to the Group accounts details the amounts spent on research and development in 2006.
66 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 Employment At the Annual General Meeting AGM held Beneficial and non-beneficial interests, The Group has a programme in place to assist on 4 May 2006 the Company was given including family interests, in the share capital employees to achieve their full potential and authority to purchase up to 321,987,720 of of the Company for those persons who were to develop the skills necessary to meet the its ordinary shares.
The authority will expire directors at the end of the financial year are current and future expectations of our at the AGM held in 2007.
In connection with detailed on page 59.
There have been no customers.
The programme focuses on both the disposal of its interest in Airbus, the changes in such interests in the period from personal and technological development.
All Company had stated its intention to return the year end to 21 February 2007 except employment policies include a commitment to up to 500m to ordinary shareholders by way as declared on page 59. equal opportunities regardless of sex, race, of on-market purchases of ordinary shares The Board is not aware of any contract of colour, nationality, ethnic origin, religion, age using authorities granted at the 2006 AGM significance other than service contracts or or disability, subject only to considerations and to hold the repurchased shares initially as disclosed in the remuneration report in of national security.
The Groups policy is in Treasury.
The Company commenced this relation to the Company or its subsidiaries to provide, wherever possible, employment buyback programme on 26 October 2006 in which any director has, or has had, any opportunities for disabled people and to and, as at the date of this report, had material interest.
ensure that disabled people joining the Group repurchased 41,695,000 of its ordinary and employees who become disabled whilst shares.
A special resolution will be put to Directors indemnities in our employment benefit from training and shareholders at this years AGM to renew The Company has entered into deeds of career development opportunities.
The Group the authority to make market purchases of indemnity with all its current directors, which has put into place a number of ways of the Company's shares up to a maximum of are qualifying third-party indemnity provisions consulting with employees and providing 10% of the share capital of the Company.
for the purpose of the Companies Act 1985. them with information on the performance A similar indemnity has been provided to Results and dividends of the Group and other matters that affect Sir Richard Evans, a former director who Profit for the year was 1,639m 2005 them.
The effectiveness of the communication retired from the Board on 30 June 2004 555m.
The directors propose a final dividend process is assessed regularly with the aim but remains an employee of the Company of 6.9p per ordinary share, amounting to of ensuring continual improvement so as to in a part-time customer relationship role.
224m 2005 203m, which together with provide employees with the information they the interim dividend, amounts to a total Annual General Meeting want by the most effective means.
annual dividend of 11.3p per ordinary The Companys Annual General Meeting Employees are actively encouraged to share 2005 10.3p.
The Notice of become shareholders in the Company by Annual General Meeting is enclosed with this Charitable donations way of employee share schemes.
annual report and details the resolutions to During 2006, the amount donated for be proposed at the meeting.
These include Honours charitable purposes in the UK was 1m special resolutions for the disapplication of In the UK, the following individuals were 2005 1.2m.
Further details of the pre-emption rights pursuant to section 89 of honoured in Her Majesty the Queens 2006 Companys charitable activities are set the Companies Act 1985 and for amendments Birthday Honours and 2007 New Year out on page 40. to the Articles of Association to incorporate Honours lists: Political donations provisions concerning electronic MBE: David Armstrong No political donations were made in 2006. communications with shareholders.
Philip Jones Directors Auditors Alan Smith The names of the current directors appear KPMG Audit Plc, the auditors for the on pages 42 to 43.
Company, have indicated their willingness to Dr Trevor Taylor continue in office and a resolution proposing Bernard Waldron All of the current directors served as their re-appointment will be put to the Annual directors of the Company throughout the year Share capital General Meeting.
ended 31 December 2006 with the exception As at 21 February 2007, the Company had of Sir Nigel Rudd who was appointed as a The directors who held office at the date been advised of the following significant non-executive director of the Company on of approval of this Directors Report confirm interests in the issued ordinary share capital 10 September 2006, Ian King who was that, so far as they are each aware, there is of the Company: appointed as a director on 1 January 2007 no relevant audit information of which the Barclays PLC: 3.98% and Walt Havenstein who was appointed as a Companys auditors are unaware: and each director on 2 January 2007.
Michael Portillo director has taken all the steps that he she Capital Group Companies, Inc. : 5.9462% served as a director during the period up to ought to have taken to make himself herself FMR Corp and his retirement at the conclusion of the AGM aware of any relevant audit information and Fidelity International Limited: 3.96% held on 4 May 2006.
In addition, Michael to establish that the Companys auditors Franklin Resources, Inc. Lester and Mark Ronald served as directors are aware of that information.
and affiliates: 4.9246% throughout the year, and both retired as By order of the Board Legal and General Group Plc: 3.45% directors on 31 December 2006.
David Parkes The remuneration report is set out on The Companys Articles of Association contain Company Secretary pages 51 to 65. provisions to the effect that no foreign 21 February 2007 person, or foreign persons acting in concert, can have an interest in more than 15% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
