Resources Operating and financial review Resources The principal resources the Group uses to Throughout this lifecycle the Group engages achieve its strategic objectives are its people, extensively with its customers and relationships with customers, intellectual undertakes customer satisfaction surveys property and capital.
The Groups capital as part of its drive for continuous structure is explained on page 27 of the performance improvement.
financial review and people, relationships Increasingly contracts are being awarded for with customers and intellectual property the delivery of a capability, rather than just are discussed below.
Reflecting this new approach, People traditional customer relationships are The Group employs 79,000 people in evolving into long-term partnerships with its subsidiaries with a further 10,000 governments and their armed forces.
Intellectual property The workforce encompasses a broad range Intellectual property is created every day, in of skills and experience delivering a full every part of the Group, and can take many range of products and services for air, land forms, not only tangible products but also and naval forces as well as advanced know how developed over the years.
The electronics, information technology solutions Group protects this intellectual property, and customer support services.
so that full benefit is retained and returns made from the investment in research and The Group aims to get the best from its development, and techological innovation employees by treating them with respect, are protected.
creating a supportive and diverse workplace and giving them opportunities for The Group files patent applications covering development.
This helps the Group attract and some 100 new inventions each year in retain highly talented people who can deliver support of its global businesses, and has the products and services customers need.
a total portfolio of patents and patent applications covering more than 1,500 Performance Centred Leadership PCL is inventions worldwide.
the Groups performance management and leadership development framework, founded on world-class methodologies that focus on delivering performance through effective leadership behaviours and competencies.
The process was applied to 600 leaders at its launch in 2000 and is now deployed to over 6,000 executives globally across all of the Groups home markets.
It ensures that the Groups strategic objectives are realised through a clear flow down of objectives and a strong link between achievement of an individuals personal objectives and reward.
Further details on the approach to employee engagement and development are detailed on pages 35 to 40 in the Corporate Responsibility section of this report.
Relationship with customers The Group regards the relationship with its customers as a key discriminator in a competitive industry.
The Groups customers primarily comprise government agencies and armed forces of countries around the world together with other defence and aerospace prime contractors.
In many cases these relationships extend over decades and span the full product and service lifecycle from the initial concept definition, through the system development phase, into production and then on to support for the system in service.
