Board of Directors Sir David John KCMG Non-Executive Chairman Age 68.
Appointed a Director in 2000 and became Chairman in 2003.
He is chairman of Premier Oil plc and The BSI Group.
He was non-executive chairman of BOC Group plc until January 2002, having been a director of Inchcape plc.
He is a member of the CBIs International Advisory Board, and a governor of the School of Oriental and African Studies.
Ian Tyler Chief Executive Age 46.
A Director since 1999, he became Chief Executive in January 2005, having been Chief Operating Officer since 2002 and prior to that, Finance Director.
He joined Balfour Beatty in 1996 from the Hanson Group where he was finance director of ARC Ltd, one of its principal subsidiaries.
He has been president of CRASH, the construction and property industry charity for the homeless, since September 2006.
Anthony Rabin Finance Director Age 51.
A Director since 2002, he is also responsible for the Groups Investments and Developments interests, having previously been managing director of Balfour Beatty Capital.
Prior to joining Balfour Beatty, Mr Rabin was a partner at Coopers & Lybrand and before that, a senior assistant director at Morgan Grenfell.
Jim Cohen Managing Director, Rail Engineering and Services Age 65.
A Director since 2000 having joined the Group in 1993.
Prior to joining Balfour Beatty, he held senior management positions with GTE and GEC and prior to those, he was a senior civil servant at the Department of Energy.
He is senior independent non-executive director of office2office plc, the office solutions and supplies group.
Mr Cohen retired as a Director on 18 February 2007 on his 65th birthday.
Peter Zinkin Planning and Development Director Age 53.
Joined the Group in 1981 and became Planning and Development Director in 1991 after a series of senior positions in the finance function.
Previously, he worked at the London Business School and UMIST.
Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Nomination Committee Business Practices Committee Robert Walvis Chair Steven Marshall Chair Sir David John Chair Sir David John Chair Chalmers Carr Chalmers Carr Mike Donovan Chalmers Carr Stephen Howard Mike Donovan Stephen Howard Mike Donovan Steven Marshall Stephen Howard Steven Marshall Gordon Sage Gordon Sage Gordon Sage Gordon Sage Christoph von Rohr Christoph von Rohr Christoph von Rohr Ian Tyler Robert Walvis Robert Walvis Until 31 August 2006 From 1 July 2006 Until 1 July 2006 46 Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Our governance Mike Donovan Non-Executive Director Age 53.
He has an engineering background and was most recently chief operating officer of Marconi plc from 2001 to 2005.
Prior to that he was chief executive officer of Marconi Systems and was previously responsible for managing major divisions of British Aerospace, Vickers and the Rover Group.
Stephen Howard Non-Executive Director Age 54.
He is a lawyer by background and was most recently group chief executive of Novar plc.
Prior to that he was chief executive of Cookson Group plc.
He is also a non-executive director of Slough Estates plc and is managing director of Business in the Community.
Steven Marshall Non-Executive Director Age 50.
A Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
He was executive chairman of Queens Moat Houses plc until November 2004, having been chief executive of Railtrack Group plc, and prior to that group finance director, between 1999 and 2002.
Previously, he was group chief executive of Thorn plc, having joined as finance director in 1995.
He is currently non-executive chairman of Delta plc and Torex Retail plc, and also a non-executive director of Southern Water.
Gordon Sage Non-Executive Director Age 60.
A chemical engineer, he is a nonexecutive director of Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc.
Between 1970 and 2001 he held a series of increasingly senior positions in Rio Tinto plc, finally as executive director responsible for its industrial minerals and diamonds businesses.
Hans Christoph von Rohr Non-Executive Director Age 68.
He is a partner of the international law firm TaylorWessing, a member of the Advisory Council of Deutsche Bank AG, a member, and past chairman, of the supervisory board of the Industrial Investment Council, a member of the supervisory board of SWB AG, and a member of the board of Underwriters Laboratories Inc.
He is also chairman of the German Institute for Market Economy and Competition.
Previously, he was chief executive officer of the German manufacturing group, Klckner-Werke AG.
Robert Walvis Non-Executive Director Age 60.
Previously with the Royal Dutch Shell Group, latterly as chairman of the Global Corporate Centre of the Royal Dutch Shell Group of Companies.
He is a non-executive director of Johnson Matthey plc and chairman of the supervisory board of Allianz Nederland Groep NV.
He is the senior independent Director.
47 Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2006
