Operating review Rail Engineering and Services Highlights Waterloo and City Line upgrade completed on time East London Line contract secured Nuremberg-Ingolstadt Line opened on time Good progress on major works at Heathrow Terminal 5 Financial summary Revenue 770m 2005: 766m Profit 38m 2005: 32m Order book 1.0bn 2005: 1.2bn Including 4m share of joint ventures and associates 2005: 3m.
Profit from operations before 2m exceptional profit 2005: 12m charges.
Companies Specialist areas Design Balfour Beatty Rail UK Infrastructure Services Construction Projects Project Management London Underground Services Maintenance Track Systems Track Renewals Plant Technologies Specialist Plant, Products and Systems Balfour Beatty Rail Germany 1 Electrification and Power Supplies Balfour Beatty Rail Italy 1 Metro do Porto: Balfour Beatty Rail Italy.
3 Ingolstadt to Nuremberg electrification: Balfour Beatty Rail Germany.
Signalling 2 Greenbush Commuter Line, Balfour Beatty Rail International US: Balfour Beatty Rail Inc. Balfour Beatty Rail Inc 2 3 28 Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Our business 2006 performance Profit from operations before exceptional items in the rail sector rose by 19% to 38m 2005: 32m.
This reflected an excellent recovery in the second half of the year, with good settlements on projects in the UK, Europe and Asia and steady progress on major works, including those for Metronet and BAA.
Review of operations 4 5 Balfour Beatty Rail UK 4 Heathrow Terminal 5: Balfour Beatty Rail 6 Botniabanan, Sweden: Balfour Beatty Projects Balfour Kilpatrick.
Balfour Beatty Rail Infrastructure Services underlying performance was 5 Waterloo and City Line: Balfour Beatty Rail 7 Berlin Tunnel: Balfour Beatty Rail Germany.
in line with that of the previous year, with similar track renewals workloads London Underground Services.
A satisfactory settlement was achieved in respect of work carried out in previous years.
Work is undertaken in a very demanding environment and the company has developed a new programme to increase assurance of track quality and reliability.
Network Rail has announced its intention to reduce its renewals suppliers from six to four in 2007.
In Balfour Beatty Rail Projects, the major works for the West Coast Main Line were completed, as was the final stage of the Watford-Bletchley infrastructure upgrade.
Settlement of these projects is currently in the process of finalisation with Network Rail.
Work on the 110m programme to deliver 13 feeder stations and 620 miles of high voltage feeder cable progressed well.
The project for the Santiago Metro in Chile was completed and commissioned.
Good progress was made on the track-laying project between Sydney and Brisbane in Australia.
The major rail integration project at Heathrow Terminal 5 also proceeded well, with the Piccadilly Line put back into full service on schedule.
In October, Balfour Beatty was awarded the 363m contract by Transport for London to create the new East London Line between Dalston Junction in the north and West Croydon in the south.
The project, which is the first of two phases, is due for completion in 2010.
The project involves track, signalling, telecommunications and electrification.
The company is currently bidding the a300m project for the track and electrification work for the new Gothard rail tunnel, in conjunction with Balfour Beatty Rail International.
During the course of 2006, a new operating division, Balfour Beatty Rail London Underground Services, was created from within Balfour Beatty Rail Projects to service the needs of London Underground under the PPP scheme.
This organisation made good progress on the LUL track replacement programme in an extremely challenging operating environment.
In the four months to September 2006, BBR-LUS successfully completed the complex upgrade and refurbishment of the Waterloo and City Line.
It also continues to increase the efficiency of delivery under the Metronet track renewal contract.
6 7 29 Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Operating review Rail Engineering and Services continued Performance in Balfour Beatty Rail Track Systems improved from the Balfour Beatty Rail International previous year, largely as a result of the acquisition of Edgar Allen, completed The operation in Spain continued to progress major mass transit projects in March 2006.
Edgar Allen manufactures switches, cast manganese crossings in both Madrid and Barcelona.
In early 2006, an export project for the and other rail track products, and augments and broadens Balfour Beatty Rail electrification work on the Tianjin to Shenyang Line was secured Track Systems product range.
The integration of Edgar Allen is well advanced.
the latest in a series of projects in China with future tenders submitted.
Early in 2006, Balfour Beatty Rail Track Systems continued its programme In Sweden, the second years work on the Botniabanan track project was of plant investment, with the installation of new forging machines.
completed on time and budget.
The electrification and track modernisation Demand under its contracts for the London Underground continued to project on the Blekinge coastline is also proceeding satisfactorily.
grow, as did its export sales.
In Austria, performance was very satisfactory, and the business secured its In Balfour Beatty Rail Plant, profits improved after a disappointing first ever sub-station project.
Investment in new high output plant continues and a programme to improve the reliability and availability of the on-track fleet In Malaysia, the electrification project for the main North-South line between is being implemented.
Rawang and Ipoh made good progress, with the first section of 20 km handed over to the customer at the end of the year.
Contracts for tamping and ballast regulation, won in late 2005, have developed satisfactorily in their early stages.
In Ireland, the electrification project for the Dash system was concluded successfully.
Prequalification was achieved for the rail electrification Balfour Beatty Rail Technologies continued to develop concepts and programme in Israel, while the company has, as part of a group of four, bid for products aimed at improving network safety and reliability.
A number of new the rail equipment contract for the Gothard Rail Tunnel at 57 kilometres, the UK sites were secured for XiTRACK, a polymer-based stabilisation technology worlds longest.
for track and other infrastructure.
Further development work was undertaken on the CGI system, an extension Balfour Beatty Rail Inc of solid state interlocking signalling particularly relevant to low-speed lines.
A new joint venture for signalling technology was progressed with Alstom in Performance in the United States improved significantly, although progress the UK, significantly increasing Balfour Beattys capability to deliver advanced was held back by an unexpectedly adverse settlement on a legacy project interlocking signal systems.
completed some years ago in Texas.
The signalling contract in Philadelphia, which has been the source of problems, is now performing in line with forecast.
Balfour Beatty Rail Germany Major project work on the Goldline in California and on the Greenbush In Germany, market conditions were steady, with some further signs of commuter line in Boston both progressed well.
growth as Deutsche Bahns investment programme continued to recover.
The technically complex Ingolstadt to Nuremberg turnkey electrification The regional services business has performed well.
Its customers include project was completed to time and budget, as was the contract in the new the mineral extraction industry in Wyoming and a range of goods and shunting Berlin main station to project manage, supply and design the infrastructure yards on the US heavy freight network.
The Class 1 railway companies who for the Berlin tunnel.
operate on this system are beginning to generate some significant projects, for which Balfour Beatty Rail Inc is well placed.
During the year, the company won thea40m electrification and power supply contract for the line between Hamburg and Lbeck the largest electrification project tendered in Germany in 2006.
Outlook Following the acquisition of SBB, the specialist signalling contractor, in 2005, We do not expect an upturn in overall spending in our major markets in the the company has formed a signalling co-operation with Bombardier, has had short term.
However, steady growth in the world rail infrastructure market some early successes and is currently bidding on a number of new electronic is predicted for the longer term.
Balfour Beatty Rail Italy In Italy, the company, as part of the joint venture Saturno, completed the new line from Malpensa to Turin, in time for the Winter Olympics.
The RomeNaples line was successfully tested and commissioned and is now also in full service.
This is the first fully radio-signalled line in the world and is seen as an important reference project.
Work is underway on three further major high-speed line projects Malpensa to Milan, Bologna to Milan and Florence to Bologna, as the ambitious Italian high-speed investment programme continues.
Early in the year, the Metro do Porto project in Portugal was successfully commissioned.
It is now fully operational and bonus payments for on-time, on-budget delivery have been secured.
30 Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2006
