Our business Investments and Developments Highlights Birmingham Hospital and Schools schemes reach financial close Exeter International Airport acquired for 60m in January 2007 Preferred bidder appointments for Knowsley Schools, Derby Street Lighting, and in January 2007, Fife Hospital PPP investment businesses established in the US, Germany and Singapore Financial summary Revenue 555m 2005: 465m Profit 32m 2005: 20m 1 Concessions 20 2005: 18 Including 541m share of joint ventures and associates 2005: 431m.
Profit from operations before nil exceptional items 2005: 36m profits.
Companies Specialist areas Balfour Beatty Capital Healthcare Aberdeen Environmental Education Services 2 Roads Connect Roads 1 Exeter International Airport: Regional and 3 Fife Hospital: Consort Healthcare.
Rail Consort Healthcare City Airports.
Health Management UCLH Integrated Transport 2 Birmingham Hospital: Consort Healthcare.
Metronet Power Systems Powerlink Water Transform Schools Airports Barking Power Exeter International Airport from January 2007 3 4 31 Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Operating review Investments and Developments continued The market 2006 performance UK PPP markets remain robust, with the current proportion of total government Profit from operations before exceptional items in the investments sector rose capital spend to be sourced through this procurement method expected to by 60% to 32m 2005: 20m.
This reflected significantly better profits in stay steady at around 15%.
The continuing flow of opportunities is coming Barking Power, good performance in mature concessions, a reclassification of most notably: in schools, through the Building Schools for the Future initiative: Connect Roads from subsidiary to joint venture and an increased shareholding in hospitals, most particularly in Northern Ireland: and in the affordable in Consort Edinburgh.
Performance of the Metronet concessions was less housing sector.
satisfactory as a result of the complexity of the delivery issues, which are the subject of close attention.
There are also a number of projects in transport infrastructure including currently, the New Tyne Crossing and the M25 widening projects, During the year, two concessions Birmingham Hospital and Birmingham where PPP has been chosen as the optimum procurement route.
Schools were converted to contract from preferred bidder status.
Three new concessions have reached preferred bidder stage, namely Derby Street The sale of other UK infrastructure assets, such as regional airports and Lighting, Knowsley Schools and, in January 2007, Fife Hospital.
Exeter utility systems is also offering Balfour Beatty Capital a range of opportunities International Airport was acquired for 60m in January 2007. outside PPP.
PPP markets are also developing in other countries.
A number of US states Outlook have enacted primary legislation to allow PPP for infrastructure development.
In Western Europe a number of countries, including Germany, are also In 2007 profits will be impacted both by significantly increased bid costs using the technique.
There is also an emerging market in South East Asia, and overheads as we grow the business overseas and the performance of most notably in Singapore and Hong Kong.
With a substantial existing Metronet where further action is being taken to secure the long-term success Balfour Beatty Group presence in each of these markets, Balfour Beatty of the concessions.
Capital is well-placed to take advantage as these PPP markets develop.
We anticipate that the financial performance of our healthcare, education, road and general infrastructure concessions will continue to meet or exceed Strategy expectations and that our preferred bidder projects and a strong bid pipeline will see our portfolio continue to grow.
We will also continue to increase our Balfour Beattys skills, experience and successful track record in the UK presence in overseas PPP markets.
healthcare, education and road transport markets give it significant competitive advantage and it will continue to seek to build on its existing PPP portfolios in these sectors.
In territories where Balfour Beatty already has a substantial local presence and existing market knowledge, the Group will seek to establish an appropriate concession base as PPP markets emerge.
The expertise residing in Balfour Beatty Capitals team of over 200 professionals, built up over 10 years as a leading participant in the UK PPP market is clearly relevant to the fast emerging market for non-PPP infrastructure investment in the UK.
The targeted asset classes will be those where Balfour Beatty has established contracting expertise such as airports and utility systems.
While Balfour Beatty Capital has clearly positioned itself as a long-term holder and operator of assets, the potential to take advantage of refinancing opportunities and carefully targeted acquisitions and divestments in the secondary PPP market will continue to be evaluated.
Balfour Beatty Capital will use its skills to pursue these opportunities where appropriate.
32 Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Our business Healthcare Education Consort Healthcare continued to perform well in 2006, contributing profit Balfour Beattys market leading brand in the UK education market, and generating cash at anticipated levels.
Transform Schools, continued to perform well in 2006.
Its portfolio consists of six large-scale schools schemes covering some 154 schools in total, At 31 December 2006 its portfolio comprised interests in eight major with 50m of committed equity investment, 21m of which is at preferred hospital schemes and a committed equity investment of 113m, bidder stage.
The Stoke concession, which commenced in 2000, remains the 28m of which is at preferred bidder stage.
largest grouped schools scheme in England, covering 98 schools.
In January 2007, Consort was appointed preferred bidder for the 152m Fife Construction programmes and operations are proceeding well at all our Hospital project in Scotland, which will involve a 7.5m equity commitment.
schools schemes, with 20 new schools completed during the year and It is expected that this scheme will reach financial close in 2007.
North Durham, Edinburgh Royal Infirmary and University College London In March 2006, Transform reached financial close for the 89m scheme in Hospital entered 2006 fully operational.
Blackburn began full service provision Birmingham.
This concession will provide 12 new and refurbished schools, on schedule in July.
including two secondary schools, nine primary schools and an early years centre.
In June, Consort achieved financial close on the 553m project for acute and adult psychiatric hospitals for the University Hospital Birmingham NHS In December, Transform was appointed preferred bidder for the 157m Foundation Trust and the Birmingham and Solihull Mental Health NHS Trust.
Building Schools for the Future PPP concession at Knowsley on Merseyside.
Under this 25-year concession seven new state-of-the-art learning centres Consort has continued to progress the Pinderfields and Pontefract hospitals will be created, which will replace all of the boroughs existing secondary scheme, with a currently anticipated capital value of 300m, and the schools over a three year period.
This project is due to reach financial close 200m Northern Batched Hospitals Project, which comprises two hospitals, in 2007. at Salford and at Tameside.
These projects are expected to reach financial close during 2007.
Bids are in preparation for schools schemes in West Dunbartonshire, Islington and Nottingham, with an aggregate capital value of approximately 270m.
Consort Healthcare remains a clear market leader in UK PPP hospitals with a proven track record, a differentiated approach and high levels of A bid is also in preparation for the Institute of Technical Education in client satisfaction.
Singapore through our newly established business there.
This concession has an approximate capital value of 70m.
Bids are in preparation for hospitals in Enniskillen, Blackpool, and Bremen in Germany, with a total value of approximately 400m.
University Hospital of North Durham 50% Edinburgh Royal Infirmary 73.9% University College London Hospital 33.3% Stoke Schools 50% Royal Blackburn Hospital 50% Birmingham Hospitals 40% Rotherham Schools 50% Fife Hospital 50% North Lanarkshire Schools 50% Pinderfields and Pontefract Hospitals 50% Bassetlaw Schools 50% Salford Hope Hospital 50% Birmingham Schools 50% Tameside Hospital 50% Knowsley Schools 100% Preferred bidder Preferred bidder Appointed in January 2007 33 Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Operating review Investments and Developments continued Roads and street lighting London Underground Connect Roads, the brand for the Groups road and street lighting Since April 2003, Metronet, in which Balfour Beatty is a 20% shareholder, concessions, continued to perform in line with expectations.
With the has operated and maintained the Bakerloo, Central and Victoria lines exception of the Derby street lighting project which is at preferred bidder and the sub-surface lines for London Underground and is undertaking a stage, all the concessions are fully operational.
17bn investment and upgrade programme under the 30-year concession.
Balfour Beatty is investing 70m in these concessions.
The total committed equity in the roads sector is 63m, of which 2m is at preferred bidder stage.
The underlying operational performance of the assets inherited by Metronet from London Underground continues on an improving trend 2 During 2006, Balfour Beatty acted as an intermediary when I acquired with December 2006 the best ever month for reliability.
the 50% shareholding of the Groups previous partner in Connect M1-A1, through Balfour Beatty exercising its pre-emption rights over its partners In November 2006, the report of the independent Arbiter, appointed under 2 interest and selling it on to I. the contract at Metronets request, rated Metronets average performance over the first three years of the contract as not to be economic and efficient and not The street lighting schemes in Sunderland and South Tyneside are the only to meet best industry practice in some areas.
Many of the actions necessary Balfour Beatty Capital PPP concessions to remain 100% owned and whose to address this situation were already in hand at the time of the Arbiters non-recourse debt appears on the Groups balance sheet.
Further changes in the procurement and delivery system have been finalised recently.
During 2006, Balfour Beatty Capitals new US business, based in Atlanta, was one of twelve organisations which submitted a prequalification for Metronet subsequently asked the Arbiter to produce an opinion on where a road scheme concession SH161 in Dallas, Texas.
responsibility for certain unforeseen and uncontracted costs incurred under the projects would lie between Metronet and London Underground.
In the UK, bids are in preparation for the Surrey street lighting scheme, Commercial negotiations with London Underground continue.
In the event the New Tyne Crossing, the M80 and the M25 widening project.
of the failure of those negotiations, these and other matters can be dealt The capital value of these bids, in aggregate is approximately 2,100m, with under an extraordinary review process, should Metronet so choose.
of which the M25 scheme is at 1,500m.
M1-A1 50% A50 Stoke Derby link 85% A30 A35 85% M77 Glasgow Southern Orbital 85% Sunderland Street Lighting 100% Metronet BCV 20% South Tyneside Street Lighting 100% Derby Street Lighting 100% Metronet SSL 20% Preferred bidder 34 Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Our business Infrastructure projects Other infrastructure concessions Non-PPP asset investments Powerlink and PADCO, which operate and maintain London Undergrounds Barking Power had an excellent year with profit from operations before high voltage power system, have continued negotiations with the customer exceptional items well ahead of last years results, itself a major improvement about restructuring the project following the completion of the initial capital on the previous year.
The 1000 MW gas-fired station operated with high works and with the developing needs of the London Underground PPPs reliability, efficiency and consistency.
The 28% of station output which is sold becoming clearer.
Concession performance was satisfactory, as it was on the open market attracted increasingly good returns as gas fuel prices fell at Aberdeen Environmental Services, which is responsible for wastewater and electricity prices increased.
In January 2007, Balfour Beatty Capital, through Regional and City Airports, Balfour Beatty has committed 8m of equity to these concessions.
reached financial close on its acquisition of Exeter International Airport from Devon County Council for 60m, of which half has been financed with equity.
In September, a Balfour Beatty Capital-led concession company was short-listed for the Oakland Connector project in California, a rail line Exeter International Airport is one of the fastest growing regional airports in which will connect the airport to the Bay Area Rapid Transit system.
the UK and will handle over 1m passengers in the financial year to March The project has an anticipated capital value of $300m.
Continuing strong growth in passenger numbers is anticipated and a clear operational and development plan is in place for the airports future.
The airport serves a strong local economy, and is expected both to increase its market share and benefit from an increasing propensity for the local population to use the airport.
The airport will be redeveloped with new terminal facilities, new aircraft stands and taxiway extensions on a phased basis to meet increasing demand.
Regional and City Airports has subsequently submitted a bid for Leeds Bradford Airport.
PPP outside the UK During the year new businesses were established to pursue PPP opportunities in the US, Germany and Singapore.
In each case the new bidding teams will build on the local knowledge of Balfour Beattys existing contracting business and seek opportunities in which the chances of success will be increased by their participation.
Powerlink PADCO 10% 25% Barking Power 25.5% Aberdeen Environmental Services 45% Exeter International Airport 100% Acquired January 2007 35 Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2006
