Directors report Activities Corporate governance and the Combined Code The Chairmans statement on pages 4 and 5, the Chief Executives strategy Overview review on pages 6 to 8, the Operating review on pages 22 to 37 and the The Board continues to endorse and apply the principles of good corporate Financial review on pages 38 to 40, report on the principal activities of the governance reected in the Combined Code the Code, as appended Group, its operations during 2006 and future developments in its businesses.
to the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
The governance of the Company through the year in the light of the Dividends principles and supporting principles and provisions of the Code is described The Directors recommend a final dividend on ordinary shares of 5.2p net in the following paragraphs.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2006 per share, making, with the interim dividend of 3.9p, a total dividend for 2006 and save as otherwise explained in the paragraph headed Compliance with of 9.1p net.
Preference dividends totalling 10.75p gross per preference share the Code on page 53, the Board believes that the Company was in have been paid for 2006. compliance with the provisions of the Code.
Directors interests Honorary President No Director had any material interest in any contract of signicance with the Viscount Weir is Honorary President of the Company, having been appointed Group during the period under review.
The interests of Directors in the share to this position in May 2003 following his retirement as Chairman.
capital of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings and their interests The Board under the long-term incentive schemes the Performance Share Plans 2001 The Board currently comprises 10 Directors, of whom seven, including the and 2006, the deferred bonus plan and in respect of options, are set out Chairman, are non-executive.
Details of appointments and retirements during in the tables in the Remuneration report beginning on page 54. the year can be found under the heading Directors below.
Jim Cohen, an During the year, the Company has provided a qualifying third party executive Director throughout 2006, retired on 18 February 2007.
The Directors indemnity to each of the Directors, which indemnities remain in force.
believe that the Board continues to include an appropriate balance of skills and, with them, the ability to provide effective leadership for the Group.
Share capital and major shareholders Throughout 2006 and as at the date of this report, the Chairman was Details of the share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2006 are set Sir David John, the Chief Executive was Ian Tyler and the senior independent out in Note 27 on pages 94 to 96.
During the year to 31 December 2006 no Director was Robert Walvis.
The chairman of the Audit Committee in 2006 ordinary shares were repurchased for cancellation and 12,012,640 preference was Steven Marshall.
Sir David John continued as chairman of each of the shares representing 9% of the preference share capital were repurchased Nomination Committee and the Business Practices Committee, and for cancellation for a total consideration of 18,836,111 at an average price Robert Walvis continued as chairman of the Remuneration Committee, of 156.8p.
1,375,582 ordinary shares were issued following the exercise of throughout the year.
options held under the Companys Savings-Related Share Option Scheme and The Board operates both formally, through Board and Board Committee 1,999,231 ordinary shares were issued following the exercise of options held meetings, and informally through regular contact between Directors as under the Companys Executive Share Option Schemes.
No other shares were required.
Decisions on a list of specic matters, including the approval issued during the year.
of financial statements, major tenders and capital expenditure, and most At 31 December 2006, the Directors had authority, under the acquisitions and disposals, are reserved to the Board or Board Committees.
shareholders resolutions of 12 May 2006, to purchase through the market Matters falling outside the list are delegated to management.
The list of these 42,768,741 ordinary shares and 17,739,032 preference shares at prices set reserved matters is reviewed by the Board from time to time, most recently out in those resolutions.
This authority expires at the conclusion of the in December 2006. separate Class meeting which follows the 2007 Annual General Meeting.
Meetings of the Board are normally held in London, but meetings are As at 6 March 2007, the Company had been notied in accordance with on occasions held in other parts of the UK and overseas.
Some meetings are the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority combined with visits to the Groups businesses or major projects.
On the of the following interests in its ordinary share capital: evening before the July 2006 meeting, which was held in London, the Directors visited a station refurbishment project being carried out by Standard Life Investments Ltd 7.75% Metronet and visited the Waterloo and City line, then in the middle of major Schroders plc 6.73% refurbishment work also being carried out by Metronet.
The November 2006 Legal and General Group plc 3.44% meeting was held in Berlin, for which Deutsche Bahn kindly made meeting facilities available, and Directors were able to see the new Potsdamerplatz main line station in central Berlin, a project in which the Group was involved.
Procedures for Board meetings remain unchanged.
Papers are generally sent out at least three days in advance of the meeting.
These include a written report from each of the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the director of Health, Safety and the Environment, and the group managing directors.
At the meetings, oral reports are made on issues arising from the written reports, and both those and other matters of immediate interest or concern are discussed by the Board.
Apart from the meetings that approve the interim and final results respectively, and the meeting prior to the Annual General Meeting, a separate presentation on a topic of interest or concern, such as the operations of a particular business, is normally made to the Board.
Each meeting lasts about four hours, but can be longer.
48 Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Our governance The Board met on 11 occasions in the course of 2006.
One of the meetings The Audit Committee was called at short notice to consider the Companys proposed cash offer for The terms of reference for the Committee, based on the Smith report Birse Group plc.
As a result of the short notice, three non-executive Directors and the requirements of the Code, were approved by the Board in October were unable to attend this meeting due to other commitments.
They are subject to regular review but remain unchanged.
responsibilities of the Audit Committee are as stated in previous reports.
A table showing attendance at Board meetings, and at meetings of the In summary they are: Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee, the Remuneration Committee 1 to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and any and the Business Practices Committee, is set out on page 50.
In addition, the formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance: non-executive Directors held two separate meetings during the year, one being attended by the Chairman and one taking place without the Chairman.
2 to review the Groups internal financial controls established to identify, assess, manage and monitor financial risks, and receive reports from Chairman management on the effectiveness of the systems they have established Sir David John became Chairman in May 2003, having joined the Board and the conclusions of any testing carried out by the internal and in August 2000.
Sir David spends an average of two days per week on external auditors: the business of the Company.
He has other significant commitments as non-executive chairman of The BSI Group and of Premier Oil plc.
The Board 3 to monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal audit function: considers that his other commitments are not of such a nature as to hinder 4 to make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment his activities as chairman of the Company or those as chairman of the of the external auditor and to approve the remuneration and terms of Nomination and Business Practices Committees.
engagement of the external auditor: Directors 5 to assess the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external Brief biographical details of the Directors, including the Chairman, are given auditor and to develop and implement policy on the engagement of the on pages 46 and 47.
All the Directors shown served throughout the year save external auditor to supply non-audit services: and for Mike Donovan and Stephen Howard who were appointed on 1 July.
In addition, Chalmers Carr, who is not pictured, served as a Director until 6 to review arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns 31 August when he retired on completion of his three year term.
about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting.
The Board considers that all the non-executive Directors continue to The membership of the Committee currently comprises Steven Marshall the be independent.
Committee chairman, Mike Donovan, Stephen Howard, Christoph von Rohr From September 2003, non-executive Directors have been appointed and Gordon Sage.
Christopher Pearson, the Company Secretary, remains for specic three year terms, and it is part of the terms of reference of the secretary of the Committee.
The Committee was chaired throughout 2006 Nomination Committee to review all appointments of non-executive Directors by Steven Marshall.
Chalmers Carr, who retired on 31 August, also served at three year intervals and make recommendations to the Board accordingly.
on the Committee until his retirement.
All of the members have extensive Mr Sages and Dr von Rohrs appointments were each reviewed during 2006 experience of management in large international organisations.
The Committee and their appointment for a further three years was confirmed, subject to chairman, Steven Marshall, is an accountant and a former group finance director re-election as required by the Articles of Association.
and group chief executive of Thorn plc.
He later held both these appointments Rotation of Directors, election and re-election at Railtrack plc.
The Articles of Association of the Company provide that each Director shall Appointments to the Committee are made by the Board for a period of up to retire from ofce in the third year following the year in which last elected or three years, extendable by no more than two additional three year periods, re-elected, and shall be eligible for re-election.
This year, the Directors who so long as members continue to be independent.
At the Board meeting retire are Sir David John, Gordon Sage, Christoph von Rohr and Robert Walvis.
following each meeting of the Committee, the Committee chairman provides Each is seeking re-election, being eligible.
In addition, Mike Donovan and an oral report on the work of the Committee and any significant issues that Stephen Howard, who were each appointed on 1 July 2006, seek election.
The minutes of Committee meetings are circulated to all Board Committees members of the Board.
The main Board Committees, the membership of which is either wholly or Four meetings of the Committee were held in 2006.
At the invitation of substantially comprised of non-executive Directors, continue to be the Audit the Committee, partners from the external auditor, the Head of Internal Audit, Committee, the Nomination Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the the Finance Director and the Company Chairman regularly attend each Business Practices Committee.
In addition, any independent non-executive Director who is not Reports on the workings of three of these Committees are set out below.
a Committee member has an open invitation to attend meetings.
The report of the Remuneration Committee can be found in the Remuneration report beginning on page 54.
49 Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Directors report continued In 2006, as in previous years, the main purpose of the March and August The Remuneration Committee meetings of the Committee was to consider the final and interim results Information about the working and membership of this Committee is contained respectively, a process which is well established.
At each of these meetings, in the Remuneration report beginning on page 54. the Committee reviewed significant accounting policies, financial reporting The Business Practices Committee issues and judgements, and reports from internal financial management and The Business Practices Committee was chaired through the year by Sir David internal and external auditors.
John, its other members being Chalmers Carr until his retirement, Mike The May and November meetings of the Committee are not driven by Donovan from 1 July, Christoph von Rohr, Gordon Sage until 1 July and financial results and at these meetings the Committee was able to review Robert Walvis.
Christopher Pearson, the Company Secretary, was secretary a wider range of matters in addition to its usual business.
For example, to the Committee.
Its terms of reference cover matters of business conduct, in May, the Committee considered a report on progress in the Groups ethics, reputation, health, safety and the environment and matters of corporate enterprise resource plan the introduction of new software for accounting, social responsibility generally.
It is also charged with reviewing the HR and procurement systems, and in November, the Committee considered effectiveness of the whistle-blowing procedures established in the Group.
a paper on the Groups funding.
The Committee met four times in 2006.
As usual, the main topics Throughout 2006, the Committee has continued to review the Groups considered by the Committee throughout the year related to health, safety financial risk management processes.
This review has encompassed reports and the environment, including approval of the final version of the Groups from the Head of Internal Audit on the Groups internal controls and on the fifth SES report, sent out in May 2006.
The Committee also considered the work of the internal auditors, a consideration of the effectiveness both of the question of safety from a long-term perspective, the importance of a safety internal audit function and of the external audit process, a review of the culture, progress in safety generally given the Groups expansion, and the resources of the external and internal auditor, and a consideration of the practical difficulties of applying common safety standards in different external auditors management letter in respect of accounting procedures jurisdictions.
Regular reports were received by the Committee on the Groups and internal financial controls.
As a result of this continuing process, the charitable activities and about the whistle-blowing procedures.
Committee felt able to recommend to the Board that it might properly conclude that the Company continued to maintain a sound system of internal financial Table of attendance at meetings control, and that a proper review of the effectiveness of the Companys Details of the number of meetings of, and attendances at, the Board meetings systems of internal financial controls had been completed.
and meetings of the Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and Business Practices The Committee has also considered the independence of the external Committees during the year are set out in the table following.
The relevant auditor and received conrmation that, in its view, it remained independent total number of meetings held in 2006 in each case is included in brackets of the Company.
Consideration of the independence of the external auditor after the name of the Board or Committee.
It should be noted in reviewing included the non-audit work carried out by the external auditor during the year, attendance of Board and Committee meetings that: which continues to be covered by the policy approved by the Board in June 1 Chalmers Carr retired on 31 August 2006: 2003 an analysis of non-audit fees incurred is set out in Note 4.2 on page 73.
The Committee has carried out a review of the proposal by the external auditor 2 Mike Donovan and Stephen Howard were appointed Directors on 1 July of the audit fees and terms of engagement for the 2006 audit and has 2006.
From that date, Mr Donovan was appointed to the Audit, Nomination recommended to the Board that it proposes to shareholders that Deloitte and Business Practices Committees and Mr Howard was appointed to the & Touche LLP continues as the Companys external auditor.
Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees: The administrative procedures of the Committee were unchanged 3 Gordon Sage was appointed to the Remuneration Committee from through the year.
The Head of Internal Audit continues to have direct access to 1 July 2006 and resigned from the Business Practices Committee the Chairman of the Committee.
Separate meetings between the Committee at the same date: Chairman, and the Finance Director, the Head of Internal Audit and the external auditor, took place after the March and August meetings.
4 there were no Remuneration Committee meetings after June 2006: and The Nomination Committee 5 one meeting of the Board was called at short notice and, as a result The Committee was established by the Board in November 2003.
Its terms of other commitments, a number of Directors were unable to attend of reference are available on the Companys website.
it see the reference at the top of page 49.
The Committee continues to be chaired by Sir David John.
Its other Business members, currently, are Mike Donovan, Stephen Howard, Gordon Sage, Board Audit Nomination Remuneration Practices Name of Director 11 4 2 3 4 Robert Walvis, Ian Tyler and Steven Marshall.
The secretary of the Committee is Paul Raby, human resources director.
M J Donovan 5 2 2 The Committee held two meetings in 2006.
The first meeting was held S L Howard 6 2 in May.
The main item for consideration at this meeting was the proposed C Carr 7 3 2 3 appointment of Mike Donovan and Stephen Howard as non-executive J L Cohen 10 Directors.
Both had been recommended to the Committee by an external recruitment rm as having appropriate skills and experience for the job.
Sir David John 11 2 4 The Committee agreed with this and recommended to the Board that they S Marshall 11 4 2 2 each be appointed.
At this meeting the Committee also considered and A L P Rabin 10 approved a proposal Dr von Rohr being absent to appoint Dr von Rohr for Dr H C von Rohr 9 2 2 1 a second three year term as a non-executive Director, recognising his G H Sage 11 2 1 contribution to the Board and the continuing need for his particular skills, experience and knowledge.
His re-appointment was agreed by the Board.
I P Tyler 11 1 A second meeting was held in July.
At this meeting, the Committee R J W Walvis 10 2 3 2 considered and approved a proposal to re-appoint Gordon Sage Mr Sage P J L Zinkin 11 being absent to a second three year term as a non-executive Director.
The Committee concluded that Mr Sages combination of experience and knowledge was a valuable asset to the Group, and his re-appointment was agreed by the Board.
50 Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Our governance Board, Committee and individual director evaluation Central to the Groups systems of internal control are its processes and The Board as a whole and its main Committees were the subject of an framework for risk management.
These accord with the revised Turnbull evaluation exercise carried out in 2004 by an external consultant.
The actions Guidance on internal controls and were in place throughout the year and up to agreed which arose from the report were implemented through 2005. the date of signing this report.
No further external evaluation exercise has been carried out in 2006 The Groups systems of internal control operate through a number because of the number of Board changes at the end of 2005 and through 2006. of different processes, some of which are interlinked.
These include: A full Board evaluation is planned for 2007. the annual review of the strategy and plans of each operating company Dialogue with shareholders and of the Group as a whole in order to identify, inter alia, the risks to the The Company has continued its long-established programme of communication Groups achievement of its overall objectives and, where appropriate, with institutional investors and brokers throughout 2006.
Presentations of the any relevant mitigating actions: half year and full year results were made in accordance with the practice of monthly financial reporting against budgets and the review of results and previous years, and other meetings have been held at regular intervals through forecasts by executive Directors and line management, including particular the year with institutional shareholders, brokers, and analysts including areas of business or project risk.
This is used to update both managements presentations in Edinburgh, Paris and the United States.
This programme will understanding of the environment in which the Group operates and the be continued and expanded where appropriate, subject to the constraints of methods used to mitigate and control the risks identied: regulation and practice.
Reports to the Board on meetings or other contact with shareholders individual tender and project review procedures commencing at operating or their representatives are made by executive Directors on a regular basis.
company level and progressing to Board Committee level if value or During the year a presentation was made to the Board by the Groups Head perceived exposure breaches certain thresholds: of Corporate Communications on the subject of Investor Relations.
regular reporting, monitoring and review of health, safety and On occasion the Chairman attends meetings with shareholders and any environmental matters: non-executive Director is welcome to do so.
The non-executive Directors believe that, through their direct and ready access to, and contact with, the review and authorisation of proposed investment, divestment and the Chairman, through Mr Walvis, the senior independent Director, and capital expenditure through the Boards Committees and the Board itself: through regular reports to the Board, they are kept fully aware of the views the review of specic material areas of Group-wide risk and the formulation of the larger shareholders and the investment community generally.
and monitoring of risk mitigating actions: Risk management the formulation and review of properly documented policies and procedures, The Board takes ultimate responsibility for the Groups systems of risk updated through the free and regular ow of information to address the management and internal control and reviews their effectiveness.
The Groups changing risks of the business: Principal Risks and how they are mitigated are summarised on page 41 of the main report.
The Board has continued to assess the effectiveness of the risk specic policies set out in the Group Finance Manual, covering the financial management processes and internal controls during 2006 and to the date management of the Group, including arrangements with the Groups bankers of this report.
Such assessment is based on reports made to the Board, and bond providers, controls on foreign exchange dealings and management the Audit Committee and the Business Practices Committee, including: of currency and interest rate exposures, insurance, capital expenditure procedures, application of accounting policies and financial controls: the results of internal audits reviews of internal financial controls: a Group-wide risk management framework which is applied to all functions a Group-wide certication that effective internal controls had been in the Group, whether operational, financial or support.
Under it, the key maintained, or, where any significant non-compliance or breakdown risks facing each part of the Group are regularly reviewed and assessed, had occurred with or without loss, the status of corrective action: and together with the steps to avoid or mitigate those risks.
The results of those a paper prepared by management on the nature, extent and mitigation reviews are placed on risk registers and, where necessary, specic action of significant risks and on the systems of internal controls.
plans are developed: The Groups systems and controls are designed to ensure that the Groups reviews and tests by the internal audit team of critical business financial exposure to significant risk is properly managed, but the Board recognises that processes and controls and spot checks in areas of perceived high business any system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk: and risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable the Groups whistle-blowing policy.
and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In addition, not all the material joint ventures in which the Group is involved are treated, for these purposes, as part of the Group.
Where they are not, systems of internal control are applied as agreed between the parties to the venture.
51 Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Directors report continued Annual General Meeting Individual businesses use a variety of methods to communicate key business Sir David John, who chairs the Nomination and Business Practices goals and issues to employees and also consult and involve their employees Committees, Steven Marshall, who chairs the Audit Committee, and Robert through local publications, brieng groups, consultative meetings, training Walvis, who chairs the Remuneration Committee, will be available at the programmes and working groups to assist the process of continuous Annual General Meeting to answer any questions arising from the work of improvement in the way they operate and do business.
The Board regards the Annual General Meeting as an inform employees of major business and technical achievements.
Most of our important occasion on which to communicate with shareholders, and research UK based businesses have either attained or have committed to attain the UK into subjects of likely interest to shareholders is undertaken so that questions Investors in People standard.
can be answered during the meeting for the benefit of all shareholders Regular communication is maintained with the in-service and pensioner present.
Shareholders may also put questions in advance of the Annual General members of the Groups Pension Funds.
Meeting by writing to the Company Secretary.
The business to be put to the Charitable activities Annual General Meeting is set out in the separate circular to shareholders.
During 2006 the Group has continued to help raise funds for charity and has also continued to provide donations in cash and kind to charitable Political donations organisations.
The total amount of funds raised and donated during the year Under the current law, shareholder authority is required for political donations was 306,400. to be made or political expenditure to be incurred by the Company or its As in previous years, the Groups main efforts have been directed to a subsidiaries in the EU.
In common with previous years, no such donations or small number of charities with Marie Curie again being the focus of employee expenditure were made or incurred in 2006, and there is no intention to do so fundraising efforts.
A total of 90,700 was raised in the year by employees in in the future.
Because, however, the current law is so widely drafted, it a wide variety of ways, including the London Marathon, the Fields of Hope remains unclear whether, for example, granting paid time off for local daffodil planting scheme and numerous quizzes, walks and other events.
government or trade union activity could be regarded as political expenditure.
The Company added a further 31,500 to this sum, under a matching Although not yet in force, the Companies Act 2006 claries that trade unions agreement with Marie Curie, making a total for the year for Marie Curie are not to be regarded as political organisations for these purposes, but as of 122,200. we are advised the position regarding local government remains unclear.
The Company donated 60,000 to the charity London Youth Games, and a Given the penalties for breaching the law, the Company has sought, and will further 30,000 to the regeneration charity Groundwork UK for three specic continue to seek, limited authority from shareholders to incur political projects.
A further 10,000 was donated to the Building Better Lives scheme expenditure in the EU.
During the year, the Chief Executive, Ian Tyler, took over the presidency Corporate responsibility of the construction industry charity CRASH.
The Company donated 2,000 to Details of our approach to the subject of corporate responsibility appear CRASH in 2006, and will become a patron of CRASH in 2007. on pages 42 to 45 of this report.
These include more information about Other UK Group companies have contributed a total of 82,200 to a wide the Groups charitable activities, which are described below.
Written report As regards non-cash donations the Company provided, during the year, For the sixth year we are publishing a separate report on safety, social and material support of an estimated value of 5,000 to the charity Engineers environmental issues.
A copy will be available to shareholders attending the against Poverty Annual General Meeting and to preference shareholders attending the The Group continues to enable UK employees to donate through separate class meeting.
the Give-as-you-Earn scheme to various charities of their choice.
Group policies Key performance indicators Our published policies on health and safety, the environment, ethics and In 2006, the Group commissioned a study to identify the non-financial key human rights remain in place and are subject to regular reviews.
Our progress performance indicators which are currently in use or would be relevant in the areas of health and safety and the environment is described in the for external consideration of the Groups performance and prospects.
Recommendations from this study are reected in this annual report, for Employment example by the inclusion of accident frequency rates, the proportion of work As the Group operates across a number of business sectors in different undertaken under long-term contracts, and the proportions of women and environments, it has a decentralised management structure, with employment ethnic minorities in the workforce.
policies designed to suit the needs of individual businesses.
However, each employing company is expected to comply with certain key principles in its Post balance sheet events design and practice of employment policy.
Details of post balance sheet events are set out in Note 34 on page 103.
These are: Taxation status to provide an open, challenging and participative environment: The Company is not a close company for taxation purposes.
to enable all employees to utilise their talents and skills to the full, through Payment of creditors appropriate encouragement, training and development: In the UK, the Companys policy is to settle the terms of payment with to communicate a full understanding of the objectives and performance suppliers when agreeing the terms for each transaction or series of of the Group and the opportunities and challenges facing it: transactions: to seek to ensure that suppliers are aware of the terms of payment: and to abide by these terms of payment as and when satisfied that to provide pay and other benets which reect good local practices and the supplier has provided the goods or services in accordance with the agreed reward individual and collective performance: and terms.
At 31 December 2006 the year end creditors days of the Company to ensure that all applicants and employees receive equal treatment were 17 2005: 21. regardless of age, origin, gender, disability, sexual orientation, marital status, religion or belief.
52 Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Our governance Financial instruments 3 provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specic The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies are described requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the in the Financial review on pages 38 to 40, and its exposures to price risk, credit impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the risk, liquidity risk and cash ow risk are included in Note 20 on page 84.
Companys and the Groups financial position and financial performance.
The Directors consider that they have met these requirements in preparing Research and development these financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper The Group continues to be committed to investment in research and accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the development in all its areas of activity.
This covers new products and financial position of the Company and the Group, and are reasonably directed processes and innovation in areas such as information technology and asset at safeguarding the assets and detecting and preventing fraud and other management systems.
Directors are also responsible for the preparation of a Directors We continue to undertake a range of development initiatives throughout report and a Remuneration report which comply with the requirements of the our businesses which are supported by links with selected universities.
Details of the Groups 2006 research and development expenditure are given in Note 4.1 on page 73.
Disclosure of information to auditors Each of the Directors at the date of approval of this report confirms that: Compliance with the Code The Company believes it is compliant with the Code save in the following so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information respects: of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and a The effectiveness of the Groups whistle-blowing procedures is reviewed the Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director by the Business Practices Committee, and not the Audit Committee.
to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish This is because, based on the Companys experience, the great majority that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
of whistle-blowing type complaints arise out of non-financial matters, This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the mainly employment-related.
The Audit Committee is copied with provisions of Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985. all reports made to the Business Practices Committee on the whistle-blowing procedure: and Auditors b No evaluation, either of the Board or individual Directors, has been carried Deloitte & Touche LLP have indicated their willingness to continue as auditors out in 2006 because the number of Board changes effective at the end of to the Company and a resolution for their reappointment will be proposed at 2005 and through 2006 was, the Company believes, likely to make any such the Annual General Meeting.
A full Board and individual Director evaluation is planned for 2007, to be conducted by an external consultant as in the last Directors report valuation in 2004.
The present Board will have worked together for over Signed by order of the Board a year when this evaluation process gets underway.
C R ON Pearson Statement of Directors responsibilities Secretary The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the 6 March 2007 Independent Auditors report on page 61, is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Directors and of the auditors in relation to the financial statements.
The Directors are required to prepare financial statements for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and have also elected to prepare financial statements for the Company in accordance with IFRS.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial statements in accordance with IFRS, the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the International Accounting Standard IAS regulation.
IAS 1 requires that financial statements present the Companys and the Groups financial position, financial performance and cash ows fairly ie.
give a true and fair view for each financial year.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the denitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the IAS Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation of Financial Statements.
In nearly all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRS.
Directors are also required to: 1 properly select and apply accounting policies: 2 present information, including accounting policies, in a manner which provides relevant, reliable, comparable and comprehensible information: and 53 Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2006
