Our business Civil and Specialist Engineering and Services Highlights Acquisition of UK regional civil engineer, Birse Preferred partner for National Grid Eastern Overhead Line and Cable Alliance Northern Gas Networks utilities contract secured Improved performance in Hong Kong and Dubai Financial summary Revenue 2,382m 2005: 1,920m Profit 55m 2005: 49m Unexecuted orders 4.5bn 2005: 4.0bn Including 705m share of joint ventures and associates 2005: 554m.
Profit from operations before 21m exceptional charges and 1m amortisation of intangible assets 2005: nil.
Companies Specialist areas Design Balfour Beatty Civil Engineering Construction Balfour Beatty Construction Inc Project Management Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Services Foundations, Strengthening, Testing Balfour Beatty Management Civil Engineering Balfour Beatty Power Networks 1 Electrical Engineering Balfour Beatty Utilities Transmission Lines Stent Foundations Road Management Devonport Management Ltd and Maintenance 24.5% Utility Upgrade and Maintenance Balfour Beatty Sakti 49% Professional and Technical Services Dutco Balfour Beatty 49% BK Gulf 49% 2 Gammon 50% 1 National Power: Balfour Beatty 3 Palm Island, Dubai: BK Gulf.
4 North Yorkshire Road Maintenance: 2 Roseville Water Treatment Plant: Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Services.
Balfour Beatty Construction Inc. 3 4 25 Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Operating review Civil and Specialist Engineering and Services continued 2006 performance Profit from operations before exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets in the engineering sector increased by 12% to 55m 2005: 49m.
This reflected a good all round UK performance, with strong growth from Balfour Beatty Utilities and Balfour Beatty Management.
Outside the UK, there were improved performances from our businesses in Hong Kong and Dubai.
In the US, although underlying performance improved, there were some further losses in the central division, which is in the process of closure.
Review of operations Underlying performance in Balfour Beatty Civil Engineering was in line with the previous year, although there was an adverse impact from the infrastructure upgrade programmes under the London Underground PPP.
In major projects, the Steg Raron tunnelling project was completed and progress was good on the widening project for Junctions 6-10 of the M1.
The 115m contract to construct a new Northern Ticket Hall at Kings Cross St Pancras Underground Station was secured, and in conjunction with Balfour Beatty Rail, the company won the 363m contract to create the 5 new East London rail line.
During 2006, two Early Contractor Involvement, Highways Agency schemes, the A3 project at Hindhead, and the A1 between 5 Sumburgh Airport: Balfour Beatty 7 Greater Manchester Gas Alliance: Civil Engineering.
Bramham and Wetherby, were given the go-ahead to proceed.
6 Lok Ma Chau Rail Terminus: 8 Kings Cross St Pancras Underground Station: In the regional civil engineering business, the acquisition of Birse in July Gammon Construction.
has substantially widened the companys regional coverage.
Birse contributed in line with expectations and the integration process is proceeding well.
The framework contract for Durham County Council was extended for two years and work at Sumburgh Airport in the Shetlands was completed ahead of schedule.
The business has a strong order book and excellent tendering opportunities.
The performance of Balfour Beatty Construction Inc continued to disappoint, with contract losses in the central division offsetting good performances in the businesses serving the West Coast and Texas and in tunnelling.
Appropriate action has been taken to address the central divisions issues.
The companys underlying quality of earnings is on an improving trend, with closer supervision from UK management and more rigorously-applied control mechanisms.
In Texas, progress on the $1.3bn SH130 project was good.
The future market flow of major road work in Texas will be very significant, some of it let under PPP arrangements.
On the West Coast, project progress has been good and substantial new work was won at good margins, including the $193m I-5 highway project in Orange County, the $120m Freeport water treatment plant and the Roseville Water Treatment plant in Sacramento.
The specialist tunnelling business is close to completing a water project in Rhode Island and has secured a major new tunnel contract in nearby North Dorchester.
6 During 2006, RCS, the Groups road management and maintenance company, was renamed Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Services.
Profits in 2006 were in line with the strong performance achieved in 2005.
Steady progress was made in Highways Agency Areas 2, 3 and 4, with one-year extensions being awarded in Areas 3 and 4.
7 8 26 Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Our business In January 2006, the company secured new work with a potential total value Workload at Devonport Management Ltd, in which the Group has a 24.5% of over 300m.
In Scotland, it won the management and maintenance of major interest, was steady.
Devonport Royal Dockyard continues to be the mainstay trunk roads in the North-West.
In England, it won the contract for county roads of strategic support for the UK nuclear submarine fleet and has a second in Mid and East Essex.
In May, its contracts for both North Yorkshire County business stream in large, bespoke, commercial yachts.
Council and Hampshire County Council were extended, taking its order book Discussions are underway which seem likely to result in a change in the to approximately 750m.
The project to maintain roads in the London Borough structure of ownership of the supply base to the Royal Navy.
Dutco Balfour Beatty, the Groups civil engineering and building joint venture Balfour Beatty Management made excellent progress in 2006 in terms in Dubai, improved its performance, significantly, in a fast-growing market.
of both market penetration and profitability.
Already an integral part of the Greater Manchester Gas Alliance for National Grid, it was instrumental with Good progress has been achieved on the Burj Mall, the worlds largest Balfour Beatty Power Networks in securing the Eastern Overhead Line and shopping mall, with fitting out due to begin this year.
Cable Alliance partnership with the same customer, and the 420m Northern The Palm Island Interchange and Sheikh Zayed road widening projects were Gas Networks contract through United Utilities.
completed, as was the Business Bay Development and the Royal Airwing The company has led the successful delivery of the new London Underground at Dubai Airport.
Western Ticket Hall and other facilities at Kings Cross St Pancras Station Two major new road schemes were secured for the construction of the for London Underground where its programme management work is on-going.
Jumeirah Lake Towers Interchange on the Sheikh Zayed road, and a widening Amongst its other customers are BAA, the Blood Transfusion Service and scheme for 35 km of the Emirates Road.
BK Gulf, also had a very busy and successful year, winning the Atlantis Balfour Beatty Power Networks results were in line with those of the project and making good progress on work for new hotels, theme parks previous year, with the impact of some issues on its Central Networks contract and other facilities.
A power line project between East Anglia The performance of Gammon in Hong Kong improved significantly.
and the East Midlands is nearing completion and projects for the expansion The Shenzhen Western Corridor and Deep Bay Link projects were completed, of the Australian power transmission network are proceeding well.
In Scotland, and good progress was made on the Venetian Hotel and Casino project in the company continued to be active on contracts for Scottish Power.
Macau, the 70-storey office development at One Island East, and the railway Work on the Sunderland and South Tyneside Street Lighting projects continued station and immigration centre on the Chinese border at Lok Ma Chau.
Preferred bidder status has been achieved in Derby.
The civil engineering works at Kowloon Southern Loop Station for KCRC In October, the company was appointed preferred partner for a five-year also progressed satisfactorily.
The refurbishment of the Mandarin Hotel alliance contract with National Grid, likely to be worth up to 550m, was completed to time and budget.
While the Hong Kong market remains flat, to upgrade and develop the electricity transmission network in the eastern tendering activity in Macau for the hotel and casino development programme half of England.
The project, which was converted to contract in March 2007, is intense.
will involve the connection of new generating capacity to the national grid, In Singapore, the market is accelerating and bidding activity is high.
and the enhancement and replacement of existing assets.
In the gas and water sectors, Balfour Beatty Utilities revenues and profits Outlook continued to improve as its substantial portfolio of long-term contracts won in 2004 and 2005 became fully operational.
The company has achieved Our engineering markets, particularly in the UK, Dubai and Singapore, a leading position in the clean water sector with long-term contracts with remain strong and, with further recovery in the US, we expect to make United Utilities, Anglian Water, Severn Trent Water and South-West Water substantial progress in this sector in 2007. amongst others.
A bid to extend its successful existing relationship with Yorkshire Water is currently under adjudication.
Last years good progress on the Greater Manchester Gas Alliance continued.
In June, Balfour Beatty was appointed preferred bidder for the seven-year gas mains replacement contract, to be operated by United Utilities for northern England by Northern Gas Networks with a total value likely to be approximately 420m.
Stent, the Groups specialist foundations and ground treatment specialist, had a good year, helped by a first full-years contribution from Pennine, the specialist ground treatment and preparation contractor, which has been integrated successfully into the business.
Work at the major White City development in London accelerated and piling work in support of the M1 Junctions 6-10 widening project was intense.
The companys penetration of the fast-growing Dubai market also increased.
Stent is also carrying out work on the London Underground.
27 Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2006
