Our business Delivering on the strategy We believe that we have a clear strategy and we are taking appropriate actions to develop it successfully.
The strength of the base on which we build our strategy is, of course, equally important in determining how successful we will be in growing shareholder value, reliably and responsibly, in the long term.
The following section of the report describes some fundamental characteristics of our business which underpin the confidence we have in our long-term success.
A balanced business model Strong long-term partnerships The best people and processes Comfortable with complexity An innovative approach Working and acting responsibly 09 Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Our contracting business is a leader across a wide range of construction and related disciplines in the UK and in selected overseas markets.
It has longterm relationships with a wide range of blue-chip customers and is highly cash generative.
Its order book, standing at some 9.1bn at the year-end, creates excellent forward earnings visibility.
Cash flows from operating activities over the last three years have totalled more than 532m and fully match profits.
Our engineering, construction and services businesses generate the cash that Balfour Beatty Capital needs to pursue its ambitious domestic and international growth aspirations.
Our investment business, Balfour Beatty Capital, is also a leader.
It creates major construction and long-term service opportunities for our contracting operations.
It owns and operates 21 infrastructure projects and is preferred bidder for a further six concessions.
These include road schemes, hospitals, schools, an airport, power projects and other infrastructure projects.
It has committed some 341m of equity in these projects and has a strong bid pipeline.
Its concessions generate stable, long-term profits.
The seamless delivery of debt and equity finance, design, construction, building services, and long-term management and maintenance is an increasingly attractive option for infrastructure procurement.
This is true, not just in the UK but also increasingly in markets overseas in which Balfour Beatty has a major contracting presence the US, Germany and Singapore, for example.
A balanced Balfour Beatty Capital investment portfolio March 2007 New work winners 2006 Including preferred bidder Source: Contract Journal Equity committed m Position Contractor Total m 9 hospital schemes 120 1 Balfour Beatty 3,519.94 7 roads and street lighting schemes 63 2 Skanska 1,871.40 6 schools schemes 50 3 Kier 1,682.47 2 complex rail schemes 70 4 Bovis Lend Lease 1,640.00 1 airport 30 5 Laing ORourke 1,592.62 1 power scheme 5 6 Carillion 1,572.60 1 waste water scheme 3 7 Morgan Sindall 1,493.40 341 8 Sir Robert McAlpine 1,240.83 10 Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Our business A balanced business model Strong long-term partnerships The best people and processes Comfortable with complexity An innovative approach Working and acting responsibly business model Our Group comprises two distinct businesses.
We are a substantial and growing infrastructure investment specialist and we are the UKs largest international engineering, construction and services contractor.
These businesses, leaders in their own fields, add significant value to each other.
They generate what the other needs and work together as a coherent force where the customer benefits as a result.
11 Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2006 The range and depth of our experience and expertise is becoming an increasingly important element in the programmes and plans of major infrastructure owners as they seek to achieve their long-term objectives.
An increasing proportion of our business and our forward order book derives from stable, long-term alliances and partnerships with customers who have ambitious long-term investment plans.
Balfour Beattys ability to rise to these challenges is reflected in the An increasing number of the organisations for whom we work make us proportion of its work now carried out under long-term collaborative an integral and indispensable part of their own processes, under long-term contract forms, providing stability and predictability of income and an alliance, partnering or framework contracts.
Whether they are utilities, increased capacity to attract the best talent and deliver the best solutions.
social service providers, airport, road or rail network owners, a common theme is the need to deliver ever safer, more reliable, more efficient We have long-term relationships with five of the UKs eight water companies: infrastructure for their customers.
we take care of almost one-quarter of Englands strategic road network and To do this, they have to be able to rely on their supply partners to deliver the road systems for five major local authorities: we are the principal supplier absolute commitment, from Board level downwards, a broad capability base, of rail track renewal services to Network Rail and the London Underground: a clear focus on and understanding of their objectives, processes and culture, we look after substantial proportions of the UK gas and electricity grid a willingness to learn and a mind-set to collaborate externally and internally.
systems: we are the supplier of choice for rail electrification projects in the UK, Germany and Italy: we will shortly commence running the entire office service network for the Department for Work and Pensions, nationwide: and through Public Private Partnerships we serve six NHS trusts and five local education authorities under long-term concession contracts.
Some major long-term contracts Order book by contract type 1 Potential Duration value 2 4 Royal Mail 7 years 650m 2006 National Grid Electricity 5 years 550m 1Alliances 1.0bn 3 2Frameworks 1.5bn United Utilities 7 years 420m 3 Other long-term contracts 5.1bn National Grid Gas 8 years 380m 4Other 1.5bn Department for Work and Pensions 7 years 320m 9.1bn Our business A balanced business model Strong long-term partnerships The best people and processes Comfortable with complexity An innovative approach Working and acting responsibly Strong long-term partnerships When customers buy Balfour Beatty, they know they are getting professionalism, carefully designed and consistently updated processes and systems, an unparalleled wealth of experience and understanding of the task of creating and caring for high-quality assets and, above all, talented people with a passion to deliver.
The best people and processes Britains most admired companies, 2006 Source: Management Today Quality of management Overall league table 1 Tesco 1 Tesco 2 Icap 2 Johnson Matthey 3BP 3BP 4Man 4 GlaxoSmithKline 5 Balfour Beatty 5 Carphone Warehouse 6 Balfour Beatty Monitoring and analysis of incidents We have a Group-wide managed system which enables us to learn from workplace and environmental incidents and accidents.
Tr ction is a system which @ facilitates root cause analysis for all actual incidents and near misses and successively improves our management of safety and our environmental impacts.
14 Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Our business Being able to share a customers vision for its asset base, doing what is A balanced business model necessary to deliver it and then ensuring that it works effectively over its Strong long-term partnerships whole life requires a wide range of skills, talents, techniques and processes.
The best people and processes Balfour Beatty is staffed and organised to rise to this challenge consistently and reliably.
Comfortable with complexity An innovative approach The Group leads the UK market in a wide range of disciplines.
In complex building and building services: in civil engineering, power engineering, Working and acting responsibly utilities contracting, and road construction, widening and maintenance: in fixed rail infrastructure contracting, particularly rail electrification, power supply, track renewal and track system production and installation: and in privately financed healthcare, education and road and rail transportation.
Market leaders attract the best people and, the best supply chains and accumulate the best and most relevant experience.
Over the last five years, the Group has recruited over 550 graduates and employs some 8,000  staff overall.
Its expenditure on training in 2006 exceeded 15m.
Approximately 60% of the Groups UK staff are employed in companies accredited under Investors in People and the rest work in companies which are at an advanced stage of qualification.
The Group employs sophisticated processes and systems for tender and project review and controls, risk management, health and safety management, and all other aspects of the construction, engineering management and services task.
15 Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Large-scale infrastructure development requires a broad range of engineering, At Heathrow Terminal 5, five Balfour Beatty companies are working together construction and service disciplines, integrated and programmed through for BAA on the complex integration programme for all the new rail services, planning and project management.
Project and programme risk most frequently including the Track Transit System, Heathrow Express, Piccadilly Line and derives from the interfaces between suppliers and between phases.
The Groups pre-eminent position in many of its contracting markets means The Department for Work and Pensions recently decided that it wanted a that customers can rely on the individual disciplinary capabilities of Balfour single nationwide supplier to manage and deliver a revolution in its back office Beatty operating companies.
Increasingly, however, they find that using these service provision with a view to saving 2bn and radically reducing overheads.
skills in combination with Balfour Beattys own professional and technical Balfour Beatty was selected as the most comprehensively equipped supplier service skills offers them the most reliable route to a successful outcome.
to share the 710 year process of creating and embedding the new service delivery model.
For example, for its long-term alliance contracts to upgrade and extend the gas and electricity networks for National Grid, Group contracting companies, Balfour Beatty Utilities and Balfour Beatty Power Networks, are working in conjunction with Balfour Beatty Management to plan the logistics, sequencing and work methods of the projects as well as deliver them.
Comfortable with complexity One of the Groups greatest competitive strengths and a key to many of our long-term contractual relationships is our proven ability to help our customers tackle the most complex challenges successfully.
We have a long-standing reputation for delivering the most complex projects on time and on budget.
Our capacity to manage complexity has been further enhanced by the development of Balfour Beatty Management, our professional and technical services arm.
Kings Cross St Pancras Underground Station Kings Cross St Pancras Underground Station is one of Londons busiest, handling over 250,000 passengers per day, increasing to 365,000 over the next few years.
In April 2005, Balfour Beatty Management was appointed to lead the delivery of a new station, including managing design development, procurement, construction, services and equipment installation, testing and commissioning.
Phase I has been opened on time which, together with Phase II, has significantly reduced project costs for the customer.
Our business A balanced business model Strong long-term partnerships The best people and processes Comfortable with complexity An innovative approach Working and acting responsibly Main image: Kings Cross St Pancras Underground Station Metronet Rail SSL Ltd created by Arup Allies and Morrison An innovative approach 18 Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Our business A balanced business model Tackling the most difficult and complex projects as a matter Strong long-term partnerships of routine and working in long-term partnership with major The best people and processes customers has a big impact in determining the Groups Comfortable with complexity An innovative approach culture.
In finding solutions to one customers challenge, Working and acting responsibly the Group often finds new ways of working and new Main image: Modular construction, Birmingham New Hospital techniques which improve the solutions we can offer to others.
Balfour Beatty has a learning culture and applies innovative techniques in creating customer value.
In Balfour Beatty, only a handful of people are specifically charged with the task of innovation because innovation is, in fact, an everyday part of the way we do things.
We have our customers to thank for that.
They want things built and maintained faster, for less money, but with more reliability and greater certainty of outcome.
In 2006, a company-wide innovation forum was created, which brings together managers from operating companies across the Group to capture good ideas and use them, as appropriate, across the Groups customer base.
For example, off-site modular construction is an increasing feature of our work on many major building projects.
It reduces site-waste, reduces production costs, accelerates installation times, improves safety and minimises traffic movements to and from construction sites.
While upgrading signalling systems for Network Rail and Metronet, we have developed data logging and analysis software that extends the life of existing assets by improving their performance.
We are also developing a computer system that mimics the existing electro-mechanical controls, while installation work is going on, to keep trains running and reduce inconvenience for passengers.
No-Dig technology for Yorkshire Water Balfour Beatty Utilities has successfully introduced No-Dig technology to repair water valves.
Specially designed drilling rigs and taps are used to reach buried valves.
Repairs are effected without disruption to supply.
Time and labour costs are saved and traffic disruption and customer outages are avoided.
19 Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Workforce 000s The Group has widely-communicated values and principles and sets all We have been measuring and managing our key environmental impacts in of its businesses and employees clear and explicit ethical and behavioural the areas of resource usage, energy and global warming, waste and recycling standards which all are expected to maintain.
and water consumption for four years.
During that time, we have significantly reduced our relative contribution to global warming, increased the proportion As its principal social responsibility, the management of employee and of our expenditure on timber that derives from sustainable sources and almost public safety stands at the top of the Groups priority list.
Over recent doubled our score in the annual Business in The Community environment index.
years, despite significant increases in employee and sub-contract numbers, the Group has been successful in successively reducing its accident Our social performance has also been enhanced through a series of initiatives frequency rates.
Its systems and processes are augmented by close designed to add value to our long-term major project presences, including attention to designing hazards out of the workplace and to the development measures aimed at improved physical amenity around our projects, greater of continuous improvement in behavioural safety.
social cohesion in the communities which they serve and improvements in the quality of life and opportunities available for disadvantaged individuals.
Safety performance Jan 1993 Dec 2006 Improving our safety performance 1.00 100 0.90 Human factors Workforce 0.80 80 le p be o e d p n a s r u io v a h Design 0.70 for Systems safety management 0.60 60 and procedures safety 0.50 0.40 40 AFR Engineering and 0.30 hardware improvements 0.20 20 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Time reportable accidents per 100,000 man-hours worked Safety performance Accident Frequency Rate Our business A balanced business model Strong long-term partnerships The best people and processes Comfortable with complexity Working An innovative approach Working and acting responsibly Main image: Sandford School, Stoke with environmental grass roof.
and acting responsibly Our customers do not just demand excellence in operational performance, technical skills and project management.
They also want to be sure that their partners and suppliers meet or surpass their own high standards of responsible conduct.
We set ourselves demanding targets in these areas and welcome the opportunity to differentiate ourselves in terms of safety, environmental management and wider social responsibility.
Operating review Building, Building Management and Services Highlights Over 750m of long-term facilities management contracts secured Major hospital schemes in Birmingham and Glasgow commence Acquisition of Charter in the US Another strong year of social housing growth Financial summary Revenue 2,145m 2005: 1,787m Profit 43m 2005: 35m Unexecuted orders 3.6bn 2005: 2.4bn 1 Including 115m share of joint ventures and associates 2005: 113m.
Profit from operations before nil exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets 2005: 8m charges.
Companies Specialist areas Design Balfour Beatty Construction Construction Balfour Kilpatrick Construction and 2 3 Haden Building Management Programme Management 1 The Gaylord Resort and Convention Center: 4 Corsicana Stadium: Charter.
Electrical Engineering 5 Victoria and Stobhill Hospital: Balfour Beatty Heery International 2 Your Homes, Newcastle: Mansell.
Mechanical Engineering Mansell 3 Birmingham Hospital: Balfour Beatty Building and Construction Haden Young joint venture.
Facilities Management Refurbishment and Fit-out Social Housing 4 5 22 Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Our business 2006 performance Profit from operations before exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets in the building sector improved by 23% to 43m 2005: 35m.
This represented a good all round performance in strong markets.
There was particularly good progress achieved in UK building construction and a first contribution from Charter in the US, offset by the impact of some issues related to the delivery programme under the London Underground PPP, which also had an effect in the engineering sector.
6 7 6 Castle Hill Hospital: Haden Young.
8 Whitelee Wind Farms: Balfour Kilpatrick.
7 Royal Mail: Haden Building Management.
9 St. Andrews High School, North Lanarkshire: Review of operations Balfour Beatty Construction.
In Balfour Beatty Construction, profits moved ahead, despite the adverse impact of issues relating to the stations delivery programme under the London Underground PPP.
Progress on major projects was good, with work on York College now well advanced, a successful start to a major new office building in Holborn, London and a flying start to the Birmingham Hospital project following substantial advanced works prior to its financial close in June.
Work on the rail station and interchange at Heathrow Terminal 5 also progressed well.
The Victoria and Stobhill Hospitals project in Glasgow began in August.
In the schools sector, new build programmes in Stoke and Rotherham were completed on time, the schemes at Bassetlaw and in Birmingham proceeded satisfactorily and eight new schools have now been delivered in North Lanarkshire.
There was a particularly strong performance in the London refurbishment market, including successful completion of the Grosvenor House Hotel project.
A major new swimming pool in Sunderland and the Paradise Street development in Liverpool, were also commenced during the year.
The delayed stations programme, part of the London Underground PPP, continued to accelerate, with 44 stations due to be completed by the end of March 2007.
8 Balfour Kilpatrick had another good year.
The company is the building services partner on all Balfour Beattys education PPPs, where activity levels were high and performance good.
Order intake was very satisfactory, including new work for BNFL at Sellafield, for Whitelee Wind Farms in Scotland and for a number of data centre projects for BT.
It will also carry out more than 20m of work on the Kings Cross St Pancras Underground Station Northern Ticket Hall project, which was awarded in May.
Good progress was made on the project to strengthen the main power ring around Edinburgh and on a 20m upgrade for the renewable energy transmission system in Scotland.
Work on the substations programme for London Underground progressed well, with a further tranche of work now in the process of final agreement.
Balfour Kilpatrick plays a key part in the extensive rail works at Heathrow Terminal 5, which progressed well during the year.
The works include mechanical and electrical engineering in the rail tunnels, the station and the track transit system.
9 23 Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Operating review Building, Building Management and Services continued Haden Building Managements profits were in line with 2005 after absorbing Work secured during the year included the Veterans Medical Center at San the impact of a reduction in scope of work and slower than anticipated cost Juan and major schools schemes in Palm Beach, California and Charleston, reductions in Romec, in which it has a 49% interest.
Romec is responsible for North Carolina.
HLM and JCM, the two businesses acquired by Heery in 2004 facilities management for all the Royal Mail premises.
and 2005 respectively, both performed well during the year.
Charter has brought some 100m of additional revenues to Heery and has added over 2006 was, however, a year of very significant progress for Haden Building 20m of fee work to its order book since it joined the Group, including for Management.
The company secured over 750m of new orders.
Most notable the renovation and expansion of the Cotton Bowl which will create a statewere the 320m nationwide support services contract for the Department for of-the-art 84,000 seater stadium in Dallas, Texas.
Substantial synergies are Work and Pensions and the 150m facilities management contract for the emerging between Heery and Charter and the integration process has been Metropolitan Police Authority, both with a seven-year duration and options to successfully completed.
Under the former, Haden will deliver a comprehensive range of office support services as part of the modernisation of the organisation.
The latter Mansell continued to make excellent progress and was further augmented involves a full facilities management service covering over 500 properties by the addition of the building business of Birse, acquired as part of the in north London.
broader Birse transaction in July 2006.
Mansell has a broad portfolio of small and medium-sized building projects.
Amongst the most notable are Argyll and Other new work won during the year included the facilities management Bute Schools, Brentwood Hospital, USAF accommodation at Lakenheath in portion of the Groups new PPP schemes in Birmingham, the extension of Suffolk and work arising from participation in the Ministry of Defence Prime a major contract for BT and a new contract for the Ministry of Defence Contracts for Scotland, and the East and South-East of England.
The company now has a very significant portfolio in support of the Groups PPP projects, with four more major schemes at preferred Amongst its long-term framework contracts are the Job Centre Plus bidder stage.
programme for the Department for Work and Pensions and substantial on-going programmes for BT, BAA, the BBC and Hampshire County Council.
In Haden Young, profits held steady during the year despite a decrease in revenues as major projects at Birmingham, Pinderfields and Northern Batched It was another very strong year for the company in the social housing market.
Hospitals took longer than anticipated to reach financial close.
Haden Young The value of framework contracts in this market now exceeds 800m, remains a clear market leader in large, complex M&E schemes, particularly in including relationships with Catalyst, Riverside, Your Homes in Newcastle and the healthcare sector.
Metropolitan Housing in the Midlands.
In April, the company won a five-year contract to upgrade all council housing at Sandwell in Birmingham.
The new projects in Birmingham and Glasgow commenced towards the end of the year, as did the Highland Schools scheme.
The 20m project at the new Liverpool Arena progressed well.
The company was successful under Outlook the Procure 21 initiative, with a number of small and medium-sized schemes With order books continuing to grow, we expect very good progress in beginning during the year.
Work on Castle Hill Hospital in Hull and Queen this sector in 2007, accelerated by the additional benefit of the acquisition Margaret College in Edinburgh progressed satisfactorily.
Haden Young has a very strong commercial workload in London, including the major Ludgate West development.
Heery International, the US engineering, architectural and programme management business, had another good year of progress, assisted by a first-time contribution from Charter, the Texas-based construction management business acquired in March 2006.
Although there is some public sector market uncertainty as federal expenditure comes under pressure, Heerys base workload from the K-12 schools programme, from justice, from healthcare and from the private sector has remained strong and its order book has grown.
24 Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2006
