Directors Report The directors submit their report and the accounts for the year ended 30th June 2006.
ACTIVITIES OF THE GROUP The Group's principal activity continues to be housebuilding and development.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the business review can be found in the Chairmans Statement on page 5, the Chief Executives Review on pages 7 to 14, and the directors report on pages 19 to 28, which provide a full review of the Groups performance and prospects.
Our key financial performance indicators include pre-tax profit, cash, return on average capital employed, forward order book, land bank, net assets and earnings per share.
In addition to these financial indicators the Company monitors other key performance indicators that include corporate responsibility, health and safety and customer care.
The performance of the business is subject to a number of risks, that are set out below.
Risks are formally reviewed by the Board and appropriate processes are put in place to monitor and mitigate them.
Key risks which are covered in the Chief Executives Review include: Housebuilding - volume, selling price, margin: Housing Market - buyer confidence, interest rates, employment levels, general product demand and supply: Land and Planning - size and quality of land bank, approvals: Skills Training - recruitment, succession, skills and experience.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS The profit on ordinary activities after taxation for the year ended 30th June 2006 was 275.0m 2005 282.1m.
An interim dividend of 10.34p per share 2005 8.99p was paid on 26th May 2006 and it is proposed to pay a final dividend of 20.69p per share 2005 17.99p on 29th November 2006 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 3rd November 2006.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The notice of the annual general meeting on page 17 contains three resolutions relating to the Companys share capital.
Resolution number 11 requests shareholder approval to renew for one year the directors' authority to allot unissued shares in the capital of the Company and Resolution number 12 requests shareholders to authorise the directors to allot shares for cash in the context of a rights issue and otherwise up to a limit equal to 5% of the issued share capital without initially offering such shares to existing shareholders.
The directors consider that the Company should maintain an adequate margin of unissued shares for use, for example, in connection with a future acquisition although they have no present intention of issuing any shares except to satisfy options under the Companys share option schemes.
Under Resolution number 13, the Company is seeking renewal for a further year of its authority to make purchases in the market of its own ordinary shares subject to specified limits.
Purchases under this authority will only be made on the London Stock Exchange and will be funded from distributable profits.
Following implementation of new treasury shares legislation, any ordinary shares so purchased may either be cancelled or held by the Company in treasury.
The Company would consider whether to hold any ordinary shares that it purchases in treasury at the time of purchase.
Any ordinary shares held in treasury would be available for reissue including pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution number 12.
In seeking this authority, the Board is not indicating any commitment to buy back ordinary shares.
The Board will exercise the authority only if it considers that the purchases of ordinary shares can be expected to result in an increase in earnings per share and would be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
The total number of options to subscribe for equity shares outstanding as at 27th September 2006 was 8,727,691 being 3.6% of the issued share capital at that date and representing 4.6% of the share capital which would be in issue if both the existing authority to purchase shares granted at the 2005 AGM and the authority being sought were fully utilised.
DIRECTORS AND THEIR SHAREHOLDINGS The current directors of the Company are listed on page 16.
Mr M A Pain was appointed a director on 1st March 2006, Mr R MacEachrane was appointed a director on 1st May 2006, and Mr M S Clare was appointed a director on 2nd October 2006.
Mr P H Ashworth retired on 17th November 2005.
Mr P R Gieron resigned as a director on 31st December 2005.
Mr C A Dearlove and Mr H Walker retired on 30th June 2006.
All other directors listed on page 16 held office throughout the financial year.
The beneficial interests of the directors and their families in the ordinary share capital of the Company during the relevant year are shown below: Ordinary shares of 10p each 30th June 2006 1st July 2005 Fully Executive share Fully Executive share paid options paid options C G Toner 10,000 8,000 D A Pretty 115,325 371,759 100,325 551,759 S J Boyes 65,238 336,018 65,238 336,018 R J Davies 1,000 C Fenton 9,973 195,376 9,973 215,376 G K Hester 64,264 284,734 61,264 344,734 A E Kilburn 4,000 4,000 R MacEachrane M A Pain 25,000 M Pescod 10,000 10,000 W Shannon 2,000 or date of appointment.
19 Directors Report At 30th June 2006 the executive directors had a potential future interest in 3,865,390 ordinary shares which are held by the Barratt Developments PLC Employee Benefit Trust.
Details of movements in the directors interests in executive share options are shown in the Remuneration Report on pages 29 to 36.
No notification had been received of any change in the above interests during the period 30th June 2006 to 27th September 2006.
On his appointment on 2nd October 2006 Mr M S Clare held an interest in 53,306 fully paid ordinary shares.
Under the provisions of Article 87 of the Companys memorandum and articles of association, Mr S J Boyes, Mr C Fenton and Mr G K Hester offer themselves for re-election.
Mr M A Pain, Mr R MacEachrane and Mr M S Clare retire in accordance with the provisions of Article 86 and offer themselves for re-election.
Mr A E Kilburn will retire at the annual general meeting and will not seek re-election.
At no time during or at the end of the year did any director have a material interest in a contract of significance in relation to the business of the Group, other than the transactions detailed in note 24 to the accounts.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board believes that in terms of the overall direction and control of the Company effective corporate governance will come principally from the values, standards and disciplines it seeks to apply in dealings with shareholders, customers, staff, suppliers, contractors and other stakeholders.
Many of the Companys core values and standards are set out in a range of procedures and practice guidelines communicated throughout the Group.
However, external governance codes set the framework for our internal standards and we therefore seek to comply with established best practice in all areas of corporate governance.
Statement of Compliance The Company is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance.
Throughout the year ended 30th June 2006 the Company complied with the provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 the Code except in the following areas.
3.2. requires that at least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise independent NonExecutive Directors.
At the start of the year the Board comprised, excluding the Chairman, 4 Non-Executive Directors considered to be independent, 1 Non-Executive Director considered to be non-independent and 7 Executive Directors.
After P R Gieron stepped down, and following the retirements of C A Dearlove, H Walker and P H Ashworth and the appointments of W Shannon, M A Pain and R MacEachrane during the year, as detailed below, the Company achieved a balanced and independent Board as required by the Code.
2.1. requires the Remuneration Committee to consist of at least three members who should all be independent Non-Executive Directors.
Mr C G Toner, as Chairman of the Board, stepped down from membership of the committee on 18th November 2005 leaving 3 remaining members who are independent Non-Executive Directors complying with the Code.
The non-compliance highlighted in last years annual report and accounts concerning annual bonus in pensionable salary has been addressed and with effect from 1st July 2005 the pensionable salaries of all Directors were based on basic salary only in accordance with Schedule A to the Code.
The Board The Company is led and controlled by the Group Board which met seven times during the year.
The Board has a schedule of matters reserved for its approval which is reviewed annually.
The Board is responsible for:- the development of strategy and policy: the annual approval of a three year operating plan and budget: the approval of financial statements and dividends: the approval of major projects, acquisitions and disposals: monthly business performance: the systems of internal control and risk management: ensuring that the necessary financial and human resources are in place to enable strategies to be met: corporate governance.
20 Directors Report In May, as in previous years, the Board met for a full day to review and develop the overall business strategy of the Group.
In the week prior to the Board Meeting each Director is issued with an agenda, briefing papers and comprehensive operating and financial management reports for the period under review.
The Company Secretary, a practising solicitor, attends all Board and Committee Meetings and all Directors have access to his advice and, if necessary, to independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
All Directors were in attendance at all meetings during the year from the date of their appointment, apart from Mr W Shannon who presented his apologies to one meeting, although he had reviewed the reports and management information and provided his views to the Chairman ahead of the meeting.
Board Membership The names and descriptions of the Directors are set out on page 16 of this report.
The Board believes that the Chairman and all Non-Executive Directors are wholly independent in that they have no business or other relationship with the Group that might influence their independence of judgement.
At the end of the financial year the Board comprised 11 members, including the Chairman, 5 Non-Executive Directors and 5 Executive Directors.
In this respect, Non-Executive Director Mr P H Ashworth retired on 17th November 2005: Mr P R Gieron stepped down from the Board on 1st January 2006: Group Finance Director Colin Dearlove and Deputy Chief Executive H Walker each retired on the 30th June 2006.
Mr W Shannon and Mr R MacEachrane were appointed Non-Executive Directors with effect from 1st September 2005 and 1st May 2006 respectively and Mr M A Pain was appointed as a Director with effect from 1st March 2006 and took over as Group Finance Director on 1st July 2006 following the retirement of Mr C A Dearlove.
The Company therefore complies with the principles of the Code in relation to the balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors and the number and calibre of Non-Executive Directors on the Board, together with their diverse backgrounds and experience, ensures that this principle is met.
The division of responsibility between the Chairman of the Board, Mr C G Toner, and the Chief Executive, Mr D A Pretty, is clearly defined and has been approved by the Board.
The Chairman leads the Board in the determination of strategy and in the achievement of its objectives.
He is responsible for organising the business of the Board, for setting its agenda and for ensuring its effectiveness.
The Chairman facilitates the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors and also ensures that the Board receives timely and accurate information so as to properly conduct its business as well as ensuring that communications with shareholders are effective.
The Senior Independent Director has specific responsibility for co-ordinating the evaluation by the Nominations Committee of the Chairmans effectiveness as well as being a point of contact for shareholders in the event of there being any material issues or concerns which the Chairman and or Chief Executive have failed adequately to address.
The current Senior Independent Director, Mr A E Kilburn, retires at the next Annual General Meeting and will be replaced by Mr M Pescod.
During the year the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors met on 2 occasions independently of management.
Board Achievement, Performance Evaluation and Training There is a formal procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board.
This procedure is overseen by the Nominations Committee and further details are set out below.
All Directors joining the Board submit themselves for election at the Annual General Meeting following their appointment and a third of Directors retire each year and submit themselves for re-election to the Annual General Meeting.
The names of the Directors subject to election and re-election are set out in the Directors Report.
Normally Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a 3-year term and, subject to performance review and re-election, are eligible to serve up to a maximum of 3 such terms.
During the year a formal and structured process of evaluation of the performance of the Board, its Committee and individual Directors was undertaken by the Nominations Committee under the leadership and direction of the Group Chairman.
The main aims of the process, which is based on the guidance set out in the Higgs Report Review of the Role and Effectiveness of NonExecutive Directors, are to:- promote a culture of continuous improvement, learning and development: identify gaps or problem areas in terms of knowledge or skills: assist with succession planning: improve openness, communication and motivation.
Central to the evaluation process are the Boards annual review of business strategy and the objectives and performance targets set by the Board each May for itself, its Committees, for the Chief Executive, and through him for the Executive team, against which overall performance is measured.
In this way the evaluation is undertaken within clear parameters linked to overall strategy, operational and financial performance and the role and contribution made by the Board, its Committees and individual Directors in the attainment of agreed objectives and targets.
21 Directors Report During the year, to develop further the effectiveness of the evaluation process, the Board introduced and circulated to all Directors a comprehensive performance evaluation questionnaire through which all Directors and the Company Secretary were given the opportunity to give their views on the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees, particularly by identifying any shortcomings in procedures, working methods or any other areas of weakness requiring attention and improvement.
In addition, the performance of individual Non-Executive Directors and the Chief Executive was appraised by the Chairman and the performance of the Executive Team by the Chief Executive.
The Senior Independent Director led the appraisal of the Chairmans performance after obtaining the views of all Directors in one-to-one discussions.
The results of the questionnaires, system and proposals were reviewed and evaluated by the Nominations Committee and reported to the Group Board.
On the evidence provided the Board and its Committees are satisfied with the overall effectiveness and balance and with the performance and contribution of the individual Directors.
As a result of the process steps have been taken to improve the structure of Board and Committee agendas and to develop an annual reporting programme linked to quarterly and half year business reviews and overall strategic objectives.
Board Committees The Board has established 4 standing committees, the Executive Committee, the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nominations Committee, the functions of which are closely specified within defined terms of reference.
Executive Committee The Executive Committee comprises:- Mr D A Pretty, Mr S J Boyes, Mr L Dent, Mr C Fenton, Mr G K Hester, Mr M A Pain.
The Committee meets monthly and all members were present at all meetings during the year except for Mr D A Pretty who was absent for part of one meeting due to illness.
The Board delegates management of the business to the Executive Committee, which is led by the Group Chief Executive, and has overall responsibility for:- implementing all operational policy and strategy across the Group: the preparation and development of the Group Three Year Plan, Annual Business Plan and Budget to achieve the Groups objectives as determined by the Board: monitoring the performance of the Group with particular emphasis on performance as measured against the Strategic Plan, Annual Business Plan and Annual Budgets, and other relevant key performance indicators: monitoring all monthly financial and other management reports: approving schemes, projects and contracts in accordance with authority delegated by the Board: the management of proper systems of internal control and the identification of material risk to the business: determining the senior management and staff structures of the organisation, terms and conditions of employment and remuneration and reward policies: taking all necessary action to ensure that day to day Group business operations are effectively managed and controlled.
The Audit Committee During the year the Audit Committee comprised Mr M Pescod Chairman, Mr R J Davies and Mr A E Kilburn, with Mr W Shannon joining on 15th September 2005 and Mr R MacEachrane on 12th July 2006.
All members are wholly independent NonExecutive Directors in accordance with Code provision C. 3.1.
Mr M Pescod, Mr R J Davies and Mr W Shannon are considered to possess recent and relevant financial experience.
Under its terms of reference the Audit Committee monitors the integrity of the Groups financial statements and any formal announcements relating to the Groups performance.
The Committee is responsible for monitoring the independence and objectivity of the external auditor and the effectiveness of the external audit process and for making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, re-appointment and remuneration of the external auditor.
The Committee is also responsible for monitoring the Groups financial management and reporting systems and for monitoring the integrity and effectiveness of its accounting procedures, system of internal control and the process for identifying and monitoring the risks facing the Group.
Lastly, the Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the terms of reference of the internal audit function, its work programme and priorities and the quarterly reports on its work during the year.
22 Directors Report In the year to 30th June 2006 the Audit Committee met on 4 occasions, with all members present at each meeting, and discharged its responsibilities as set out in its terms of reference.
Significant areas of review during the year included developing Group internal control and risk management systems.
The Committee also reviewed the internal audit function, its resourcing, work programmes, the results of internal audits and the adequacy of managements response.
The Committee invites the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and other members of senior management and senior representatives of the external auditors to attend meetings as required.
Remuneration Committee During the year the Remuneration Committee comprised Mr A E Kilburn Chairman, Mr R J Davies, Mr M Pescod and Mr W Shannon from 14th September 2005.
Mr R MacEachrane joined the Remuneration Committee on the 12th July 2006.
Mr C G Toner stepped down from the Committee on 14th September 2005.
All current members of the Committee are considered by the Company to be wholly independent in accordance with Code provision B.
During the year under review the Remuneration Committee met twice with all members present.
The Committee operates under defined terms of reference.
The Committees principal responsibilities are:- reviewing and approving Executive remuneration policy, including the terms and conditions of employment for Executive Directors and their individual remuneration packages: approving the rules of and the basis of participation in Group share option, long-term performance plans and cash based bonus incentive schemes and the specific awards, grants and payments made under any such schemes: obtaining independent advice in relation to Executive Director remuneration: monitoring Group remuneration policy against competitor and industry norms.
During the year the Remuneration Committee continued to review the Executive remuneration policy reported on in last years annual report and accounts.
Nominations Committee During the year the Nominations Committee comprised Mr C G Toner Chairman, Mr R J Davies, Mr A E Kilburn, Mr M Pescod, Mr D A Pretty, Mr P H Ashworth, until his retirement on 17th November 2005, Mr W Shannon from 14th September 2005 and Mr R MacEachrane from 29th May 2006.
The majority of members of the Committee are considered by the Company to be wholly independent.
The Nominations Committee met on 7 occasions during the year and all members were present for each meeting except for Mr W Shannon and Mr Mr A E Kilburn who were both absent for one meeting.
In addition Mr D A Pretty did not attend those parts of the meeting dealing with his successor.
In recruiting and selecting new Directors the Nominations Committee has followed a rigorous process with the initial shortlisting being prepared using external recruitment consultants followed by one to one meetings with members of the Committee and the final selection being made by the Board as a whole.
In the year ended 30th June 2006 the Nominations Committee:- reviewed the performance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors: undertook a recruitment selection process to appoint an additional Non-Executive Director, Mr R MacEachrane, with effect from 1st May 2006: undertook a recruitment selection process involving external consultants Ian Jones & Partners to appoint a new Group Finance Director, Mr M A Pain, with effect from 1st March 2006: undertook a recruitment selection process involving external consultants Ian Jones & Partners to begin the succession arrangements for the retirement of Mr D A Pretty and the appointment of his successor, Mr M S Clare, with effect from 2nd October 2006.
23 Directors Report Accountability The Directors are responsible for the preparation of financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards and which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit and loss of the Group for the period under review.
The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Board believes that the financial statements and reviews contained in this report provide a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
The Directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have been used and applied consistently and that reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been made in the preparation of the financial statements for the year ended 30th June, 2006.
The Annual Report and Accounts will be published on the Groups Investor Relations Website.
The maintenance and integrity of the Groups website is the responsibility of the Directors.
The work undertaken by the external auditors does not include consideration of these matters.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statement may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Going Concern After making due enquiries the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Internal Control and Risk Management The Board confirms that it has maintained a system of internal control in accordance with Code provisions C. 2. and C. 2.1. and that this statement has been prepared in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on internal control appended to the Code.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system is designed to manage risks that may impede the achievement of the Groups business objectives rather than to eliminate those risks entirely.
The system of internal control therefore provides only reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The system of internal control does, however, provide reasonable assurance that potential difficulties can be identified promptly and appropriate remedial action taken.
It is the responsibility of the Executive Directors and senior management to implement and maintain the Groups internal control and risk management systems in accordance with policy approved by the Board.
The key aspects of the Groups internal control and risk management framework are as follows:- A clear organisational structure with defined levels of authority and responsibility for each operating division.
Comprehensive financial and management reporting systems under which financial and operating performance is consistently reviewed against budget and forecasts at divisional, regional and Group level on a monthly basis.
Key risk areas such as land purchase, planning permission, production, sales, quality, customer care and service standards, adverse publicity, the market, corporate responsibility, environmental and health and safety performance, are embedded in the Groups monthly management reporting system so that risk identification and the control of risk are a routine aspect of management responsibility.
Internal control and risk management systems are supported by the Group Internal Audit Team which is responsible for advising senior management, the Executive Directors and, through the Audit Committee, the Board on the operation and effectiveness of those systems.
The Internal Audit Team undertakes a planned programme of audit appraisals across Group operations approved by the Audit Committee, including full divisional audits and targeted audits of key risk areas such as land viability process, land acquisition control and monitoring, work in progress and subcontractor payment controls.
Material issues identified in these audits and follow-up action plans are reviewed by the Executive Directors and by the Board on a quarterly basis.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance and is satisfied that it is in accordance with that guidance.
During the year a Group Senior Internal Auditor was appointed and a risk based audit protocol was developed to supplement existing divisional compliance audits.
24 Directors Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY During the year the Group has continued to make good progress in Corporate Responsibility CR.
Our CR strategy is becoming more embedded into our day to day operations through the application of seven strategic objectives in the areas of:- governance and management systems, creating value for society, managing our environmental impact, procurement and design, occupational health and safety, employment and diversity and engagement with our stakeholders and communities.
Our governance of CR issues is very strong, directed through regular meetings of our CR Steering Group, which includes representatives from human resources, health and safety, design and technical, sales and marketing, divisional management and the Board.
We have continued to roll out CR related management systems, helping us to manage some of our key CR risks.
We have introduced an environmental management system certified to the international standard ISO 14001 at a further nine divisions, making a total of 15.
By the end of 2007 all divisions will have an environmental management system certified to ISO 14001.
We have also certified our internal health and safety management system to OHSAS 18001 in a further six divisions making a total of seven.
A further eight divisions will be certified next year.
Our overall improvement in CR has been independently recognised through the CR Index organised by Business In The Community.
This year we improved our score from 64% to 77% and moved into the top 100 companies taking part in the index.
We also achieved an outstanding performance of over 95% in the Workplace Management section of the Index, which demonstrates that we are effectively managing CR issues in the workplace.
We are now seeing the business benefits that our commitment in these areas is bringing.
For example our insurance premiums for the year ahead are approximately 40% lower than last year, due primarily to our improved accident record over the past 3 years, and a resource efficiency review of our sites has highlighted potential energy savings of up to 21 million kWh of energy equivalent to 5,250 tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions per year.
Innovation is a key theme in our CR strategy.
This year we launched our EcoSmart show village at Buckshaw Village, near Chorley - the first project of its kind in Britain.
We have incorporated into seven of our best selling standard house types the latest in resource and energy efficient products and a variety of renewable energy generation technologies, such as wind turbines, geothermal heating and solar panels.
We are using these show homes, to gauge the effectiveness of the technologies and the preferences of potential buyers.
We continue to work closely with all our stakeholders.
This year we have concentrated on engagement with employees and customers.
All our employees received a copy of our second CR report and our new company newsletter contains a regular feature on CR related issues.
We have designed a new corporate induction programme which informs our employees about our commitment to CR and our seven strategic objectives and challenges them to think of ways that they can contribute.
We have launched a Customer Care Code of Practice, which sets out the way we want our staff to treat our customers, and introduced a supplier charter to encourage our suppliers and subcontractors to achieve the same high standards of care as our own staff.
Further details of this progress and our future objectives and targets will be available in our third Corporate Responsibility Report at www.
Detailed CR-related policy statements are also available on this website.
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY Through our environmental policy we seek to restore and enhance the natural environments in which our developments are set, to improve the environmental performance of our products and to minimise the potential adverse impacts of our business operations.
We have made a significant investment into trialling renewable energy technologies at our EcoSmart show village in Chorley, reviewed our standard house designs in accordance with the Green Guide to Housing Specification and assessed the environmental rating of over 560 homes using the EcoHomes standard.
Since 2001 we have comprehensively improved waste management performance across all of our site operations and reduced our impact on landfill.
We now generate approximately 200 tonnes of waste per development per year compared to 300 tonnes when we first started monitoring and in the first six months of 2006 we recycled 1,750 tonnes of waste plasterboard.
25 Directors Report HEALTH AND SAFETY The Board is committed to the continuous improvement of health and safety performance and during the year work has continued on the development of our Group Occupational Health and Safety Management System OHSMS introduced three years ago.
Seven of our divisions now have an OHSMS certified to OHSAS 18001 and we intend to certify another 8 divisions next year.
We have continued the theme of innovation with the launch of a bespoke working platform and crash deck system called Swaledek, developed in conjunction with Swale Scaffold Limited.
The system provides a 2m high working platform from which to fix floor joists and roof truss assemblies and prevent falls from upper floors.
We have reduced our accident rate on our sites to 672 reportable accidents per 100,000 persons employed, down from 1060 last year, and our aim is to improve on this result by 10% year on year.
For the fourth year running the average safety standard ratings achieved by the Group as measured by an independent site safety inspection service undertaken by the NHBC have been ahead of the average ratings of all other national housebuilders using the service.
However we are saddened and shocked to report a fatal accident that occurred at our Battersea Park Road development on 26th September 2006, which resulted in the tragic deaths of two people.
Barratt and Falcon, the crane contractor, are working closely with the Police and Health and Safety Executive to establish exactly what happened.
EMPLOYMENT POLICY The Board recognises that employees need to understand and contribute to the broad objectives of the business and seeks to develop good relations with employees through regular communications and consultation.
Selection for employment and promotion is based on the objective assessment of ability and experience and the Group is committed to ensuring that its workplaces are free from unlawful discrimination of any sort.
The Group strives to ensure that its policies and practices provide equal opportunities for all irrespective of gender, race, ethnic origin, colour, religion, physical disability, marital status, sexual orientation or age.
The Group is committed to employee training and development at all levels of the organisation and endeavours to contribute to the industrys future skills base by an extensive recruitment and training programme for apprentices and graduate trainees.
The Group currently employs 517 apprentices and 55 graduate trainees.
This year the percentage of our direct employees trained to NVQ level 2 or equivalent increased to 49.4%, up from 38.4% last year.
This year we recruited 5 Regional Human Resources Training Managers to create a dedicated HR team who will provide our divisional management teams with advice on how to deliver best practice in terms of employment procedure and Group human resources policies.
The team is also helping to deliver strategic programmes such as our new Performance Development Review and Corporate Induction Programmes, Group Newsletter and Human Resources Guide for Managers.
The Group works closely with the Construction Industry Training Board CITB and the National House Building Council NHBC in training provision and a training plan is prepared annually linked to identified business priorities and objectives.
Having regard to the nature of our business, particular focus is given in the training programme to construction management, trade skills, health and safety and customer care.
We have also committed to the Construction Skills Certification Scheme CSCS for our employees and subcontractors as part of the Major House Builders Group Qualified Workforce Initiative.
The Board recognises that the strength and quality of its leadership resource is crucial to the continued prosperity and commercial success of the business.
The Board has therefore undertaken a review of the Groups succession planning arrangements and is developing a Performance Development Review programme for all senior management that will eventually be cascaded down to all staff.
26 Directors Report INVESTOR RELATIONS The Board believes that the effective management of investor relations is critical to its relationship with its shareholders and to the market in which the Companys shares are held, analysed and traded.
The Groups corporate governance framework sets the context for its continuing investor relations programme particularly in respect of key areas such as Board membership, remuneration and public accountability statements.
During the year we continued to develop the investor communication programme in conjunction with Weber Shandwick Square Mile our financial PR advisors.
The investor relations website www.
co. uk provides a full Company profile, regular corporate news updates and access to Company share price and regulatory announcements.
Further shareholder services have been established whereby shareholders may deal in the Companys shares via its website and also access the Companys share register to view their shareholding, with the opportunity to make changes to their account details including the downloading of appropriate forms and also access the history of their shareholding.
Our annual and interim reports, together with half-yearly trading updates, will continue to be the primary means by which information about the Group, its Board and its business is communicated to institutional and private shareholders, investors and analysts.
In addition, other major Company publications are available to shareholders on our investor relations website.
The Annual General Meeting is used to enable all shareholders to discuss the Groups operations and progress directly with the Board.
Information of a price sensitive nature is communicated as required by the Company Secretary to the Company Announcements Office of the London Stock Exchange and the Group strives to ensure that all key information is effectively and clearly communicated.
In addition to the above formal communications, the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director meet regularly with institutional investors and analysts in order to convey an understanding of the Companys operations, the market and its management objectives and in the year under review a total of 60 such meetings have been held.
The aim is to meet with major institutional shareholders at least once a year.
Press releases on the Companys activities are made to journalists and the media through the Group Press Office and its external financial public relations consultancy service, Weber Shandwick Square Mile.
The Groups joint brokers, JPMorgan Cazenove and UBS Investment Bank, also work actively on our behalf in an effort to ensure that investors and potential investors in the business are given reliable information on the Groups operations, its values and ethos in order to make informed investment decisions.
27 Directors Report STATUTORY INFORMATION At 27th September 2006 notification had been received of the following interests which exceed a 3% interest in the issued share capital of the Company.
Date of Ordinary shares % of issued notification of 10p each share capital Fidelity Management & Research Co. 11.08.06 26,646,197 10.96% Putnam Investments 11.08.06 10,322,605 4.25% Causeway Capital Management LLC 24.03.06 9,409,768 3.87% Lazard Asset Management 05.05.06 7,861,247 3.24% Sprucegrove Investment Management 01.09.06 7,268,084 3.00% During the year the Group made charitable donations of 10,000 2005 61,000.
No political contributions were made during the year.
CREDITOR PAYMENTS Each Group company is responsible for agreeing the detail of terms and conditions relating to transactions with its suppliers.
It is Group policy to abide by the agreed terms of payment with suppliers where the goods and services have been supplied in accordance with the relevant terms and conditions of contract.
Implementation of this policy resulted in a supplier payment period for the Company of 39 days 2005 33 days for its trade creditors at 30th June 2006.
AUDITORS So far as the directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information that is, information needed by the Companys auditors in connection with preparing their report of which the Companys auditors are not aware.
The directors have taken all the relevant steps that they ought to have taken in their duty as a director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
A resolution to reappoint  LLP as auditors to the Company will be proposed at the annual general meeting.
On behalf of the Board L Dent Secretary Newcastle upon Tyne 12th October 2006 28
