Report of the Directors The Directors present their report and accounts of Objectives and Strategy the Group for the year ended 31 December 2006.
The Companys investment objective is to provide ordinary shareholders with an attractive level of income together with the potential for capital and Results and Dividends income growth from investing in a diversified UK The results for the year are set out in the attached commercial property portfolio.
As part of its strategy, the Board has contractually The Company has paid interim dividends during the delegated the management of the property portfolio, year ended 31 December 2006 as follows: and other services, to F&C Investment Business Limited.
Payment Rate per date share The investment strategy employed by the Managers Third interim for prior year 27 January 2006 1.50p in meeting the investment objective focuses on Fourth interim for prior year 28 April 2006 1.50p investment in a diversified portfolio of freehold and First interim 28 July 2006 1.50p predominantly long leasehold over 60 years Second interim 27 October 2006 1.50p remaining at the time of acquisition UK commercial properties.
The Company invests principally in three It is the policy of the Directors to declare and pay commercial property sectors: offices, retail and dividends as interim dividends.
The Directors do not industrial.
The Company is permitted to invest up to therefore recommend a final dividend.
A third interim 15 per cent of its total assets in indirect property dividend of 1.5p per share was paid on 26 January funds at the time of investment but not in other 2007 and a fourth interim dividend of 1.5p per share listed investment companies.
will be paid on 27 April 2007 to shareholders on the The Companys performance in meeting its register on 30 March 2007. objectives is measured against key performance indicators as set out below.
A review of the Principal Activity and Status Companys returns during the financial year, the The Company is a Guernsey registered company position of the Company at the year end, and the and, during the year, carried on business as a outlook for the coming year is contained in the property investment company.
The Companys Chairmans Statement and the Managers Review.
shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange and the Channel Islands Stock Exchange.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Companys assets consist of direct and indirect Throughout the year the Company complied and investments in UK commercial property.
Its principal intends to continue to comply with the conditions risks are therefore related to the commercial applicable to property investment companies set out property market in general, but also the particular in paragraph 15.5.
circumstances of the properties in which it is The Company is a member of the Association of invested and their tenants.
More detailed Investment Companies AIC.
explanations of these risks and the way which they are managed are contained under the headings of Business Review Credit Risk and Liquidity Risk in note 19 to the The Board of Directors is responsible for the overall accounts.
The Managers also seek to mitigate these stewardship of the Company, including investment risks through continual review of the portfolio, active and dividend policies, corporate strategy, corporate asset management initiatives, and carrying out due governance, and risk management.
Biographical diligence work on potential tenants before entering details of the Directors, all of whom are non into any new lease agreements.
All of the properties executive, can be found on page 10. in the portfolio are insured.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 11 Report of the Directors continued Other risks faced by the Company include the Management of Assets and Shareholder Value following: As stated above, the Board has contractually delegated the management of the investment Economic inflation or deflation, economic portfolio to F&C Investment Business Limited.
recessions and movements in interest rates could The Company invests in properties which the affect property valuations.
Managers believe will generate a combination of Strategic incorrect strategy, including sector long-term growth in income and capital for and geographic allocations and use of gearing, shareholders.
Investment decisions are based on could all lead to poor returns for shareholders.
analysis of, amongst other things, prospects for future income and capital growth, sector and Regulatory breach of regulatory rules could lead geographic prospects, tenant covenant strength, to suspension of the Companys Stock Exchange lease length, and initial and equivalent yields.
listing, financial penalties or a qualified audit Investment risks are spread through investing in a report.
range of geographical areas and sectors, and through letting properties to low risk tenants.
A list Management and control changes that cause of all the properties held as at 31 December 2006 is the management and control of the Company to contained on page 9 and further analysis can be be exercised in the United Kingdom could lead to found in the Managers Review.
At each Board the Company becoming liable to United Kingdom meeting, the Board receives a detailed presentation taxation on income and capital gains.
from the Investment Manager together with a Operational failure of the Managers accounting comprehensive analysis of the performance of the systems or disruption to the Managers business, portfolio during the reporting period.
or that of third party service providers, could lead The Companys borrowings are represented by to an inability to provide accurate reporting and 230 million Secured Bonds due 2017, which are monitoring, leading to a loss of shareholders described in more detail in note 14 to the accounts.
The Board receives recommendations on gearing levels from the Managers and it is responsible for Financial inadequate controls by the Managers setting the gearing range within which the Managers or third party service providers could lead to may operate.
The Companys gearing level as at misappropriation of assets.
Inappropriate 31 December 2006 was 18.0 per cent.
accounting policies or failure to comply with accounting standards could lead to misreporting The Board and the Managers recognise the or breaches of regulations.
Breaching bond importance of managing the discount of share price covenants could lead to a downgrading of the to net asset value in enhancing shareholder value.
Secured Bonds, a loss of shareholders One aspect of this involves marketing, and to this confidence and financial loss for shareholders end the Managers meet with current and potential see note 14 for details of the principal bond new shareholders, and with stockbroking analysts covenants.
who cover the investment trust and real estate sectors, on a regular basis.
In addition, The Board seeks to mitigate and manage these risks communication of quarterly portfolio information is through continual review, policy setting and provided through the Companys website.
It also regularly monitors the investment environment and Key Performance Indicators the management of the Companys property The Board uses a number of performance measures portfolio, and applies the principles detailed in the to assess the Companys success in meeting its Turnbull Guidance.
Details of the Companys internal objectives.
The key performance indicators are as controls are described in more detail on page 16. follows: 12 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited Net asset value total return and total return of the effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
property portfolio compared to the Investment The Board therefore believes that it is in the interests Property Databank All Monthly Valued Funds.
of shareholders that these Directors are re-elected.
Premium discount of share price to net asset During the year the Directors received the following value.
emoluments in the form of fees: Period from Dividend per share and dividend yield.
21 January Year ended 2005 to Total expenses as a ratio of shareholders funds.
31 December 31 December 2006 2005 A historical record of these indicators is contained in the Financial Highlights on page 1, the Chairmans P Niven 25,000 22,226 Statement on pages 2 to 3, and in the Historical D L Adamson 18,000 16,003 Record on page 36.
J H Stephen 18,000 16,003 B W Sweetland 18,000 16,003 Directors N J M Tostevin 18,000 16,003 The Directors who held office during the year and their interests in the shares of the Company as at Total 97,000 86,238 31 December 2006 all of which were beneficial were: As any further increase in Directors remuneration could result in the current maximum permitted under 2006 2005 Ordinary Ordinary the Articles of Association being exceeded, a Shares Shares resolution to increase the maximum aggregate sum to which the Directors would be entitled as P Niven 20,000 20,000 remuneration to 200,000 currently 125,000 will D L Adamson 50,000 50,000 be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
This J H Stephen 20,000 20,000 amendment is proposed to allow for anticipated B W Sweetland increases in total Directors remuneration over a N J M Tostevin 20,000 20,000 number of years.
There have been no changes in the above interests There are no service contracts in existence between between 31 December 2006 and 9 March 2007. the Company and any Directors but each of the Directors was appointed by a letter of appointment The Directors are also directors of F&C Commercial which sets out the main terms of his appointment.
Property Holdings Limited, the Companys wholly owned subsidiary undertaking and of F&C Management Commercial Property Finance Limited, a special F&C Investment Business Limited, a wholly owned purpose vehicle incorporated to issue the Secured subsidiary of F&C Asset Management plc, provides Bonds.
management services to the Company.
A summary Mr P Niven retires from the Board by rotation and, of the contract between the Company and F&C being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
Mr B W Investment Business Limited in respect of Sweetland, who is not considered to be an management services provided is given in note 2 to independent Director, retires annually from the the accounts.
Board and, being eligible, offers himself for reSince the year end, the Management Engagement election.
Committee has reviewed the appropriateness of the The Board confirms that, following formal Managers appointment.
In carrying out its review performance evaluations, the performance of each the Committee considered the investment of the Directors seeking re-election continues to be performance of the Company and the capability and Annual Report and Accounts 2006 13 Report of the Directors continued resources of the Managers to deliver satisfactory AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which investment performance.
It also considered the incorporates the Combined Code.
length of the notice period of the investment Except as disclosed below, the Company complied management contract and the fees payable to the throughout the year with the recommendations of Managers, together with the standard of the other the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of Section services provided.
Since all the Directors are non-executive the provisions of the Combined Code Following this review, it is the Directors opinion that in respect of the role of the chief executive are not the continuing appointment of the Managers on the relevant to the Company and, likewise, the terms agreed is in the interests of shareholders as a provisions of the Combined Code relating to whole.
Directors remuneration are not relevant except in so Substantial Interests in Share Capital far as they relate specifically to non-executive At 9 March 2007 the following holdings representing Directors.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, more than 3 per cent of the Companys issued and in the preamble to the Combined Code, the share capital had been notified to the Company.
Board considers that these provisions are not relevant to the Company, being an externally Number of Ordinary Shares Percentage managed investment company.
The Company has Held Held therefore not reported further in respect of these Friends Provident Group 393,112,250 53.5 provisions.
Standard Life Investments 36,049,481 4.9 In view of its non-executive nature and the Scottish Widows Investment requirement of the Articles of Association that all Partnership 23,000,000 3.1 Directors retire by rotation at least every three years, the Board considers that it is not appropriate for the Corporate Governance Directors to be appointed for a specified term as Guernsey does not have its own corporate recommended by provision A.
7.2 of the Combined governance code and, as a Guernsey registered Code and principle 3 of the AIC Code, nor for a company, the Company is not required to comply Senior Independent Director to be appointed as with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance recommended by provision A.
3.3 of the Combined issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July Code and principle 1 of the AIC Code, nor for there 2003 the Combined Code.
However, it is the to be a Nomination Committee as recommended by Companys policy to comply with best practice on provision A.
4.1 of the Combined Code and good corporate governance that is applicable to principle 9 of the AIC Code.
The Board consists solely of non-executive Directors The Board has considered the principles and of which Mr P Niven is Chairman.
Mr B W recommendations of the Association of Investment Sweetland was, until 26 May 2005, an executive Companies Code of Corporate Governance issued director of Friends Provident plc, which is the in February 2006 AIC Code by reference to the ultimate parent company of the Companys AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Managers, F&C Investment Business Limited.
He is Companies AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as not therefore considered to be an independent explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the Director and will be subject to annual re-election by principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined shareholders.
All other Directors are considered by Code, as well as setting out additional principles and the Board to be independent of the Companys recommendations on issues which are of specific Managers.
The Boards policy on tenure is that relevance to the Company.
continuity and experience are considered to add The Board considers that it is appropriate to report significantly to the strength of the Board and, as against the principles and recommendations of the such, no limit on the overall length of service of any 14 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited of the Companys Directors, including the Chairman, non-audit services.
The Committee reviews the has therefore been imposed.
New Directors receive scope and results of the audit, its cost effectiveness an induction from the Managers and Secretary on and the independence and objectivity of the joining the Board, and all Directors receive other auditors, with particular regard to non-audit relevant training as necessary.
Such fees amounted to 4,000 for the year ended 31 December 2006 period ended The Company has no executive directors or 31 December 2005 36,000 and related to a employees.
A management agreement between the review of the interim financial information and Company and its Managers, F&C Investment certification of bond compliance certificates.
Business Limited, sets out the matters over which Notwithstanding such services the Audit Committee the Managers have authority and the limits beyond considers KPMG Channel Islands Limited to be which Board approval must be sought.
All other independent of the Company and that the provision matters, including strategy, investment and dividend of such non-audit services is not a threat to the policies, gearing, and corporate governance objectivity and independence of the conduct of the procedures, are reserved for the approval of the audit.
The Board meets at least quarterly and receives full information on the The Management Engagement Committee, chaired Companys investment performance, assets, by Mr P Niven, comprises the full Board, except liabilities and other relevant information in advance of for Mr B W Sweetland, and reviews the Board meetings.
appropriateness of the Managers continuing appointment together with the terms and conditions Throughout the year the Audit Committee and the thereof on a regular basis.
Management Engagement Committee have been in operation.
During the year the performance of the Board, The Audit Committee, chaired by Mr P Niven, committees and individual Directors was evaluated operates within clearly defined terms of reference through an assessment process, led by the and comprises all the Directors except for Mr B W Chairman.
This process involved the completion of Sweetland.
The duties of the Audit Committee in questionnaires tailored to suit the nature of the discharging its responsibilities include reviewing the Company, and follow up discussions between the Annual and Interim Accounts: the system of internal Chairman and each of the Directors.
The controls: and the terms of appointment of the performance of the Chairman was evaluated by the auditors together with their remuneration.
It is also other Directors.
the forum through which the auditors report to the The table below sets out the number of scheduled Board of Directors and meets at least twice yearly.
Board and Committee meetings held during the year The objectivity of the auditors is reviewed by the and the number of meetings attended by each Audit Committee which also reviews the terms under Director.
which the external auditors are appointed to perform Management Board of Directors Audit Committee Engagement Committee Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended P Niven 4 4 2 1 1 1 D L Adamson 4 4 2 2 1 1 J H Stephen 4 4 4 2 1 1 B W Sweetland 4 4 2 n a 1 n a N J M Tostevin 4 4 2 2 1 1 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 15 Report of the Directors continued In addition to the scheduled meetings detailed of the Annual Report, and the Board is satisfied with above, there were a further 5 Board committee their effectiveness.
These procedures are designed meetings held in Guernsey, attended by non-UK to manage rather than eliminate risk and, by their resident Directors.
nature, can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement Individual Directors may, at the expense of the or loss.
At each Board meeting the Board monitors Company, seek independent professional advice on the investment performance of the Company in any matter that concerns them in the furtherance of comparison to its stated objective and against their duties.
The Company maintains appropriate comparable companies.
The Board also reviews the Directors and Officers liability insurance.
Companys activities since the last Board meeting to ensure that the Managers adhere to the agreed Going Concern investment policy and approved investment After making enquiries, and bearing in mind the guidelines and, if necessary, approves changes to nature of the Companys business and assets, the such policy and guidelines.
In addition, at each Directors consider that the Company has adequate Board meeting, the Board receives reports from the resources to continue in operational existence for Secretary in respect of compliance matters and the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue duties performed on behalf of the Company.
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit function.
The Board has decided that the Internal Controls systems and procedures employed by the Managers The Board is responsible for the Companys system and the Secretary, including their internal audit of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
functions and the work carried out by the The Board has therefore established an ongoing Companys external auditors, provide sufficient process designed to meet the particular needs of assurance that a sound system of internal control, the Company in managing the risks to which it which safeguards the Companys assets, is is exposed, consistent with the internal control maintained.
An internal audit function specific to the guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council Company is therefore considered unnecessary.
The process is based principally on the Managers existing risk-based approach to Environmental Policy internal control whereby a test matrix is created that The Managers acquire, develop and manage identifies the key functions carried out by the properties on behalf of the Company.
It is Managers and other service providers, the individual recognised that these activities have both direct and activities undertaken within those functions, the risks indirect environmental impacts.
The Board has associated with each activity and the controls endorsed the Managers own environmental policy employed to minimise those risks.
A residual risk which is to work in partnership with contractors, rating is then applied.
The test matrix is regularly tenants and consultants to minimise those impacts, updated and the Board is provided with regular seeking continuous improvements in environmental reports highlighting all material changes to the risk performance and conducting regular reviews.
ratings and confirming the action which has been, or is being, taken.
A formal annual review of these Relations with Shareholders procedures is carried out by the Audit Committee The Company welcomes the views of shareholders and includes consideration of FRAG 21 and similar and places great importance on communication with reports issued by the Managers and other service its shareholders.
The Board receives regular reports providers.
on the views of shareholders and the Chairman and Such review procedures have been in place other Directors are available to meet shareholders if throughout the year and up to the date of approval required.
The Annual General Meeting of the 16 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited Company provides a forum, both formal and resolution is not passed, the Directors will convene a informal, for shareholders to meet and discuss further extraordinary general meeting to be held issues with the Directors and Managers of the within six months of the first extraordinary general Company.
meeting to consider the winding up of the Company or a reconstruction of the Company which offers all Directors Authority to Buy Back Shares Shareholders the opportunity to realise their The Company did not purchase any shares for investment.
If any such continuation resolution is cancellation during the year.
passed, this discount policy, save in respect of share buy backs, would not apply for a period of The current authority of the Company to make one year thereafter.
market purchases of up to 14.99 per cent of the issued Ordinary Share Capital expires at the end of Treasury Shares the Annual General Meeting and Resolution 6, as set Under Guernsey law the Company is able to buy out in the notice of the Annual General Meeting, back its own shares to hold in treasury for re-sale.
seeks renewal of such authority until the earlier of The Directors consider that this facility gives the the Annual General Meeting in 2008 and Company more flexibility in managing its share 16 November 2008.
Any buy back of Ordinary capital.
The Company currently holds no shares in Shares will be made subject to Guernsey law and Treasury.
within any guidelines established from time to time by the Board and the making and timing of any buy Such facility, however, requires a change to be backs will be at the absolute discretion of the Board.
made to the Companys Articles of Association and Purchases of Ordinary Shares will only be made Resolution 7, as set out in the notice of the Annual through the market for cash at prices below the General Meeting, seeks approval for such a change.
prevailing net asset value of the Ordinary Shares as Any buy-back of shares into treasury and re-sale last calculated where the Directors believe such from treasury will operate within the following limits: purchases will enhance shareholder value.
The price paid will not be less than the nominal value of 90p No more than 10 per cent of the Companys per share.
Such purchases will also only be made in issued shares will be held in treasury at any time: accordance with the rules of the UK Listing Authority and which provide that the price to be paid must not be Shares will only be re-issued out of treasury at a more than 5 per cent above the average of the premium to the net asset value.
middle market quotations for the Ordinary Shares for the five business days before the shares are Auditors purchased.
Any shares purchased under KPMG Channel Islands Limited have expressed their this authority will be cancelled or held in treasury.
willingness to continue in office as auditors and a It is the intention of the Directors that the share buy resolution proposing their re-appointment will be back authority will be used to purchase Ordinary submitted at the Annual General Meeting.
Shares subject to the income and cash flow requirements of the Company if the share price of On behalf of the Board an Ordinary Share is more than 5 per cent below the published net asset value for a continuous period of 20 dealing days or more.
In the event that such discount is more than 5 per cent for 90 dealing days or more, the Directors will convene an P Niven N J M Tostevin extraordinary general meeting to be held within three Director Director months to consider an ordinary resolution for the continuation of the Company.
If this continuation 9 March 2007 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 17
