Board of Directors Peter Niven Brian Sweetland Chairman age 61 is a UK resident.
He age 52 is a resident of was, until May 2005, an Guernsey.
He has worked in executive director of Friends the financial services industry Provident plc and a member in the UK and offshore for of its investment committee.
32 years, most recently as As a solicitor, he was the Chief Executive of Lloyds TSB Groups offshore company secretary of Friends Provident plc for over banking operations, until his retirement from the bank 20 years up to the end of 2004 and was formerly a in June 2004.
A Fellow of the Institute of Bankers non-executive director of F&C Asset Management and a Chartered Director, he has served as a plc and Benchmark Group plc.
director of many Lloyds TSB group companies.
He is currently a director of a number of captive insurance companies and Guernsey based investment funds Nicholas Tostevin including Dexion Trading Limited, a London listed age 54 is a resident of fund of hedge funds.
He is also Director, Finance Guernsey.
He is an Sector Development for the States of Guernsey and Advocate of the Royal Court Chief Executive of Guernsey Finance LBG.
of Guernsey and is the senior partner of Babbe.
He has given legal advice on Donald Adamson commercial property transactions in Guernsey for age 47 is a resident of over 25 years.
He was a member of the Guernsey Jersey.
He currently works legislature, the States of Deliberation, from 1991 to for Research & Consulting 1997 and was a member of the Guernsey Income Associates Limited, a Tax Authority for six years.
He is a non-executive company he established in director of a number of residential and commercial 1989.
From 1990 to 1999 property funds investing in the UK and Europe.
he was a director and subsequently co-owner of Graham Investment Managers Limited.
He is a nonexecutive director of The Lindsell Train Investment Trust plc, Invesco Leveraged High Yield Fund Limited, Equity Partnership Investment Company Member of the Audit Committee Ltd, Hotel Corporation plc and other companies.
Member of the Management Engagement Committee John Stephen age 57 is a UK resident.
He is Chairman for England of Jones Lang LaSalle, real estate advisers.
He is a Fellow of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors and has over 30 years of property experience with Jones Lang LaSalle.
He is also a non-executive director of Evans Property Group.
