Signature Flight Support The fine art of second-guessing Service is all about anticipation.
Anticipation is born of experience.
Sandy Henley has worked in aviation since the 1960s.
The years have brought her calmness and the ability to second-guess the needs of pilots and passengers alike.
BBA Aviation Annual Report 2006 4 5 Whether shes guiding a plane to its hangar, shooting the breeze with an engineer Directors Report or driving a pilot to their favourite room at the Hilton, she effortlessly smoothes your Business Review Overview journey through the airport.
Mislaid cell-phones find their way back to their owners, favourite sandwiches appear from nowhere.
And when a passenger finds a copy of Newsweek, as well as the Wall Street Journal stowed in front of the seat for the return journey, itll be because Sandys done her research.
Our businesses We principally focus on: Providing flight support to business and commercial aircraft at almost 150 locations worldwide Overhauling turbine engines together with the supply and repair of related components Licensing components from OEMs and assuming responsibility for their support in the Aftermarket Designing, manufacturing and repairing of aircraft landing gear and hydraulic systems Training pilots and the provision of other services at Oxford Airport 950.1m Total sales Flight support Aftermarket services & systems 59% 41% Counterclockwise from above : 556.4m 393.7m Going over details with the flight crew, Signature 361.0m Engine Repair 260.4m a very personal service, driving a pilot to ASIG 195.4m Component Repair 45.7m the Hilton for some sleep, a welcoming Landing Gear 56.1m Oxford 31.5m face on the runway.
Industry acronyms ACJ Airbus Corporate Jetliner AWARS Authorised Warranty and Repair Station APUs Auxilliary Power Units BBJ Boeing Business Jet CRO Component Repair and Overhaul CZI Core Zone Inspection ERO Engine Repair and Overhaul FBO Fixed Base Operation GSE Ground Support Equipment ILS Instrument Landing System ITS International Turbine Services OAT Oxford Aviation Training OEM Original Equipment Manufacturer RTC Regional Turbine Centres VLJ Very Light Jet BBA Aviation Annual Report 2006 Directors Report Business Review Overview 6 7 Board of Directors Executive Management Committee 1.
Andrew Wood Group Finance Director 3.
Gary Fisher Group HR Director 4.
David Stanton Corporate Development Director 1 7.
Bruce Van Allen President, Flight Support 8.
Hugh McElroy President, Engine Repair 2 and Overhaul 9.
Jim Gerwien 4 5 6 President, Components Repair and Overhaul 10.
Dave Haslam Managing Director, APPH Group 6.
David Rough 56 Non-executive Director Non-executive Director, 3 He was appointed to the Board Senior Independent Director, in May 2000.
He is a managing Chairman, Remuneration director of The Clarecastle Committee 7 8 9 4 Group, a New York marketing He was appointed to the firm.
He is also a Senior Advisor Board in March 1998.
Nick Land 59 at Peter J. Solomon Company, non-executive director and Executive Chairman President Flight Support Non-executive Director a New York independent Deputy Chairman of Xstrata He was appointed to the Board He was appointed to the He was appointed to the investment advisory firm.
Group plc and also a nonin February 2005 as a nonBoard in May 2002.
He joined Board in August 2006.
He was He was a board director of executive director of Emap plc, executive Director, becoming Signature in 1993 and has formerly Chairman of Ernst & Unilever plc and Chairman Land Securities plc, Mithras interim CEO in February 2006. held various posts since that Young LLP and a member of of Unilevers North American Trust and Brown, Shipley & Co. 5 He temporarily assumed the date, including most recently, the Global Executive Board of Committee, positions from Ltd. For ten years, until role of Executive Chairman CEO of BBA Aviation North Ernst & Young, positions which which he retired in May 2000.
December 2001, he was Group 6 7 with effect from 17 January America.
He will retire from the Board Director, Investments at Legal 2007 and on the appointment He is now a non-executive at the AGM.
Mark Harper 50 of a new CEO he will become director of Royal Dutch Shell from the Board at the AGM Non-executive Director 7.
An plc, Vodafone Group Plc and on 26 April 2007.
He was appointed to the Non-executive Director, engineer by training, he was a Ashmore Group plc.
He also Board in December 2006.
Hansel Tookes 59 director of Williams plc and on sits on the Cambridge Judge He is Chief Executive of He was appointed to the Board Non-executive Director the demerger in 2000 became Business Schools Advisory Filtrona plc, the international in January 1999.
He is a nonHe was appointed to the Chief Executive of Kidde plc.
Board and the Finance and speciality plastic and fibre executive director of Premier Board in February 2007.
He He is Chairman of Vitec Group Audit Committees of the products supplier which Farnell plc and Henderson is a non-executive director of 8 plc and a non-executive National Gallery and is 9 demerged from Bunzl plc Group plc.
He was formerly a Corning, Inc. FPL Group, Inc. director of Umeco plc, Ricardo chairman of the Practice 10 in June 2005.
He joined partner at Deloitte & Touche, Harris Corporation and Ryder plc and Catlin Group Limited.
Advisory Board of the Institute Bunzl in 1986 where he retiring in 1999 as Senior System, Inc. For nearly twenty of Chartered Accountants of 2.
Andrew Wood 55 held a number of general Partner.
He will step down years, he held various positions England and Wales.
He will Group Finance Director management positions.
as Chairman of the Audit at United Technologies Group become Chairman of the Audit He was appointed to the Board He is BBAs CSR Responsible Committee on 1 March 2007 including as President, Large Committee on 1 March 2007. as Group Finance Director Director and will become and become the Senior Military Engines Group, Pratt & in January 2001.
A chartered the Chairman of the Independent Director on Whitney.
He retired in 2002 from management accountant, he Remuneration Committee David Roughs retirement Raytheon, Inc. where he had was formerly Group Finance on David Roughs retirement from the Board at the AGM formerly been Chairman and Director of Racal Electronics plc.
from the Board at the AGM on 26 April 2007.
CEO of Raytheon Aircraft Group.
BBA Aviation Annual Report 2006 Directors Report Board of Directors 8 9
