Component Repair and Overhaul CRO In addition the 2006 Rolls-Royce Corporate-Care agreement Component Repair and Overhaul Sales enabled Dallas Airmotive to increase its support of both 2006 2005 Inc Dec engine and aircraft producers whose customers prefer an m m % ongoing OEM maintenance programme.
USA 45.7 24.9 83.5% Strong relationships with engine and airframe Original Equipment Manufacturers OEMs remain in the foreground of our business strategy.
We have a balanced exposure to Total revenue grew to 45.7 million, a 84% increase over most of the main OEMs.
2005 with the addition of the Ontic aquisition and the impact of full year sales for International Governor Services IGS, 2006 Sales by OEM acquired in mid 2005.
Pratt & Whitney The acquisition of Ontic in early 2006 and its integration 39% into the broader CRO organisation will provide a catalyst for growth across the division.
It will allow BBA Aviation to Other offer a broad range of product support services for 6% components including entire engines, which is unmatched in the industry.
It also provides an effective vehicle to transact these products through Ontics licensing model.
The combined division has unparalleled knowledge and experience of the issues and support needs of legacy Honeywell products and the proven ability to deliver the material and services necessary to support the large operational fleets 31% that utilise this equipment.
IGS obtained AWARS authorised warranty and repair Rolls-Royce station status from Honeywell late in the year, which will 24% allow them to repair a broader range of products.
ITS and Barrett continued to augment their existing product lines Outlook by adding products like APUs auxiliary power units The Business and General Aviation market is forecasting from Honeywell.
expansion in Very Light Jets and ERO is in negotiations with Outlook a number of OEMs to become a service provider in this new The large operating base of Business and General Aviation market sector.
The market remains highly competitive yet aircraft and the robust projections for continued aircraft APPH Touching down evidence supports a continued favourable trend in BBA shipments over the next 10 years provide a strong business Aviation share and revenue growth.
Leveraging both BBAs When landing gear designed and built by APPH for the JAS39 Gripen Advanced base for CRO.
The legacy military aircraft that they support component repair and overhaul facilities as well as logistics Combat Aircraft is despatched to Saab headquarters in Linkping, Sweden, Graham also provide a relatively stable base, requiring parts and specialists, such as International Turbine Services ITS and service particularly with high levels of ongoing US Bennett follows.
Hell travel between the UK and Saabs high-tech facility in Sweden for Barrett Turbines, provides significant advantages that are military activity.
particularly evident when comparing ERO to its competitors.
three months, fitting landing gear to the Gripens lightweight, composite fuselage: adjusting, New product development for a number of large With 21 distinct OEM authorisations, ERO stands ahead of re-adjusting and perfecting performance.
Hell then oversee exhaustive testing of the gears commercial aircraft and military transports and fighters its competitors with the broadest reach in capability and will stress the capacity of the OEMs to support customers durability, performance and ability to withstand the extraordinary pressure of landing.
needs in the aftermarket which will result in increasing The environments he works in more closely resemble laboratories than workshops: need to offload non-core or legacy products.
There is an exceptional degree of care, precision and expertise is called for.
This is why little competition to the licensing skills that Ontic has the service that Graham and others provide is as important to our clients as the established to acquire these types of products, which should result in significant growth opportunities for components themselves.
our CRO business and the Group.
Above: Complete control: making final adjustments to the landing gears microswitches.
Overleaf: Testing one of the Gripens three multifunction displays with Saabs Magnus Uddman.
BBA BBA Aviation Aviation Annual Annual Repor Report t 2006 2006 26 26 26 27
