The Board and Independence Changes During the Year Directors Corporate Governance Report During the year, the Chairman of the Board was Roberto At the date of this report, the Board comprises an executive Quarta, who had been appointed to that position in 2001. chairman, two executive directors and six non-executive From 1993 to that date he was Group Chief Executive.
During directors who contribute a wide range of complementary the year, Roy McGlone was Group Chief Executive until his skills and experience.
A short biography of each current resignation on 27 February 2006.
Michael Harper appointed director is set out on pages 8 and 9. non-executive director on 23 February 2005 was appointed Appointment of Executive Chairman as Group Chief Executive on 27 February 2006 in Roy 1 Compliance 7 Performance Evaluation On 18 January 2007, the Company announced that McGlones place.
As mentioned above, Michael Harper was 2 The Boards Role 8 Board Committees Roberto Quarta had decided that it was the appropriate appointed to the temporary position of Executive Chairman 3 The Board and Independence 9 Audit and Accountability time to step down as non-executive Chairman.
It was stated on 17 January 2007, from which role he will retire following a Financial reporting 4 C hairman and Group Chief Executive that Michael Harper would temporarily assume the role b Audit Committee the appointment of a new Group Chief Executive.
The search 5 Board Appointments c Systems of Internal Control of Executive Chairman and, on the appointment of a new for a new Group Chief Executive is being actively pursued.
6 I nformation and Professional Group Chief Executive, Michael Harper would become 10 Shareholder Relations David Roughs appointment as non-executive director Development non-executive Chairman.
expires on 1 March 2007 having served on the Board since In principle, the Board is fully supportive of the provisions 1998.
His appointment will be extended to the AGM on of the Combined Code which state that the roles of 26 April 2007, on which date it is intended that he will 1.
Compliance chairman and chief executive should not be exercised by retire from the Board.
David Rough is the Boards Senior The Board is committed to ensuring high standards There were six scheduled Board meetings in 2006 which the same individual and that on appointment the chairman Independent Director and he is available to shareholders of corporate governance are maintained at BBA.
were attended by all the directors.
These meetings focus on should meet the independence critera set out in the if they have concerns that normal channels of contact with The Company applies the principles of corporate strategy, financial and business performance.
The appointment of Michael Harper as Group Chief the Board would not resolve.
David Rough will be succeeded governance set out in Section 1 of the revised Combined six further Board meetings were called to discuss various Executive was, and remains, an interim measure until the as Senior Independent Director by John Roques.
David Code issued in July 2003 through its own behaviour, by matters relating to the restructuring of the Group.
Due to the appointment of an appropriate individual to assume this role.
Rough was appointed as Chairman of the Remuneration monitoring corporate governance best practice and by fact that these meetings were called at short notice, certain Michael Harpers appointment as Executive Chairman will Committee following the resignation of Richard Stillwell adopting appropriate recommendations of relevant bodies.
directors were unable to attend as follows: Bob Phillips one immediately cease when a Group Chief Executive has been from that position on 29 August 2006 in connection with the The directors can confirm compliance throughout 2006 meeting, David Rough, John Roques and Richard Stillwell, appointed and Michael Harper will then resume his position planned demerger of Fiberweb.
On retirement, David Rough with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined two meetings each.
During the year the Board agenda as a non-executive director on the Board, becoming nonwill be succeeded as Remuneration Committee Chairman Code except that bonuses and benefits in kind of certain was set by the Chairman in consultation with the Group executive Chairman.
executive directors are historically pensionable.
This is Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and the The Board considered alternative arrangements and On 1 August 2006 Nick Land was appointed to the explained further in the Directors Remuneration Report Group Secretary.
concluded that the Companys interests were best served Board.
As required by the Articles he will be standing for on page 56.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved by this interim proposal.
The Board is aware of the risks election at the forthcoming AGM.
His extensive financial The auditors report concerning the Companys to it for decision including approval of matters such as: and difficulties potentially posed by the role of Executive and accounting experience will enable him to make compliance with the Combined Code appears on page 59. strategy and objectives Chairman.
It believes that if any such issues did arise the an important contribution to the Board and the Board Group policies impact would be mitigated by the presence on the Board therefore recommends his election.
The Boards Role annual budgets of an experienced executive and a strong non-executive on 18 January 2007 that he will assume the chairmanship The Board recognises its collective responsibility for dividends element under the guidance of the Senior Independent of the Audit Committee from John Roques on 1 March the success of the Company.
Its role includes providing acquisitions and disposals of businesses Director David Rough to retirement in April 2007 and, 2007 following the announcement of the preliminary effective leadership and setting the Groups strategic aims.
expenditure over a certain limit thereafter, John Roques.
The Board considers that the good results on 27 February 2007.
It assesses business opportunities and seeks to ensure that financial results governance of the Board and of BBA is not threatened nor On 31 October 2006 Richard Stillwell resigned from appropriate controls are in place to assess and manage risk.
appointments to the Board will it be impaired by the appointment of Michael Harper as the Board in connection with the proposed demerger of It is responsible for reviewing managements performance Executive Chairman.
Fiberweb and his appointment as a director of that company.
The schedule of matters is reviewed by the Board on and oversees senior level succession planning within the The Board believes that, in the circumstances outlined, He had previously stepped down as Chairman of the an annual basis.
Matters outside the scope of this formal Group.
The Board is responsible for setting the Companys the appointment of Michael Harper as Group Chief Executive Remuneration Committee of BBA on 29 August 2006. schedule are decided by management in accordance values and standards, ensuring the Companys obligations and subsequently as Executive Chairman has the support of On 1 December 2006 Mark Harper was appointed with delegated authorities approved by the Board and to its shareholders are met.
As required by the Articles he will be Audit Committee.
standing for election at the forthcoming AGM.
His election The Boards policies and procedures are set out is recommended by the Board as his business experience in a Directors File which is provided to all directors on as an existing Chief Executive of a public company will appointment and which is routinely updated.
As previously announced he will succeed David Rough as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on David Roughs retirement from the Board on 26 April 2007.
He is also the Companys CSR Responsible Director in succession to Richard Stillwell.
BBA Aviation Annual Report 2006 Directors Corporate Governance Report 38 39 On 19 February 2007 Hansel Tookes was appointed to the appointment process.
Meetings as appropriate are arranged development needs is best left to the individual directors 4.
Chairman and Group Chief Executive Board.
As required by the Articles he will be standing for with Committee members and the Committee aims to discretion.
If any such needs became evident through During the year, there was a clear division of responsibilities election at the forthcoming AGM.
His in-depth experience ensure that each Board member is given the opportunity the annual performance evaluation, the director would between the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive and of the US Aviation industry is of direct relevance to the to meet the short-listed candidates.
The Nomination be encouraged to pursue the necessary development.
this was reinforced by a written statement of the division Company and the Board therefore recommends his election.
Committee will then meet to finalise a recommendation to The Company will provide the necessary resources for of responsibilities approved by the Board.
Following the Bob Phillips appointment as a non-executive director the Board regarding the appointment.
A similar process was developing and updating the directors knowledge and skills.
appointment of Michael Harper as Executive Chairman was renewed for a further term of one year to 5 May 2007. carried out during 2006 and 2007 for the appointment of All directors have access to the advice and services of the on 17 January 2007, there will be no such division of His re-appointment was fully reviewed in the light of the Nick Land, Mark Harper and Hansel Tookes.
Group Secretary and the Board has established a procedure responsibilities.
As stated above in paragraph 3 The Board Boards performance evaluation and additional Board The Board has a written framework for the induction of whereby directors wishing to do so in furtherance of their and Independence on page 39, the Board believes that the discussions took place.
Bob Phillips will retire from the new directors.
This includes site visits, meetings with senior duties may take independent professional advice at the strong executive and non-executive element on the Board Board on that date.
management and advisers and the provision of corporate Companys expense.
will ensure that good governance of the Board and the Michael Harper, Bruce Van Allen and John Roques documentation.
A personal induction programme is The Company arranges appropriate insurance cover in Company is maintained.
retire by rotation in accordance with the Articles and prepared for each new director tailored to the experience respect of legal actions against its directors.
The Company On the appointment of a new Group Chief Executive intend to seek re-appointment at the forthcoming AGM.
and needs of the individual.
New directors are available to has also entered into indemnities with its directors as to replace Michael Harpers temporary role, the previous The Board believes that John Roques should be re-elected meet major shareholders on request.
described on page 37 of this Directors Report.
arrangements, which were in place during 2006, will by shareholders as a non-executive director because, as Appointments of non-executive directors are made by continue to apply.
Performance Evaluation evidenced by Board performance evaluations, he continues the Board for an initial term of three years.
This term is subject a non-executive director, is primarily responsible for leading to be effective and demonstrates commitment to his role.
to the usual regulatory provisions and continued satisfactory A formal appraisal process for the Board and its main the Board and ensuring its effectiveness.
He is responsible The Board believes that he will continue to do so.
performance of duties following the Boards annual Committees has been conducted annually since 2003. for setting the Board agenda and ensuring the directors The Board has determined that all its non-executive performance evaluation.
Re-appointment for a further term During 2006, the Board decided that in view of the significant receive information in an accurate, clear and timely manner.
directors are independent in character and judgement.
Under corporate changes taking place that its next appraisal should is not automatic but may be made by mutual agreement.
He is responsible for promoting effective decision-making, the Combined Code this determination is not required for be deferred to 2007.
This would allow time for the Board In addition, it is the Companys practice that all directors are ensuring the performance of the Board, its committees and a serving chairman.
subject to re-election at least every three years.
to settle into its new composition following demerger.
individual directors are evaluated on an annual basis and that During the year, the Chairman met the non-executive The fees of the non-executive directors are determined Previous evaluations have been conducted internally on appropriate Board training and development occurs.
The directors without the attendance of the executive directors.
by the Board as a whole on the recommendation of the a confidential basis, being led by the Senior Independent Group Chief Executive is responsible for the development In addition, the non-executive directors met the Senior Group Chief Executive.
No director is involved in deciding Director in conjunction with the Chairman.
The main body and implementation of Board strategy and policy, the Independent Director without the Chairman present.
his own remuneration or fees.
Letters of appointment for the of the evaluation has centred on a review of the conduct of, running of the Groups business, ensuring that the business There were several other occasions during the year when non-executive directors are available to review on request.
and processes for, Board and Committee meetings, corporate activities are effectively communicated and promoted discussions between various directors took place.
governance issues, overall performance and an assessment within and outside the business and for building positive Executive directors must obtain the prior consent of the 6.
Information and Professional of the contribution of individual directors.
The appraisal relationships with the Companys stakeholders.
Board before accepting a non-executive directorship in any Development has also included an assessment of information provided to other company.
Executive directors may retain the fees from 5.
Board Appointments the Board and its Committees, including strategic, financial, The Chairman takes responsibility for ensuring the directors any such directorship.
During 2006 Michael Harper was paid operational, corporate governance and CSR information.
receive accurate, timely and clear information with Board The Board acknowledges its responsibility for planned the following fees from non-executive directorships to which The Board and Committee evaluation outcomes are and Committee papers being circulated in advance of the and progressive refreshing of the Board.
It believes that he had been appointed prior to his appointment as Group reported to the Board by the Senior Independent Director, meeting.
The Board and its Committees are kept informed of the necessary arrangements to manage succession issues Chief Executive and subsequently Executive Chairman of whilst directors have been individually briefed regarding corporate governance and relevant regulatory developments promptly and effectively are in place.
This is evidenced by the Company: Catlin Group Limited 60,000, Ricardo plc their own performance.
As reported last year, in 2005 the as they arise and receive appropriate briefings.
For example, the executive and non-executive appointments that have 34,650, Umeco plc 20,000 and Vitec Group plc 95,000.
Board was satisfied overall with its performance and that the Remuneration Committee arranges an annual market been made during the year.
There is a formal and transparent Roy McGlone, Chief Executive until 27 February 2006, of its Committees.
That review concluded that there had review from its independent external advisers whilst procedure for the appointment of new directors to the received nonexecutive directors fees of 5,720 from been significant improvements in the Boards processes, the Audit Committee is routinely briefed on accounting Board, the prime responsibility for which is delegated to Aggreko plc in respect of the first two months of 2006. procedures and culture since the first performance and technical matters by senior management and the the Nomination Committee.
The appointment process is evaluation in 2003, with notable year on year improvements.
initiated by the Board and a selection procedure established In addition to formal Board meetings, during the year Individual directors performances at that time were also to identify suitable external search consultants for the vacancy.
The process will differ in its detail depending the Chairman maintained regular contact with the Group agreed to be acceptable with each actively contributing to on whether the appointment is for an executive or nonChief Executive and other directors to discuss specific issues.
the effective performance of the Board and its Committees.
executive position, but the essentials will remain the Senior management from the Groups businesses present to Overall, directors were satisfied with the level and quality same.
Following the appointment of a suitable external the Board on a regular basis and opportunities exist during of information provided to them.
Specific actions which consultant, details of the role and capabilities required for the the year for informal contact.
Board site visits are arranged, management were tasked with following the evaluation appointment are prepared.
The consultant then draws up a collectively and individually, and non-executive directors are include increased depth in the strategy presentations made list of potential candidates and a shortlist is created through free to meet members of the senior management team.
The Board The Board believes that, given the experience and skills of The extent to which this has been achieved will be as a whole is also regularly updated as to the status of the its current directors, the identification of individual assessed during the next Board evaluation.
BBA Aviation Annual Report 2006 Directors Corporate Governance Report 40 41 8.
Audit and Accountability The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy The Board operates a Remuneration Committee, a Composition a Financial Reporting at any time the financial position of the Company and Nomination Committee and an Audit Committee.
Written During 2006, the Nomination Committee comprised three Statement of directors responsibilities enable them to ensure that the parent company financial terms of reference for each Committee are available on non-executive directors and two executive directors with a The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are request and are posted on the Companys website.
composition as set out in the table below.
Report, Directors Remuneration Report and the financial also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
During Year a Remuneration Committee and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention 01 01 06 Resigned Appointed 31 12 06 26 02 07 Company law requires the directors to prepare Composition and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Roberto Quarta Resigned financial statements for each financial year.
The directors During 2006, the Remuneration Committee included The directors are responsible for the maintenance and 17 01 07 are required by the IAS Regulation to prepare the Group the independent non-executive directors set out in the Roy McGlone 27 02 06 integrity of the corporate and financial information included financial statements under International Financial Reporting Michael Harper 27 02 06 table below.
Apart from Mark Harper, Nick Land and on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The Andrew Wood Hansel Tookes, these directors were in place at the governing the preparation and dissemination of financial Nick Land Group financial statements are also required by law to be time of determining remuneration for the year ended statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
John Roques properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 31 December 2006.
A procedure is in place to enable the directors to provide David Rough 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
as Chairman 17 01 07 the confirmation regarding audit information required under During Year International Accounting Standard 1 requires that IFRS Richard Stillwell 31 10 06 01 01 06 Resigned Appointed 31 12 06 26 02 07 section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
This confirmation financial statements present fairly for each financial year Richard Stillwell is set out on page 37 of the Directors ReportAdditional the companys financial position, financial performance Other directors may attend Nomination Committee as Chairman 29 08 06 Disclosures.
This requires the faithful representation of as member 31 10 06 meetings by invitation.
The Nomination Committee meets the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in Michael Harper 27 02 06 Going Concern as required.
During 2006, the Committee met formally on Mark Harper 01 12 06 accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria In compliance with corporate governance requirements, two occasions with attendance by all Committee members.
Nick Land 01 08 06 for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the the directors consider that after a critical review of the This was supplemented with numerous individual briefings Bob Phillips International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for Groups 2007 budget and medium-term plans the Company and meetings between Committee members.
John Roques the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In and the Group have adequate resources to continue in David Rough Role virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved as Chairman 29 08 06 operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, The principal role of the Committee is to make Hansel Tookes by compliance with all applicable International Financial the financial statements have been prepared on a going recommendations to the Board on the appointment of Reporting Standards.
However, directors are also required to: concern basis.
the Companys executive and non-executive directors.
It is During 2006, the Remuneration Committee met on five properly select and apply accounting policies: b Audit Committee responsible for identifying and nominating candidates to fill occasions.
These meetings were attended by all Committee present information, including accounting policies, Board vacancies.
In making appointments, the Committee Composition members except that David Rough, Nick Land and John in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge and experience During 2006, the Audit Committee included the Roques were unable to attend one meeting each.
The and understandable information: and on the Board and in the light of this evaluation considers the independent non-executive directors as set out in the Executive Chairman and the executive directors may attend provide additional disclosures when compliance with the capabilities required for the role and, in the case of a nonfollowing table.
The current Chairman, John Roques and these meetings by invitation.
specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable executive appointment, the time available to fulfil the role.
the Chairman with effect from 1 March 2007, Nick Land, users to understand the impact of particular transactions, Role Use is made of independent recruitment consultants and the each have relevant and recent financial experience and a other events and conditions on the entitys financial The Committee has two principal functions: first, making final appointment rests with the full Board.
More information professional accountancy qualification as required by the position and financial performance.
recommendations to the Board on the framework and on the role of the Nomination Committee is set out in Board Smith Guidance.
In addition the other Committee members broad policy on executive directors remuneration: and The directors have elected to prepare the parent company Appointments above.
all have experience of corporate financial matters.
second, determining on behalf of the Board the specific financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Details regarding the Audit Committee are set out in During Year remuneration package for each of the executive directors, Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom paragraph 9 b on page 43.
01 01 06 Resigned Appointed 31 12 06 including pension rights and any compensation payments.
Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The parent John Roques The Remuneration Committee is also responsible for company financial statements are required by law to give Michael Harper 27 02 06 discussing and agreeing a compensation policy for the a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company.
In conjunction with the Group Chief Executive and In preparing these financial statements, the directors are Nick Land 01 08 06 Group HR Director the Committee is tasked with developing Bob Phillips required to: Richard Stillwell 31 10 06 a broad compensation framework for senior management select suitable accounting policies and then David Rough and for reviewing the remuneration for certain senior apply them consistently: executives.
The specific application of this policy and make judgments and estimates that are reasonable There were no changes to the composition of the Committee framework to each senior executive is the responsibility and prudent: and between the year end and 26 February 2007. of the Group Chief Executive.
state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards Further details of the work of the Remuneration have been followed, subject to any material departures Committee appear in the Directors Remuneration Report.
disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
BBA Aviation Annual Report 2006 Directors Corporate Governance Report 42 43 During 2006, the Audit Committee met on three A key safeguard to ensure auditor objectivity and c Systems of Internal Control recommends action to be taken by the Group at both occasions, generally coinciding with key dates in the financial independence is the Committees policy on the provision Overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal divisional and company levels to mitigate identified risks reporting and audit cycle.
There was full attendance by all the of non-audit services by its external auditors.
This policy is control and for reviewing its effectiveness rests with the and seize opportunities that may add value to the Group.
Committee members except that David Rough was unable reviewed annually.
It prohibits the Groups external auditors directors.
Management is accountable to the directors 2.
An organisation structure is in place at both head office to attend one meeting.
The external auditors and Head of from carrying out certain additional services for the Group for monitoring this system and for providing assurance and divisional level which clearly defines responsibilities Group Internal Audit regularly attend these meetings.
The including book-keeping, internal audit, valuations, actuarial to the directors that it has done so.
The system of internal for operational, accounting, taxation, treasury, legal, Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director services and financial systems design and implementation.
control is essentially an ongoing process embedded in the company secretarial and insurance functions.
and Group Financial Controller also generally join at least part Services which the external auditors may be permitted Groups businesses for identifying, evaluating and managing of Audit Committee meetings by invitation.
The Committee to carry out include assurance services such as reporting the significant risks faced by the Group, including social, 3.
An internal audit function undertakes a programme Chairman may call a meeting at the request of any director accountant work and tax services.
The Committee is satisfied environmental and ethical risks.
The Group considers of reviews aligned to the risks existing in the Groups or the Companys external auditors.
that the majority of the tax services supplied by Deloitte & that it has adequate information to identify and assess businesses of controls, risks and business processes.
Touche LLP are compliance-related and represent a small significant risks and opportunities affecting its long and The role of internal audit is defined in a Group Internal Role proportion of Group tax fees.
Audit Charter and this includes its terms of reference, The Committee may consider any matter that might have As a matter of principle, the Companys policy is not to This process has been in place for the year ended the standards which it adheres to, the scope and a financial impact on the Group.
However, its primary role is: use the external auditors Deloitte & Touche Deloitte for 31 December 2006 and up to 26 February 2007 and the coverage of its work and its reporting processes.
The first, reviewing the scope and results of the external audit and acquisition and due diligence work nor to provide advice on directors can therefore confirm that they have reviewed Audit Committee receives a report from internal audit at the internal audit work programme: and second, reviewing executive remuneration matters where advice is normally the effectiveness in accordance with the internal control each meeting which includes opinions on the adequacy the annual and interim reports before they are presented sought from independently appointed consultants at requirements of the Combined Code throughout that period.
and effectiveness of controls by site, a summary of key to the Board.
In addition, the Committee reviews the work present New Bridge Street Consultants.
However, where The Groups internal system of control is reviewed issues, work schedules and details of any action required.
of the Risk Committee and assesses compliance with the the Group considers it appropriate or conflicts arise, suppliers annually by the directors and accords with the Turnbull In accordance with recent revisions to the Combined directors responsibility statement.
The Committee also other than the preferred supplier may be asked to tender.
The system is designed to manage rather than Code, the Audit Committee regularly monitors and reviews the Groups Disclosure of Unethical Conduct Policy Only in exceptional and unusual circumstances will this eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
reviews the effectiveness of internal audit utilising under which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about include the external auditors.
It can provide reasonable but not absolute assurance outside specialists and self-assessment techniques.
possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or The Committee Chairman is required to pre-approve against material misstatement or loss, to the extent that other matters.
A Group Finance Manual details accounting policies, certain permitted services, which may exceed set financial is appropriate, taking account of costs and benefits.
The Committee is responsible for making financial controls and reporting procedures applicable limits.
Non-audit fees paid or due to the external auditors The key features of the Groups internal control system recommendations to the Board regarding the remuneration to all reporting units.
The Group accounting policies are regularly reviewed by the Committee.
and appointment of its external auditors.
It is the policy of are aligned with the latest International Accounting As described in the Directors Remuneration Report, the Audit Committee to review such appointment at least 1.
The Risk Committee, chaired by the Group Finance Standards and International Financial Reporting the Audit Committee was asked to pre-approve the use of every five years.
It discharges its responsibilities through the Director and comprising senior executives, meets at Standards.
Deloitte to provide certain limited advice on remuneration review of written reports circulated in advance of meetings least twice a year to review and analyse how business matters in connection with the proposed demerger as it was 5.
An annual budgeting exercise is carried out to set targets and by discussing these reports and any other matters with risks are being managed.
These reviews assess the considered that the use of Deloitte was in the best interests for each of the Groups reporting units.
the relevant auditors and management.
At least once a year following categories of risk: of the Company.
Deloitte have confirmed that all nonthe Audit Committee holds a confidential session without business: 6.
Detailed management accounts are submitted monthly audit services they performed during the year, including management present with each of the external auditors and financial: to management which measure actual performance remuneration advice, were permitted by APB Ethical the Head of Group Internal Audit.
compliance: and against budget, together with forecasts of sales, profits Standards and would not impair their independence or operational and other including health, safety and operating cash for the next three months and to Auditor Independence and Audit Effectiveness objectivity.
On the basis of their own review of the services and environmental the end of the year.
A monthly report is provided to Central to the Audit Committees work is the review and performed, the requirement of pre-approval and the the Board highlighting key issues and summarising monitoring of the external auditors independence and auditors confirmation, the Committee is satisfied that the Central to this process is a detailed written selfthe detailed financial information provided by the objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process.
non-audit services currently provided by Deloitte do not assessment of risks by company and division, which is operating units.
The Audit Committee carried out a formal audit service impair their independence and objectivity.
reviewed by the internal audit department and the Risk assessment in respect of work carried out during the year Committee.
Functional risk assessments are also carried 7.
Capital expenditure is controlled by means of budgets, including a review of audit plans, the qualifications, expertise, out by the responsible executive.
If significant control authorisation levels requiring the approval of major resources, effectiveness and independence of the external issues arise between meetings, these can be brought to projects by the Group directors and by post-investment auditors.
The Audit Committee has also carried out a detailed the attention of senior executives at regularly scheduled appraisals.
performance evaluation and believes that it has satisfied the meetings of the Executive Management Committee.
Defined procedures are laid down for investments, requirements of the Combined Code and the Smith best The outcome of the work of the Risk Committee is currency and commodity hedging, granting of practice guidelines.
The Audit Committee has confirmed that reported to the Audit Committee, which in turn reviews guarantees and use of treasury products.
during the year it had formal and transparent arrangements the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal for considering financial reporting and internal control control on behalf of the Board.
A detailed matrix defines the levels of authority for the principles and maintaining an appropriate relationship receives a report at least twice a year from the Group Groups senior executives and their direct reports in with the external auditors.
Finance Director detailing the work undertaken by the relation to acquisitions, capital expenditure, commercial Risk Committee.
Based on these reviews, the Board and employee contracts and treasury matters.
This BBA Aviation Annual Report 2006 Directors Corporate Governance Report 44 45 matrix is authorised by the Audit Committee on behalf 10.
Shareholder Relations Directors Remuneration Report of the Board and is reviewed on an annual basis.
The Board as a whole is routinely kept up to date on corporate Compliance with the authority matrix is reviewed as governance developments and the views of BBAs major part of the internal audit process.
This report covers the remuneration policy for directors the appointment of Deloitte was in the best interests of shareholders.
This was achieved through regular meetings and includes specific disclosures relating to directors the Company and, as described in their report, the Audit during the year between the Chief Executive, the Finance 10.
All significant acquisitions and disposals of companies emoluments, their shares and other interests and is being Committee pre-approved the engagement of Deloitte.
Director and major shareholders, which are then reported or businesses are approved by the Board.
put to shareholders at the forthcoming annual general Both the auditors and the Audit Committee considered that to the Board as a whole.
The Board also receives formal 11.
A Group policies manual sets out policies and meeting for an advisory vote.
Throughout 2006 the these services did not impair Deloittes independence and written reports from its brokers regarding the views of its procedures regarding the following: business ethics, Company complied with the provisions of the July 2003 objectivity.
principal shareholders following its preliminary and interim business gifts and gratuities, equal opportunities, Combined Code the Code except in respect of the During 2006, the Committee also consulted with the results announcements and at other times as appropriate.
All competition law, legal policy, external communications historical pensionability of bonuses and benefits in kind, then Chairman who was not a member of the Remuneration non-executive directors, including the Senior Independent and share dealing.
A bi-annual review of compliance which is referred to in paragraph 3d below.
This report Committee, the Group Chief Executive and the Group Director, are available to meet with major shareholders.
The with such policies by Group companies is carried out includes information which is required to be audited and Secretary in connection with its work.
During 2007, it is Board considers that its non-executive directors, including and the results communicated to the Risk Committee this information is stated as such in the relevant table.
anticipated that the Committee will wish to consult with its Senior Independent Director, David Rough, have a good and the Board.
Senior executives are also required to the Executive Chairman, who is not a Committee member, level of understanding of the issues and concerns of major 1.
Remuneration Committee confirm annual compliance with certain policies.
These the new Group HR Director and the Group Secretary.
shareholders, as required by the revised Combined Code.
Group policies are complemented by divisional and Although the Board considers itself ultimately responsible A programme of meetings with institutional shareholders, 2.
Remuneration Policy company-led initiatives, including community policies.
for both the framework and the cost of executive fund managers and analysts takes place each year.
The These policies are supplemented by a Disclosure of remuneration, it has delegated prime responsibility for During 2006, a full review of the BBA remuneration framework directors seek to encourage a continuing dialogue.
The Unethical Conduct policy which includes a 24 hour executive remuneration to the Remuneration Committee.
took place in connection with the demerger of Fiberweb.
Company maintains contact as required with its principal hotline available to all employees which is supported The Remuneration Committee is a Committee of Although the arrangements are broadly the same, minor shareholders about directors remuneration in the same by a formal investigation protocol and regular reporting the Board consisting exclusively of independent nonchanges have taken place.
These changes have principally way as for other matters.
The Companys AGM is used as to the Audit Committee.
executive directors, details of which are set out on page been made to BBA share incentives and these were the an opportunity to communicate with private investors.
It is responsible for determining executive directors subject of detailed explanation in a circular to shareholders 12.
A Group Health, Safety and Environmental Manual It is intended that notice of the AGM and related papers remuneration and reviewing proposals in respect of other and were aproved by shareholders in November 2006.
The details policies, standards and procedures which are are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before senior executives.
The Committee also determines targets arrangements are also summarised on page 50 and 51. applicable throughout the Group.
Further details are set the meeting.
The Chairman of the Board, Nomination for performance related share schemes operated by the The Groups remuneration policy is to ensure that out on page 34 under Corporate Social Responsibility Committee, Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee Company and oversees any major changes in employee executive directors and other senior executives remuneration and on our website.
Annual self-assessments are will answer questions, as appropriate, at the AGM.
The Senior benefit structures throughout the Group.
Further details properly reflects their duties and responsibilities and is carried out at company level against Group standards.
Independent Director as CSR Responsible Director will also of the work of the Remuneration Committee are set sufficient to attract, retain and motivate high calibre senior A monthly report is prepared and circulated to the be available.
Shareholders are given the opportunity of out on page 42. management collectively capable of delivering the goals Executive Management Committee on environmental voting separately on each proposal.
The Company counts all In carrying out its responsibilities, during the early of the Company.
The Committee recognises the need to and safety matters within all Group companies from proxy votes cast in respect of the AGM and makes available part of 2006 the Remuneration Committee was remain competitive in the different geographic areas in the internal Group HSE function and external specialists.
the proxy voting figures for, against, at discretion and vote independently advised by Sean OHare, then Head of which the Company operates.
The Committee believes that In addition to a formal annual review, the Board receives withheld on each resolution.
The voting results of the Executive Compensation at KPMG LLP who did not the remuneration arrangements described below remain regular reports on HSE matters.
Senior managers AGM, together with the details of proxy votes cast prior provide any other services to the Company during the closely aligned to the creation of shareholder value and to performance and related financial incentives are to the meeting are also made available on request and on year.
At present, the Committee is being advised by New the business strategies of the ongoing BBA businesses.
The tied in part to their success against selected annual the Companys website.
The results of the AGM are also Bridge Street Consultants who do not provide any other Committee has also taken into consideration UK best practice HSE improvement objectives.
announced to the market via a Regulatory News Service.
Regarding the ABI SRI Guidelines the In line with best practice the Company does not routinely Remuneration Committee can confirm that it is able to engage Deloitte & Touche LLP Deloitte, the Companys consider corporate performance on environmental, social Directors Corporate Governance Report approved by auditors, to advise management or the Remuneration and governance issues when setting the remuneration of the Board on 26 February 2007 and signed on its behalf by: Committee on remuneration matters.
However, during the executive directors.
The Committee also believes that the year Deloitte were engaged to carry out research into the incentive structure for senior management does not raise implications of the proposed demerger on existing share environment, social and governance risks by inadvertently Sarah Shaw Group Secretary schemes, the provision of market data and the development motivating irresponsible behaviour.
The Committee reviews of communication documents.
These services did not its remuneration policy on an ongoing basis whilst executive include any advice on the quantum of remuneration directors remuneration is reviewed at least annually.
packages for directors and key management or the related The main components of executive directors remuneration measurement criteria.
The Remuneration Committee are set out below.
Total executive remuneration is structured considered that in the circumstances of the demerger to deliver potential upper quartile rewards for superior BBA BBA Aviation Aviation Annual Annual Repor Report t 2006 2006 Directors Remuneration Report 46 46 47 47 accompanied by more stretching performance targets at performance with a significant proportion of variable 3.
Policy implementation: Remuneration Committee and a financial element requiring entry level and above target.
The deferral into shares also pay subject to stretching performance targets.
The Directors Remuneration the achievement of set financial targets.
For Andrew Wood, provides a direct linkage with shareholders interests.
Committee believes that Andrew Wood and Bruce Van the demerger element comprised 70% of the total bonus a.
Salary and Service Contracts Allens remuneration packages contain a suitable balance achievable and Group financial targets, namely Group c. Long-Term Incentives Base salaries are reviewed annually by reference to of directly performance related remuneration which links earnings per share EPS, made up the remaining 30%.
The Remuneration Committee believes that a significant comparator groups selected on the basis of comparable both the short-term financial performance of the Group For Bruce Van Allen, the demerger element accounted for element of executive directors remuneration should be size, geographic spread and business focus.
Individual and long-term shareholder returns with the executives 33% of the overall bonus, with 67% attributable to financial linked to performance related long-term incentives.
The salary decisions take into account personal contribution, total remuneration.
As Michael Harpers role as Group Chief performance, with, at target, 8% in respect of Group EPS and Companys schemes were reviewed in 2006 as part of the business performance and the level of pay awards elsewhere Executive is an interim position, he is rewarded on a cash 30% in total for divisional operating profit and operating demerger and shareholder approval was given to new in the Group.
Following a review at the end of 2006, the only basis.
For an interim executive director position, the cashflow.
The demerger was selected as a performance shares schemes details of which are set out in paragraph Remuneration Committee approved a base salary increase of Remuneration Comittee would not consider it appropriate measure by the Remuneration Committee because it was 3c below.
The schemes have been developed to reflect 4 per cent for each of the executive directors with effect from to offer traditional benefits in kind or participation in longa strategic corporate event upon whose success the future market practice and provide long-term management focus 1 January 2007. term incentive plans.
of the BBA Aviation and Fiberweb businesses depended.
The Committee has also recognised the Set out below are the contractual notice periods for The percentage of bonus attributable to the demerger need for flexibility in this area to allow them to respond to a.
Salary and Service Contract executive directors who served during the year.
was selected to reflect the impact which each director changing market practices and different geographic norms.
The policy of the Committee is to provide salaries that are Months Notice would have over the process.
The financial measures were Specifically, incentive plan limits remain set at relatively high positioned around median when compared to salary data.
Contract Date By Company To Company selected as being good indicators of corporate performance levels to accommodate the US market, where the largest While salary is reviewed by reference to market conditions, Michael Harper 04.04.06 1 1 linking to long-term performance.
Under the terms of the concentration of BBAs businesses is found.
financial and individual performance, the Committee Roy McGlone 21.02.96 12 12 scheme, each participating director was required to defer Andrew Wood 13.02.01 12 12 As part of its strategy to align shareholders and directors would not regard this element of remuneration as directly 50% of the bonus due on demerger into BBA shares and Bruce Van Allen 01.01.04 12 6 interests, the Remuneration Committee expects all executive performance related.
In addition to basic salary, executive could voluntarily defer the remaining 50%.
The number of appointed 27 February 2006 directors to build and maintain a holding of shares with a directors receive traditional benefits in kind, principally a resigned 27 February 2006 shares deferred, whether compulsorily or voluntarily, would value at least equal to their base salary.
company car or car allowance, private medical insurance be increased by 10%.
Any shares acquired by a participant and death in service benefits.
In the event of early termination, the Remuneration d. Pension Provision pursuant to the bonus are subject to a six month sale The policy of the Committee is to make new executive Committee will, within legal constraints, determine the Pension provision for the executive directors varies and restriction.
director appointments with a rolling service agreement approach to be taken according to the circumstances of each reflects differing UK and US practice.
Further details are set In view of the successful execution of the demerger, the which can be terminated by the Company on giving individual case, taking account of the departing directors out on pages 56 and 57.
During 2006 new arrangements Remuneration Committee decided to make full payment of 12 months notice.
obligation to mitigate his loss.
In certain circumstances, and were put in place to reflect the impact of the changes to the demerger element of the bonus to Andrew Wood and except for termination for non-performance, the executive the tax treatment of UK pensions.
In accordance with the scheme, payment directors may receive compensation upon early termination policy and new arrangements for UK executives are set Annual cash bonuses for executive directors and senior was made in December 2006.
Both directors decided that in of a contract which could amount to up to one years out on page 56. management are based on financial performance and addition to the compulsory deferral of 50% of their bonus, remuneration based on basic salary, bonus, benefits in kind personal objectives which are set annually.
During 2006, that they would request the deferral of the remaining 50% and pension rights during the notice period.
the Remuneration Committee put in place revised bonus into BBA Aviation shares.
Such shares were increased by 10% Table 1 page 53 sets out details of the executive arrangements for the year in the light of the demerger.
in accordance with the scheme.
All such deferred shares are directors salary and non-executive directors fees, including Details of the 2006 bonus arrangements are set subject to restrictions on sale or transfer until 1 June 2007. payments made to Roy McGlone following his resignation as out on page 49.
Michael Harpers letter of appointment provided Chief Executive in early 2006.
The salary of the interim Group As noted above, the Remuneration Committee carried that he would receive a bonus of 50,000 on the Chief Executive, Michael Harper, was calculated on a cash out a review of remuneration arrangements in connection successful demerger of Fiberweb from BBA.
However, the basis, including cash elements attributable to bonus, pension with the demerger.
As part of that review, the Committee Remuneration Committee decided that, in view of his and car allowance.
has decided to increase the maximum bonus potential outstanding contribution to the demerger process, this b.
Bonus for executive directors during 2007 from 65% to 100% of should be increased to 125,000.
Michael Harper elected to salary.
Approximately 85% of the maximum bonus is based take all his bonus in BBA shares, which were then increased 2006 on financial objectives.
All such shares are subject to restrictions on sale or During the year, BBAs Remuneration Committee reviewed be subject to compulsory deferral into BBA shares and a transfer until 1 June 2007. the usual bonus arrangements for senior executives further 25% may be voluntarily deferred under the BBA Table 1 on page 53, includes details of bonus paid in including Andrew Wood and Bruce Van Allen in the light of Deferred Bonus Plan.
The Committee believes that these respect of 2006. the proposed demerger.
Different arrangements were put in changes bring the Companys arrangements in line with place for Michael Harper, as interim Chief Executive and these market practice, providing a greater proportion of variable are set out at the end of this section.
pay subject to stretching performance targets which are The 2006 annual bonus scheme was revised so that linked to shareholder returns.
As will be seen from the detail a maximum of 100% of salary could be received by of the plan provided in paragraph 3b below, although participating directors comprising an element dependent the maximum bonus has been increased, this has been on the success of the demerger as determined by the BBA Aviation Annual Report 2006 Directors Remuneration Report 48 49
