APPH Group Oxford Training and Airport Landing Gear and Hydraulics OxfordSales APPHSales 2006 2005 Inc Dec m m % 2006 2005 Inc Dec m m % UK 31.5 23.4 34.6% USA 11.3 3.0 276.7% Europe & ROW 44.8 42.3 5.9% Total 56.1 45.3 23.8% Oxford Aviation Training OAT OAT recovered well during the year with sales up 20% to 18.5 Sales at 56.1 million were 24% higher than the prior million and a strong recovery in profitability as the demand year, with the acquisition of Arnoni at the start of the year for pilot training increased and we started to benefit from the contributing 15 percentage points of the increase, the new fair weather training facility located in Phoenix, USA.
The outlook for OAT is positive with airlines, such as BA, Overall markets were firm, with business aviation original BMI and Thomas Cook continuing to recruit Oxford students.
equipment supply showing good growth.
The military In 2006, Netjets have confirmed a sponsored scheme with original equipment order book increased substantially OAT, moving OAT into the business jet training market.
during the year, reflecting the BAe Systems Hawk Trainer We are also making plans to develop a more integrated and Augusta Westland EH101 helicopter order successes.
approach to training which will broaden the services that Spare parts sales, in all areas, showed an improvement OAT supplies to the market.
over the previous year with repair and overhaul activity Oxford Airport reflecting a similar trend.
In the early part of 2006, we were During 2006 the Airport was successful in its planning awarded a contract with a value of $7.5 million, to design and application to widen and strengthen the runway and develop the landing gear system for the Korean Helicopter install an Instrument Landing System ILS.
In December, a contract was awarded to design, is expected to be completed by the summer of 2007 develop and manufacture the Eurocopter EC175 landing and will cost approximately 5.5 million.
On completion gear system, which has a potential contract value of circa of the works, Oxford Airport will have a 1,300 metre long, $100 million over 20 years.
30 metre wide all weather runway, which will enable larger The divisions footprint also expanded during the year.
commercial aircraft to operate out of the Airport than On 1 January 2006, we acquired the assets of Arnoni Aviation is possible today and positions the Airport for expansion for an initial consideration of $5 million.
Arnoni Aviation is a in the regional market.
The airport upgrade will also make world leader in the supply and repair of Raytheon Hawker 125 the Airport more attractive to business aviation users.
series sub-system components and rotables.
On 5 February 2007, we announced the acquisition of CAP based in Wichita USA for an initial payment of $5.7 million.
CAP specialises in the design and manufacture of hydraulic system components, electro mechanical positioning systems and access mechanisms used on a wide range of business aviation and light jet programmes.
Outlook The markets in which we operate are currently strong and with the increase in our order book during 2006, APPH is well positioned for continued growth.
Directors Report Business Review Performance 29 29 Disposals Pensions Business Review During the year the Company disposed of Becorit, the The overall value of our scheme assets has fallen to railway friction business, for a consideration of 27.8 million 477 million 2005: 500 million, whilst liabilities have fallen resulting in a profit on disposal of 16.5 million.
This has resulted Financial Matters in a net deficit of 21 million at the end of the year compared Interest to 65 million at the end of 2005.
The deficit can be broken The net interest charge was 24.6 million 2005: 20.9 million down between UK schemes 11 million and overseas with the increase mostly relating to higher US interest rates, schemes 10 million.
Following an actuarial valuation of Exchange Rates Discontinued Operation which has been offset in part by the inclusion in the prior the UK schemes in 2004, the Company made a special A significant proportion of BBAs earnings are generated in There was a significant after tax loss for the discontinued period of a 2.6 million charge in respect of a dividend contribution of 5 million during 2005 and 2006 and a further US dollars.
The movements in this exchange rate since 2004 operations of 76.2 million.
This includes the results on preference shares that were redeemed in June 2005. contribution of 3.6 million will be made in 2007, after which are shown in the table below: of Fiberweb until the date of the demerger on 17 November Interest cover was 4.2 times 2005: 4.0 times.
Assuming that the situation will be reviewed again.
Following the demerger and the results of Becorit until its sale on 1 December for Fiberweb had been demerged on 1 January 2006 interest of Fiberweb the Company agreed to settle the Section 75 27.8 million.
An analysis of these results is shown on the costs would have been approximately 17.0 million and debt arising of 12 million.
This contribution was made in 2004 2005 2006 table below and includes the costs of the demerger, interest cover 6.0 times.
January 2007 and is likely to result in the eradication of the restructuring charges and asset impairment adjustments US Dollars Average 1.83 1.82 1.84 Tax and Dividends deficit in the UK schemes on an IAS19 basis.
associated with the demerger of Fiberweb, as disclosed Spot 1.92 1.72 1.96 The normalised tax rate for continuing operations was In 2006 the Company benefited from a curtailment gain in the information sent to the shareholders prior to the 29.9% 2005: 25.4 % with the increase in the rate reflecting of 1.6 million in respect of its UK pension scheme associated demerger being completed.
a significant shift in the mix of profits to the USA with the with the departure of Fiberweb employees from the scheme The average dollar rate used to translate our earnings has Analysis of the Results of Discontinued Operations demerger of Fiberweb and the inclusion in the prior period as at the date of merger.
This item has been accounted for in remained relatively stable over the last three years.
However Profit of a release of a provision for a potential tax exposure in the unallocated central overhead of continuing operations in the the spot rate which is used to translate the dollar assets and m m UK, which was no longer required.
There is expected to be segmental analysis as it relates to the reduction of a future liabilities at 31 December 2006 was significantly weaker at Underlying operating profit 20.7 some upward pressure on the rate in the short to medium liability for BBA Aviation plc.
This has reduced the value of our dollar assets and Fiberweb impairment charges 70.5 term due to the limited opportunities available for tax liabilities compared to 31 December 2005 when the spot Fiberweb restructuring charges 11.7 Cash Flow and Debt planning and the potential lack of tax capacity in the UK.
If the recent US dollar weakness continues Cash flow from operating activities was 118.8 million, At the time of our interim results announced on Fiberweb exceptionals 84.9 throughout 2007 and the rate remains at circa $1.96 the significantly lower than the prior year of 174.0 million, due Demerger professional fees 29.4 31 August 2006 the Board explained that in the light translated value of the Groups 2006 pre tax profits would principally to the lower underlying operating profits from Staff bonuses 3.2 of the demerger of Fiberweb it had decided to rebase be some 4 million lower.
Fiberweb and the cash cost of the demerger and associated Other 1.1 future dividend payments.
The interim dividend for 2006 restructuring initiatives.
There was a free cash inflow Share Based Payments Demerger cost 33.7 was maintained at 3.5p 2005: 3.5p and the Board is now of 3.1 million compared to 86.3 million in 2005 which Fiberweb interest costs 1.5 The impact of share based payments for continuing recommending a final dividend of 5.0p 2005: 8.3p bringing reflected higher capital expenditure of 91.8 million Loss before tax from operations during the year was to increase profits by the total dividend for the year to 8.5p 2005: 11.8p.
The discontinued operations 99.4 2005: 73.3 million together with the lower cash flow from 1.6 million compared to a charge of 3.0 million in 2005. rebased total dividend for the year is estimated at 7.1p.
Assuming that Fiberweb had been The movement was principally caused by a reduction in Gain on disposal of Becorit 16.5 demerged on 1 January 2006, free cash flow for continuing the Companys share price prior to an award vesting in Loss for the period from operations would have been approximately 55.0 million.
Compared to the prior year the improvement discontinued operations 59.7 Net debt was 356.9 million, significantly lower than at benefited the results of Flight Support by 2.6 million, the end of 2005 527.1 million.
The lower debt resulted from Aftermarket Services and Systems by 1.7 million and Acquisitions the transfer of 173.1 million of debt to Fiberweb prior to its central overhead by 0.3 million.
The Group acquired four aviation businesses during the year demerger and the balance to the impact of exchange rates and took a further 40% share in the base at Athens taking Restructuring Costs and on the translation of our dollar debt which reduced net debt our share to 91% for a total consideration of 49.6 million.
Amortisation of Acquired Intangibles by 77.1 million.
This was offset by a net cash outflow of We acquired two bases to further expand our business Restructuring costs and amortisation of acquired intangibles 76.1 million in the period.
aviation network and also added Ontic and Arnoni.
These for continuing operations amounted to 8.0 million 2005 Gross capital expenditure increased to 91.8 million businesses, which are detailed on page 36 of the Directors Including non-recurring items : 23.8 million.
Further details 2005: 73.3 million and represents 1.3 times depreciation Report, have contributed approximately 36 million of of these amounts can be found in note 2 to the Consolidated 2005: 0.9 times.
Aviation expenditure amounted to turnover in 2006.
The fair market value of the assets acquired Financial Statements.
47.0 million 2005: 39.9 million with Flight Support was 19.8 million, debt acquired was 0.5 million, and the accounting for the majority of the expenditure 29.4 million resulting goodwill was 35.9 million.
principally relating to investment in our FBO facilities in Boston, Teeterboro and Paris and in the start up of our new commercial handling operation at Bangkok airport.
BBA BBA Aviation Aviation Annual Annual Repor Report t 2006 2006 Directors Report Business Review Financial Matters 30 30 31 A significant proportion of our debt is held in US dollars as Funding and liquidity Business Review a hedge against our US dollar assets.
The weakening of the The Groups operations are financed by a combination of US dollar against sterling has had a significant beneficial retained profits, equity and borrowings.
Borrowings are impact on the translated value of our dollar debt.
A profile by generally raised at Group level from banks and then lent Corporate Social Responsibility currency is shown in the table below: to operating subsidiaries on commercial terms.
The Group maintains sufficient available committed borrowing facilities Debt Cash profile by currency to meet any forecasted funding requirements.
At the end of 2006, the Group had committed bank As BBA Aviation strives to meet the ever-increasing Fair Treatment, Diversity, and Business Ethics 2006 2005 facilities of 550 million of which 78 million was undrawn.
m m expectations of our stakeholders, we are mindful of Our people form the foundation of each BBA Aviation In addition, the Group maintains uncommitted facilities for Sterling 187 503 balancing our efforts to meet those expectations with business.
To sustain a committed, progressive workforce, it is daily working capital fluctuation purposes.
At the end of US Dollars 457 810 our commitment to the fundamentals of Corporate Social critical that we treat our employees equitably.
A large part of 2006 the undrawn amount of these uncommitted facilities Euros 85 183 Responsibility CSR.
Satisfying the highest ethical standards, this investment in our employees involves ensuring that we Others 2 37 totalled 19 million.
compliance with the law, exercising appropriate sensitivity operate fairly at all times and do not permit discrimination Total 357 527 Interest rate risk management to the needs of our employees, the communities in which against any employee or applicant for employment on the The interest rate exposure arising from the Groups we work, and the environment must be integrated with our basis of race, religion or creed, colour, gender, disability, The Group has a syndicated multi-currency loan for 550 borrowing and deposit activity is managed by using a business goals in a complementary manner.
This balance national origin, age, military status, veteran status, sexual million that will expire in 2009.
We currently have headroom combination of fixed and variable rate debt instruments cannot be achieved unless all of our employees are engaged orientation or marital status.
This includes giving full and fair of approximately 110 million and have the flexibility to and interest rate swaps.
The Groups policy with respect in this effort.
Responsibility to the Board for relationships with consideration to suitable applications from disabled persons capitalise on investment opportunities as they arise.
to interest rate is to fix portions of debt for varying periods all our stakeholders lies with the Group Chief Executive.
for employment and making appropriate adjustments The Group policy with respect to cash deposits is to only based upon our debt maturity profile and an assessment so that if existing employees become disabled they can Shareholders have deposits with pre-approved banks with credit ratings of interest rate trends.
At the end of 2006 approximately continue to be employed, wherever practicable, in the We are fully committed to increasing the value of of A1 P1 and with limits on the amount deposited with each 38 per cent of the Groups total borrowings were fixed at same job or, if this is not practicable, making every effort the business to our shareholders and therefore to institution dependent on their credit rating.
Deposits are weighted average interest rates of 4.5 per cent for varying to find suitable alternative employment and to provide communicating with our shareholders to reassure them of generally for short-term maturity less than three months.
our focus on enhancing the value of the business.
In addition Not just a management philosophy, we believe in Financial Risk Management and Treasury Policies Currency risk management to publishing our CSR reports on the Groups website and instilling this commitment to fairness in our entire staff, and The main financial risks of the Group relate to funding The Groups policy is to hedge all significant transactional requesting feedback, we regularly discuss CSR issues with require that all our employees abide by the highest standards and liquidity, interest rate fluctuations and currency currency exposures through the use of forward currency them.
These discussions and the feedback we have received of ethical conduct, as reflected in the Groups Corporate exposures.
A central Treasury department that reports contracts.
It is also the Groups policy to hedge overseas via other channels offer valuable insights into those areas Social Responsibility and Code of Business Ethics Policy.
directly to the Group Finance Director and operates capital employed, including recognised goodwill, that we can expand upon in our future reports to better according to objectives, policies and authorities approved between 50 and 85 per cent by means of currency loans meet the needs of our shareholders.
Reporting by the Board, performs the management of these risks.
In July 2006 we issued our fifth annual Corporate Social Our people The overall policy objective is to use financial instruments Responsibility Report.
The text of the Report can be found on It is our obligation as a company to ensure that, regardless to manage financial risks arising from the underlying the Companys website.
We encourage you to examine the of where they work or what job they are performing, business activities and therefore the Group does not Report and to comment on our performance as well as on our employees have a safe, secure, and fulfilling work undertake speculative transactions for which there is the scope and content of the Report.
In the past our Reports environment that allows them to reach their full potential.
More details are set emphasised health, safety and environmental performance.
In order to be competitive in the marketplace and to out in note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
While these are critical elements of any measure of our ensure that we are positively impacting the communities in CSR competence, we recognise that other elements such which we do business, we must first invest in the health of as workplace diversity, community, and supply chain our employees.
Protecting our employees health and safety management deserves equal emphasis to ensure a balanced is therefore our number one priority.
During 2006 our CSR We value the talent that each individual brings to BBA Steering Committee turned its attention to these factors, Aviation.
Helping all our employees play to their strengths exploring new initiatives to bring those factors to greater and improve their skills, in both their job functions and their prominence within our corporate culture.
interactions with customers, is a key area of investment We have continued to gauge the progress of our for BBA Aviation.
It is our belief that by so doing, we can CSR programme by participation in the annual Business in continuously improve the calibre of our people, enhance the Community Corporate Responsibility Index.
Our index the success of our business, and positively impact the world score for 2005 showed continued year-to-year improvement.
In November 2006 we again completed the Index survey and look forward to receiving Business in the Communitys results and business rankings in 2007.
BBA Aviation Annual Report 2006 Directors Report Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility 32 33 Health and Safety In addition to focusing our attention on these three Our Vision Health and Safety risks are assessed through a dedicated key impacts, we continue to encourage our businesses team of health and safety professionals operating at various to become certificated to ISO 14001: Environmental levels throughout our organisation.
This includes three Management Systems.
During 2006, a number of BBA Aviation embraces its ongoing responsibility to our companies reside, on matters of health, safety, and senior level managers and numerous site-based managers sites received re-certification visits and retained their impact positively on society and the environment through environmental protection and preservation, and fair and who employ web-based audit and training tools and who certification status.
the operation of its companies and the conduct of its equitable competition and employment practices.
It is the regularly evaluate site performance.
Performance statistics Supporting our local communities and improving personnel.
This responsibility includes open and frequent individual responsibility of all BBA managers to ensure that such as recordable incident data, accident severity, lost our surrounding environment remains a priority for BBA communications with our stakeholders, employees and these critical corporate values are respected throughout work days and workers compensation claims are compiled Aviation companies.
We continue to demonstrate our customers, as well as with the communities in which our daily business operations.
on a continuous basis and reported to the Board, Executive commitment to the environment through many activities Committee and senior line management.
Improvement and initiatives, including Dallas Airmotives projects to plans are formulated and performance targets are set for develop  coatings, H S Aviations all our business units on an annual basis.
work with the Carbon Trust to reduce energy consumption, Supporting this Vision are six key values that dictate the manner in which we do business: During 2006 we enjoyed considerable progress and Signature Flight Supports sustainable design toward improving the safety performance of our member requirements for the development of a new terminal companies.
Two significant landmarks are worthy of note.
At at London Luton Airport.
year-end we recorded a Company-wide Recordable Incident Suppliers Rate of 6.6: meeting the target we set at the commencement Centralised procurement is one method that BBA Aviation Integrity Responsibility of 2006 and representing the lowest annual rate for the uses to promote our CSR principles through the supply chain.
current portfolio of our aviation businesses since we first We encourage each of our businesses to centralise their started to compile such statistics some five years ago.
In procurement processes when feasible, and source materials addition, our Company-wide accident Severity Index was and services locally when centralised procurement 44.5, markedly better than during 2005 64.4, exceeding like Performance Safety is impractical.
calculations in any prior year.
While these are encouraging We continue to actively work with suppliers and results, we realise that much work lies ahead.
Our goal is to customers to design and develop products that do not achieve an industry leadership role in safety practices and adversely impact the environment, health, or safety of performance.
As the safety improvement programmes our broader communities.
that are now embedded in our aviation service businesses People Service continue to mature, we anticipate further improvement in Local Communities and Charities the months and years to come.
Supporting the local communities in which we work and improving our surrounding environment is of paramount The Environment importance to BBA companies around the world.
We Evaluating environmental risks associated with the recognise that we form part of the broader global Integrity Safety People operation of our businesses and managing those risks community.
It is our responsibility, as a good neighbour, We earn the trust and We are fundamentally We are committed to continues to receive senior management level focus within to contribute to those locations where we are resident.
respect of our shareholders, and proactively committed investing in our people, BBA Aviation.
The same audit and training tools employed In addition to providing support to our surrounding employees, customers and to safety and security to their development to manage health and safety risk are utilised to identify communities through our practices of local employment, business partners by being the identification, evaluation through training and issues of environmental compliance and risk on a regular local training and, where appropriate, the purchase of honest, fair and open and by and elimination of hazards to providing them with basis.
Through annual self-assessments and site audits, local goods and services, we are proud to play an active honouring our commitments.
that could cause harm opportunities for rewarding our personnel develop site improvement plans, which role in a variety of local activities and charities.
to people, property and careers that support our are scrutinised by senior management.
In addition, we Responsibility our environment.
leadership position in the engage external consultants to conduct a semi-annual A Board Priority We are committed to aviation markets.
Environmental Index of all business sites in order to gauge We remain committed to CSR and it is a priority for the living by the principles and Service their impacts on the environment.
Finally, through our annual Board to make further progress during 2007.
We will report practices established by our We strive continually to Performance participation in the Business in the Environment Survey, we on our progress during the year.
Group corporate and social enhance the value of our We focus continually on take stock of our environmental performance under the responsibility and business service to customers by business performance.
ethics policies, which enable anticipating their needs, Delivering reliably the results BBA Aviation requires each of our businesses to work us to manage effectively finding effective, and we promise is essential to towards reducing our environmental footprint.
For a number our impact on society and innovative solutions to their success in BBA Aviation and of years, the Group has focused on identifying and improving the environment.
problems and investing to continued confidence in performance on its key areas of environmental impact, which in new systems, products the future of our business include waste creation, energy and water consumption.
BBA Aviation Annual Report 2006 Directors Report Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility 34 35 35 The Company has been notified, as at 26 February 2007, Suppliers payment policy Directors Report under the provisions of the Disclosure and Transparency The Company and Groups policy is to settle terms of Rules that came into force on 20 January 2007, of the payment with suppliers when agreeing the terms of each following interests in the voting rights of the Company: transaction, to ensure that suppliers are made aware of the Additional Disclosures terms of payment and to abide by the terms of the payment.
% Resolutions at the Annual General Meeting Schroders plc 7.66 The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held on Prudential plc 6.85 Standard Life Investments 6.61 Group results and dividends The consideration relating to the various acquisitions and 26 April 2007.
Accompanying this report is the Notice of the Credit Suisse 4.13 The results for the year ended 31 December 2006 are shown disposals stated above reflects exchange rates at the date Annual General Meeting, which sets out the resolutions to Legal & General Group plc 3.37 in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 60. of announcement of the relevant transaction.
be considered and approved at the meeting.
As well as more The directors recommend the payment of a final ordinary routine matters, resolutions are being proposed to amend Events after the balance sheet date Research and development share dividend for 2006 of 5.0p net per share on 18 May 2007 the Companys Articles of Association relating to borrowing On 2 February 2007, the Group acquired the assets of The Group continues to devote considerable effort and to shareholders on the register at the close of business on powers and indemnities.
The resolutions are explained in a Commercial Aircraft Products LLP.
Fuller details are set out resources to research and development of new processes 13 April 2007, which together with the interim dividend paid letter from the Chairman which accompanies the Notice.
in note 29 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Costs are charged against income as incurred.
on 3 November 2006 makes a total of 8.5p net per ordinary Charitable and political donations share for the year 2005: 11.8p.
Change in share capital Market value of land and buildings Group donations to charities worldwide were 223,800 2005: Changes in share capital are shown in note 22 to the The directors are of the opinion that the market values of Acquisitions and disposals 143,000 with UK charities receiving 6,000 2005: 4,000.
In particular the the Groups properties are not substantially different from No donations were made to any political party in either year.
Acquisitions nominal value of an ordinary BBA share changed from 25p the values included in the Groups financial statements.
16 to 29 21p as a consequence of the share consolidation Auditors 1.1 On 3 January 2006, the Group purchased Arnoni Aviation Financial risk management and treasury policies on Fiberwebs demerger.
As required by section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985, Services Inc. for an immediate cash consideration of The financial risk management and treasury policies The Company was given authority to purchase up to each of the directors, at the date of the approval of this $5.0 million 2.9 million and a deferred contingent cash of the Group are set out on page 32 and in note 17 and 14.99% of its existing ordinary share capital at the 2006 report, confirms that: consideration of up to $2.0 million 1.1 million.
18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
This was renewed at the Companys a so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit 1.2 On 17 February 2006, the Group purchased an FBO at Extraordinary General Meeting held on 16 November 2006 Board of directors information of which the Companys auditors are La Quinta, California for an immediate cash consideration in relation to the consolidated share capital of the Company.
The current directors of the Company at the date of this unaware: and of $8.1 million 4.6 million and a deferred contingent The authority will expire at the conclusion of the Annual report appear on pages 8 and 9.
Nick Land was appointed b the director has taken all the steps that he ought to have cash consideration of $0.4 million 0.2 million.
General Meeting in April 2007 unless renewed.
Accordingly, to the Board on 1 August 2006, Mark Harper was appointed taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant a special resolution to renew the authority will be proposed 1.3 On 24 February 2006, the Group purchased Ontic to the Board on 1 December 2006 and Hansel Tookes was audit information and to establish that the Companys at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Engineering & Manufacturing for a consideration of appointed to the Board on 19 February 2007, but all the other auditors are aware of that information.
Details of the resolution renewing the authority to $67.0 million 38.5 million.
current directors held office throughout the financial year Words and phrases used in this confirmation should be purchase ordinary shares are included with the Notice of under review.
interpreted in accordance with section 234ZA of the 1.4 On 1 April 2006, the Group purchased Blowitex GmbH Annual General Meeting enclosed with this Report.
Companies Act 1985. for an immediate cash consideration of 3.8 million Directors interests in shares The Company purchased and cancelled nine ordinary A resolution to reappoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as 2.7 million and a deferred contingent cash Directors interests in shares and share options are contained shares at a price of 2.72 per share during the year as part of auditors of the Company will be proposed at the Annual consideration of 0.7 million 0.5 million.
in the Directors Remuneration Report.
the preparations for the demerger of the Fiberweb business General Meeting.
and the share consolidation of the Companys ordinary 1.5 On 26 April 2006, the Group purchased a further 40% Directors Indemnities shares and to avoid the creation of a fractional share.
of the shares of Athens Aviation Services for a On 12 October 2006 the Company entered into deeds of consideration of 1.7 million 1.2 million.
indemnity in favour of each of its then directors on identical Substantial shareholdings Directors Report approved by the Board on 26 February terms under which the Company agreed to indemnify each The Company has been notified, as at 26 February 2007, 2007 and signed on its behalf by: 1.6 On 27 October 2006, Signature purchased Air-1 Aircraft, director against liabilities incurred by that director in respect under section 198 of the Companies Act 1985 as amended LLC at St Petersburg, Florida for $4.5 million 2.3 million.
of acts or omissions arising in the course of their office or of the following interests, which represented 3% or more of Michael Harper Andrew Wood 2.
Disposals otherwise by virtue of their office.
The Company entered the existing issued ordinary share capital of the Company: Executive Chairman Group Finance Director into a deed of idemnity on identical terms in favour of Mark 2.1 On 17 November 2006 the demerger of the Fiberweb Number % Harper on 17 January 2007.
All of these are qualifying third business became effective.
Barclays PLC 16,215,345 3.94 party indemnity provisions as defined by section 309B of 2.2 On 1 December 2006 the Group sold Becorit GmbH to Aviva plc 15,645,162 3.19 the Companies Act 1985.
At the date of this report, these Wabtec Corporation, USA for 39.7 million 26.8 million, indemnities are in force for the benefit of all the current on a debt free cash free basis.
directors of the Company other than Hansel Tookes.
BBA Aviation Annual Report 2006 Directors Report Additional Disclosures 36 37
