6818 Accounts 2006. qxd 16 3 07 17:33 Page 45 Substantial shareholding In respect of other suppliers the Group agrees payment terms Apart from the Directors interests referred to in the Directors when it enters into binding purchase contracts which are usually Remuneration Report and above, the following substantial to pay within 30 days.
The Group also includes within the agreed interests in the issued share capital of the Company have been terms and conditions that its suppliers pay their sub-contractors identied as at 31 December 2006. within 30 days too.
The Group seeks to abide by the payment terms with other suppliers whenever it is satisfied that the Shares % supplier has provided the goods or services in accordance with FIT Mapeley Holdings Limited 7,903,969 26.9 the agreed terms and conditions.
At 31 December 2006, the Fortress UK Acquisition Co. 6,739,931 22.9 Group had an average of 31 days owed to other suppliers 2005: 31 days.
FIT Mapeley Holdings Limited FIT MH and Fortress UK Political and charitable donations Acquisition Limited the Fortress Shareholders are the The Group made no political donations during the years companies through which Fortress Investment Trust II and ended 31 December 2006 and 2005.
Charitable donations of Fortress Registered Investment Funds, managed by an afliate 7,078 were made during the year ended 31 December 2006 of Fortress Investment Group LLC, hold ordinary shares.
Health and safety policy Directors liability insurance The Group has a formal health and safety policy in place and The Group holds Directors liability insurance and public offering complies with the Health and Safety at Work Act 1974 and of securities insurance in place with AIG Europe Limited.
associated legislation to ensure the highest possible standards of safety for its employees.
It is a primary concern of the Board Authority to purchase own shares that the Group manages its activities in such a manner as to The Company may from time to time, subject to the provisions ensure that the health and safety of its employees, tenants, of Guernsey law and the Listing Rules, purchase its own shares advisors, contractors and the general public is not compromised.
including any redeemable shares in any manner authorised by Guernsey law.
Environmental policy Mapeley has a formal environmental policy in place.
Mapeley Annual General Meeting AGM is committed to the identication of all areas of environmental The AGM of the Company will be held on 2 May 2007 in impact.
Mapeley will strive to minimise or prevent any negative Guernsey.
environmental impacts from its activities.
At the AGM, investors will be given the opportunity to question Employees the Board and to meet with them afterwards.
They are The Group recognises the contribution its employees make to its encouraged to participate in the meeting.
It acknowledges the need to attract and retain Disclosure of information to auditors employees of a high calibre and operates an equal opportunities The Directors who held ofce at the date of approval of this policy.
It believes in continuous development, and supports its Directors report confirm that: employees to achieve their self improvement goals which are set and approved annually and intended to benefit both the Group So far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit and the individuals.
information of which the Companys auditors are unaware The Group is an equal opportunities employer and strict codes of Each Director has taken all steps that he ought to have taken conduct are set out in the staff handbook to ensure that this as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit policy is pursued.
information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information During the year, the Group directly employed an average of 135 2005: 170 permanent staff excluding Non-Executive Auditors Directors, comprising: A resolution concerning the re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine their 2006 2005 % % remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Gender: women 44 46 men 56 54 All staff are clerical and professional.
In addition, through its contractors, the Group contributes to the employment of over Director 3,500 people.
7 March 2007 Supplier payment policy The Groups suppliers are divided into two categories, landlords of the Groups leasehold properties and other suppliers.
In respect of obligations payable to landlords of the Groups leasehold properties, most require payment of one quarters rent and service charges in advance.
Directors report Mapeley Limited Annual Report 2006 45 6818 Accounts 2006. qxd 16 3 07 17:33 Page 46 Directors responsibility statement Directors responsibilities for the financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable Guernsey law and those International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union.
Guernsey company law required the Directors to prepare Group financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those Group financial statements, the Directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent Prepare the Group financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the Group financial statements comply with the Companies Guernsey Law, 1994.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
46 Mapeley Limited Annual Report 2006 Directors responsibility statement
