Minerva plc Annual report and accounts 2006 20 Board of Directors Andrew Rosenfeld BSC MRICS Non-executive Chairman Aged 44 Responsible for ensuring the running of the Board.
He founded the Group in 1988, prior to which he THE BOARD COMBINES worked for merchant bankers, Schroders, in their property division, Berisford Property Group, and at A COMPREHENSIVE MIX Land Investors PLC.
OF EXPERTISE GAINED FROM MANY YEARS OF EXPERIENCE.
TOGETHER WITH THE EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT TEAM, THEY ARE FOCUSED ON DELIVERING SHAREHOLDER VALUE.
Clive Richards OBE FCA FCMA FMIM Senior non-executive Director Chairman of the Audit Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee Chairman of the Nominations Committee Aged 69 Following six years at Peat Marwick Mitchell now part of KPMG in 1960 he joined Wedd Durlacher Mordant, subsequently a major constituent part of Credit Suisse where he became Managing Partner.
From 1970 to 1976 he worked at N M Rothschild & Sons Ltd where he rose to become Group Finance Director.
In 1976 he left to set up his own investment and financial services company Clive Richards & Co which has been involved in a number of successful ventures.
He is currently non-executive Chairman of Intelligent Environments Group plc and CEL International Limited and a non-executive Director of Xpertise Group PLC.
Appointed to the Board of Minerva in November 1996.
Minerva plc Annual report and accounts 2006 21 Salmaan Hasan BA MBA Ivan Ezekiel BSC FCA ATII CF Tim Garnham BSC Chief Executive Finance Director Development Director Aged 41 Aged 40 Aged 49 Joined Minerva in July 2005 from Deutsche Responsible for finance, accounting, tax and Joined Minerva in January 1998 from the Trafalgar Postbank AG where, as Head of Property Finance, co-ordination of management and external reporting.
House Property Group where, as Deputy Managing he ran the unit for 11 years concluding over 5 billion He qualied as a Chartered Accountant with KPMG Director, he was responsible for the UK development of structured property loans in the UK and Europe.
and worked for Capital and Regional Properties plc programme including a number of major London Prior to this he worked at Industrial Bank of Japan for three years as Group Financial Controller developments.
He is responsible for the overall and Samuel Montagu in London.
He is responsible, before joining Minerva plc in November 1997 as control of the Groups development activities.
alongside the Board, in setting the strategy of Chief Financial officer.
He was appointed to the the Group, day to day management and new Board in March 2005. business initiatives.
Christopher Sheridan FCIB MSI Christopher Mackenzie Oliver Whitehead CBE Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Member designate of the Audit Committee Chairman designate Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee Chairman of the Nominations Committee Member of the Nominations Committee Member of the Nominations Committee from 1 October 2006 Aged 63 Aged 52 Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee Joined Samuel Montagu & Co Limited in 1962 and Chairman and CEO of Equilibrium, the London Aged 64 became a Director in 1974.
He was appointed head based investment advisory group.
His 30 year career of Samuel Montagus Treasury Division, with overall includes investment banking in Japan and in the Appointed to the Board of Minerva in July 2006. responsibility for all the banks dealing activities, in USA at JP Morgan and Schroders in the 1980s.
Chief Executive of Alfred McAlpine from May 1993 1976.
He was Chief Executive of Samuel Montagu In 1993, he joined GE as President of GE Capital to August 2003 and from August 2003 to present from 1984 to 1994, where as head of merchant Europe, and joined the Board of GECC in 1997. day is Chairman of Alfred McAlpine.
Between March banking of the Midland Bank Group he oversaw the In 2000, he became President and Chief Executive 2004 and February 2005 he was non-executive changes during Big Bang as well as the integration of TrizecHahn Corporation, the Canadian real Chairman of ITNET plc.
Formerly Group Chief into HSBC.
He is Chairman of Yorkshire Building estate company, where he focused on its core Executive of Babcock International Group plc, Society and non-executive Director of Alpha Bank US operations, and converted it into a REIT, having previously been an executive Director of London Limited, Hanover Acceptances Limited, Trizec Properties.
He has since concentrated his AMEC plc and John Laing plc.
Standard Bank London Limited and Deputy Chairman activities in the private equity arena, including of Inspace plc.
Appointed to the Board of Minerva property and holds a number of non-executive in November 1996. board appointments including media marketing group WPP.
