Minerva plc Annual report and accounts 2006 22 Senior management team Mark Cherry BSC MRICS Investment Aged 43 Joined Minerva in April 2005.
He comes with wide experience in the fields of investment and development having previously worked for Postel Investment Management, Nelson Bakewell, Barclays Bank and more recently as a Director of Burford.
He is responsible for specific development projects.
Peter Holroyd Construction Aged 50 Joined Minerva in October 2005 after completing the Swiss Re Tower in the City of London as Swiss Re Insurances Construction Director.
Prior to that he was in Property Development in Canada.
He is responsible for the Group's City of London construction projects.
Edward Moody BSC MRICS Asset Management Aged 45 Joined Minerva in August 1998 from the Corporation of London where he worked for nine years and headed the City Fund Portfolio.
Prior to that he had been at the London Dockland Development Corporation.
He is responsible for property asset management.
From left to right: Arthur Rixon BSC David Wood Peter Holroyd Structured Finance Edward Moody Aged 55 Arthur Rixon Joined Minerva full-time in November 1996 with Mark Cherry responsibility for general property and structured Steven Yewman finance.
He has spent 20 years in banking with Bankers Trust where he was a senior Vice President and was responsible for all aspects of structured financing both in London and the USA.
David Wood BSC ACA Financial Control Aged 35 Joined Minerva in July 2006 and is responsible for day to day financial and administrative control.
He qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Touche Ross and has worked in the property sector for the last nine years with Chelsfield plc and Multiplex.
Steven Yewman BSC MRICS Development Aged 36 Joined Minerva in May 1989 having previously worked at Land Investors plc.
His responsibilities include development activities at Park Place, together with specific new projects.
Minerva plc Annual report and accounts 2006 23 TRANSPARENCY IS A KEY INGREDIENT FOR COMMUNICATION WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS.
