Minerva plc Annual report and accounts 2006 07 The essence of our strategy is to: Introduction Operational review focus on areas where Minerva and strategy City of London Offices: has a competitive advantage Introduction for example on projects where The Walbrook, London EC4 inherent planning disciplines and Minerva, over a number of years, site-assembly skills can be used has brought together several long-term We announced this time last year, to add value : development opportunities through that having secured an option to site assembly and the achievement use limited non-recourse terminate the occupational lease of planning permissions.
Our Chief structured finance to drive with Barclays Bank at St. Swithins Executive, Salmaan Hasan, has returns: and House, we were going to spearheaded a review of the business speculatively develop The Walbrook, deliver dividend returns to and, together with the Board and a 455,000 sq.
ft. office development shareholders based upon the its executive management team, in the heart of the City of London realisation of investment and focused on delivering shareholder designed by Foster and Partners.
value through: To achieve this, in January the Group the delivery of best value from our secured a 275 million senior debt Future evolution and development three large development schemes: facility to develop the building.
Minerva will continue: The Walbrook, St. Botolphs House This funding has enabled the Group and Park Place: to commence work on this prime the entrepreneurial nature of City development this Summer, our activities: the investment in new with completion expected in the opportunities primarily which the development of opportunities third quarter of 2009.
The financing, have development situations with partners and alliances: which initially provided 75 million to that have a turnaround time refinance existing bank debt on the to maintain a high quality skill within three to five years: and site, has been structured on a project base available to the Group, the establishment of a portfolio of basis and provides the Group with either directly or indirectly: and projects, coupled with appropriate further funding of up to 140 million the improved communication with structured finance and targeted for the development of the building.
An additional 60 million is available to be drawn on reaching pre-agreed The net effect of this new approach Performance targets as the project is completed has been a transition from an and let.
Set against this strategy, 2006 has ostensibly investment-based Group been a very productive year for the to a developer model.
As we explained in last years Group as we have positioned the Annual Report, we have re-examined business to deliver significant Strategy the internal design of the planning medium long-term returns for consented scheme renewed in 2005 Minervas primary objective is to shareholders.
We have arranged creating layouts that have a wider deliver superior, long-term returns to structured acquisition and appeal in terms of divisibility to single shareholders through the investment, development funding in excess of occupiers but also provide layouts for development and management of 500 million and have progressed multi-occupation.
This will widen the UK real estate.
planning applications and schemes range of potential tenants including including managing our Croydon the financial and professional sectors.
shopping centre scheme, Park Place, through a compulsory purchase inquiry.
We have also made substantial exciting acquisitions, some in joint venture with respected partners, in new alliances to drive shareholder value.
