Minerva plc Annual report and accounts 2006 18 Business review continued Debt maturity 30 June 2006 Prospects 1 Key risks and uncertainties The Group is focused on producing 2 attractive risk-adjusted returns to 3 shareholders over the long-term through investment in a variety of property assets which typically have development opportunities, either Our developments directly or indirectly in joint venture.
4 Lancaster Gate, London W2 When making investment decisions in 1 Less than 1 year 19% 2 12 years 1% order to drive growth for shareholders This exciting opportunity involves 3 25 years 34% there is inevitably risk attached.
the redevelopment of 15 grand 4 Greater than 5 years 46% This is amplified in the UK property townhouses overlooking the sector by exposure to development north side of Hyde Park adjacent and gearing, which the group aims to Londons West End.
Debt hedging 30 June 2006 to use judiciously.
1 We are refining the planning consent in order Although we consider our judgements to maximise the potential offered by this project 2 for the future to be reasonable, we can which will create grand luxury apartments, many of them lateral, overlooking the developments give no assurance that they will prove gardens with Hyde Park beyond.
Our results may differ Underground car parking, fitness facilities and from those expressed or implied due a swimming pool are amongst the attributes that residents will enjoy.
to a variety of factors which include, though are not necessarily limited to: demand and supply of tenants and investors: 1Fixed 83% 2Floating 17% alternative uses for buildings, site assembly and re-development: planning and construction risks: funding opportunities and the interest rate environment: health and safety and environmental issues: changes in legislation, particularly in relation to planning and taxation: and economic cycles and conditions, both in the UK and abroad.
Minerva plc Annual report and accounts 2006 19 Our governance procedures and The high end residential market in The Groups strong project risk management policies seek to London has been strong over the past management culture, our vision to minimise our exposure to these risks, year and shows no signs of abating excel in our chosen markets, and the and to attain the appropriate balance at the present time.
Our key activities values we promote to ensure we whereby we also identify and exploit for our residential projects, namely realise our objectives, provide the the associated opportunities.
Lancaster Gate and the Odeon Cinema, focus to ensure successful execution.
High Street Kensington, are the Stakeholders are ever more Outlook achievement of satisfactory planning demanding of sustainable solutions consents which will then allow The central London commercial to development.
This is particularly construction to commence pursuant property market has strengthened the case where development takes to finance that we have in place.
This has place on brown-field sites and where, been particularly noticeable in the Although we acquired the Ram in densely-populated urban areas, City of London office market where Brewery site in Wandsworth post providing solutions to the needs of vacancy rates have now dropped to year-end, this project provides us local communities, for example, can 8 per cent with headline rental levels with an excellent opportunity to create assume as much importance in the improving.
Although there have an exciting mixed-use development.
eyes of business-critical stakeholders been a number of speculative Our activities over the next period as the development itself.
We together development starts within the will be focused on appointing a with our partners and consultants City market, commentators generally consultant team in order to devise possess the capability in providing believe that we are in a period of a suitable scheme for the site the required sustainable solutions.
sustained demand at least through working in conjunction with the Not only does this help us deliver to 2010. planning and statutory authorities, our obligations and reinforce our local stakeholders and residents.
credentials, it also provides us with Our City developments at a competitive edge to address the The Walbrook and St. Botolphs Our projects will involve the Group needs of our tenants and partners House are both programmed to engaging in all aspects of development for whom the sustainability issue complete within this timetable albeit, activity over the next few years and is becoming a major business driver.
St. Botolphs House will be subject to providing the property market in our We aim to continue to review our a pre-let of part of the building before sector remains robust, we expect to corporate responsibility practices, construction starts.
We therefore be able to deliver favourable returns assess the associated risks and in expect, providing the City property to shareholders.
the future, as appropriate, set key market remains buoyant, that these performance indicators.
projects will generate attractive returns.
Blueprint for delivery Our knowledge of the market, and Turning to our proposed shopping We possess a strong combination of the ability to secure and maximise centre development at Park Place, skills to maximise the prospects for the right commercial opportunities, sustained progress has been made success and to strengthen the Groups underpin our aim to be the developer, over the last 12 months.
Looking investment and value proposition.
and partner, of choice, with a leading forward, key to the strategy for this We have distinctive levels of expertise reputation.
We are particularly project is a favourable outcome to and experience at executive level.
committed to developing our the compulsory purchase inquiry In our Annual Report for 2005, relationships and networks as a and we expect to learn of the we set out the changes we were means of leveraging value and decision early in 2007.
This will then making to strengthen our skill set at advantage in highly competitive allow us to move forward with Lend the top of the Group.
We now have market conditions.
Lease, our development managers, a team which, in terms of capability to progress this scheme.
and performance, possesses the attributes necessary to deliver the new strategy.
