board of directors 1 3 2 4 1. nigel ellis 3. adrian wyatt chairman chief executive Aged 67, a Chartered Accountant, Nigel Aged 58, Adrian established Quintain in joined Quintain in 1995 as a non-executive 1992.
He is a Chartered Surveyor and a Director following his retirement from Chartered Financial Analyst.
As Chief BAA Plc, where he was Group Finance Executive and Deputy Chairman, he is Director from 1988.
Prior to that he was responsible for all areas of the Groups Finance Director of Hammerson Plc.
strategy and is closely involved with all acquisitions and disposals.
He is also Nigel became Chairman of Quintain in a member of the Donations and March 1996 and is also Chairman of its Nominations Committees.
Prior to the formation of Quintain, Adrian spent 2. nick shattock 21 years at Jones Lang LaSalle, where he gained extensive experience of tax planning deputy chief executive and financial structures as a Proprietary Aged 46, a lawyer, Nick heads Quintains Partner in charge of fund management and Special Projects division which manages the founder of its finance company.
Groups larger assets, complex restructuring and urban regeneration programmes.
4. rebecca worthington Projects include the major regeneration opportunities on the Greenwich Peninsula finance director and at Wembley.
Aged 34, Rebecca joined Quintain in March 1998 as Group Accountant.
In July 2001, He joined Quintain in 1995 from the City law she was appointed Finance Director with rm SJ Berwin where he was a partner for additional responsibility for Quintains five years.
Investor Relations and is also responsible for the administration of the Group.
She had Nick was appointed Deputy Chief Executive previously held the position of Company in May 2006.
Secretary from March 2000 to July 2002.
Rebecca also acts as Chairman of the Risk Committee.
Rebecca quali ed as a Chartered Accountant with  in 1997 and worked as Financial Controller for Britton Group plc prior to joining Quintain.
28 Quintain estates and development plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2006 5 7 9 6 8 10 5. lady judge 7. david pangbourne 9. joan macnaughton cb previously known as Barbara Thomas non-executive director non-executive director non-executive director independent independent independent Aged 66, David was appointed to the Aged 55, Joan MacNaughton was appointed Aged 59, Lady Judge was appointed to the Board in August 2001.
He is a Chartered as a non-executive Director of the Group in Board of Quintain in March 2000.
She is a Accountant and spent most of his working January 2004. lawyer, an international banker and entrepreneur.
life with Deloitte & Touche where he was a partner for 24 years until retiring in 1997.
Joan has worked for the Civil Service throughout Formerly Lady Judge was a Commissioner her career.
She is currently Director General, of the US Securities & Exchange Commission David had a special interest in taxation International Energy Security in the DTI, having and an executive Director of Samuel Montagu in the UK and internationally.
He has joined that Department in January 2002 as and News International, among others.
experience in working with substantial Director General, Energy.
Previous positions multinational companies, including included Director General, Policy Lord She is currently Chairman of the UK Atomic those involved in property.
Chancellors Department, Chief Executive Energy Authority, Deputy Chairman of the Police Information Technology Organisation Financial Reporting Council and Chairman David is Chairman of the Groups and Principal Private Secretary to the Rt Hon.
of the Professional Standards Advisory Board Audit Committee and a member of its Kenneth Clarke, the Rt Hon.
Michael Howard of the Institute of Directors.
She is also Remuneration, Nominations, Risk and and Lord Whitelaw while he was Deputy Deputy Chairman of Friends Provident plc, Donations Committees.
In 2004, she was elected chair a non-executive Director of Private Equity of the Governing Body of the International Investor plc, Portmeirion Group PLC, Hardy Energy Agency.
8. john plender Underwriting Group plc, Nationwide Accident non-executive director Repair Services Plc, Planet Group Inc, Eaglet Joan is Chairman of the Groups Donations independent Investment Trust PLC and Victory Group plc.
Committee and a member of the Audit, Aged 61, John joined the Company as a Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
Lady Judge is a member of the Groups Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and 10. tom cross brown John trained as a Chartered Accountant and Donations Committees and is the Senior non-executive director is a former chairman of PIRC.
He is currently Independent Director.
independent a leading journalist with the Financial Times, and brings to the Group a wide experience Aged 58, Tom Cross Brown was appointed 6. martin meech as a non-executive Director of the Group in in both investment and corporate non-executive director governance issues.
May 2005. independent Aged 48, Martin was appointed to the Board in John is a member of the Groups Audit, Tom has extensive fund management and July 2000 and since October 2005 has been corporate finance experience and was Remuneration, Nomination, Risk and Group Property Director of Travis Perkins plc Donations Committees.
formerly Global Chief Executive Of cer of and Chief Executive of Travis Perkins Property ABN Amro Asset Management and prior to Limited.
Prior to that he was Managing Director that spent 21 years at Lazard Brothers where of Dixons Group Retail Properties Limited, part he was latterly Chief Executive of Lazard of DSG International plc.
He is currently a non-executive Director of Pearl Martin is a Fellow of the Royal Institution of Group Limited and Artemis Apha Trust plc.
Chartered Surveyors and Chairman of the Groups Remuneration Committee and a Tom is a member of the Groups Audit, member of its Audit, Donations, Risk and Remuneration, Nominations, Risk and Nominations Committees.
quintain estates and development plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2006 29
