report from the principal external valuers Jones Lang LaSalle Limited quintain estates and development plc property portfolio valuation 31 march 2006 In accordance with your instructions we have valued the freehold and leasehold investment properties, as set out in the attached schedule as at 31 March 2006 for the purposes of your annual accounts.
Our valuations have been made in accordance with the Practice Statements in the RICS Appraisal and Valuation Standards 5th Edition, on the basis of market value, the full fide nition of which accompanies the General Principles attached hereto, to which we would draw your attention.
We have inspected the top 30 properties by value, a third of the remainder and all properties acquired over the last twelve months.
For each property we have made relevant local enquiries and obtained such other information as we considered necessary to provide you with our opinions of value.
No allowance has been made in our valuations for expenses of realisation or for any taxation which might arise in the event of a disposal and our valuations are expressed as exclusive of any Value Added Tax that may become chargeable.
Our valuations assume that there is good and marketable title to the properties and that they are free of any undisclosed burdens, outgoings, restrictions or charges.
We have not read all documents of title nor leases and, for the purpose of our valuations, have accepted the details of tenure, tenancies and all other relevant information with which we have been supplied by your Company or other professional advisers.
We have not seen or read the planning consents and have assumed that the buildings have been erected and are being occupied and used in accordance with all requisite consents and that there are no outstanding statutory notices.
We were not instructed to carry out structural surveys of the properties, nor to test any of the services, but have re ected in our valuations, where necessary, any defects, items of disrepair or the bene t of any improvements which we noticed during the course of our inspections, or of which you have subsequently advised us.
Our valuations assume that the buildings contain no deleterious materials, and that the sites are unaffected by adverse soil conditions or environmental contamination, except where we have been noti ed to the contrary.
Should it, however, be established subsequently that contamination exists at any property or on any neighbouring land or that the premises have been or are being put to a contaminative use, this might reduce the values now reported.
Unless expressly advised to the contrary we assume that appropriate insurance cover is and will be available on commercially acceptable terms relating to composite panels, terrorism and ooding.
Accordingly, our opinions of value make no allowance for the risk that insurance cover for any property may not be available, or may only be available on onerous terms, or for any adverse market reaction to the presence of composite panels.
All our valuations are net of Stamp Duty Land Tax and normal purchasers costs.
We have not made any allowance for properties that are jointly owned and have therefore re ected the full open market value of these properties in our certi cate.
Adjustments should be made elsewhere in your accounts for any partial interests.
Having regard to the foregoing, we are of the opinion that the aggregate of the market values of the freehold and leasehold properties, as at 31 March 2006, subject to and with the bene t of the tenancies then subsisting where applicable, was: 324,185,000 THREE HUNDRED AND TWENTY FOUR MILLION ONE HUNDRED AND EIGHTY FIVE THOUSAND POUNDS Categorised as follows: Freehold and feuhold 167,570,000 Short leasehold 15,625,000 Part freehold and part leasehold 15,275,000 Long leasehold 125,715,000 In addition to the above we understand that as at the date of our valuation contracts for sale had been exchanged for the disposal of eight properties.
Seven of these are being sold as a portfolio at a contract price of 33.33m.
The eighth property at The Arcade, Aldershot is being sold at the contract price of 5.635m.
These properties are not included in the aggregate valuation above, but we have highlighted them on the attached Schedule of Properties.
In accordance with our normal practice, we con rm that this Report is con dential to the Company Directors for the speci c purpose to which it refers.
No responsibility is accepted to any third party, and neither the whole of the Report, nor any part, nor reference thereto, may be published in any document, statement or circular, nor in any communication with third parties without our prior written approval of the form and context in which it will appear.
In accordance with the RICS requirements on disclosure we con rm that: the annual fee income from the valuation is less than 5% of our turnover: and Jones Lang LaSalle have been appointed as one of the external valuers since the formation of the Company, during which time the signatory has been rotated.
Finally, we con rm that the above valuation has been carried out by us as External Valuers, quali ed for the purposes of the valuation in accordance with the requirements of the Practice Statements in the RICS Appraisal and Valuation Standards.
Yours faithfully j p etches mrics Associate Director For and on behalf of jones lang lasalle limited 44 quintain estates and development plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2006 report from the principal external valuers Savills Commercial Limited and Christie Co land holdings at greenwich peninsula, silvertown and wembley We con rm that we have inspected the above properties and made all relevant enquiries in order to provide you with our opinion of Market Value as at 31 March 2006 of the various property interests which Quintain Estates and Development PLC hold.
We con rm that our valuations have been carried out in accordance with the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors Appraisal and Valuation Manual and that we have carried out the valuation as External Valuers, quali ed for the purpose of the valuation in accordance with that Manual.
Our valuations have been made on the basis of the fide nition, terms of reference, information sources, assumptions and conditions as noted in our formal Valuation Certi cate dated 3 May 2006.
In particular, no allowance has been made in our valuations for any expenses of realisation or any taxation liability arising from a sale of any property and all gures are expressed exclusive of Value Added Tax.
Our valuations are on the basis that each property has a good and marketable title and is free from any undisclosed burdens, outgoings, restrictions or charges.
We have, for the purpose of our valuations, been provided with plans and particulars as to tenure and the terms of leases as have been contained within various documents supplied to us by the Company or its professional advisers.
Having carefully considered this matter, we have reported our opinion of Market Value as at 31 March 2006 of the Freehold and other interests held, subject to and with the bene t of the existing leases and otherwise with vacant possession, at an aggregate of 553,350,000 Five Hundred and Fifty Three Million Three Hundred and Fifty Thousand Pounds.
All of the properties are held for redevelopment.
The above total includes a 100% share of the interest at Silvertown of 25,200,000.
The gure re ecting the terms of a Joint Venture Agreement with the London Development Agency at that property is 17,500,000 with the aggregate reducing to 545,650,000 Five Hundred and Forty Five Million Six Hundred and Fifty Thousand Pounds.
Our Valuation Certi cate comments on the high degree of subjectivity in this instance for all of the properties and various other property speci c matters.
In particular, our valuation of Wembley includes the value of an option to acquire the freehold and long leasehold interests in land notwithstanding that the option is non-assignable.
As discussed with the Company and its auditors, our valuation disregards this restriction.
This letter is a shortform con rmation of our valuation for inclusion in the Companys Report and Accounts.
No reliance should be placed upon it without simultaneous reference to our formal Valuation Certi cate, copies of which have been provided to you and which are available for inspection at your of ces by interested parties.
Yours faithfully stephen reasbeck mrics Director For and on behalf of savills commercial limited quercus healthcare property partnership quercus, tri-care assets, progress housing assets We con rm that we have inspected a sample of the above portfolio of 202 properties and made all relevant enquiries in order to provide you with our opinion of Market Value as at 31 March 2006.
We con rm that our valuations have been carried out in accordance with the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors Appraisal and Valuation Standards and that we have carried out the valuation as External Valuers, quali ed for the purpose of the valuation in accordance with those standards.
The Valuations are based on inspections of 14 Properties during March 2006 within Quercus together with desk top reviews of all the other Properties.
For these desk top reviews we have relied upon information provided together with our general knowledge of the industry and Properties.
The Inspected Properties were selected by Christie Co in conjunction with Quercus and considered to be representative in terms of geography, size, type of care provided and tenant company.
Based on our overall knowledge of the Portfolio and the previous inspections of 85 properties we carried out in December 2004 plus March, June and December 2005, we consider the sample to be fully representative, equating to around 52% of the Portfolio.
The Tri-Care and Progress assets were inspected in March 2004.
For the avoidance of doubt, three assets Clark Hospital, Hull and East Riding Hospital and Fylde Coast Hospital have been valued by Messrs DTZ Tie Leung and we have relied upon their valuation in arriving at our own opinion of value of the Portfolio.
Our valuations have been made on the basis of the fide nition, terms of reference, information sources, assumptions and conditions as noted in our formal valuation report dated 31 March 2006, we draw attention to the fact that the valuations exclude any liability that arises or could arise in respect of VAT, taxation and the costs of acquisition or realisation.
We have not been provided with title deeds or reports on title in respect of the Properties and have therefore assumed that all Properties are free from any unusual or onerous restrictions, encumbrances, easements or outgoings, that good title can be shown and that all covenants including leasehold covenants, restrictions and stipulations affecting the Properties have been complied with.
We are of the opinion that if the Portfolio was sold in a single transaction in the market at the present time, a premium would be achieved for the reasons set out in full in our report.
In our opinion the value of the Portfolio if sold in a single transaction as at 31 March 2006 is in the order of 552,000,000 Five Hundred and Fifty Two Million Pounds.
This letter is a short form con rmation of our valuation for inclusion in the Company Reports and Accounts.
No reliance should be placed upon it without simultaneous reference to our formal valuation report, copies of which have been provided to you.
Yours faithfully martin robb bsc mrics Director For and on behalf of christie co quintain estates and development plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2006 45
