58 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2006 Our Governance Board of Directors 2 4 1 3 5 1.
Peter Smith Chairman of Savills plc, and Chairman of the 3.
Martin Angle Independent Non-Executive Director 5.
Simon Hope Director Aged 42, first joined Savills in September Appointments Committee Aged 60, Peter was appointed to the Aged 56, was appointed to the Board on 2 January 2007.
He is a 1986 and was appointed to the Board on 1 May 1999.
He is the Executive Board as a Non-Executive Director on 24 May 2004 and was elected Non-Executive Director of OAO Severstal, Dubai International Capital LLC, Director responsible for our Capital Markets team and Cordea Savills.
Chairman with effect from 1 November 2004.
His other non-executive Celerant Consulting Chairman, and the National Exhibition Centre He is head of Savills Commercial Investment, a Director of Savills Finance appointments are: N M Rothschild & Sons Limited, The Equitable Life Chairman.
Formerly, he has served on the Board of TI Group plc, where Holdings plc and a member of the Charities Fund Property Board.
Assurance Society, Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC he was Group Finance Director, and held various executive roles with Terra and Associated British Foods plc.
He is a Member of the Board of the CBI.
Firma Capital Partners and its portfolio companies, including The Waste 6.
Timothy Ingram Senior Independent Non-Executive Formerly Peter was Senior Partner of  LLP PwC Recycling Group Executive Chairman and Le Meridien Hotel Group Director Aged 59, was appointed to the Board on 27 June 2002.
He is and served for two years as Chairman of Coopers & Lybrand International Deputy Chairman.
Chief Executive of Caledonia Investments plc and a Non-Executive Director and as a member of the global leadership team of PwC.
He served as of The Sage Group plc, ANZ Bank Europe Limited and Alok Industries Chairman of RAC Plc and was a Non-Executive Director of Safeway plc.
Jeremy Helsby Director Aged 51, joined Savills in 1980 and was Limited.
He was formerly Chief Executive of First National Finance appointed to the Board in 1999.
He is the Executive Director responsible Corporation, a main Board Director of Abbey National plc and a 2.
Aubrey Adams Group Chief Executive Aged 57, was appointed to for the UK and European Commercial business.
He became Chairman Non-Executive Director of Hogg Robinson plc.
the Board on 12 February 1990 and appointed as Managing Director on of Savills Commercial Limited on 1 January 2001, is Chairman of Savills 19 December 1990 and Group Chief Executive on 1 June 2000.
He holds Europe and a Director of Savills Asia Pacific Limited.
Non-Executive Directorships with Pinnacle Regeneration Group plc and Unitech Corporate Parks plc.
He is also a Trustee of The Wigmore Hall.
59 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2006 Our Governance Board of Directors 6 9 10 78 7.
Robert McKellar Chief Executive Asia Pacific Aged 47, was 9.
Rupert Sebag-Montefiore Director Aged 53, joined Savills in Audit Committee appointed to the Board on 1 June 2000 having served as Finance Director 1980 and was appointed to the Board on 31 May 1995.
On 26 October Remuneration Committee of Savills Commercial Limited since December 1994.
He was appointed 2004, he became Chairman of Savills L&P Limited, having served Appointments Committee Chief Executive-Asia Pacific on 31 March 2005. as its Managing Director since May 2000.
He is the Executive Director Executive Sub Committee responsible for the UK residential and general practice surveying business.
Charles McVeigh Independent Non-Executive Director and In January 2001, he was appointed to the Board of Fastcrop plc the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Aged 64, was appointed to holding company of Primelocation.
com, an internet property aggregator the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 1 August 2000.
He is currently site and was appointed Chairman of that company on 3 November 2004.
Chairman of Citigroups Corporate and Investment Banking-Global Wealth He served as a Non-Executive Director of Adventis Group plc during its Management Partnership, having until recently been Co-Chairman of AIM flotation and is a Governor of Bournemouth University.
Citigroups European Investment Bank formerly known as Schroder Salomon Smith Barney.
He also serves on the Board of EFG-Hermes and 10.
Fields Wicker-Miurin Independent Non-Executive is a member of both the Development Board and Advisory Council of the Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee Aged 48, was Princes Trust.
Formerly he has served on the Boards of Witan Investment appointed to the Board on 27 June 2002.
She is founder and partner of Company plc, Clearstream, the London Stock Exchange, LIFFE and British Leaders Quest and chairs its Advisory Board.
She is Non-Executive American Business Inc: he was also appointed by the Bank of England to Director of D Carnegie AB and the CDC Group.
She is an Independent serve on the City Capital Markets Committee and the Legal Risk Review Member of the DTIs Executive Board and of the UK Governments Committee.
He was also a member of the Fulbright Commission.
She is also a governor of Kings College London.
Previously she was Chief Financial Officer and Director of Strategy at the London Stock Exchange.
