24 Business review Case study Brownfield renewal Dursley, Gloucestershire Project progress 2002 2004-2007 Selected by SWRDA Site remediation works Background 01 Acquired in 2002, through a development agreement with South West Regional Development Agency, this mixed use 92 acre regeneration scheme will redevelop the former Lister Petter manufacturing site.
Our Vision An exemplar urban village including 600 homes, the creation of 1,000 jobs and local facilities.
The project involves the opening up of the culverted river Cam and its sustainability credentials will be enhanced by a district-wide biomass heating and hot water system, together with photovoltaic cells for a significant proportion of the homes.
2006 activities have included: obtaining a resolution to grant outline planning permission, subject to entering into a S106 agreement: the acquisition of the Drake House office building for letting as a business centre: remediation of foundry sand heaps and a former town gas works: the creation of a site for a business park zone: the opening up of the first stretch of the river Cam: and the sale of the Towers for refurbishment to include a 44-bed nursing home.
CESR We have worked closely with the Environment Agency to agree and then implement an innovative remediation strategy, opening up the culverted river Cam that bisects the site to form a central green corridor and remediating over 200,000 tonnes of foundry sand and a former town gas works.
The foundry sand, after extensive testing, was approved for use as structural fill and demolition materials are being reused on site.
Only 1 lorry load of contaminated materials has left the site during the year.
Additionally, as part of our commitment to creating an exemplar urban village, the stewardship of the estate including the biomass and other community facilities will be vested in a Community Interest Company.
CESR highlight The site of the former town gas works during the remediation process.
Dealing with the severe forms of contamination that this type of former use leaves is a skill the company has developed.
At Dursley the main remediation strategy involved the use of winrows with some active bio-remediation dramatically reducing off-site disposal of contaminated materials.
Business review 25 03 2007-2008 2008-2010 2010 Residential Commercial development Project land sales completion 02 01 An aerial view of the site as the reclamation 03 gathers pace.
02 A ground level view of the same area showing the sheer scale of the reclamation process: the truck in the picture has a load capacity of 24 tonnes.
03 Drake House, the former Lister Petter head office which has been refurbished as a business centre.
26 Business review Case study Town centre regeneration Edmonton Green, London N19 Project progress 1999 2000-2003 2004 Site purchased Planning approval Demolition Background 01 The company acquired the shopping centre in 1999, through a 150 year lease and a development agreement with the London Borough of Enfield.
The mixed use development of the 26 acre project is extremely complex and required the participation of numerous public and private sector organisations, including the London Borough of Enfield, Transport for London.
Enfield Primary Care Trust, London and Quadrant Housing Trust, the Metropolitan Housing Trust, Tower Homes, ASDA and the existing tenants in the shopping centre.
Our Vision A comprehensive 100m mixed-use development to regenerate Edmonton Green, providing major community uses including a Primary Care Trust facility, a leisure centre, and a bus station, in addition to substantial new retail provision, and residential units.
Construction of the first phase including part of the new retail and 177 residential units, the primary care centre, bus station, and leisure centre and the refurbishment of a multi-storey car park will be completed by spring 2007.
The demolition of the existing leisure centre and construction of the further leisure and retail, including an ASDA foodstore and a bingo hall, are due to be completed in spring 2008.
Succeeding phases include the overall refurbishment of the existing shopping centres malls and the redevelopment of North Square for retail and residential use.
CESR For seven years we have worked closely with the council to help meet its aspirations to regenerate this tired area.
We have consulted extensively with the local community, running the existing shopping centre and markets with a hands-on local management team, ensuring that the development programme addresses community needs and is delivered with minimum disruption.
CESR highlight We have become an active participant in the local community over the lengthy period of our involvement by various means including: The opening of the bus station in January is a key part of our scheme.
It will provide an sponsoring the Potters Bar under 11s football team and the integrated and sustainable transport solution for Metropolitan Police Street Vibe scheme an educational the community.
The bus station will be one of the programme which is run in local schools : and by providing ten busiest bus terminals in London, handling in subsidised or free accommodation to the Artzone community excess of 5 million passengers a year.
centre, a credit union and UK Emp an employment charity.
Business review 27 03 2005-2008 2008-2009 2010 Construction of new retail, Refurbishment of shopping centre Project leisure and residential completion 02 01 The abandoned 1960s car park in the course of 03 demolition.
02 A view of one of the residential buildings looking across the new leisure centre.
03 The new entrance to the shopping centre with a 1960s tower framed by the redevelopment.
28 Business review Case study Partnering industry Longbridge, Birmingham Project progress 2001-2004 2005-2006 2006-2008 Site assembly Resolution of Planning approval and demolition occupancy issues Background 01 The companys interest in this former MG Rover car manufacturing facility, near junction 4 M5, began in 2001 when we were selected as development partner for 57 acres of surplus land initially by MG Rover, subsequently by Advantage West Midlands AWM.
The remaining 414 acres were acquired in two tranches in 2003 and 2004.
Following the failure of MG Rover, Nanjing Automobile Corporation acquired certain assets of the business and took over the 33 year residue of the lease on 105 acres of the South works.
The remainder of the site is being masterplanned for a mixed-use development.
Our Vision A major mixed-use, employment-led development, aimed at transforming the Longbridge area, with a target of 10,000 jobs, more than replacing the 6,500 jobs lost at the time of the collapse of MG Rover.
Key elements will include a technology park, a new heart for Longbridge with retail and community facilities, residential development, and associated infrastructure.
This development is being processed through a joint Birmingham Bromsgrove Area Action Plan with extensive public consultation.
The plan is currently in its penultimate stage, with a preferred option being consulted upon.
If it successfully passes this stage, the plan will be adopted for an examination in public later this year, after which planning applications can be submitted.
Utilising a planning consent obtained under the earlier development agreement, the company is already on site constructing 80,000 sq ft of office space in an innovation centre and grow-on building which will be handed over in June.
Demolition of 3m sq ft of redundant buildings began in 2006 and will be completed by September 2007.
CESR The company has never shirked involvement in public consultation, CESR highlight but the Longbridge Area Action Plan has taken its participation to an even higher level.
Demolition of the North works by September 2007, over 3m sq ft of redundant space will have After an initial telephone survey and review with stakeholders, the been demolished.
22,000 tonnes of steel will be consultation has already covered three stages involving newsletters sent recycled.
All the brick, concrete and similar out to 22,000 homes, examination of resultant feedback, numerous materials will have been crushed for re-use on public meetings and other meetings with special interest groups.
site, and the amount sent to landfill will be the small residue where co-mingling of materials Whilst the consultation has been led by consultants appointed by makes recycling impractical.
the councils, St. Modwen has had a significant involvement throughout the process, being willing to talk or to meet with anyone who had a view to express.
This process has undoubtedly helped the creation of a masterplan that will achieve public acceptance and a true sense of community involvement.
Business review 29 03 2008-2015 2015 Mixed use development Project completion 02 01 An aerial view of Longbridge showing the areas 03 where 3m sq ft of space has either been demolished or is in the process of demolition.
02 A tense moment, the landmark conveyor crossing the A38 is dismantled.
03 New and old: the frame of the innovation centre in the right foreground contrasts with the old West works building in the course of demolition.
Photographs by Stuart Whipps, who won the Guardian Young Photographer of the Year Award for his study of Longbridge.
30 Business review Case study Restoring heritage Trentham Gardens, Staffordshire Project progress 1996 1997-2004 Site purchased Planning approval Background 01 Trentham, a popular tourist venue over the past c entury, was acquired in 1996 from British Coal through Trentham Leisure a joint venture with Mr Willi Reitz, a German wine and leisure entrepreneur.
The 750-acre historic North Staffordshire estate is undergoing a 100m restoration to re-instate it as one of the UKs leading visitor destinations.
With the support of Stafford Borough Council, Staffordshire County Council, and neighbouring local authorities, outline planning consent was obtained for its restoration in 2003.
Our Vision The restoration of the historic Italian gardens, designed and created in the nineteenth century by Sir Charles Barry, is the centrepiece of the proposed development that will create 1,000 jobs.
Working closely with English Heritage, leading designers have been commissioned to restore and add contemporary flair to the historic gardens.
In 2005 the Laurent-Perrier Trentham garden, designed by Tom Stuart-Smith, won a prestigious gold medal at the Chelsea Flower Show, evidencing the extremely high standards attained by this project.
The gardens attraction has been widened by including a childrens activity centre and a barefoot walking trail.
The buildings have been replaced by a 65,000 sq ft garden centre and 68,000 sq ft shopping village a further 67,000 sq ft remains to be developed.
Additional innovative visitor attractions include a monkey forest with over 140 free-roaming Barbary macaques, and an aerial extreme tree-top activity centre.
In 2007, a 120 bedroom three star hotel is under construction and pre-let to the Tulip Inn group with a free standing high quality restaurant, both at the main entrance.
Four shopping kiosks are being built in the shopping village and a new series of gardens designed by Piet Ouldof are being created.
Further phases of the shopping village and other attractions such as a winery will be initiated in future years.
The creation of a five star hotel from the ruins of Trentham Hall is planned as the final element of the scheme.
In 2006 there were over 2.1m visitors to the estate, which is already recognised as a tourist and leisure destination of national CESR highlight significance.
The estate, a large part of which is a SSSI, CESR continues to embody the highest commitment to The project is a rare combination of innovative commercial sustainable ecology.
As well as the works in the enterprise, job creation and environmental enhancement.
gardens, an extensive programme of ecological restoration and management is being undertaken The shopping village based on craft, heritage, and tourist retail in the wooded areas, including control of non provides an innovative and diverse shopping destination from native and invasive species and the established and new businesses, very different from the standard encouragement of the regeneration of the native multiple-dominated shopping mall.
Over 500 jobs have already been created.
Additionally, the garden volunteers programme has provided an opportunity for 40 local people to acquire new horticultural skills under expert guidance.
For 12 of the volunteers, this programme has been part of a return-towork and rehabilitation programme for people with special needs.
Business review 31 03 2004-2008 2008-2010 2010 Garden restoration and retail Operational enhancement Project development completion 02 01 An evening shot demonstrates the elegance of the 03 new entrance bridge into the Italian gardens.
02 An early morning autumn shot shows the glory of the Italian gardens, Piet Ouldofs emerging garden in the Eastern pleasure grounds, and the commercial core.
03 A view across the Italian gardens showing Tom Stuart-Smiths modern interpretation of Barrys great garden.
32 Community, environmental and social responsibility CESR at the heart of our business 01 01 Llanwern Our projects, are very variable, and each is viewed as an entity in A pre-demolition photograph showing the scale and challenge of the itself with its own challenges and impacts to address.
We are, regeneration the company undertakes.
therefore, still reporting on a project-based narrative approach but we are looking to see if we can identify measurable corporate CESR targets that we could set on a meaningful basis to enhance further our reporting in future years.
The company has for many years been at the forefront of what is now known as corporate responsibility.
We undertake the various activities set out below, not because it is fashionable to do so, nor because it is mandated by regulation, but because it is the very essence of our business.
Community, environmental and social responsibility 33 We are closely aligned with the communities in which we operate, During the year the company has demonstrated its enduring continually mindful of the impact of our developments on the local commitment and contribution to the environment and to the area.
We contribute to local communities by creating new principles set out above, as shown by the following examples:- workplaces and homes, supporting local enterprise, building new community facilities, and improving infrastructure.
And in all this, we Brownfield land renewal seek to enhance the environment, repairing the damage done by We believe that it is vitally important to reclaim and redevelop previous occupiers and by developing to the highest possible redundant sites to bring them back into effective use.
we aim to build on previously used land: during 2006 91% of our building activity was on brownfield land.
In achieving this level, the The company is a specialist in regeneration with many partnerships company has become skilled in the techniques of remediating prewith local and regional authorities and engages regularly with used land such as: former collieries, factories, steel works and even government through the planning and environmental regulatory a zinc smelter and a power station.
The company is determined to maintain its high Regeneration Activities in 2006 reputation for delivery and integrity and as a good partner with No.
Schemes Brownfield sites under development 68 St. Modwen is committed to improving the built environment, and Remediation work in progress 47 undertakes projects that seek to transform areas of dereliction and decay into sustainable communities.
One of the companys key At Llanwern we have reclaimed over 1,000 tonnes of scrap metal strengths is its ability and willingness to undertake difficult and long from the site, and are re-using the crushed concrete arising from term projects, particularly in the remediation of contaminated breaking up the surface slabs.
In conjunction with the Environment brownfield land, the regeneration of tired town centres, the reuse of Agency, we are currently undertaking extensive remediation trials redundant former employment complexes, and in the restoration of over 10 acres of the site to assess the effectiveness of a variety of heritage assets of both local and national importance.
We are also progressing plans for the reuse of local green waste to generate soil on site, and also to reuse on site slag, In all of its dealings, the company will: coke and several other waste products from the former steelwork operations.
Comply with all applicable environmental legislation, regulations, standards and best practice: At Longbridge the demolition of the former MG Rover factory will Develop operational procedures designed to minimise pollution result in the remediation of 159 acres of brownfield land.
The risks and to deal effectively with any incidents which occur: enormous scale of this project is evidenced by the activities Take positive action to minimise waste and to encourage undertaken in 2006. recycling: Improve efficiency in the use of land, energy, water and Longbridge Remediation Activities construction materials: Steel recovered to date and sent for recycling 10,000 tonnes Work in partnership with our professional advisors, suppliers Steel being recovered in the next 6 months and sub-contractors to ensure effective environmental supply under demolition contracts which have been let 12,000 tonnes chain management, alongside quality, price and other Brickwork and concrete crushed to date for purchasing criteria: reuse on site 75,000 tonnes Manage the environmental impact of our schemes through the Brickwork and concrete which will be crushed use of carefully thought-out layout, design and specification: in the next 6 months under demolition Train employees to enhance their awareness of, and contracts which have been let 130,000 tonnes commitment to, maximising environmental performance: and Petrol recovered to date from the MG Rover Review the companys environmental policy annually to take spillage and sent for re-refining 365,000 litres account of organisational, legislative and fiscal changes.
Conversion of existing production space for reuse 800,000 sq ft 34 Community, environmental and social responsibility 01 Demolition The messy side of life: part of Longbridge during the demolition process in partnership with Advantage West Midlands.
02 Demolition Working within the constraints of a tight site on a slab over the West coast main railway line, the works at Wembley in our joint venture redevelopment with Rotch required careful planning to ensure that design loads were never exceeded.
At Newton le Willows, we have commenced the first phase of an The Llanwern consultation, monitored by consultants PPS, is typical extensive site remediation strategy that will involve the treatment of of the companys extensive efforts.
300,000 tonnes of hydrocarbonand heavy metal-impacted material, and the demolition of over 400,000 sq ft of derelict In order to ensure that stakeholders and the local community were buildings.
So far we have remediated 5 acres of land, and have reprovided with every opportunity to contribute to the development used 10,000 tonnes of crushed concrete from the demolition phase of the scheme, PPS applied the companys seven-point programme of the project.
for effective public consultation in the planning process: Community involvement 1.
Notify the community must be made aware of the We recognise that our business should be conducted in a socially consultation programme along with a timescale of different as well as an environmentally responsible way, and so we strive to activities conduct all our business activities in a fair and balanced manner, 2.
Inform having notified people of the consultation process, respecting and responding to social and ethical issues arising from information is then provided on the background of the our commercial activities.
proposed development and any constraints that may be influential.
Our policy is to work for the advantage of the local communities 3.
Consult members of the public and key stakeholder groups around our developments and to treat all of our business partners liaise with the project team and put forward ideas and as we would hope to be treated ourselves.
Measure and analyse results having allowed an A real public private partnership working arrangement lies at the acceptable timeframe for everyone with an interest to core of any successful regeneration project.
St. Modwen is comment, the results of the consultation are then quantified experienced in working with public sector bodies throughout the 5.
Report back feedback is then analysed and the results UK.
Through a programme of regular high level strategic meetings, publicised within the community and through stakeholder coupled with frequent working group meetings, the company groups creates those vital working arrangements.
Respond and change respond to the views of the community and incorporate changes into the scheme, where Current examples of this are the longstanding partnerships with possible Enfield Borough Council for our major Edmonton Green scheme, 7.
Publish proposals at the end of the process the proposals initiated in 1999, Welwyn & Hatfield District Council for the Hatfield are published and the community and key stakeholders are town centre regeneration project, which commenced in 2003, and informed about how their views have influenced the process Farnborough Town Council a major mixed use regeneration scheme, which began in 1998.
At Longbridge Technology Park, we are working with the Construction Employment Alliance to encourage our building It is the companys policy to undertake extensive consultation at an contractors to hire locally, enabling employees to be trained and early stage on any project to ensure the highest possible level of developed in order to gain longer term employment through their local involvement.
All public consultations are led directly by St. qualifications.
Modwen, rather than relying on external consultants.
This ensures that feedback is accurate and informed, and that a genuine dialogue We have agreed to donate 20,000 to West Ruislip High School to takes place, often resulting in improvements to the scheme.
assist them in qualifying as a specialist school in Maths and Computing.
The consultations on the redevelopment of Longbridge and Llanwern have incorporated designated websites to give local During 2006 the company established The St. Modwen people insight into the consultation and planning process, to provide Environmental Trust to support projects that seek to improve, a channel for feedback, as well as giving information on the sites.
provide or maintain community facilities, or improve the local Community, environmental and social responsibility 35 01 environment.
An authorised Environmental Body under the 02 Governments Landfill Tax Credit Scheme, the Trust will distribute approximately 300,000 per annum to community projects in areas local to the companys operations.
In future years, the Trust will be the principal vehicle for the companys charitable giving.
Sustainable development St. Modwen is fully committed to the principles of sustainable development which have been put at the heart of the planning system.
Consequently our developments seek to encourage modes of transport other than the car and to integrate with local facilities.
Where these facilities do not exist we are able to use our considerable experience of mixed-use development to provide them.
For example: Our regeneration of Wembley Central will include a refurbished underground and main line station entrance.
This scheme also incorporates an extensive new pedestrian square as a part of our commitment to enhance the public realm in this development: We are also mindful of the natural environment: At Edmonton Green, we completed the construction of a 26 stand bus station in partnership with Transport for London: and At Trentham Gardens, we are implementing an extensive Facilities for cyclists are provided at all of our new office ecological landscape management plan, working closely with developments, including cycle storage, lockers, showers and English Nature: drying facilities.
Across all of our sites, we have planted 40,000 trees, shrubs and hedgerow plants during 2006 as part of our commitment to improving the environment in which we operate.
Combining a contribution for the environment with our longstanding support for the Donna Louise Hospice, we also planted 60,000 daffodil bulbs as part of their awareness and fundraising initiative: 36 Community, environmental and social responsibility 01 02 The impact of our development activities on the natural environment is closely monitored, and we work in partnership with English Nature, and many other similar organisations to ensure that we leave behind a positive environmental legacy: and On three sites throughout the Midlands we are working with Butterfly Conservation to ensure that our site management regime provides the habitats in which endangered species of butterfly can flourish.
Environmental Remediation in 2006 out of 76 schemes currently on site No.
of schemes Liaison with Environment Agency 55 01 Guiseley, Yorkshire Liaison with English Nature 33 Controlled reclamation: the picture shows the site after 400,000 sq ft of space has Ecological surveys 50 been demolished, levels have been prepared for development, the ground remediated, and materials have been recycled for use in the subsequent redevelopment even Ecological works 32 the clock tower was salvaged and donated to the local community.
River improvement works 10 02 Long Marston Re-opening the rail link to this former MoD site has enabled a valuable re-use for train As part of our heritage restoration activities, we play an important storage.
role in safeguarding the countrys built and environmental heritage.
03 Green hairstreak butterfly Our signing of Project MoDEL during the year gave us control of, The company is pioneering the creation by a commercial developer of suitable butterfly habitats with Butterfly Conservation.
and stewardship over, the Grade II listed Bentley Priory.
This site is 04 RAF Bentley Priory famous for its pivotal role as Fighter Command Headquarters during The original house which formed the core of Fighter Commands HQ for the Battle of the Battle of Britain, and our future development plans will ensure Britain a piece of Britains heritage being protected as part of Project MoDEL.
that this great historical legacy is properly preserved for the nation.
Community, environmental and social responsibility 37 03 04 Although our development and const ruction activities have the An important element of design is energy efficiency.
We seek the greatest impact, we encourage recycling throughout our site most environmentally effective solutions for our occupiers in terms management operations as evidenced by the initiatives at Trentham of whole-life cost.
Energy use in our new buildings is minimised Gardens, Elephant & Castle and Edmonton Green.
We have through a variety of devices including: installed new compaction units and cardboard bailing machines at these sites to enable waste recycling by our retail tenants: this has Sub metering of multi-occupancy buildings: resulted in an average increase in recycling of 30%.
The success of High quality insulation: these schemes will lead to a wider roll-out in 2007, including our Provision of low energy lighting and equipment: schemes at Farnborough, Catford and Leegate.
As the programme Optimising natural daylight and ventilation: becomes more advanced we will be incorporating plastic and glass Provision of zone lighting and heating: and recycling.
All our other centres will be reviewed throughout 2007 to Optimising use of recycled and sustainable materials.
assess what can be achieved in recycling and minimising the use of landfill.
Cranfield University has been engaged to assist in design Examples of energy efficient design include: and monitoring of the recycling programmes running on our sites.
As part of our plans for the redevelopment of the station area Design quality in Bedford, we are committing to a 10% reduction in energy We aim to deliver design quality and innovation in both built form use in a scheme that is being used as case study by DEFRA and public realm.
In practical terms, design has to be fit for purpose, in their report on climate change: and with competitive full-life costs, minimising environmental impact, respecting the public realm and adjoining properties, and attractive.
Our Wembley Central project incorporates a wide range of improvements to the energy efficiency of buildings throughout We also seek to ensure that the design of our buildings is futuretheir whole lifetime.
Design features include: a specified Uproofed, by maximising the flexibility of interior and external spaces, value for new buildings that is 12% better than Building and by using traditional and robust materials.
Regulations, and a 25% improvement for refurbished buildings: the use of insulation materials that do not deplete the ozone Full consultation takes place on all schemes with appropriate bodies layer and have a certified global warming potential of less than such as the Commission for Architecture and the Built Environment, 5: the use of at least 75% of timber from certified renewable or to ensure that this is achieved.
recycled sources, and none from threatened sources: the use of construction materials with an A rating from the Green Environmental Construction Guide for Housing Specification: low energy light fittings are out of 76 schemes currently on site provided throughout the new development, saving up to 75% No.
of schemes of the electricity required for traditional fittings: and BREEAM very good rating 14 specification of low water-use sanitaryware to reduce Reuse of on-site materials 56 consumption by 15 to 25%.
Renewable energy 6 Sustainable urban drainage systems 38 Jim Asher 38 Community, environmental and social responsibility 01 Community, environmental and social responsibility 39 01 Elegant simplicity The staircase in one of the speculative office buildings at Quinton Business Park, Birmingham.
In furtherance of these objectives we are inviting shareholders to opt Carbon footprint to receive the Annual and Interim Reports and other A preliminary review of the companys operational carbon footprint, communications from the company electronically, instead of in excluding development, has been undertaken.
The footprint is paper form.
For every such option received, the company principally affected by the energy use in our offices and travel of our undertakes to plant a tree.
To exercise this option, shareholders employees.
Our initial assessment is as follows: Social inclusion 1 Many of the projects undertaken by the company have been integral Energy use in offices 320 tonnes 2 to efforts to reduce social exclusion, through the inclusion of Employee travel 360 tonnes improvements to local amenities and social housing in areas of Sundry activities 140 tonnes significant deprivation.
An outstanding example in the last year was Total estimated carbon footprint 820 tonnes 1 the completion of an important new primary care facility at Utilising on-benchmark figures given in BRECSU Energy Consumption Guide 19: Edmonton Green a partnership between St. Modwen and Enfield Energy Use in Offices and using CO emission factors of 0.19kg CO kWh for gas, 2 2 Borough Council.
and 0.43kg CO kWh for electricity.
2 2 Utilising the medium-sized petrol car data in the World Resources Institute Indirect Once a project is underway, active participation in the social and CO Emissions from Business Travel spreadsheet.
2 community activities in the location of its developments is a key feature of the companys approach to tackling social exclusion.
A The company maintains approximately 950 acres of woodland combination of initiatives is used by St. Modwen to encourage local outside of developed areas.
This woodland is managed and communities to share in the improvements brought about by its harvested for timber with any waste materials being mulched and regeneration schemes, including: used on development projects.
The woodland is actively managed with a programme of new planting to replace trees that have been Encouraging the employment of local people: harvested or have died.
Incorporating opportunities for local traders in markets or small units in our retail schemes at sustainable levels of rent: It is estimated that this woodland locks up approximately 850 Subsidising local initiatives such as a Credit Union, arts facilities tonnes of carbon each year, and that therefore, in terms of the and community wardens: operational business St. Modwen is broadly carbon neutral.
Encouraging community participation in our developments.
At Trentham Gardens we have a team of 40 volunteers, 12 from St. Modwen will continue to review its carbon footprint and there special needs groups for whom the opportunity for supervised are a number of areas where we are currently looking to make work on our estate is an important part of their improvement, as follows.
treatment rehabilitation: Incorporating non-intrusive, but high levels of security facilities Introducing renewable energy sources into company offices: in our schemes to reassure and protect the vulnerable: and Minimising the number of journeys made by employees: Sponsoring local sport, leisure and charitable activities, Encouraging the use of more energy efficient vehicles and including the Trentham Brass Band and the Staffs & Stoke appliances: and Increasing the amount of native woodland planted.
Childrens Theatre, both of whom have performed throughout the season at Trentham Gardens.
At Elephant & Castle we In addition, significant emissions are associated with the companys supported the Elefest a community festival promoting the area property portfolio.
These form part of the carbon footprint of the by providing space for use as a gallery for local artists and occupiers of these buildings and are consequently not included in facilities for groups to perform in the centre.
Reducing these emissions is nevertheless a significant opportunity for the company, and one At a number of our sites, we provide free, or heavily subsidised, which its policies of site management sustainable design and space and facilities for the use of local charities.
These include free procurement are intended to address.
storage and parking for Lawrence Weston Community Buses at 40 Community, environmental and social responsibility 01 Avonmouth: free use of our site for the Dursley Town Council A safe and healthy working environment is established and Festival: free use of our Trentham Gardens site for the Race for Life maintained at all of the companys locations: which raised 440,000, the Donna Louise Trust, Douglas McMillan Managers at all levels regard health and safety matters as a Hospice, and Newcastle disabled adventure playground which prime management responsibility: together raised 120,000 from Trentham events : and subsidised Sufficient financial resources are provided to ensure that space at Edmonton Green for the Artzone community centre and for policies can be carried out effectively: UK Emp an employment charity to assist with the fit-out of new Good standards of training and instruction in matters of health teaching facilities.
and safety are provided and maintained at all levels of employment: The case studies on pages 24 to 31 also demonstrate the Risk assessments are carried out where appropriate: companys implementation of CESR.
Co-operation of staff in promoting safe and healthy conditions and systems of work is required: and Health and safety An adequate advisory service in matters of health and safety is The company gives high priority to safeguarding the health and provided and maintained.
safety of the public and its employees by pursuing a policy which ensures that: Detailed policies and procedures are documented and made available to all staff.
The health and safety forum, chaired by the Its business is conducted in accordance with standards that Company Secretary, and reporting to the Chief Executive, meets are in compliance with relevant statutory provisions for health regularly to discuss and resolve implementation issues.
The and safety of staff and any other persons on company procedures are reviewed by the board annually, with health and premises: safety matters included on the agenda of every board meeting.
Community, environmental and social responsibility 41 02 This forum provides guidance to employees on all aspects of health 03 and safety.
To assist, a health and safety procedures manual has been produced.
As we undertake no construction work on site directly, our assessment of a subcontractor or main contractors health and safety procedures forms a key part of our supplier selection process, and a vital element in our health and safety controls.
For our operational sites including Trentham Gardens and Solihull Ice Rink and our shopping centres, individual risk assessments are undertaken, and updated annually, by a retained health and safety consultant.
The companys health and safety performance continues to be very good, with no enforcement notices, no prosecutions for breaches of health and safety, and no fatalities.
01 Prior to redevelopment, a steelworks building spanned this section of the Trent & Mersey canal.
Now high quality business space benefits from the idyllic setting in Etruria Valley, Stoke-on-Trent as part of Stoke-on-Trent Regenerations public private partnership redevelopment.
02 A view inside the Longbridge conveyor prior to its demolition.
03 Some of the participants in Elefest, a community festival which was supported by our KPI joint venture at the Elephant & Castle.
