The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2006 20 Operations review continued Our markets in Sunlight Our Sunlight business is the UK market leader in providing services to hotels and UK and Ireland restaurants, healthcare, commercial and public sector with at linens and workwear.
It operates through 46 plants in the UK and four in Ireland operating as Spring Grove Services with over 8,800 employees.
Hotels and restaurants The hotel market in the UK and Ireland continues to grow and offers further volume opportunities for the future.
The pricing environment remains challenging with major hotel groups dominating the sector but with volumes growing we are seeking to ensure that our services are appropriately priced to deliver the necessary return for our efforts.
Healthcare Sunlight is the largest service provider to the healthcare market in the UK, which also offers opportunities for volume growth as a large proportion of the market still remains with NHS Trusts and has not yet been outsourced.
During 2006 we BENEFITING entered into a framework agreement with the Purchasing and Supply Agency FROM PASA of the NHS to set a pricing agreement, which will be used for the next three years.
The arrangement provides that there will be no new entrants to the ACQUISITIONS... framework agreement during this timeframe.
The framework price is available to all NHS Trusts within a region and provides a benchmark for those Trusts that have TARGETING not yet outsourced their service.
Contracts for healthcare services tend to be longer term with prices indexed during the period of the contract.
The indexation may IMPROVED not fully meet the increases in prime cost elements in our business.
PRICING Workwear The UK workwear market continues to reect the move out of employment in the industrial sector towards the service economy with cleaner working conditions.
It is a market that continues to provide service opportunities, however, with a significant portion of new accounts sold each year being new to workwear rental.
The move from heavier soiled industrial garments to lighter garments for the service sector means that there is an overall mix effect on average pricing which has a negative impact on margins in this sector.
Acquisitions There continue to be opportunities for acquisitions in the UK and Ireland.
In addition, we will seek complementary service areas which offer the opportunity for growth and good levels of return on our investment.
We have made a number of small Steve Finch Managing Director, Sunlight acquisitions of direct sales companies where there is a significant service component added to the products that are supplied.
Performance review for 2006 Our revenue grew by 12% from 268.4 million to 301.6 million as a result of both organic growth of 2% and the impact of acquisitions.
As expected, these acquisitions contributed well to second half profits, but adjusted operating profit as a whole was down from 34.3 million in 2005 to 33.9 million in 2006, due to the challenging market conditions.
Achievements in 2006 Priorities in 2007 Delivered bolt-on acquisitions benets.
Target pricing opportunities to offset cost increases.
Grew volumes in all market sectors.
Meet the demands of a challenging market.
Invested in direct sales opportunities.
Deliver further benets from bolt-on acquisitions.
Maintained the programme of operational Target further organic growth.
The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2006 21 Our business in Ireland The business performed well in the second half with profits up on 2005. is based in Dublin, with However, year on year there was a margin decline from 12.8% to 11.2%, operations in Northern reecting the significant increase in wage and energy costs and the continuing Ireland following the acquisition we made in difficulties in passing these on to customers.
We have a good 2006 2005 Growth mix of business across Growth in revenue 12.0% 2.0% 10% all of our service areas.
Operating margin 11.2% 12.8% -1.6% Before exceptional items and amortisation of customer contracts and intellectual property rights.
The linen division saw volumes increase in a buoyant hotel and restaurants market, especially by comparison with the second half of 2005, which included the effect of the London bombings.
Even with strong levels of volume within the division, the business was still able to make site rationalisations with the closure of three sites during the year.
The drive for operational efficiency continued as ever throughout our remaining plants.
Overall the division was able to report increased operating profits over 2005, which was a good result.
The healthcare division performed in line with expectations with higher revenues but profits down on last year.
This resulted from the expected price and cost pressures within the business, with the implementation of the PASA framework agreement in May 2006 being the most significant event of the year.
This agreement delayed tender activity before its publication and resulted, in some cases, in price reductions.
We have seen a greater level of interest in outsourcing of linen services from the Primary Care Trusts, as the remaining commercial in-house laundries are also subject to this new agreement.
This developing trend is being reviewed actively by our management team.
Our workwear division delivered in line with expectation but the price and cost pressures resulted in a significant decline in profitability.
This continued to be a very competitive market.
The UK generally has higher cancellation rates than in Continental Europe.
With prices under pressure from competition and the changing mix of the business from higher priced industrial garments to lighter service industries, the business continued to require a significant level of new contract wins to offset these effects.
While sales were strong, particularly in the second quarter with the withdrawal of Rentokil Initial from garment rental, this was insufficient to maintain profitability.
We continued our focus on operating excellence but also invested in sales and service to achieve growth from developing sectors.
In Ireland, we grew both organically and through an acquisition in Northern Ireland at the end of 2005, resulting in increased profits.
We have a good mix of business in Ireland, including an established washroom and hygiene business, and we continue to look for opportunities to expand in this market.
During 2006, we invested 20.7 million in acquisitions primarily strengthening our position in specic regions of the UK.
These acquisitions have contributed well since joining the business, particularly in the second half of the year.
Since the start of 2007, Brooks, a major supplier to the UK linen and workwear market, went into administration.
We have reacted immediately to secure available customer accounts, from which we expect to obtain increased volumes and the potential of higher pricing.
