The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2006 35 Directors report David Lawler Company Secretary The directors present their annual report and audited financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2006.
Principal activities and review of the business The principal activity of the group is the provision of textile maintenance services.
A list of the companys principal subsidiary undertakings as at 31st December 2006 is given on page 71.
The company is now required to set out in this report a fair review of the business of the group during the year ended 31st December 2006 and of the position of the group at the end of that financial year and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the group known as a Business Review.
The information that fulls the requirements of the Business Review can be found in the following sections of this Annual Report and Accounts: Chairman and Chief Executives Introduction on pages 10 to 12, Business Review on pages 13 to 17, Operations Review on pages 18 to 21, and Financial Review on pages 22 to 24.
All of this information is incorporated by reference in this Directors Report.
Results and dividends The financial statements deal with the results of the group for the year ended 31st December 2006 which are shown on page 41.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 12.4 pence per ordinary share which, together with the interim dividend of 5.8 pence per ordinary share paid in October 2006, makes a total dividend for the year of 18.2 pence 2005: 17.30 pence per ordinary share.
Subject to the approval of the recommended final dividend by shareholders, the dividend reward to shareholders for 2006 is 31 million.
If approved, the company will pay the final dividend on 2nd May 2007 to shareholders on the register at 13th April 2007.
Changes in composition of the group The group acquired the businesses and net assets of a number of small textile maintenance operations during the year for a total consideration of 40.4 million.
Details of the fair value of net assets acquired and consideration paid are set out in note 29 a to the financial statements.
In addition, the group completed the acquisition of the Permaclean Group in Germany on 19th January 2007.
The acquisition of the Permaclean Group is an important step in the groups strategy to build a national garment rental business in Germany.
Directors The current directors of the company are set out on page 27.
Each served throughout the year ended 31st December 2006 except Ren Schuster who will be appointed to the board on 1st March 2007.
John Burns and Roger Dye retire by rotation at the 2007 Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Ren Schuster, as a director appointed to the board after the year end but before the 2007 Annual General Meeting, offers himself for election by the shareholders.
Details of the number of board and committee meetings held during the year and attendance by individual directors are included in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 29.
The interests of the current directors, in the shares of the company, are included in the report on directors remuneration which is set out on pages 31 to 34.
The Company affords protection to the directors through third party indemnities in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Share capital Details of the movements in the year are set out in note 20.
Substantial shareholdings As at 23rd February 2007 the following shareholders had notied interests of more than 3% in the companys ordinary share capital: % Barclays PLC 3.0 Legal & General Assurance Pensions Management Limited 3.5 Prudential plc 9.2 Sanderson Asset Management Limited 5.2 Silchester International Investors Limited 16.5 Annual General Meeting The Notice of the Annual General Meeting to be held at 11.00 am on Monday 23rd April 2007 is sent separately to shareholders with this report.
The venue for the meeting is the Royal Aeronautical Society, 4 Hamilton Place, London W1J 7BQ.
The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2006 36 Directors report continued Authority to allot shares As in previous years, resolutions will be proposed to authorise the directors to allot shares up to approximately one-third of the companys issued ordinary share capital of which approximately 5% may be issued for cash on a non pre-emptive basis.
In any three year period, no more than 7.5% of the issued share capital will be issued for cash on a non pre-emptive basis.
The two resolutions numbers 8 and 9 are set out in full in the Notice of Meeting.
No issue will be made which would effectively alter the control of the company without the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting.
The directors have no present intention of exercising this authority.
Purchase of own shares In certain circumstances it may be advantageous for the company to purchase its own shares.
A special resolution number 10 will be proposed at the April 2007 Annual General Meeting to seek authority from shareholders to do so, such authority to expire on the date of the next following annual general meeting or a date 18 months from the date of the resolution, whichever is the earlier.
The resolution species the maximum number of shares which may be acquired being 10% of the companys issued share capital and the maximum and minimum prices at which they may be purchased.
The shareholders authority granted at the 2006 Annual General Meeting remains valid until the next annual general meeting.
If the company were to purchase any of its own shares, it may consider holding them as treasury shares as an alternative to cancelling them, subject to the authority allowed by resolution number 10, provided that the total number of treasury shares does not at any one time exceed 10% of the companys issued share capital.
The Regulations allow companies to hold shares purchased on the market in treasury with a view to possible re-issue at a future date, as an alternative to cancelling them.
This would allow the company to re-issue the shares held in treasury quickly and cost effectively and would provide the company with additional exibility in the management of its capital base.
On 22nd May and 13th June 2006 the company purchased 425,000 and 400,000 shares for treasury at 415 pence and 431 pence respectively for a combined cost of 3.6 million.
The share price on 31st December 2006 was 504 pence.
The company currently holds 825,000 shares in treasury.
The board are committed to managing the companys capital effectively and the directors keep under review the option of buying back the companys shares.
Other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the overall position of the company will be taken into account before deciding upon this course of action.
The directors will only purchase Davis shares on the market if they believe it is in the best interests of shareholders generally and that to do so would result in an increase in the current years earnings per share.
Political and charitable donations Financial contributions to a wide range of charities and good causes during the year amounted to 25,315 2005: 30,000.
There were no political donations 2005: nil.
Corporate Social Responsibility A summary of the groups approach to Corporate Social Responsibility CSR can be found in the Business Review on page 14.
Health and Safety the board recognises the importance of maintaining a safe and healthy working environment for all of our employees and those others who work with us, and has allocated responsibility for ensuring this to the Chief Executive.
Many of our employees work in a production environment with heavy laundry machinery and equipment, and are involved in the movement and transportation of textiles.
Our business units recognise health and safety as an operational priority and as an important element of their risk management programmes.
Our Group Health and Safety Policy requires each of our business units to develop and maintain local health and safety systems and procedures that are appropriate for its locations, and the legal and regulatory environments within which they operate.
These procedures and systems are typically documented in Health and Safety handbooks or manuals.
The Managing Director of each business unit is responsible for ensuring that health and safety management procedures are adequately resourced, including the appointment of a Health and Safety Manager.
Our employees are regularly provided with appropriate health and safety training dependent upon their roles and responsibilities.
There is an established reporting process in order to update both the Chief Executive and the board on any reported health and safety related incidents.
The Environment the group is committed to protecting the environment, both through our own actions, and also by working with our suppliers.
The environmental principles included in our Environmental Policy are consistent with the principles of the European Textile Services Association which represents and promotes the textile rental services sector in Europe.
We recognise the environmental impact of our operations, so we actively promote awareness in our business units of the need for lower water and energy consumption, use of  washing detergents and packaging materials, minimisation of distances travelled when making deliveries, re-use of textiles and targeted staff training on environmental issues.
In adopting these principles our business units have in particular focused on: Routinely recovering water Waste water recovery systems are recognised by our business units as important methods of both limiting environmental impact and controlling costs, and are used in the majority of our operations.
Minimising heat, energy loss and fuel usage We seek to reduce the amounts of gas, oil and electricity that are used in our operations.
For example, the tting of ue gas optimisation equipment and boiler economiser systems, and the recovery of ash steam have been identied as ways of signicantly reducing consumption.
Our business units place special emphasis on training in how to minimise gas, oil and electricity usage and how to improve operational practices.
Minimising the amount and concentration of cleaning detergents used Meetings are held on a regular basis with detergent suppliers in order to discuss ways of minimising detergent usage, and how to reduce both water and energy usage in our washing processes.
Detergent disposal levels are being reduced by the installation of water recovery recycling systems.
As a consequence the volumes of detergent solids disposed of in efuent can be reduced, allowing them to be disposed of in normal waste instead.
Minimising delivery distances travelled We regularly review our vehicle routing to ensure the most efficient use of both our fleet resources and fuel.
Water, fuel and detergent consumption are significant costs to the group and we monitor and control them closely.
These costs are specifically highlighted in our annual budget and ongoing forecasts.
The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2006 37 Benets to our business % reduction in usage since 2004 across three We are committed to protecting the environment plants in Denmark with the investments both through our own actions and working outlined below with suppliers Water litres kg washed more than 20% Reduced consumption of utilities and detergent Electricity kWh kg washed more than 10% Increased operational efficiency Detergents g kg washed more than 15% Demonstrating our commitment to protecting Oil kWh kg washed more than 10% the environment Environmentally friendly washing systems Denmark In Denmark, since 2002, we have made significant investments in energy optimisation equipment, water recycling systems and boiler economiser systems which, respectively, utilise hot waste water to heat incoming water for washing, re-use waste water for washing, and recover the energy from the boiler exhaust gas.
These investments have signicantly reduced our consumption of electricity, oil, water and detergents.
Peter Havus Chief Operating officer, Berendsen REDUCING OUR IMPACT ON THE ENVIRONMENT
