The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2006 27 Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors I Roger Dye Christopher R M Kemball John D Burns # Chief Executive Chairman Non-Executive Director Aged 55 Aged 60 Aged 62 Roger has been an executive director of Christopher was appointed to the board John was appointed to the board as a several public companies since 1987 and was in January 1999 and subsequently became Non-Executive Director in 1987.
He is Chief appointed Finance Director in August 2000, Non-Executive Chairman in May 2005.
Executive of Derwent London plc, a consulting subsequently becoming Chief Executive in He is a Vice Chairman of Hawkpoint Partners partner of Pilcher Hershman & Partners May 2005.
He has been a Non-Executive Limited and a Non-Executive Director of and a former Chairman of the Westminster Director of Nestor Healthcare plc since 2004 Control Risks Group Limited.
and is Chairman of its audit committee.
Kevin Quinn Philip G Rogerson # Ren H Schuster # Finance Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Aged 46 Aged 62 Aged 45 Kevin was appointed Finance Director Philip was appointed to the board in June Ren will be appointed to the board in in May 2005, following the appointment 2004 and became Senior Independent March 2007.
He is CEO, UK and Ireland, of Roger Dye as Chief Executive.
He is Non-Executive of Adecco S. A. the recruitment and previously held senior finance positions Chairman of Carillion plc, THUS Group plc managed service business, and a member within Amersham plc.
Prior to 1997, Kevin and Aggreko plc, and a Non-Executive of their Executive Committee.
He is also was with , latterly Director and temporary Chairman of a Non-Executive Director of SurfControl plc as a partner in its Prague ofce, having also Northgate plc.
Until February 1998 he was and was previously with Vodafone plc, the worked in the United States of America Deputy Chairman of BG plc formerly British Hewlett Packard Corporation and KPMG and France.
Gas plc having been a director since 1992. in senior management positions with significant international responsibilities.
Board committees from 1st March 2007 Per H Utnegaard # Non-Executive Director Audit committee Aged 47 Remuneration committee Per was appointed a Non-Executive Director Nomination committee of the company in January 2005 and has # Identied by the board as an his own consultancy rm in Switzerland.
independent director Per was previously wholesale director of Alliance UniChem plc and held various senior management roles within Danzas-Deutsche Post and the TNT Group.
Born in Norway, Per was educated in the United States of America.
The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2006 28 Corporate governance statement continued Composition of the board During 2006 consistent with the provisions of the 2003 Combined Code, the board comprised two executive and four non-executive directors including the Chairman.
On 1st March 2007, the board will appoint a further non-executive director, Ren Schuster.
Their biographies reect an appropriate breadth of skills, knowledge and experience.
Independence of the board In December 2006 the nomination committee performed a thorough review of the independence of the non-executive directors.
The committee concluded that all the non-executive directors remain independent from management and provide a strong independent element on the board, being free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their judgement.
To safeguard their independence, directors are not entitled to vote on any matter in which they have a material personal interest unless the directors unanimously decide otherwise and, where necessary, directors are required to absent themselves from a meeting of the board while such a matter is being discussed.
The company has also arranged insurance in respect of legal action against its directors.
To strengthen the independence of the non-executive directors and to enable them to more freely discuss the performance of the groups executive management, the Chairman meets with the non-executive directors at least once each year without the executives present.
The independence of the directors is further supported by the work of the Company Secretary whose appointment and removal is the responsibility of the board as a whole.
The Company Secretary, who is also secretary to the audit, nomination and remuneration committees, ensures that board procedures are complied with and provides advice on corporate governance and regulatory compliance.
All directors have unfettered access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
There is also an agreed procedure by which directors can, where necessary for the discharge of their duties, obtain independent professional advice at the companys expense.
The board has also determined that any non-executive director who has served more than nine years will be subject to annual re-election.
John Burns will, therefore, be subject to re-election at the 2007 Annual General Meeting.
Following a formal performance evaluation, the board has concluded that his performance as a non-executive director continues to be effective.
He contributes signicantly as a director through his individual skills and his considerable knowledge and experience of the group.
He also continues to demonstrate strong independence in the manner in which he discharges his responsibilities as a director.
Consequently, the board has concluded that, despite his length of tenure, there is no association with management that could compromise his independence and that therefore he remains independent.
Directors induction and training There is a formal induction programme for all new non-executive directors covering matters such as the operations and activities of the group, the groups key financial and non-financial risks, the role of the board and the matters reserved for its own decision, and the responsibilities of the groups board committees.
The induction programme for Ren Schuster, the new non-executive director to be appointed on 1st March 2007, has already been prepared and will be completed during the second quarter of 2007.
The Chairman of the board is also responsible for ensuring that all non-executive directors receive ongoing training in order that they can appropriately perform their duties.
Training needs were discussed at the non-executive directors meeting on 23rd November 2006 and, where appropriate, during the annual evaluation of each director.
Each non-executive director has confirmed that in 2006 they have kept themselves properly briefed and informed on current issues.
Board and committee evaluations In the last quarter of 2006 the board carried out a comprehensive evaluation of the performance of the board, its principal committees and all of its individual directors.
This was co-ordinated by the Chairman, with whom each of the directors met.
The evaluation of the Chairman was undertaken by the Senior Independent Director, through consultation with the other directors and the Chief Executive.
The results of the evaluation were initially discussed at the nonexecutive directors meeting on 23rd November 2006 and then presented to the board on 14th December 2006.
The board identied a number of actions from this evaluation, primarily the need to place greater emphasis on improving the groups rate of profits growth.
The directors have concluded that following this detailed review, the board and its committees operate effectively and also consider that each director is contributing to the overall effectiveness and success of the group.
Attendance at board and committee meetings The board requires all directors to devote sufficient time to discharge their duties effectively and to use their best endeavours to attend meetings.
Apart from the annual general meeting, the board met eight times during 2006.
One of these meetings was the strategy review meeting during October 2006.
In addition, as referred to above, the non-executive directors met without the executive directors on 23rd November 2006.
The three principal committees of the board are the remuneration committee, the audit committee and the nomination committee.
The terms of reference of these committees are set by the board and are available for inspection either from our company website or upon request from the Company Secretary.
The membership of these committees, details of which are set out on page 27, is composed entirely of non-executive directors with the exception of the nomination committee upon which Roger Dye serves.
The attendance of all individual directors at board and committee meetings for the year ended 31st December 2006 is detailed below.
During 2006, all directors attended all board and committee meetings held.
The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2006 29 Board and committee meetings members attendance Board Audit committee Remuneration committee Nomination committee Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Executive directors I R Dye 8 8 3 3 K Quinn 8 8 Non-executive directors C R M Kemball 8 8 3 3 J D Burns 8 8 3 3 3 3 3 3 P G Rogerson 8 8 3 3 3 3 3 3 P H Utnegaard 8 8 3 3 3 3 3 3 Report of the audit committee Composition The committee met three times during 2006 and comprised Philip Rogerson committee Chairman, Per Utnegaard and John Burns.
Since the year end, John Burns has resigned from, and with effect from 1st March 2007 Ren Schuster will be appointed to, the committee.
All members of the committee are non-executive directors and are considered by the board to be independent.
The Finance Director, the group Internal Audit Manager and representatives from the external auditors attend each meeting at the request of the committee Chairman.
At least once each year, the committee meets with the external auditors without executive management present.
From time to time, the committee Chairman also meets in private session with the group Internal Audit Manager without any other member of management being present.
The board considers that the committee Chairman has sufficient recent and relevant financial experience to discharge the committees duties.
In particular, Philip Rogerson is a Chartered Accountant and from 1992 to 1998 he was the Finance Director and then the Deputy Chairman of BG plc.
Role and authority The committees principal function is to enable the board to monitor the integrity of the groups financial reports and its system of internal controls: to monitor the effectiveness of the groups internal audit function: and to manage the relationship with the groups external auditors.
The committees terms of reference were reviewed and approved by the board on 27th May 2005 and are available on the companys website or upon request from the Company Secretary.
Activities in 2006 In 2006, the committee agreed to tender the groups external audit contract.
As well as ensuring that the group received an effective and independent audit, the committee wanted to reduce the number of external auditors in the group from four to one.
Five international rms were chosen to participate in the tender.
Following a detailed review, the committee agreed that  LLP should be retained as the groups sole external auditor.
This recommendation was endorsed by the board.
During the last 12 months the Committee has also: monitored the integrity of the companys financial statements and 2006 preliminary and interim announcements, having reviewed the significant financial reporting issues and judgements contained in them: kept under review the effectiveness of the groups internal controls and risk management systems: monitored and reviewed the effectiveness of the groups internal audit function: approved the remuneration and terms of engagement of the groups external auditors, assessed their independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of audit processes: required that, with the exception of tax services, all non-audit services to be performed by the groups external auditors that exceed pre-set thresholds be pre-approved by the committee: reviewed the arrangements in place for staff to raise concerns in confidence about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters: and reviewed the procedures the group has adopted in order to establish that there is no relevant audit information of which the groups external auditors were unaware in accordance with the provisions of the S234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
The committee Chairman reports on the committees activities at the following board meeting.
Report of the remuneration committee Full details of the committees composition, role and authority and activities are set out in the report on directors remuneration on pages 31 to 34, which will be subject to a vote by shareholders at the annual general meeting on 23rd April 2007.
Report of the nomination committee Composition The committee met three times during 2006 and comprised Christopher Kemball committee Chairman, Philip Rogerson, Per Utnegaard, John Burns and Roger Dye.
From 1st March 2007 Ren Schuster will be appointed to the committee.
Following the appointment of Ren Schuster, four of the six members of the committee will be regarded by the board as independent.
Role and authority The committee is responsible for board succession planning and makes recommendations to the board on the appointment and re-appointment of all directors.
It also keeps under review the succession planning for senior executives.
The terms of reference of the nomination committee were updated and approved by the board on 27th May 2005 and are available on the companys website or upon request from the Company Secretary.
The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2006 30 Corporate governance statement continued Activities in 2006 In 2006 the nomination committee concluded that a further non-executive director should be recruited in order to strengthen the independence of the board.
Following agreement by the committee of the appointment specication, a rm of recruitment consultants were retained in order to assist in the search for a suitable candidate.
The Chairman, with the assistance of the Chief Executive, selected a short list of suitably qualied candidates from which Ren Schuster was selected by the committee and unanimously approved by the board.
In April and October 2006 the nomination committee devoted a considerable amount of time to succession planning.
This was initiated by the Chief Executive presenting a detailed paper on each senior management position within the group and succession plans for each position.
During the year the committee has also: evaluated the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the board: assessed thoroughly the extent to which current non-executive directors remain independent and, in particular, the independence of John Burns who has served on the board for more than nine years: and considered the membership of the boards sub-committees.
Since year end, the committee has been advised of the resignation of Christer Strm, the Managing Director of the Berendsen group of companies.
It has kept under review the selection process for his successor which is being managed by the Chief Executive.
Combined code compliance statement During 2006 the company undertook a thorough review of board procedures and compliance with the combined code on corporate governance.
The company complied throughout the year ended 31st December 2006 with the provisions of the 2003 Combined Code.
Internal control review The board has responsibility for establishing, maintaining and reviewing the effectiveness of the groups systems of internal control.
Internal control systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can therefore only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
These systems of internal control are regularly reviewed by the board.
The key elements of the existing systems of internal control are as follows: Open culture The board considers that the group operates a risk-aware culture with an open style of communication.
This facilitates the early identication of problems and issues, so that appropriate action is quickly taken to minimise any impact on the business.
Continuing process of risk identication There is a continuing process for the identication, evaluation and management of the most significant risks faced by the group.
Throughout the year, regular business unit management and board meetings are held, at which existing, new and evolving risks are discussed, and appropriate actions to manage risks are discussed and agreed.
These meetings are regularly attended by the Chief Executive or the Finance Director.
Details of any significant issues or control weaknesses identied are discussed at these meetings and, if considered necessary, are included in reports to the board.
Group and Business Unit Risk Registers are maintained.
The Group Risk Register, including what are regarded as the most significant risks facing the group and actions being taken in mitigation, is regularly updated and reviewed by the board.
Following the Financial Reporting Councils publication of Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code in October 2005, the board took the opportunity to review its existing risk management procedures.
As a result, revised business unit risk management guidance notes were approved by the board in April 2006, and issued to business units by the Chief Executive in May 2006.
The audit committee has since been regularly updated on how business units are applying these guidance notes.
Reports on internal control The board and audit committee requested, received and reviewed reports from executive and senior management, its advisers, group internal audit and our external auditors.
Whistleblowing The group has a system by which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters.
During 2006 the system was operational throughout the group.
Due to the diversity of our workforce the system operates in 20 languages.
Procedures are in place to ensure issues raised are addressed in a condential manner.
The Company Secretary is required to report to the audit committee biannually on the integrity of these procedures, the state of ongoing investigations and conclusions reached.
Annual assessment Executive management presented reports to the audit committee and board in August 2006, December 2006 and February 2007, in order to assist the board with their annual assessment of the effectiveness of the groups systems of internal control.
The board, in reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control, can confirm the necessary actions have been or are being taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identied from that review.
The board considers that the information that it receives is sufficient to enable it to review the effectiveness of the companys internal controls in accordance with the revised Turnbull Guidance.
By order of the board David Lawler Secretary 23rd February 2007
