Harworth Power has continued to progress a series of planning applications to install wind turbines on Group property where this is economic and represents the best use for the properties concerned, or can be combined with a sustainable property development.
The planning process is lengthy.
However, Harworth Power currently is progressing applications for 40 turbines, with a land bank containing further suitable sites which will be progressed when appropriate.
During 2006 a planning application for a wind farm at Stonish Hill, North Nottinghamshire, consisting of seven turbines was turned down, although an appeal is currently being pursued.
A further project at Lynemouth in Northumberland is currently under consideration by the local planning authority with determination due early in 2007.
Three further projects are at varying stages of development for submission in 2007.
Future prospects Coal mine methane We expect to continue to extract methane from existing sites, while the new capacity installation at Harworth mine will offset some of its mothballing costs.
Increased generation is forecast with the installation of new engines at mine sites where methane capture is being improved.
Capital will be invested where adequate returns are available, principally in the installation of new engines at mine sites.
The UK Emissions Trading Scheme nished at the end of 2006, reducing the incentive to invest in certain emissions reduction projects.
Harworth Power is actively involved in discussions as to the form of any replacement scheme.
Wind farms The Group plans to submit further applications during 2007.
Harworth Power continues to identify other opportunities to generate additional power utilising renewable energy sources, assessing the commercial strengths and risks of these schemes and the level of investment needed to make investment in those schemes match the returns required by the Group.
OTHER BUSINESSES Other businesses comprise our new joint venture, Coal4Energy, which made a 0.1m profit, and LHTC Lionheart Trading Company Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary company, which mainly provides group support services and maintenance.
2005 profits of 4.5m were generated from the Monckton business sold in 2005.
Other business activities include holding company operations, such as funding.
Head ofce costs are allocated to the operating units.
Cash ow is set out in the summary below.
Interest costs relate to the Groups revolving credit facility and overdraft facility.
Cash ow 2006 2005 Other m Other m Cash generated from operations 0.2 4.5 Joint venture investment 0.2 Cash ow before interest and working capital 4.5 Net interest paid 3.4 3.8 Movement in working capital 3.1 2.2 Net operating cash ow 0.3 1.5 35 UK Coal 06 Report 12.3.
