Delivering a great customer experience is UNITE UK Student DEVELOPMENT what we are most passionate about and in 2006 we Accommodation Fund were externally recognised, winning two prestigious BUSINESS In delivering on our stated strategy, we have national industry awards for customer service.
We taken advantage of the growing investment have seen a six percentage point increase in Our development programme including our share appetite and built on our strategy of recycling customer satisfaction during the past three years and of joint ventures contributed 33m of net asset capital out of stabilised assets into further our research and commitment to customers will value 2005:21m before SDLT impact.
development activity to create the UNITE UK enable us to continue to deliver results and underpin The 3,519 beds completed during the year Student Accommodation Fund which has, and will our competitive advantage in markets such as 2005:4,677 were delivered across 6 of our city continue to, acquire the majority of UNITEs Sheffield where competition has increased.
markets at an average uplift on cost of 27% stabilised direct let properties.
This margin improvement reflects The Groups portfolio operating margin was broadly The initial portfolio sold into the Fund consisted of our success in the London market and the impact flat at 62.7% 2005:63.2%.
This reflects the 31 direct let properties valued at 505m and sold of yield compression.
Margins are expected to impact of the increased investment in front line to the Fund for 515m.
At the funds initial return to our target of around 20%.
teams providing 24-hour, 7-day week cover for our closing on 15 December 2006, investors acquired customers and increased utility costs compensated The capital released from the USAF transaction a 61% stake and UNITE maintained a 39% stake.
to some degree by the previously highlighted and the 30m equity issue in November 2005 UNITE will continue to manage these properties revenue growth.
has enabled us to fund increased acquisition and undertake asset management services as activity.
This is reflected both in an increase in our In 2006 we continued our work to improve our well as provide investment advice to the Trust.
pre-contract costs which have risen by 1.9m to systems, which will bring operational efficiency Investor demand for the fund remains strong and 4.1m and in our future pipeline.
and scalability as we grow.
One key project is the we expect to reduce our stake over the coming The table on page 16 sets out the secured development of our new on-line customer months.
This will release further capital to support opportunities in terms of beds and value.
proposition due to be launched later this year.
This will greatly enhance our web presence and Particularly encouraging has been our success in enhance the way our customers experience us the London market where we have secured over and access our services.
2,800 beds with a completed value of over Portfolio performance 300m.
This success now means the Capital Portfolio profit UNITEs share of portfolio operating We continue to develop our customer centric Cities joint venture is likely to be fully allocated profit less attributable interest charge showed approach seeking to provide a great customer during the coming year.
We will continue our healthy growth, up 48% to 8.0m from 5.4m experience, which has been recognised by our strategy of London development, in this under reflecting top line rental growth driven by like for customers both in increasing levels of satisfaction penetrated market, with funding for development like revenue growth, the increase in the size of the and in the demand for our accommodation that coming from the UNITE balance sheet during the managed portfolio and the contribution from our remains strong.
Occupancy in the current development phase.
academic year was 91% 2005:94% and we have To support the increasing importance of the seen continued growth in core rentals with like for Looking forward, the creation of USAF will London market, where over 16% of UK full time like revenues up 6% in the current academic year.
necessitate a different approach to measuring students study, we are investing in a new performance in this part of the business with a focus The key to success in any market place is operational team focused on this growing market.
on the cash and income yields from the portfolio.
understanding the customers and meeting their This operational team will be represented on our needs.
To this end we are increasingly investing management board.
London is also the market time and resources to understand what drives where we successfully tested a stronger presence customer satisfaction in each market and tailoring on the high street.
In July 2006 we opened the our plans accordingly in fact we now gather and first dedicated student shop in a prime student apply increasingly sophisticated market location.
It has become a one-stop destination for London students and their parents looking for a UNITE place to live.
