the board of directors Geoffrey Maddrell Chairman Aged 70, Geoffrey has had a long-standing and successful involvement in the strategic direction and expansion of businesses, with a particular interest in building-related activities.
He is Chairman of BuildStore Limited, which serves the self-build market and he is also on the Board of Goldcrest Homes plc.
In addition, Geoffrey is Chairman of the F&C UK Select Trust Plc.
His previous roles include Chairmanships of Glenmorangie plc, Westbury plc and LDV, the van specialist.
Mark Allan Chief Executive Mark, 34, was appointed to the role of Chief Executive in September 2006, having previously served as Chief Financial Officer for three years.
Mark held a variety of other roles in the business prior to that, having joined the Group in 1999.
As Chief Executive he chairs the Groups Leadership Support Board and has overall responsibility for the Group's performance against its Customer, People, Stakeholders and financial targets, whilst continuing to drive UNITE's growth strategy.
Tony Harris Chief Financial Officer Aged 38, Tony joined UNITE in January 2007 having previously worked for the Hilton Group plc since 1997, most recently as Vice President Finance of Hilton International Europe and Africa.
Tony has overall responsibility for the Group's finances, e-business infrastructure, and investment strategy as well as the Company Secretariat function.
Tony also acts as Chairman of UNITEs Project Approval Meetings.
John Tonkiss Managing Director, UNITEs Student Hospitality UK Busines John, 39, joined UNITE in 2001 from TRW - where he held various operational and engineering roles.
As General Manager of the Groups manufacturing business, John helped pioneer UNITEs off-site manufacturing facility.
John joined UNITEs Leadership Support Board in 2002 and subsequently was promoted to the role of Group Development Director.
Appointed Managing Director of UNITEs Student Hospitality UK Business in 2006, John leads a strong team with the primary focus of managing and growing UNITEs student hospitality business across the UK.
22 Nicholas Porter Non-Executive Deputy Chairman Aged 37, Nicholas Porter founded UNITE in 1991 and held the position of Chief Executive Officer until September 2006.
Under his leadership UNITE developed a proven business model: established a new asset class: and developed a sustainable business to capitalise on UNITE's significant market opportunities.
Nicholas, who recently founded The Capital Values Group, continues to provide focused support to the Company in his new role of Non-Executive Deputy Chairman.
Nigel Hall Non-Executive Director, Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee Aged 51, Nigel, who qualified as a Chartered Accountant in 1980 with Price Waterhouse, was Group Finance Director of Arcadia Group plc formerly The Burton Group plc until February 2003.
He joined the Burton Group in 1984 and was appointed to its Board in 1997, becoming Group Finance Director in November of that year.
Nigel is also a Non-Executive Director of Pinewood Shepperton plc, Countrywide Farmers plc and C&J Clark Limited.
With his considerable experience of finance and operations in multi-site businesses, Nigel provides strong leadership of the Audit Committee.
Stuart Beevor Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Aged 50, Stuart is Managing Director of Grosvenor Fund Management Limited and a member of the Board of Grosvenor Group Limited, the international property group, which he joined in 2002.
Prior to joining Grosvenor, Stuart was Managing Director at Legal and General Property Limited, having previously held a number of roles dealing with development, investment, property management and unitised funds at Norwich Union in Norwich, London and South Africa.
Stuart is a Fellow of The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors and a Trustee of the Investment Property Forum Educational Trust.
Richard Walker Non-Executive Director Aged 40, Richard is Chief Operating Officer of Carphone Warehouse UK, with responsibility for the Group's 750 UK stores, websites, direct sales and insurance services.
Richard was previously Managing Director of Carphone Warehouse's European retail business, operating in 14 countries, and UK Sales Director.
He holds a law degree from Nottingham University and trained as an accountant with Coopers and Lybrand.
