Part of the community Taking Responsibility Somerset Court, London We have a duty to look after our neighbours.
In 2006 UNITE teamed up with the British Managed accommodation is far better than During 2006, we have gained a deeper Urban Regeneration Association to host a traditional student housing, because real people understanding of the issues in our sector through conference aimed at highlighting the are on hand if there's ever a problem.
What's conversations with our stakeholders: university contribution of universities and their partners more, good accommodation attracts more partners, colleagues across the property sector, towards regenerating our cities.
One of the students who spend their disposable incomes and partners, suppliers and local authorities.
In an projects UNITE shared at the conference was boost the local economy.
And large numbers of extensive audit of our reputation we asked our our work in partnership with the London graduates stay on to become part of the town's stakeholders what matters, how we can help and Diocesan Board for Schools.
Finding a prime cosmopolitan, well-qualified workforce.
where we can further improve.
This work is site just 20 minutes walk from most of the shaping our reputation management strategy and capitals universities, our development team a summary report can be found on our website.
re-built a state of the art primary school We know that half of students get involved in We have five unique stories that illustrate why complete with new playground in Euston for their local area and the number of graduates student accommodation matters and why we are 240 children.
Above the school UNITE looking to stay within their University at the heart of student living.
creatively used the space to develop our brand town city is increasing some 37% of post of purpose built student accommodation for graduates in 2007.
We work hard to build a some 168 London students.
sense of home and independent research This is our manifesto for shows that the highest sense of home is taking responsibility felt amongst those living in a shared 4.
Improving student housing room flat from a corporate provider.
Right now there is a shortage of quality housing in 1.
The real student experience the UK.
Young people often get left with the worst We don't see why students should put up with of the private rented stock.
We set out to transform expectations relationship with the charity Shelter and together of student accommodation by providing There's a shortage of quality housing in the UK.
we aim to signpost ways for young people to find somewhere to live that's clean, smart and secure.
UNITE is putting student accommodation on the good quality, safe and well looked after But we offer more than just a room.
We provide housing and planning agenda.
By creating new, accommodation that suits their individual needs.
student hospitality - a complete experience, dedicated student housing on brownfield sites somewhere that's a home from home.
we're helping to make city centres look and feel We're proud to be leading the way.
This in turn reduces student ghettoes and in the long run returns traditional housing to We believe that going away to university is a the people and families they were built for.
We provide a new kind of hospitality: student life experience not to be missed.
We make the most of unused for some people it could remain just a dream.
brownfield land and innovative modular In 2006 we worked together with the students manufacturing so our properties don't cost charity UNIAID to provide 43 accommodation the earth or the community.
Focusing on bursaries across 22 universities for students providing a real customer experience weve who otherwise would not have been able to been recognised for our achievements by afford to go to university.
We call on other winning awards in 2006 see page 72. organisations to join us.
Featuring: 668 ensuite bedrooms, large common room, fully fitted kitchens, studios and 2-6 bedroom apartments available
