Managing Directors review Thirty years of Berkeley, and another year of excellent results The strategy of any business must evolve, and of course Berkeley has moved from being a traditional housebuilder to a pioneering urban regenerator in recent years.
But the essence of our business is based on a number of key factors Tony Pidgley that do not change: Managing Director Recruiting and retaining the best people in the industry who thrive in Berkeley's unique entrepreneurial culture where relentless attention to detail and innovation are key to success.
Optimising value for shareholders by balancing profit with the generation of cash and focusing on the long term value of our unrivalled land holdings.
Minimising risk by selling forward and controlling work in progress.
Sustainability Berkeleys sustainability strategy embraces how the company manages its environmental, social and economic responsibilities.
The very essence of what Berkeley does demands that these issues remain at the very forefront of its business and its sustainability reporting practices enable Berkeley to respond to the aspirations and concerns of all of its stakeholders, while demonstrating how its business activities make a long-term contribution to the environmental, social and economic fabric of the communities in which it works.
Berkeley knows that a good business means more than profit alone.
Its sustainability initiatives represent investment in the future and underpin all of the schemes that Berkeley creates.
They are embedded at every level in the company.
And they mirror, inform and explain what Berkeley does.
Chelsea Bridge Wharf, London Berkeley Homes 6 www.
co. uk Recognising that we operate in a cyclical industry and that land sales 2005: 16.1 million, along with 27.4 million the nature and complexity of urban regeneration has 2005: 56.1 million of commercial revenue.
resulted in a natural size of our business.
At Berkeley, less means more.
During the year, the continuing Group sold 3,001 units at an average selling price of 293,000.
This compares with The Scheme of Arrangement which was agreed in 2004 2,292 units at an average selling price of 309,000 last year.
determined the implementation of our strategy for the next phase of Berkeley.
It created a powerful alignment of At 27.4 million 2005: 56.1 million, the continuing Groups interests for all our stakeholders, benefiting our shareholders, revenue from commercial activities represents the disposal our people and our customers, allowing us to maximise of commercial units on nine mixed-use sites.
short-term opportunities while running the business under a long-term strategy.
In our view, it was ideally suited to The continuing Groups share of post-tax results from joint a cyclical business and has proved a remarkable success.
ventures was 11.6 million compared to 10.3 million last year.
This arises from the sale of 816 residential units I am delighted to report that we are on target to make 2005: 799 units at an average selling price of 372,000 the 2 per share 2006 B share payment to shareholders in 2005: 358,000 by St James, our joint venture with January 2007.
Indeed, over the last two years we have Thames Water.
This high average selling price is mainly generated some 718 million of cash before payments to due to Wycombe Square in London where 9 units were shareholders and are therefore ahead of our business plan taken to sales at an average sales price of 6.5 million.
as we work towards achieving the 2008 and 2010 B share This scheme is now fully sold and the average selling price payments due under the Scheme of Arrangement.
in joint ventures is expected to fall back to more normal levels in the coming year.
Trading Analysis Revenue for the continuing Group was 917.9 million 2005 Excluding joint ventures and land sales, the house-building 794.5 million.
This comprises 890.5 million 2005: 738.4 operating margin for the continuing Group was 17.5% million of residential revenue, of which 1.1 million was from compared to 19.3% for the full year ended 30th April 2005.
Spacetolive Bringing places back to life, creating environments where people want to come and live.
Respecting the variety of urban life and creating communities of which people are proud to be part.
co. uk Managing Directors review continued This is within the 17.5% to 19.5% range depending on mix reported by the Group over recent reporting periods.
On the basis that current market and planning conditions prevail, we are continuing to forecast broadly in this range.
Joint venture operating margins are 14.1% compared to 14.7% last year and reflect the profit share arrangements with Thames Water.
With sales price enhancements covering build cost increases, the pressure on operating margins is coming from two main areas.
These are: the cost of subsidised housing and planning gain obligations: and, the costs associated with meeting high standards of environmental and sustainable development practice.
We accept these pressures in the knowledge that our duty to shareholders has to be combined with policies for sustainable development.
Indeed, we see no conflict between the two.
Believing that what we create inherently benefits the wider community, we place great emphasis on sustainability at every level in our company.
There are, of course, associated costs and a risk that our operating margin will not continue at the levels we have seen in the past.
In our view, however, any risk will be balanced by our ability to add value to our sites, to obtain planning consents that would otherwise be withheld, and to continue matching the expectations of our customers and therefore to maintain competitive advantage.
Putney Wharf, London St George Bright Horizons Creche, Tabard Square, London Berkeley Homes Managing Directors review continued Housing Market The pressure on operating margins is reflected in a 0.6% The housing market in Berkeleys core region of London and reduction in the Groups land bank gross margin from the South-East remains satisfactory as the fundamentals 28.2% to 27.6%.
This trend will continue as Berkeleys policy of strong employment, historically low interest rates, limited is to secure further consents on our existing land holdings supply and a continuing feel-good factor underpin demand.
and whilst this increases the absolute quantum of gross margin and return on investment, it can reduce the gross The Groups strategy of focusing on maximising value as margin percentage.
opposed to concentrating on volume and profit growth allows us to match supply and demand appropriately.
Reflecting this Forward Sales strategy, Berkeley has secured sales reservations in the year Berkeleys strategy continues to be to sell homes at an early with a value that is 12.5% lower than in 2004 05 and this stage in the development cycle, often at the off-plan stage.
new level is consistent with our business plan for achieving Securing customers commitment in this way ensures the the Scheme of Arrangement.
As always, getting the product right in terms of design, At 30th April 2006, Berkeley held forward sales of 581.9 quality, location and price is key to success in our business million 105.1 million less than the 687.0 million and our strategy is well suited to this.
This forward sales position is commensurate with the ongoing business profile and in line Berkeley continues to maintain a healthy balance between with the Groups strategy.
Of the 581.9 million, 17.0 owner-occupiers and investors with each accounting for million 2005: 37.3 million is included in debtors in the approximately 50% of reservations.
Under the Groups balance sheet.
The remaining 564.9 million 2005: 649.7 definition, an investor can range from a large institution to million will benefit the current and future years income a customer purchasing a second home.
In this market, Berkeleys sales prices have typically been Land Holdings 5% to 8% above the price levels in its business plan at the Once again this year, the Group including its joint ventures beginning of the year and this has covered increases in has more than replaced the number of plots taken to sales build costs.
through acquisition and optimisation on its existing sites.
Regeneration Berkeley continues to acquire new sites, albeit Bringing forgotten selectively, and to submit planning applications on existing schemes.
During the year, the company secured places back to life a number of important new consents including Potters Field by Londons Tower Bridge, Alencon House in The process of land development is complex, more so Basingstoke, Porters Way in West Drayton, Worcester in urban areas where the densities are greater and where Pottery in Worcester and Kingsmead in Canterbury.
the regeneration of brownfield sites serves a wider Additional consents at Chelsea Bridge Wharf and purpose in helping to maintain cities as vibrant, diverse Imperial Wharf in London, and at Royal Clarence Yard and prosperous civic environments.
in Gosport have also been granted.
With the encouragement of national Government, and Imperial Wharf, London St George an increasing number of public institutions, including the Mayor of London, Berkeley is finding a greater understanding both of the benefits and complexity of urban regeneration.
Consequently, Berkeley has welcomed new challenges such as providing more affordable housing on schemes and minimising even further the environmental impacts of its developments and with its embrace of partnership with public stakeholders, this is maintaining its competitive advantage and its ability to optimise the value of its land holdings.
The Hamptons, Surrey St James www.
co. uk 11 Managing Directors review continued Berkeleys land bank is 23,819 plots with an estimated gross margin of 1,672 million.
This compares with 23,123 plots and 1,671 million at 30th April 2005.
Of these holdings, 19,860 plots 2005 : 20,091 are owned and included on the balance sheet.
In addition, 3,264 plots 2005 : 2,680 are contracted and a further 695 plots 2005 : 352 have terms agreed and solicitors instructed.
Over 95% of our holdings are on brownfield or recycled land.
The comparative figures exclude Crosby.
Land bank April 2006 April 2005 excl.
Crosby - Owned 19,860 20,091 - Contracted 3,264 2,680 - Agreed 695 352 Plots 23,819 23,123 Sales value 6,067m 5,931m Average selling price 255k 257k Average plot cost 31k 32k Land cost percentage 12.3% 12.4% Gross margin 1,672m 1,671m Gross margin percentage 27.6% 28.2% Note: this analysis includes joint venture land holdings, of which 3,855 plots 2005: 2,705 are in St James.
Since the Scheme of Arrangement Berkeley has continued to acquire land on a selective basis and continues to find land prices extremely competitive.
In 2004 05 we agreed Brewery Square, London Berkeley Homes Landmark, Surrey Berkeley Homes Place to work Regeneration unites people, places and prosperity.
Its not about isolated office blocks, or solitary residential developments, or simply building extensions to already vibrant areas.
Cities are more complex and the places Berkeley create combine work, play and domestic life.
Delivering this challenge is exciting, and people at Berkeley are proud to be helping make these changes happen.
Its what makes Berkeley a great place to work.
co. uk 13 Awards London Planning Award Winner 2005 Berkeley Group Awards Winner Best Built Project Contributing to Londons Future: Imperial Wharf St George 2005 2006 Berkeley is delighted that its commitment to quality Working Well Together Health & Safety Awards and continuous improvement was again recognised Winner, Best Housebuilder Safety Initiative Berkeley Homes by a range of industry awards.
These independent validations of achievement are important yardsticks The Liveable City Awards 2006 of the progress Berkeley is perpetually trying to make.
Winner, Built Environment Award: West 3 London Apartments A full list of the awards won in the last twelve months Berkeley Homes West London is included on our website at www.
co. uk and include: Considerate Constructors Scheme Awards 2006 Gold Award: Chelsea Bridge Wharf Phase 3 Berkeley Homes WWF Insight Investment Sustainability Survey Silver Award: Talwin Street Berkeley Homes Berkeley scored 84%, joint top among the 12 surveyed Silver Award: Royal Clarence Yard Berkeley Homes housebuilders Bronze Award: Knowle Village Berkeley Homes Silver Award: Royal Quarter Phase 3 St George BURA Awards for Best Practice in Regeneration 2005 Silver Award: Heron View St George A Crystal Award Winner recognising best of the best for Gold Award: St George Wharf St George Gunwharf Quays Berkeley Homes Silver Award: The Hamptons St James Bronze Award: New River Village St James ODPM & RIBA Housing Design Awards Project Winner New River Village, Hornsey St James Civic Trust Awards 2006 Chelsea Bridge Wharf: Bridge Link Berkeley Homes CABE Building for Life Award 2005 Silver Standard Award Putney Wharf St George NHBC Pride In The Job Quality Award 2005 Winner: Royal Quarter St George Winner: Battersea Reach St George Winner: St George Wharf St George Winner: Royal Clarence Yard Berkeley Homes 14 www.
co. uk Managing Directors review continued 19 sites, of which six were in St James.
This year we agreed a record number of plots.
These total 3,855, an increase of 17 sites, of which seven were in St James and four of the 1,150 units in the year.
The business is working up more than seven from Thames Water.
As a result, the land bank now 1,000 further units with Thames Water on potential future sites.
In addition, Saad Berkeley continues to promote option land on four sites and we are actively exploring further opportunities.
In line with our focus on maximising returns from our existing We also continue to look at commercial opportunities within land holdings, we continue to submit further applications on Saad Berkeley Investment Properties.
However, in the current most of our regeneration sites.
market conditions such opportunities have not met our investment criteria.
2 The Groups land holdings include over 1.5 million ft of commercial space within our mixed-use schemes.
The Group Looking Forward is not undertaking any standalone commercial schemes.
I described last year our passion for creating good homes for people and how that had moved Berkeley into its early Joint Ventures ventures in urban regeneration, which now of course is Berkeley currently has 69.0 million of capital employed in the very essence of the new Berkeley.
That passion is joint ventures, an increase of 4.5 million from the prior year undiminished as we enter our fourth decade as a company, figure of 64.5 million.
The Groups share of joint venture and continue to operate at the forefront of the land bank borrowings has fallen by 46.4 million to 5.3 million.
At one level, we are in a business where delivery is complex, and which requires an immense Joint ventures have been a key ingredient in Berkeleys results passion and energy: passion to create the vision we need and our recent approach has been to concentrate on a small to see the potential of the sites we develop, and energy number of strategic partners.
This has resulted in St James, to make change happen and create places where people our 50% joint venture with Thames Water now having really do want to live, work and play.
There is also, however, View from St George Wharf, London St George Winner: Arcadian Place Berkeley Homes Winner, Best Apartment: The Grand Store, Royal Arsenal Winner: Landmark Berkeley Homes Berkeley Homes Winner: Chelsea Bridge Wharf Berkeley Homes Highly Commended, Best House up to 4 beds: Winner: Royal Arsenal, Building 50 Berkeley Homes The Vermont, Leybourne Lakes Berkeley Homes Winner: Royal Arsenal: Building 36 Berkeley Homes Highly Commended, Best New Luxury Home: Winner: Tempus Wharf Berkeley Homes Imperial Wharf St George Winner: Leybourne Lakes Berkeley Homes Special Commendation, Best New Development: Winner: Battersea Reach Berkeley Homes Battersea Reach St George Winner: Grosvenor Waterside St James Highly Commended, London Lifestyle Award: One SE8 St James Building Magazine Building Communities Awards Private Sector Housebuilder of the Year St James Daily Mail UK Property Awards 2005 Placemaking Award for Kew Riverside St James Winner 5 Award: UK Waterfront Home: Imperial Wharf St George The Daily Telegraph What House Magazine Awards 2005 Winner 4 Award: UK Development: Imperial Wharf St George Gold Award in the Best Exterior Design Category: Winner 5 Award: Best Developer Website: Macellum Gate Berkeley Homes Royal Arsenal Berkeley Homes Gold Award in the Best Landscaping Category: Kew Riverside St James The Mail on Sunday National Homebuilder Design Gold Award for Best Brownfield Development: Awards 2005 One SE8 St James Winner, Best Conversion: Putney Wharf St George Silver Award in the Best Sustainable Project Category: Winner, Best Landscaping of a development: West 3, Acton Berkeley Homes Chelsea Bridge Wharf Berkeley Homes Bronze Award in the Housebuilder of the Year Award: Winner, Best Interior Design of a New Home: Apartment 102, Berkeley Homes The Grand Store, Royal Arsenal Berkeley Homes Evening Standard New Homes Awards 2005 Bentley International Property Awards Winner, Best House up to 4 beds: Winner, Best Waterside Development: Imperial Wharf Arcadian Place Berkeley Homes St George www.
co. uk 15 Time to play The joy of spending time with family and friends.
Finding time to relax, have fun, and forget about work.
Communities spring to life when this essence of humanity is set free.
It needs architecture to inspire and space to breathe.
It promotes an appreciation of culture, and respects the diversity of peoples lives.
co. uk Managing Directors review continued a simplicity to Berkeley, which has stayed constant since I founded the company over thirty years ago: We have the best people who thrive on challenge and opportunity.
We have the vision and courage to seize opportunities others do not.
We create communities where people want to live, often on previously neglected land.
We have the experience to manage risk and maximise opportunities in a cyclical business.
And we always look after our customers, and stand by our product.
And it will go on being Berkeley.
We look forward to the next year.
Tony Pidgley Managing Director Gunwharf Quays, Portsmouth Berkeley Homes The Hamptons, Surrey St James
