08 3i Report and accounts 2006 Our vision Operating on a world-wide scale 3i in Europe Extending our reach From our roots in the UK, over the last two decades 3i has Building on 3is strong position in Europe, we have been growing developed a network of teams throughout Europe.
Our local our presence in Asia and the US with new 3i teams in Mumbai, teams, based in 10 European countries, draw on the resources Shanghai and New York.
Additionally, through investing in funds, within the region and elsewhere in the world to win business and we are gaining experience of markets in eastern Europe, the create value.
Middle East, Russia and Japan.
3i in Asia The right culture Since 1997 3i has been developing a business in Asia.
3i is located in many markets but operates as a one room Today, we have teams in Singapore, Hong Kong, Mumbai and company, with a strong culture of working across borders, Shanghai and are in the process of establishing a presence in harnessing knowledge and skills from across the world.
We also have investments in the CDH China Growth Operating with an international mindset requires constant Capital Fund II and the MKS Japan Fund IV buyout fund.
investment in our people and in our communications.
Our business in Asia delivers considerable value to our Our financial strength, local presence, global access and ability portfolio companies elsewhere in the world.
to deliver complex transactions are sources of competitive advantage, as is our culture.
3i in the US Our teams in the US in Silicon Valley, California and Waltham, Massachusetts are focused on venture capital, investing in early and late-stage technology.
3is ability to benchmark opportunities globally and be a truly international syndicate partner is attractive to those in the US market with international ambition.
3is recently established New York team provides a growth capital investing capability.
It also increases 3is market access in a key economy and enhances our ability to add additional value to portfolio companies in Europe and Asia.
3i Report and accounts 2006 Our vision 09 Producing consistent market-beating returns Performance culture Aligned interests From the setting of objectives for individuals to the development An important aspect of creating value is aligning our interests of value creation plans for specific investments, 3is culture is one with the interests of other shareholders and key stakeholders in of ambition.
Setting ambitious goals, measuring progress and the businesses in which we invest.
This is especially important in facing up to issues and dealing with them are key aspects of this.
Establishing the right investment agreements at the outset, clarity on roles and responsibilities and what is expected of each party in delivering a plan for creating Clear targets value, are essential.
Having clear targets for our own business, as well as for each investment, is an essential component of delivering value.
3is published targets for each of our business lines, using the Focus standard industry measure, cash-to-cash returns, are shown in To invest in the highest quality businesses, and to grow the table below.
Also shown, is the variability that we consider 3i returns, requires focus.
Focus on identifying the right appropriate to reflect our risk profile in terms of cyclical and opportunities, focus on the key areas which will create value and vintage volatility.
The transparency of these targets and the then focus on delivering that value.
Since 2002 3i has become a focus that they bring is healthy for 3i and reinforces our much more focused business, as the charts below demonstrate.
straightforward approach to doing business.
Also shown is the cyclical and vintage volatility that we consider appropriate to reflect our risk profile.
Targets Cash-to-cash Cycle Vintage year return pa volatility volatility %%% Buyouts 20 -5 -10 Growth Capital 20 -3 - 7 Venture Capital 25 -7 -15 Note: For an explanation of cash-to-cash returns and volatilities, please see pages 98 to 99.
A more focused business since 2002 Number of new investments Number of portfolio companies year to 31 March at 31 March y 291 2,759 2,606 2,162 1,878 194 1,502 1,087 85 67 59 58 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 01 02 03 04 05 06 Our vision 10 3i Report and accounts 2006 Our vision Acknowledged for our partnership style Long-term relationships With staff 3is reputation is critically dependent upon the relationships that Compelling employment propositions are just the start of we have built with business leaders around the world.
We know attracting and retaining high-calibre staff around the world.
that years of good work can be undone with one poorly handled 3i also offers a development culture and an organisation which is interaction.
In highly charged business situations, where views challenging, enjoyable and rewarding and where teamwork and a can easily differ, being able to put an alternative view in a spirit of partnership are real.
straightforward and engaging way can go a long way to building good relationships.
The importance attached to long-term With partners relationships is a significant feature of 3is culture.
There are many other people who contribute to making our business successful.
These include professional advisers, vendors With shareholders of businesses and buyers of our portfolio companies as well as As an investor ourselves, we appreciate the importance of suppliers to the Group.
We aim to treat people with respect and good communications with our shareholders and providing to be a valued partner to them.
opportunities for shareholders to express their views.
Our investor relations website www.
com embodies our open approach.
With the teams we back At 3i we recognise that our success depends upon the success of the management teams we back.
We recognise that aligning interests, motivating the leaders of our portfolio companies to achieve exceptional performance and adding value to their boards and businesses is not just in 3is short-term interests, but also central to our reputation.
3i Report and accounts 2006 Our vision 11 Winning through our unparalleled resources A knowledge culture The best team for the job 3is culture is one of sharing information, where good Key to leveraging 3is scale is our best team for the job communications are valued, and where looking at a piece of approach.
This applies to projects within 3i as much as to making information in a different way is seen as key to harnessing 3is and managing investments.
We achieve this through drawing on capability.
There is acknowledgement for those who deliver the most relevant internal and external resources from across knowledge to others.
Sector strength Combining capabilities Sixty years of investing in a broad range of sectors has provided 3is ability to combine the capabilities of highly experienced a wealth of knowledge and considerable experience and specialist investors with sector knowledge, and people who relationships.
Sector-based marketing is increasingly relevant and can operate skilfully at a local level, is a considerable source of 3i has built sector-based communities of investee companies as competitive advantage.
It also adds significant value to asset a powerful source of added value.
Our most developed sector management and underpins our ability to source the right team.
teams are in Oil, Gas and Power, in Media and in Healthcare.
The benefits which can be derived across business lines and geographies are considerable.
People programmes 3i operates well-established programmes for chairmen, chief executives, chief financial officers and non-executive directors.
These are designed to offer participants access to 3is deal flow and priority consideration for appointments in our portfolio as well as high-quality and experienced peer groups.
The programmes also provide 3i with privileged access to highquality business leaders around the world and across the many sectors in which we invest.
Additionally, they provide further knowledge and network benefit and a centre of excellence and best practice to a key driver of investment success - talent.
Business line expertise Creating value Sector Local knowledge knowledge
