42 3i Report and accounts 2006 Board of Directors and Management Committee Baroness Hogg Philip Yea Christine Morin-Postel Oliver Stocken Simon Ball Michael Queen Dr Peter Mihatsch Danny Rosenkranz Baroness Hogg Dr Peter Mihatsch Chairman since 2002 and a non-executive Director since 1997.
Chairman of the Non-executive Director since 2004.
A member of the Nominations Committee Nominations Committee and the Valuations Committee.
Chairman of Frontier and the Valuations Committee.
Chairman of the supervisory board of Giesecke Economics Limited.
A director of BG Group plc and Carnival Corporation and plc.
A member of the supervisory boards of Vodafone GmbH, Deputy Chairman of GKN plc until 12 May 2006.
A Governor of the London Vodafone D2 GmbH, Arcor AG, Alcatel SA and Rheinmetall AG.
Formerly Chairman Business School and a member of the Financial Reporting Council.
From 1995 to of Mannesmann Mobilfunk GmbH and a member of the management boards of 2002 Chairman of Foreign & Colonial Smaller Companies PLC.
Formerly Head of Mannesmann AG and Mannesmann Kienzle GmbH.
Aged 65. the Prime Ministers Policy Unit.
Christine Morin-Postel Oliver Stocken Non-executive Director since 2002.
A member of the Audit and Compliance Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director since 2002 and a non-executive Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nominations Committee.
Chairman of the Audit and Compliance Committee and of the A director of Alcan, Inc, Pilkington plc and Royal Dutch Shell PLC.
Formerly Chief trustees of the 3i Group Pension Plan.
A member of the Nominations Committee, Executive of Socit Gnrale fide Belgique, executive Vice-President and member of the Remuneration Committee and the Valuations Committee.
Chairman of Rutland the executive committee of Suez and a director of Tractabel and Fortis.
Trust plc and Stanhope Group Holdings Limited.
A director of GUS plc, Pilkington plc and Standard Chartered plc.
Formerly Finance Director of Barclays plc.
Michael Queen Executive Director since 1997.
Responsible for Philip Yea Growth Capital since April 2005.
From 1994 to 1996 seconded Chief Executive and executive Director since joining the Company in 2004. to HM Treasury.
Appointed Group Financial Controller in 1996 and Finance Director A member of the Nominations Committee and the Valuations Committee.
A member of the Management Committee and the Groups Investment A member of the Groups Investment Committee since 2004.
Ceased to be Finance Director on assuming responsibility director of Vodafone Group plc.
Formerly Managing Director within the private for Growth Capital investment.
A director of Gardens Pension Trustees Limited, a equity business of Investcorp.
A former Finance Director of Diageo plc and former corporate trustee of the 3i Group Pension Plan, and a non-executive director of non-executive director of HBOS plc and Manchester United PLC.
Past Chairman of the British Venture Capital Association.
Simon Ball Finance Director since April 2005 and member of the Management Committee since Danny Rosenkranz joining the Company in February 2005.
A member of the Valuations Committee.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and A non-executive director of Cable & Wireless plc.
Formerly, Director General Finance a member of the Audit and Compliance Committee and the Nominations Committee.
at the Department for Constitutional Affairs, Group Finance Director of Robert Chairman of Foseco plc and Pecaso Limited.
Formerly Chief Executive of The BOC Fleming and Chief Operating Officer UK of Dresdner Kleinwort Benson.
3i Report and accounts 2006 Board of Directors and Management Committee 43 Sir Robert Smith Tony Brierley Jonathan Russell Fred Steingraber Denise Collis Jo Taylor Chris Rowlands Paul Waller Sir Robert Smith Chris Rowlands Non-executive Director since 2004.
A member of the Audit and Compliance Managing Partner, Group Markets.
A member of the Management Committee Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nominations Committee.
and the Groups Investment Committee since re-joining the Company in 2002.
Chairman of Weir Group plc and Scottish & Southern Energy plc.
A non-executive Previously employed by 3i from 1984 to 1996.
A non-executive director of director of Aegon UK plc and Standard Bank Group Limited.
Aged 49. non-executive director of the Financial Services Authority and Bank of Scotland plc, Chief Executive of Morgan Grenfell Asset Management and a member of the Jonathan Russell Financial Reporting Council.
A member of the Management Committee and the Groups Investment Committee since 1999.
Formerly Chairman Fred Steingraber of the European Private Equity and Venture Capital Association Buyout Committee.
A member of the Nominations Committee and Aged 45. the Remuneration Committee.
A director of Elkay Manufacturing and John Hancock Financial Trends Fund.
A member of the supervisory board of Continental AG.
Jo Taylor Formerly, Chairman and Chief Executive of AT Kearney, Inc, and a director of Managing Partner, Venture Capital.
A member of the Management Committee and Maytag Corporation, Lawter International, Inc, and Mercury Finance, Inc.
Aged 67. the Groups Investment Committee since July 2005.
Responsible for 3is UK Venture Capital business and has helped co-ordinate 3is global venture Other members of Management Committee activities since 1999.
Chairman of the British Venture Capital Association High Technology Committee and a British Venture Capital Association Council member.
Responsible for the Groups legal, compliance, internal audit and company secretarial functions.
Chairman of the Corporate Paul Waller Responsibility Committee.
Appointed to the Management Managing Partner, Funds.
A member of the Management Committee since 1999.
A member of the Groups Investment Committee since 1997.
Past Chairman of the European Private Equity and Venture Capital Association.
A member of the Management Committee since joining the Company in 2004.
Previously employed by HSBC and Standard Chartered plc.
Before joining 3i was HR Partner at Ernst & Young.
