Board of directors Charles Irby 1 Martin Gilbert 2 Andrew Laing 3 Bill Rattray 4 Donald Waters 5 Roger Cornick 6 Anita Frew 7 The Rt.
Sir Malcolm Rifkind 8 Giles Weaver 9 4 7 1 2 5 8 3 6 9 18 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 2 1,2 Charles Irby FCA Donald Waters OBE CA Chairman Age 61 Senior Independent Non Executive Director Age 68 Charles was appointed to the Board on 1 August Donald was appointed to the Board on 1 1999 and became Chairman on 14 January 2000.
A chartered accountant, Donald is He is also a director of Great Portland Estates plc, a director of James Johnston & Co of Elgin Limited.
North Atlantic Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc He was formerly deputy chairman and chief executive and QBE Insurance Group Limited and a trustee and of Grampian Television plc and a director of SMG plc.
governor of King Edward VIIs Hospital, Sister Agnes.
Donald is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
A chartered accountant, Charles spent 27 years with 3 Roger Cornick ING Barings Limited specialising in corporate finance Independent Non Executive Director Age 62 and is a former member of the Takeover Panel.
Charles Roger joined the Board on 23 January 2004.
Roger is also Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
was with Perpetual PLC for over 20 years, serving Martin Gilbert MA LLB LLD CA latterly as deputy chairman.
Roger has over 30 years Chief Executive Age 51 experience of sales and marketing in financial Martin is a founding Director and shareholder of services and is currently a trustee of the River the Company having been appointed a Director on and Rowing Museum.
Martin trained as a chartered accountant 1 Anita Frew BA Hons MPhil in Aberdeen prior to moving into investment Independent Non Executive Director Age 49 management with an Aberdeen rm of solicitors.
Anita was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2004.
Martin is chairman of FirstGroup plc and Chaucer Anita started her career at Royal Bank of Scotland Holdings PLC.
Martin is also a director of Aberdeen before moving to Scottish Provident where she became Asia-Pacic Income Fund, Inc, Aberdeen Asia-Pacic head of UK Investment.
Anita then joined WPP Group Income Investment Company Limited, Aberdeen PLC as director of corporate development and was Development Capital PLC, Aberdeen Football Club plc, latterly an executive director at Abbot Mead Vickers plc Aberdeen Global Income Fund, Inc, Aberdeen Growth in 1997.
Sir Malcolm Rifkind MP Andrew Laing MA LLB Independent Non Executive Director Age 60 Chief Operating officer Age 54 Sir Malcolm joined the Board on 1 August 2000.
He is Andrew joined the Group in 1986 with responsibility Conservative Member of Parliament for Kensington and for the private equity division.
He was subsequently Chelsea having previously served as UK Defence appointed Chief Operating officer, originally joining Secretary and UK Foreign Secretary.
Sir Malcolm is non the Board in 1997 and then again on 23 January 2004. executive chairman of ArmorGroup International plc Andrew graduated from Aberdeen University with an and is a consultant to BHP Billiton Plc.
Sir Malcolm is MA in Politics and International Relations and a degree Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
After a period of practising law, 1,3 Andrew entered private equity in Edinburgh, prior to Giles Weaver FCA joining Aberdeen.
Andrew is a director of the Groups Independent Non Executive Director Age 60 Property division and a number of Group subsidiaries.
Giles was appointed to the Board on 1 December 2000.
A chartered accountant, Bill Rattray MA CA Giles was formerly managing director and chairman Finance Director Age 48 of the Murray Johnstone Group until its acquisition Bill joined the Group in 1985 as Company Secretary by Aberdeen in 2000.
He is currently chairman and subsequently became Group Financial of Charter Pan-European Trust PLC, Kenmore European Controller.
He was appointed Finance Director on Industrial Fund Limited and Helical Bar PLC.
Prior to joining the Group, he trained also a director of Anglo & Overseas PLC, Henderson Far as a chartered accountant with Ernst & Whinney East Income Trust plc, Investec High Income Trust PLC, in Aberdeen and qualied in 1982.
Bill is a director ISIS Property Trust 2 Limited and Isotron plc.
of a number of Group subsidiaries.
1 Member of the Audit Committee 2 Member of the Nominations Committee 3 Member of the Remuneration Committee Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 19
