Management board The Management board was established during 2006 Steve Ilott as successor to the Executive Committee, with Head of Fixed Income responsibility for the Groups day to day operations.
Steve is Head of Aberdeens xed income business The names and brief biographies of the board are globally.
He joined Aberdeen via the acquisition detailed below.
of Deutsche Asset Management's London and Philadelphia xed income businesses in 2005.
Martin Gilbert Previously, Steve was head of xed income at Chief Executive Deutsche Asset Management having joined the Biography on page 19 company in 1998.
Andrew Laing Rod MacRae Chief Operating officer Group Head of Risk Biography on page 19 Rod is responsible for UK and global operational risk including Internal Audit and Regulatory Compliance, Bill Rattray and serves as chairman of the Group Risk Management Finance Director Committee.
Rod joined Aberdeen in 2003, following Biography on page 19 the acquisition of Edinburgh Fund Managers.
Rod Rickard Backlund graduated with a MA Hons in Economics from the CEO, Aberdeen Property Investors University of Edinburgh and is a member of the Rickard joined Aberdeen in 2001 having previously Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
been the CEO of CELEXA Fastighetskapital from Gary Marshall 1998.
He has a Masters Degree in Civil Engineering Group Head of Marketing from The Swedish Royal Institute of Technology and Gary is Group Head of Marketing, chief executive of completed a course in Business Administration and Aberdeen Unit Trust Managers Ltd and chief executive Managerial Economics at Ume University.
Rickard is a of Aberdeen Asset Management Life and Pensions Ltd. member of the board of FASTIGO, The Federation He also sits on the boards of the Groups Dublin and of Swedish Real Estate Employers, member of the Luxembourg based offshore fund ranges.
Gary joined Board of SIPA, the Scandinavian International Property Aberdeen following the acquisition of Prolic Financial Association, member of the Board of the Swedish Management in 1997.
Gary graduated with a Federation of Property Owners and has been chairman BSc Hons in Actuarial Mathematics and Statistics of the board of the Swedish Property Owners from Heriot Watt University and is a qualied actuary.
Anne Richards Gary Bartlett Chief Investment officer Head of US Fixed Income Anne is Chief Investment officer and head of multi-asset Gary is Head of the US active xed income team and investment.
She was chief investment officer and joint Senior Portfolio Manager specialising in utility, energy, managing director of Edinburgh Fund Managers, which taxable municipal and government xed income was acquired by Aberdeen in 2003.
Prior to joining EFM, investments.
Gary joined Aberdeen via the acquisition Anne worked for Merrill Lynch Investment Managers.
of Deutsche Asset Managements Philadelphia xed Income businesses in 2005.
Previously, he worked for Hugh Y oung PNC Financial as an analyst and xed income portfolio Managing Director Asia manager.
He graduated with a BA from Bucknell Hugh is managing director of Aberdeen Asset University, Pennsylvania, an MBA from Drexel Management Asia Limited, the Group's regional HQ, University, Philadelphia, and is a CFA charterholder.
and is also Group head of equities.
He co-founded Singapore-based Aberdeen Asia in 1992, having been Chris Ellyatt recruited in 1985 to manage Asian equities from Head of Institutional Business Development London.
Hugh graduated with a BA Hons in politics Chris is Head of Institutional Business Development from Exeter University.
with staff based in Europe, North America and Asia Pacic.
He joined Aberdeen in 2002 following Ken Fry a career in Investment banking, focused mainly upon Chief Technology officer Asian and emerging markets, predominantly with Ken Fry graduated from the University of Essex with a HSBC and Barclays fide Zoete Wedd.
BA in Computer Science and joined Aberdeen with the aquisition of Frederick's Place Holdings in 1989 as Group IT Manager.
He was appointed joint head of operations and Chief Technology officer in 2006.
20 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006
