ABERFORTH PARTNERS LLP INFORMATION Aberforth Partners LLP the rm act as Managers and Secretaries to the Company.
The predecessor business, Aberforth Partners, was established in 1990 to provide institutional and wholesale investors with a high level of resources focused exclusively on small UK quoted companies.
Since then funds under management have grown to 2.3 billion as at 31 December 2006.
The rm is wholly owned by eight partners five founding partners and two additional partners, all of whom are investment managers and an eighth partner, Gordon R Young, who is responsible for the rms administration.
The seven investment managers work as a team managing the Companys portfolio on a collegiate basis.
The founding partners have been managing the portfolio since the Companys inception in December 1990.
The partners each have a personal investment in the Company.
The biographical details of the investment managers are as follows: Andrew P Bamford 40 BCom Hons, CA Andy joined Aberforth Partners in April 2001, became a partner in May 2004, and is responsible for investment research and stock selection in the following areas Technology Hardware & Equipment: Travel & Leisure: Health Care Equipment & Services: and Industrial Transportation.
Previously he was with Edinburgh Fund Managers for 7 years, latterly as Deputy Head of UK Small Companies, with specic responsibility for institutional clients.
Prior to joining Edinburgh Fund Managers he was a senior investment analyst with General Accident for 2 years supporting the head of UK Smaller Companies.
Before joining General Accident, he was a Chartered Accountant with Price Waterhouse.
John M Evans 49 MA Hons John was a founding partner in May 1990 and is responsible for investment research and stock selection in the following areas Automobiles & Parts: Construction & Materials: Household Goods: Leisure Goods: Personal Goods: Fixed Line Telecom: Electricity: Gas, Water & Multiutilities: and Mining.
Previously he was with Ivory & Sime for 11 years where he was latterly responsible for the management of portfolios whose objectives were income and capital growth from UK equities.
Euan R Macdonald 36 BA Hons Euan joined Aberforth Partners in May 2001, became a partner in May 2004, and is responsible for investment research and stock selection in the following areas Industrial Engineering and Software & Computer Services.
Previously he was with Baillie Gifford for 10 years where he managed portfolios invested in small companies both in Continental Europe and in the UK.
Richard M J Newbery 47 BA Hons Richard was a founding partner in May 1990 and is responsible for investment research and stock selection in the following areas Electronic & Electrical Equipment: Beverages: Food & Drug Retailers: Food Producers: and General Retailers.
Previously he was with Ivory & Sime for 9 years where he managed international portfolios for a range of clients including those with a small company specialisation.
David T M Ross 57 FCCA David was a founding partner in May 1990 and is responsible for investment research and stock selection in the following areas Nonlife Insurance: Life Assurance: Real Estate: and General Financial.
Previously he was with Ivory & Sime for 22 years, the last two of which were as Managing Director.
He was a Director of US Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc and served as a member of the Executive Committee of the Association of Investment Companies.
David Warnock 49 BCom Hons, CDipAF David was a founding partner in May 1990 and is responsible for investment research and stock selection in the following areas Chemicals: Forestry & Paper: General Industrials: and Support Services.
Previously he was with Ivory & Sime for 4 years and had responsibility for the management of investment trusts whose objectives were capital and income growth from equities on a global basis.
Prior to joining Ivory & Sime, he was with 3i for 7 years in both Scotland and the USA.
Alistair J Whyte 43 Alistair was a founding partner in May 1990 and is responsible for investment research and stock selection in the following areas Aerospace & Defence: Media: Oil & Gas Producers: Oil Equipment, Services & Distribution: and Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology.
Previously he was with Ivory & Sime for 11 years where latterly he managed portfolios in Asia.
Prior to that he managed portfolios with the objective of capital growth from smaller companies in the UK and internationally.
Further information on Aberforth Partners LLP and its clients is available on its website www.
