MANAGERS REPORT PERFORMANCE Small UK quoted companies enjoyed a fourth consecutive year of outstanding absolute and relative returns.
Having risen by 43.0% in 2003, 20.7% in 2004 and 27.8% in 2005, the Hoare Govett Smaller Companies Index Excluding Investment Companies achieved a total return of 28.0% in 2006.
This was substantially ahead of the FTSE All-Share Indexs 16.8% and, indeed, the average returns enjoyed by UK equities over the longer term.
ASCoT shared in this buoyancy, though its 26.3% total return fell short of its benchmarks.
The UKs pattern of strong absolute returns in local currencies and small company out-performance was mirrored by other major stockmarkets.
On a constant currency basis, however, a different picture emerges.
Though broadly unchanged against the euro, sterling appreciated by 15% against the US dollar.
In sterling terms, therefore, the capital only return from the S&P 500 Index was actually slightly negative.
INVESTMENT BACKGROUND The HGSC XIC s 28.0% return was not achieved smoothly.
In common with the FTSE All-Share Index and other indices around the world, the benchmark wobbled between early May and early June, falling by 11.6% before recovering strongly through the second half.
That bout of risk aversion, though the most severe in 2006, was not an isolated incident.
In their reading of the likely interplay of ination, real economic growth and interest rates, financial markets on several occasions irted with the notion that US interest rates might fall in 2007, only to be jilted as inationary pressures from rampant commodity prices or dollar weakness refused to abate.
Looking for now beyond these short term uctuations, familiar imbalances in the global economy persist and retain their relevance for the investment background.
These imbalances moved to centre stage in the wake of the brief US recession in 2001.
Encouraged by low interest rates, the US consumer ran down savings and borrowed to spend.
This spending sustained economic growth not just in the US but also globally.
It was directed towards the cheap goods and services produced by the economies of East Asia and China in particular.
As this relationship developed, the US consumer became more indebted and the US current account deficit swelled to well over 6% of GDP.
The final stage in this symbiotic system was the recycling of Asian current account surpluses into perceived high return assets, including US government bonds.
In this activity, the East Asian economies were joined by oil exporting countries, which enjoyed a substantial windfall from the quadrupling of the oil price between the end of 2001 and the middle of 2006.
It might be tempting to adopt a puritanical stance at this point and admonish the American consumer for his proigacy.
However, the fostering of these imbalances has probably resulted in a more buoyant global economy today than would otherwise have been the case.
While a less lopsided world might appeal, its attainment would not be without risk.
In particular, alternative sources of demand would be required should challenges arise for the US consumer.
Although the 24% drop in the oil price since its mid year peak has relieved some pressure, several such challenges emerged last year.
In response to or in anticipation of ongoing inationary pressures, the cost of borrowing continued to rise, with the Fed funds rate increased four times in early 2006 to end the year at 5.25%.
There is evidence that this has affected the housing market, which previously played an important role in fuelling consumer spending through renancing.
Construction activity slowed markedly towards the end of 2006, with new starts down by over 25% year-on-year.
Moreover, Americans recent fondness for UK-style variable rate mortgages has accelerated the transmission of higher interest rates to the consumer.
Finally, the dollars weakness should at the margin undermine the purchasing power of the US consumer.
These headwinds have given rise to concerns that the American economy might next year slow more quickly than previously expected or even enter recession.
Apparent conrmation for this bearish outlook comes from the shape of the US yield curve, with long term bond yields sitting below short term yields.
This inversion of the yield curve, which intensied through 2006, has historically proved a useful indicator of an imminent 10 MANAGERS REPORT recession.
Within this context, it may be possible to rationalise financial markets obsession last year with whether inationary pressures would relent sufciently to allow renewed monetary stimulus from lower interest rates in 2007.
Meanwhile, to judge by the resilience of sterling, the UK remains a haven of relative calm, despite sharing with the US several structural challenges such as a large current account deficit, an indebted consumer sector and an inverted yield curve.
Inationary pressures also remain an issue, with data released in December revealing that the CPI at both the headline and core levels was rising more than expected.
Although consumer spending eased, the housing market was reinvigorated after its pause for breath in early 2005: the Halifax survey suggested that house prices rose by 10% last year.
As the year drew to a close, therefore, speculation intensied that further monetary tightening, following 2006s increase in interest rates from 4.5% to 5.0%, might prove necessary.
Perhaps the currency markets are indicating a greater probability that the Bank of Englands monetary policy committee will successfully deal with ination than their American counterparts.
INVESTMENT PERFORMANCE As already noted, the setback in May and June meant that the HGSC XIC s 28.0% total return was not secured in a smooth fashion.
ASCoTs absolute return followed a similar prole, but its relative return was almost a mirror image.
As history indicates, your Managers value investment disciplines often prove out of step with the mood of the market.
These periods have tended to coincide with exuberant stockmarket conditions and can persist for several quarters.
The first four months of 2006 sustained the bullish outlook that held sway in much of 2005 and saw ASCoT return 9.2% against its benchmarks 11.6%.
However, the increased risk aversion in the mid year served to dampen some of the exuberance and proved to be a turning point in ASCoTs relative fortunes: its 15.6% return over the eight months to the end of the year exceeded the HGSC XIC s 14.8%.
Clearly, however, this upturn was insufficient to recover earlier lost ground.
The following paragraphs are intended to throw some light on the inuences on ASCoTs performance.. Of the major indices that measure the performance of UK equities, the HGSC XIC s 28.0% return in 2006 was bettered only by the FTSE 250 XIC, which was up by 32.1% in total return terms.
Indeed, medium sized companies have been the sweet-spot within the UK stockmarkets recovery over the past four years, producing a cumulative total return of 197% against 94% for the FTSE All-Share.
This out-performance reects higher levels of corporate activity and the lure of different industrial exposures from the FTSE 100, which remains dominated by 15 very large companies that account for half of the total market capitalisation of the FTSE All-Share and that are concentrated in the banking, oil, pharmaceutical and telecoms industries.
Crucially, ASCoTs benchmark overlaps with the FTSE 250 and thus shares in its performance.
The HGSC XIC s denition the lowest tenth by market capitalisation of the main UK equity market means that 59% of its total value at the end of 2006 was made up of constituents of the FTSE 250.
With the alternative small company benchmark, the FTSE SmallCap Index, having returned 133% over the past four years against 182% for the HGSC XIC, ASCoTs choice of benchmark has served it well.
However, as its mid cap constituents have re-rated, your Managers have gradually re-oriented the portfolio towards smaller companies.
Four years ago, FTSE 250 companies accounted for 54% of ASCoTs portfolio and for 61% of the benchmark.
However, at the end of 2006, ASCoTs exposure to FTSE 250 companies had been managed down to 43%, against 59% for the benchmark.
This general theme of strong returns from small and mid cap companies does not extend to AIM, a market into which ASCoT has not ventured.
Following a modest 4.8% total return in 2005, the FTSE AIM All-Share inched 1.5% higher last year.
AIM has struggled over recent years with the laws of supply and demand, having experienced significant net equity issuance in contrast to the net withdrawals, i. e. fide-equitisation, on the main market.
It has also been hampered by greater exposure to early-stage commodities companies and on-line gaming businesses.
11 MANAGERS REPORT Performance Attribution Analysis 12 Months to 31 December 2006 Basis Points Stock Selection 325 Sector Selection 315 Attributable to the portfolio of investments calculated on a mid-price basis 10 Impact of mid-price to bid-price 21 Cash 98 Management Fee including VAT charged 99 Other expenses 6 Total Attribution based on bid-prices 172 Note: 100 basis points 1%.
Total Attribution is the difference between the total return of the net asset value and the Benchmark Index i. e. net asset value 26.29%: Benchmark Index 28.01%: difference is 1.72% being 172 basis points..
The table above analyses ASCoTs relative performance in total return terms.
At the portfolio level, ASCoT was ahead of the benchmark by ten basis points.
This gure was the net of a large negative contribution from sector selection i. e. either a lower exposure than the benchmark to those sectors that performed well or a higher exposure to those that performed poorly and a slightly larger positive from stock selection i. e. the portfolios investments in a sector performed well against that sectors benchmark return.
Regular readers of these reports will appreciate that this degree of disparity between the attributions to stock and sector selection is unusual.
The good stock selection was broadly spread.
Of the 28 sectors in which ASCoTs portfolio was invested during 2006, 16 generated a positive attribution.
In 2005s report, reference was made to a higher incidence of profit warnings, specifically to nine stocks that reduced absolute performance by more than 20 basis points.
Last year, that number, through good luck and good judgement, fell back to four.
Sector selection has clearly been less favourable.
Before proceeding with an explanation, it is worth reiterating that ASCoTs sector weightings are not predetermined: rather, they are the outcome of the analysis of individual businesses: if your Managers cannot identify any attractively valued companies in a particular sector, they will not commit your capital to that sector.
On this basis, ASCoT entered 2006 cumulatively 10.5% points below the benchmarks 19.6% weight in four sectors: Oil & Gas Producers, Mining, Real Estate and General Financials.
In the case of the two resources sectors, your Managers were concerned that 2005s extraordinary appreciation in the price of oil and other commodities had been more than fairly reected in the valuations of many constituent companies, companies that frequently relied on highly speculative exploration programmes.
Meanwhile, caution with regard to the two nancials sectors was founded upon their reliance on the historically low cost of debt, which, in the case of property, had driven yields down to levels that appeared difficult to justify without a meaningful pick-up in rental growth.
Despite these misgivings, all four sectors succeeded in outstripping the performance of the benchmark as a whole.
With no significant fundamental improvement discernible, and consistent with their value style, your Managers reacted by making further reductions.
ASCoT entered 2007 13.5% points below the benchmarks 22.2% weighting in these sectors.
There must clearly be offsetting over-weight positions.
Ironically, the most important of these are the TMT technology, media and telecom sectors, the very area of the market to which ASCoT had so little exposure seven years ago.
The portfolio began 2007 with a weighting in TMT 5.5% points higher than 12 MANAGERS REPORT the HGSC XIC s 13.6%.
This simply reected the availability of a number of attractively valued businesses within what had become relatively unfashionable sectors of the stockmarket.
Contrarianism is a regular feature of your Managers investment style.
In the short term, it incurs the risk of running against the prevailing mood of the market and, indeed, TMT exposure contributed negatively in terms of sector selection last year.
However, this was more than offset at the stock selection level and your Managers are optimistic that further gains can be made either as the stockmarket rediscovers some of its appetite for TMT or through continued takeover activity.. fide-equitisation, a term coined by Citigroup, has featured regularly in your Managers recent reports.
In the broadest sense, it describes the replacement of equity nancing with debt nancing that has characterised the UK stockmarket over the past three years.
It takes several forms, from high prole cash takeovers to more prosaic share buy-back programmes.
It is particularly important for ASCoT because, although large companies accounted for the majority of the net 56bn of equity retired from the UK market in 2006, its impact in proportion to the overall size of the HGSC XIC was greater.
Last year, 52 companies in the benchmark were taken over, equivalent to roughly 9% of the 583 constituents at the start of the year.
ASCoT experienced a similar hit-rate, with ten portfolio companies acquired during the year, and also benefited from real or rumoured bid activity affecting several other holdings.
As was the case in the previous two years, private equity rms were eclipsed by other corporates, the latter being the successful acquirers in nine of ASCoTs ten completed deals.
Three other holdings made substantial returns of capital, while a further eight engaged in share buy-back programmes.. As quoted companies appreciation of fide-equitisation has grown over recent years manifest in a greater willingness to fund acquisitions with debt and make share buy-backs dividend payments have also received renewed focus.
This trend is even spreading to the TMT arena: only two of the portfolios dozen holdings in the Software & Computer Services sector persist in eschewing dividend payments, down from four last year.
These developments are consistent with the historically high rates of return on capital that the UK corporate sector is currently enjoying.
Of its 113 holdings at the year end, it was the policy of 18 not to pay a dividend, while another 11 had been listed for less than two years, rendering comparisons meaningless.
Of the remaining 84, six cut their dividends, a further seven held them unchanged and 71 reported increases.
The median company within the 84 raised its dividend by 10%, considerably ahead of the rate of growth achieved by UK equities over the longer term.
Although this median gure does not necessarily reect ASCoTs actual receipts, since the portfolio is actively managed and a specic rate of dividend growth is not targeted, the analysis does indicate the underlying health of a cross-section of ASCoTs investment universe.
INVESTMENT OUTLOOK The unbalanced world has been good for equities.
Businesses revenues have been boosted by an upswing in overall demand that has lasted for four years.
Meanwhile, though challenged by rising utility bills and raw material prices, costs have benefited from the opportunity to source goods and services more cheaply from emerging economies.
Furthermore, the persistency of low interest rates in much of the developed world, which were required to stimulate the recovery in demand, has created the fide-equitisation phenomenon, allowing companies to replace expensive equity nancing with cheap debt and promoting takeover activity.
A transition to a rebalanced global economy, while inevitable and probably ultimately desirable, will not be achieved painlessly and without risk.
Last year gave some indications that such a transition may be underway, in particular the still untamed inationary pressures, the weakening dollar and the threat of a slowdown or even recession in the US economy.
It is not clear that other sources of demand, whether Europe or the emerging economies, are yet sufficient to take up the strain should the US consumer indeed pause for breath.
13 MANAGERS REPORT However, equity markets, judging by their performance last year, appear at ease with these risks.
And why should they not be at ease?
Experience suggests that it is dangerous to bet against the US consumer perhaps the Fed will have sufficient scope in 2007 to cut interest rates, thus simultaneously reinvigorating the consumer sector, prolonging fide-equitisation and sustaining leveraged investment activity.
Your Managers remain less inclined to overlook the risks.
While these big picture issues can seem rather remote from the world of small UK quoted companies, it is important to bear in mind that ASCoTs investments are competing in a global context not just against overseas businesses for their profits, but also against a myriad of asset classes for the attention of investors.
Large companies, one such asset class to which small companies are commonly compared, are trading on a historic price earnings ratio of 14.3x, as gauged by the FTSE All-Share Index.
Against this, the attraction of small companies, which the table shows to be valued on 18.5x historic earnings, would appear limited.
However, these overall index valuation measures tend to be skewed by radically different underlying sector exposures, with the FTSE All-Share Index benefiting from its large weighting in lowly rated banks and integrated oil companies, and the HGSC XIC suffering from its weighting in highly valued property and oil exploration businesses.
These are, however, precisely the areas of the small company universe that your Managers value investment disciplines have led them to avoid, a decision that has yet to benefit ASCoTs relative performance.
31 December 2006 31 December 2005 Characteristics ASCoT Benchmark ASCoT Benchmark Number of Companies 113 505 117 583 Weighted Average Market Capitalisation 450m 570m 406m 486m Price Earnings Ratio Historic 18.9x 18.5x 16.2x 19.0x Net Dividend Yield Historic 2.2% 2.0% 2.3% 2.2% Dividend Cover Historic 2.4x 2.8x 2.7x 2.4x As the table reveals, the average historic price earnings ratio of ASCoTs portfolio of 113 companies was slightly higher than the benchmarks at the end of 2006.
This state of affairs is not without precedent, having occurred at three previous year-ends over ASCoTs lifetime.
Your Managers believe that it does not betray any compromise of their investment philosophy.
Rather, it reects the following factors: a more cautious calculation of earnings particularly within the Real Estate sector: a portfolio of companies that your Managers consider to have lower financial gearing than the average for the benchmark: and a frequently contrarian approach, which can involve taking holdings in businesses that, following an operational mishap, are valued on exaggerated multiples of depressed historic earnings.
In attempting to look through such distortions, it can be helpful to focus on the more robust dividend numbers: some reassurance may be drawn from the fact that the average yield of ASCoTs portfolio continues to exceed that of the benchmark.
Accordingly, moving into 2007, your Managers are optimistic that the underlying value inherent in ASCoTs portfolio of businesses can provide the basis for superior relative performance.
The outcome will, however, be influenced by sector weightings: the portfolio retains a lower exposure than the benchmark to the resources and financial sectors, and a high exposure to TMT.
While your Managers consider that this positioning remains appropriate, the precise timing of its vindication is tougher to call.
However ASCoT fares in relative terms, it would seem prudent not to expect a fifth consecutive year of absolute returns in excess of 20% from small UK quoted companies.
Aberforth Partners LLP Managers 22 January 2007 14
