DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors have pleasure in submitting the Annual Report and Accounts of the Company for the year to 31 December 2006. BUSINESS REVIEW INTRODUCTION During 2005, the Companies Act 1985 was amended to introduce the requirement for companies to incorporate a business review within the Directors Report for financial years beginning on or after 1 April 2005.
The following review is designed to provide Shareholders with a fuller insight into the operations of the Company.
INVESTMENT OBJECTIVE AND STYLE The investment objective of ASCoT is to achieve a net asset value total return with dividends reinvested greater than on the Hoare Govett Smaller Companies Index Excluding Investment Companies HGSC XIC over the long term by investing in a diversied portfolio of small UK quoted companies.
Aberforth Partners LLP act as Managers and Secretaries to the Company.
The Company aims to achieve its objective by investing in securities of companies which are or which would be constituents of the Hoare Govett Smaller Companies Index Excluding Investment Companies.
Small companies are those having a market capitalisation, at time of purchase, equal to or lower than the largest company in the bottom 10% of the main UK equity market or companies in the Hoare Govett Smaller Companies Index Excluding Investment Companies.
The upper market capitalisation limit to this index at 1 January 2007 the date of the last annual index rebalancing was 1,104 million.
This market capitalisation limit will change from time to time owing to movements in the stockmarket.
The portfolio is diversied and will normally consist of investments in over 80 individual companies.
In seeking investments the Managers approach will be fundamental in nature involving regular contact with the management of prospective and existing investments, in conjunction with rigorous financial analysis of these companies.
The emphasis within the portfolio will reect the desire to invest in companies whose shares represent relatively attractive value within a given stockmarket environment.
The Board believes that small UK quoted companies continue to provide opportunities for capital growth over the long term.
Any material changes to the Companys investment objective will be subject to Shareholder approval.
CORPORATE STRUCTURE, GOVERNANCE AND REGULATION The Company is an investment company as dened in Section 266 of the Companies Act 1985 and manages its affairs as to qualify as an investment trust under Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 Section 842.
It has a xed share capital although, subject to Shareholder approval sought annually, it may purchase its own Shares.
The Company is listed and its Shares trade on The London Stock Exchange.
Furthermore the Company is subject to the laws and regulations relating to UK listed companies.
It is the responsibility of the Board to ensure that there is effective stewardship of the Companys affairs.
In common with the majority of investment trusts, the Company has no executive directors nor any employees.
However, the Board has engaged external rms to undertake the investment management, secretarial and custodial activities of the Company.
The Corporate Governance Report within this annual report contains a thorough review of the Companys stance on corporate governance.
CONTINUATION OF THE COMPANY The Company has no xed duration.
However, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association an ordinary resolution will be proposed at the 2008 Annual General Meeting and, if passed, at every third subsequent Annual General Meeting that the Company continues to manage its affairs as an investment trust.
If such resolution is not passed, the Directors will prepare and submit to Shareholders for approval by special resolution proposals for the unitisation or appropriate reconstruction of the Company.
In putting forward such proposals the Directors will seek, inter alia, to provide Shareholders with a means whereby they can defer any liability to capital gains tax on their investment at that time.
If these proposals are not approved, Shareholders will, within 180 days of the relevant Annual General Meeting, have the opportunity of passing an ordinary resolution requiring the Company to be wound up.
22 DIRECTORS REPORT INVESTMENT TRUST STATUS The Company is exempt from corporation tax on capital profits, provided it complies with Section 842.
In summary, Section 842 requires that:.
the Companys revenue including dividend and interest income but excluding profits losses on sale of investments should be derived wholly or mainly from shares and securities:.
the Company must not retain in respect of each accounting period more than 15% of its income from shares and securities:.
no investment in a company may represent more than 15% by value of the Companys investment portfolio at time of purchase:.
realised profits on sale of shares and securities may not be distributed by way of a dividend: and.
the Company must not be a close company.
The Company has been approved by HM Revenue & Customs as an investment trust, under Section 842, up to 31 December 2005.
It is the opinion of the Directors that the Company has subsequently conducted its affairs so as to enable it to continue to seek such approval.
The Company will continue to seek approval under Section 842 each year.
MANAGEMENT Aberforth Partners LLP, a limited liability partnership, provides investment management, administration and company secretarial services to the Company.
These services can be terminated by either party at any time by giving six months notice of termination.
Compensation fees would only be payable in respect of this six month period if termination were to occur sooner.
Aberforth Partners LLP receive a quarterly management fee, payable in advance, equal to 0.2% of the total net assets of the Company.
However, the total fee paid each year may be slightly higher or lower than 0.8% depending on the movements in the value of the Companys assets during the year.
The Company also pays a quarterly secretarial fee, payable in advance, which amounted to 14,892 excluding VAT per quarter during 2006.
The secretarial fee is adjusted annually in line with the Retail Prices Index.
Both these fees are subject to VAT which is currently irrecoverable by the Company.
The Board considers the Companys investment management and secretarial arrangements on an ongoing basis and a formal review is conducted annually by the Audit and Management Engagement Committee the Committee.
The Committee specifically considers the following topics in its review: investment performance in relation to the investment policy and strategy: the continuity of personnel managing the assets and reporting to the Board: the level of service provided in terms of the accuracy and timeliness of reports to the Board: and, the frequency and quality of both verbal and written communications with Shareholders.
Following the most recent review the Board, upon the recommendation of the Committee, is of the opinion that the continued appointment of Aberforth Partners LLP as investment managers, on the terms agreed, is in the best interests of Shareholders as a whole.
CAPITAL STRUCTURE, GEARING AND SHARE BUY-BACKS At 31 December 2006, the Companys authorised share capital consisted of 333,299,254 Ordinary Shares of 1p of which 98,809,788 were issued and fully paid.
There were no changes in the year.
Subject to the requirement that purchases by the Company of its own shares will only be made at a level that enhances the net asset value NAV, the principal objective of any such purchase will be to seek to sustain as low a discount between the Companys NAV and share price as seems possible.
Accordingly, it is the Boards intention to use the share purchase facility within guidelines established from time to time by the Board.
At 31 December 2006, the Company was not geared and had no debt outstanding.
The Company does, however, have a bank debt facility of 80 million which the Company can use as gearing at any time.
23 DIRECTORS REPORT RETURN AND DIVIDENDS The total return attributable to Shareholders for the year amounted to 174,113,000 2005 135,135,000.
The net asset value per ordinary share at 31 December 2006 was 843.37p 2005 679.26p.
Your Board is pleased to recommend a final dividend of 9.15p, which produces total dividends for the year of 13.40p representing an increase of 13.1% on the total for the previous year.
Subject to Shareholders approval, the final dividend of 9.15p per share will be paid on 7 March 2007 to Shareholders on the register at the close of business on 9 February 2007.
000 000 Revenue return for the year available for dividends 16,209 Dividends in respect of the revenue available: Interim dividend of 4.25p per Ordinary Share paid 1 September 2006 4,199 Proposed final dividend of 9.15p per Ordinary Share payable 7 March 2007 to Shareholders on the Register at close of business on 9 February 2007 9,041 13,240 2,969 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS The Board assesses the Companys performance in meeting its objective against the following key performance indicators: i Net asset value total return ii Share price total return iii Performance attribution iv Share price discount v Revenue and dividend position A record of these measures is shown on pages 12, 20 and 21.
In addition to the above, the Board considers the performance of the Company against its benchmark and its investment trust peer group.
REVIEW OF PERFORMANCE, ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR AND THE INVESTMENT OUTLOOK A comprehensive review can be found in the Chairmans Statement and Managers Report.
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT The Directors have established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
This process was in operation during the year and continues in place up to the date of this report.
The Board believes that the Company has a relatively low risk prole in the context of the investment trust industry.
This belief arises from the fact that the Company has a simple capital structure: invests only in small UK quoted companies: has never been exposed to derivatives and does not presently intend any such exposure: and outsources all the main operational activities to recognised, well-established rms.
Investment in small companies is generally perceived to carry more risk than investment in large companies.
While this is reasonable when comparing individual companies, it is much less so when comparing the volatility of returns from diversied portfolios of small and large companies.
The Board believes the Companys portfolio is diversied.
In addition, since returns from small and large companies are not perfectly correlated, there is an opportunity for investors to reduce risk by holding portfolios of both small and large companies together.
24 DIRECTORS REPORT As the Companys investments consist of small UK quoted companies, the principal risks facing the Company are market related and include market price, interest rate, and liquidity risk.
An explanation of these risks and how they are managed is contained in Note 17 to the Accounts.
Additional risks faced by the Company, together with the approach taken by the Board towards them, have been summarised as follows: i Investment objective is to achieve a net asset value total return with dividends reinvested greater than on the Hoare Govett Smaller Companies Index Excluding Investment Companies over the long term by investing in a diversied portfolio of small UK quoted companies.
The performance of the investment portfolio will often not match the performance of the benchmark.
However, the Boards aim is to achieve the investment objective over the long term whilst managing risk by ensuring the investment portfolio is managed appropriately.
The Corporate Governance Report provides additional information regarding the various areas considered by the Board.
ii Investment policy a risk facing the Company is inappropriate sector and stock selection leading to underperformance relative to the benchmark.
The Managers have a clearly dened investment philosophy and manage a diversied portfolio.
Furthermore, performance against the benchmark and the peer group is regularly monitored by the Board.
The Company may also be affected by events or developments in the economic environment generally, for example ination or deation, recession and movements in interest rates.
iii Share price discount investment trust shares tend to trade at discounts to their underlying net asset values.
As mentioned above, the Company has a share buy back policy and, if utilised, this may help to minimise the level of discount.
iv Regulatory risk breach of regulatory rules could lead to suspension of the Companys share price listing, financial penalties or a qualied audit report.
Breach of Section 842 could lead to the Company being subject to capital gains tax.
The Board receives quarterly compliance reports from the Secretaries to monitor compliance with regulations.
v Operational Financial risk failure of the Managers accounting systems or that of other third party service providers could lead to an inability to provide accurate reporting and monitoring, or potentially lead to the misappropriation of assets.
The Board reviews regular reports on the internal controls of the Managers and other key third party providers.
In summary, the Board regularly considers risks associated with the Company, the measures in place to monitor them and the possibility of any other risks that may arise.
OTHER MATTERS GOING CONCERN After making enquiries, the Directors consider that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future notwithstanding the Resolution on the Companys continuance as detailed above.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
DIRECTORS The Directors who held ofce at 31 December 2006 and their interests in the Shares of the Company as at that date were as follows: Ordinary Shares Directors Nature of Interest 2006 2005 D R Shaw beneficial 25,000 20,000 H N Buchan beneficial 19,474 14,330 M L A Chiappelli beneficial 25,000 20,000 J E G Cran beneficial 27,137 26,659 Prof P R Marsh beneficial 15,000 10,000 Prof W S Nimmo beneficial 16,444 11,800 25 DIRECTORS REPORT There has been no change in the beneficial or non-beneficial holdings of the Directors between 31 December 2006 and 22 January 2007.
The Company maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action against its Directors.
Following changes to the law relating to a companys ability to indemnify its directors, the Company recently entered into a deed of indemnity with each Director to cover any liabilities that may arise to a third party, other than the Company, for negligence, default or breach of trust or duty.
The Directors are not indemnified in respect of liabilities to the Company or costs incurred in connection with criminal proceedings in which the Director is convicted or required to pay any regulatory or criminal fines.
As stated in the separate Corporate Governance Report, the Board wishes to go beyond the minimum requirements of the Companys Articles of Association, the AIC and The Combined Code by having all Directors seek re-election every year.
Therefore, all Directors retire at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 1 March 2007.
All Directors offer themselves for re-election and biographical details for each are shown on page 6.
ELECTRONIC VOTING Your Board is again pleased to offer electronic proxy voting, including CREST voting capabilities, in connection with the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
You may therefore complete the enclosed form of proxy and return it to Capita Registrars, the Companys registrar, or alternatively, you may register your vote on-line by visiting the Capita Registrars website at www.
In order to register your vote on-line, you will need to enter your name, postal code and ICV code which is given on the form of proxy.
If you are a member of CREST, you may register the appointment of a proxy by using the CREST electronic appointment service.
For further details refer to the CREST manual.
Completion of a form of proxy or the appointment of a proxy electronically will not stop you attending the meeting and voting in person should you so wish.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Purchase of Own Shares The current authority of the Company to make market purchases of up to 14.99% of the issued Ordinary Shares of the Company expires at the end of the Annual General Meeting.
Resolution 11, as set out in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting, seeks renewal of such authority until the Annual General Meeting in 2008.
The price paid for Shares will not be less than the nominal value of 1p per Share nor more than 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for the Shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase.
Any Shares purchased under the authority will be automatically cancelled, rather than being held in treasury, thereby reducing the Companys issued share capital.
There are no outstanding options warrants to subscribe for equity shares in the capital of the Company.
As mentioned above, subject to the requirement that purchases by the Company of its own shares will be made only at a level which enhances NAV, the principal objective of any such purchase will be to seek to sustain as low a discount between the Companys NAV and share price as seems possible.
SUBSTANTIAL SHARE INTERESTS The Board has been informed of the following substantial interests in the issued share capital of the Company as at 22 January 2007.
Percentage Interested person Held Newton Investment Management Limited 8.6 Barclays PLC 5.6 Legal & General Investment Management 3.3 26 DIRECTORS REPORT CREDITORS PAYMENT POLICY The Companys creditors payment policy is to agree terms of payment before business is transacted, to ensure suppliers are aware of these terms and to settle bills in accordance with them.
The Company did not have any trade creditors at the year end.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Companys financial instruments comprise its investment portfolio, cash balances, overdrafts, debtors and creditors that arise directly from its operations such as sales and purchases awaiting settlement and accrued income.
The main risks that the Company faces arising from its financial instruments are disclosed in Note 17 to the accounts.
AUDITORS Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in ofce as auditors and a resolution proposing their re-appointment will be put to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS The Directors who held ofce at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make him aware of any relevant audit information, and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
DONATIONS The Company did not make any political or charitable donations during the year 2005 nil.
By Order of the Board Aberforth Partners LLP, Secretaries 14 Melville Street, Edinburgh EH3 7NS 22 January 2007 27
