5 0 f I N A N C I A L S tAt e M e N t S Directors report The Directors present their Annual Report and Directors and their interests the audited financial statements for the year The present Directors of the Company are ended 31 December 2006. shown on the inside cover of this report, whilst Directors interests in the share capital of the Business review Company are set out in the remuneration The Company is the holding Company for report.
the Admiral Group of companies.
The Groups principal activity continues to be the selling Charitable and political donations and administration of private motor insurance During the year the Group donated 38,000 and related products.
2005: 108,000 to various local and national charities.
The Group has never made political Detailed descriptions of the Groups activities, donations.
Refer to the corporate responsibility results and prospects are contained in the report for further detail.
Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives statement and the financial review.
Employee policies Detailed information on the Groups Group results and dividends employment practices is set out in the The profit for the year, after tax but before corporate responsibility report.
The Group purchases appropriate liability The Directors declared and paid dividends of insurance for all staff and Directors.
70.1m during 2006 2005: 49.2m refer to note 14 for further details.
Creditor payment policy It is the policy of the Group to pay all purchase The Directors are proposing a final dividend of invoices by their due date, and appropriate 62.3m 24.0p per share, payable on 25 May quality measures are in place to monitor 2007. and encourage this.
At the end of the year outstanding invoices represented 28 days Share capital purchases 2005: 30.
Other than the holdings of the Directors as disclosed in the remuneration report, so far as Annual General Meeting the Directors are aware, or have been notified It is proposed that the next AGM be held pursuant to section 198 of the Companies Act at The St Davids Hotel and Spa, Cardiff on 1985, the following shareholders have interests Wednesday 16 May 2007, at 3.00 pm, notice of in 3% or more of the ordinary share capital of which will be sent to shareholders with the Company at 28 February 2007: the Annual Report.
Directors responsibilities Number of % shares The Directors are responsible for preparing Munich Re 37,540,469 14.36% the Annual Report and the Group and Parent Capital Group Company financial statements, in accordance Companies Inc 12,766,870 4.88% with applicable law and regulations.
Jupiter Asset Management 12,361,774 4.73% Fidelity Investments 12,244,822 4.68% College Retirement Equities Fund 10,438,937 4.00% A D M I R A L G R O U P p l c 5 1 Company law requires the Directors to position of the Parent Company and enable prepare Group and Parent Company financial them to ensure that its financial statements statements for each financial year.
Under that comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They law they are required to prepare the Group have general responsibility for taking such steps financial statements in accordance with as are reasonably open to them to safeguard International Financial Reporting Standards the assets of the Group and to prevent and IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable detect fraud and other irregularities.
law and have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in accordance Under applicable law and regulations, the with UK Accounting Standards and applicable Directors are also responsible for preparing law UK Generally Accepted Accounting a Directors report, Directors remuneration Practice.
report and corporate governance statement that comply with that law and those The Group financial statements are required by regulations.
law and IFRS as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and performance of The Directors are responsible for the the Group: the Companies Act 1985 provides maintenance and integrity of the corporate in relation to such financial statements that and financial information included on the references in the relevant part of that Act Companys website.
Legislation in the UK to financial statements giving a true and fair governing the preparation and dissemination of view are references to their achieving a fair financial statements may differ from legislation presentation.
The Parent Company financial statements are Disclosure of information to auditors required by law to give a true and fair view of The Directors who held office at the date the state of affairs of the Parent Company.
of approval of this Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is In preparing each of the Group and Parent no relevant audit information of which the Company financial statements, the Directors Companys auditor is unaware: and each are required to: Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself select suitable accounting policies and then aware of any relevant audit information and to apply them consistently establish that the Companys auditor is aware make judgments and estimates that are of that information.
reasonable and prudent for the Group financial statements, state Auditor whether they have been prepared in The Companys auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, has accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU indicated willingness to continue in office and for the Parent Company financial resolutions to reappoint it and to authorise statements, state whether applicable UK the Directors to fix its remuneration will be Accounting Standards have been followed, proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent Company By order of the Board, financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company will continue in business Stuart Clarke The Directors are responsible for keeping Company Secretary proper accounting records that disclose with 5 March 2007 reasonable accuracy at any time the financial Financial statements 48 - 97
