4 6 B O A R D O f D I R e C t O R S The Board of Directors Directors names from left to right Manfred Aldag Stuart Clarke Company Secretary Margaret Johnson Keith James Kevin Chidwick Alastair Lyons Henry Engelhardt Lucy Kellaway David Stevens Martin Jackson John Sussens Alastair Lyons CBE 53 Kevin Chidwick, 43 Chairman N Finance Director Alastair was appointed Chairman of the Company Kevin is responsible for finance, information in July 2000.
He is also Executive Chairman of technology, facilities and investments.
He Partners for Finance Limited, and Non-executive joined Admiral in 2005, becoming a Director in Chairman of Buy-as-you-View Holdings Limited, September 2006. and of Higham Dunnett Shaw plc.
Prior to Admiral, Kevin has been in UK financial He has previously been Chief Executive of the services for over 20 years.
He has held a number National Provident Institution and the National of senior roles in other insurance organisations & Provincial Building Society, Managing Director including, most recently, Finance Director of of the Insurance Division of Abbey National plc, Engage Mutual Assurance and Cigna UK.
and Director of Corporate Projects at National He is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Westminster Bank plc.
Alastair has also been a Certified Accountants and has an MBA from Non-executive Director of the Department for London Business School.
Transport and of the Department for Work and Pensions.
David Stevens 45 A Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Chief Operating Officer Accountants, he was awarded the CBE in the 2001 David is a founder Director of Admiral.
Initially Birthday Honours for services to social security.
the Marketing Director, he was appointed Director responsible for pricing in 1996 and Henry Engelhardt, 49 claims and pricing in 1999.
He was appointed as Chief Executive Officer Chief Operating Officer in 2004.
Henry is a founder Director of Admiral and was He joined Admiral in 1991 from McKinsey & Co. recruited by the Brockbank Group in 1991 to set where he worked in the Financial Interest Group, up the Admiral business.
Prior to working for McKinsey & He was part of the management team that led Co, he worked for Cadbury Schweppes in the the MBO in 1999.
Prior to joining Admiral, he United Kingdom and the United States.
was Marketing and Sales Manager for Churchill David has an MBA from Insead.
KEY A - Audit Committee member He has substantial experience in direct response R - Remuneration Committee member financial services in the United Kingdom, United N - Nominations Committee member States and France.
A D M I R A L G R O U P p l c 4 7 Manfred Aldag 56 Margaret Johnson 47 Lucy Kellaway 46 Non-executive Director N Non-executive Director A, R Non-executive Director N Manfred was appointed a Non-executive Director of Margaret was appointed Non-executive Director of Lucy joined the Board as a Non-executive the Company in 2003 as a representative of Munich the Company in September 2006.
She is currently Director in September 2006.
He graduated from University of Essen and Group Managing Director of the international management columnist on the Financial Times has a degree in Economics Business Management advertising agency Leagas Delaney and has been with and author of various books.
that Company for the past 11 years.
the FT she has been oil correspondent, a Lex columnist and Brussels correspondent.
He has worked for Munich Re since September Margaret joined the Groups Audit and Remuneration 1981 and is currently the Senior Executive Manager Committees on appointment to the Board.
Lucy also joined the Nominations Committee on responsible for Northern Europe United Kingdom, appointment to the Board.
Ireland, Netherlands and the Nordic countries.
Martin Jackson 58 Keith James OBE 62 John Sussens 61 Non-executive Director A, R Non-executive Director A, N Non-executive Director R Martin was appointed Non-executive Director and Keith was appointed a Non-executive Director John was appointed the Senior Independent NonChairman of the Audit Committee in August 2004. in December 2002.
He is Chairman of the executive Director in August 2004, and is Chairman Nominations Committee and is also the of the Remuneration Committee.
He is also a NonHe was the Group Finance Director of Friends Independent Chairman of Admiral Insurance executive Director of Cookson plc, Phoenix IT Group Provident plc between 2001 and 2003 and Company Limited and Inspop.
Plc, and Anglo & Overseas Trust Plc.
Friends Provident Life Office between 1999 and 2001.
Prior to that he was the Group Finance He is also a Non-executive Director of Julian He was the Group Managing Director of Misys plc Director at London & Manchester Group Hodge Bank Limited and is Non-executive between 1998 and May 2004 having been on the plc from 1992 to 1998, up to the date of its Chairman of Atlantic Venture Capital Limited and Board of the Company since 1989.
Prior to joining acquisition by Friends Provident Life Office.
Misys, he was Manufacturing Director at JC Bamford Martin is also a Non-executive Director of IG Excavators Limited.
He was a Non-executive Director He is a solicitor and was the Chairman of Holdings plc.
Eversheds LLP from June 1995 to April 2004.
He He is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered was a Non-executive Director of Bank of Wales Accountants.
plc between 1988 and 2001 and AXA Insurance Company Limited between 1992 and 2000.
Keith was awarded an OBE in 2005 for services to business and the community in Wales.
The Board of Directors 46 - 47 4 8 f I N A N C I A L S tAt e M e N t S
