Corporate governance 54 Group Executive Committee and Company Secretary 12 34 56 78 910 11 12 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 55 A description of the Group Executive 7.
Rick Waddell 47 Committee is given on page 48.
Executive Vice President & Managing Executive Vice President & Managing Director, Mediterranean Basin and Africa Director, South America 1.
Frank Chapman 53 Stuart Fysh joined BG plc in 1998 and Rick Waddell joined BG Group plc in 2002 Chief Executive was appointed Executive Vice President when he was appointed to his current 2.
Based in So Paulo, he is Deputy Chief Executive responsible for the Groups activities in responsible for all upstream and Egypt, Tunisia, Nigeria, Libya, Algeria, downstream activities in South America, 3.
Ashley Almanza 44 Israel and areas of Palestinian Authority including Comgas in So Paulo and Chief Financial Officer and Madagascar and business MetroGAS in Buenos Aires.
Charles Bland 57 development elsewhere in the region.
He senior vice president of Enron Corporation Executive Vice President previously spent 17 years with the mining, for Latin America and prior to that was Policy & Corporate Affairs steel and petroleum conglomerate BHP, regional logistics manager for South Charles Bland joined BG plc in 1999. where his various roles included America with Wal-Mart International.
He is responsible for government and commercial, business development, 11.
Stefan Ricketts 39 public affairs, brand and marketing, corporate planning and research and General Counsel communications, corporate responsibility development.
He has lived and worked Stefan Ricketts joined BG plc in 1999 and policy and community affairs.
He was in Australia, Pakistan, India, Singapore was appointed General Counsel in appointed to his current position in and Egypt.
September 2005, with responsibility for 2002 having previously been President, 8.
Martin Houston 49 the legal affairs of the Group.
Prior to BG Kazakhstan, and Vice President, Executive Vice President & Managing becoming General Counsel, he was Head Government Affairs.
Before joining Director, North America, Caribbean and of the Legal Department at BG Group, a BG he worked in UK government, holding Global LNG role he held from 2002.
Before joining BG, various posts in the Ministry of Defence.
Martin Houston joined British Gas in he was with the international law firm, 5.
Jrn Berget 54 1983 and was appointed Executive Vice Herbert Smith, and worked in London, Executive Vice President & Managing President in 2000.
Based in Houston, he Paris, the Middle East and Asia.
Director BG Advance, India and the is currently responsible for the Groups 12.
Ben Mathews 40 Middle East activities in the USA, Canada, Trinidad and Company Secretary Jrn Berget joined BG Group plc in Tobago and for the Groups Global LNG Ben Mathews joined BG Group plc in 2002 November 2004 from Shell, where he was, activities.
He has held a number of and is responsible for all matters relating most recently, production director for all technical and commercial posts, to the Board, its committees and E&P assets in the USA and South America, predominantly with an international governance.
He was appointed Company in addition to being a board member of focus, and played a leading role in Secretary on 9 November 2004.
He Enventure Technologies and Enterprise the development of the LNG industry previously worked for National Grid Group Products GP, LLC.
He has 30 years in Trinidad and Tobago.
He is a plc now National Grid plc, British experience in the oil and gas industry non-executive director of Severn Trent Plc American Tobacco plc and covering all aspects of the E&P business and a fellow of the Geological Society  LLP.
with assignments in Norway, Argentina, of London.
The Netherlands, Peru, Oman, Brunei, the 9.
He is responsible for Executive Vice President & Managing providing BG Groups corporate technical Director, Europe and Central Asia assurance and services, continuing Mark Carne joined BG Group plc in May development of strategic technical and 2005 from Shell, where he was most commercial capabilities.
recently managing director of Brunei Shell 6.
Peter Duffy 45 Petroleum and country chairman for Shell Executive Vice President companies in Brunei.
His international Human Resources experience also includes various general Peter Duffy joined BG Group plc in 2001, management roles in the UK, the when he was appointed to his current Netherlands and Oman, covering position with responsibility for all matters operations, engineering, commercial and relating to human resources strategy and business development.
He has extensive international responsible for the Groups activities in human resource management experience, the UK, Italy, Norway and Kazakhstan and particularly in the area of organisation business development activities elsewhere development, resourcing and performance in the region.
He previously worked for TRW Inc, LucasVarity plc and British Aerospace plc now BAE Systems plc.
See page 53 for biographical details.
