56 Directors report The Directors present their report and the audited Financial consideration of the merits.
An appeal has been made to the Statements for the year ended 31 December 2006.
The Business Italian Supreme Court against the summary judgment.
BG Group Review pages 2 to 44, forms part of this report and contains the has temporarily suspended construction at the site.
Directors assessment of the development and performance of the In February 2007, the Italian Ministry of Economic Development Group during 2006 and its position at the year end including the issued a notice convening a new preliminary Conference of Services risks associated with the use of financial instruments.
A report a body representing national, regional and local authorities in from the Directors on corporate governance is set out on pages 45 order to consider whether the original Article 8 authorisation to 51 and their report on remuneration is on pages 59 to 69. process for the Brindisi project was compliant with Italian and EC legal requirements relating to environmental impact assessments RESULTS AND DIVIDEND and public consultation procedures.
In addition, in March 2007, The profit before tax was 3 285m 2005 2 504m.
A final dividend the European Commission formally asked the Italian government to of 4.20p per ordinary share is proposed 2005 4.09p, making a total comment on whether the process for granting the original authorisation dividend for 2006 of 7.20p 2005 6.00p.
The results are dealt with complied with these EC law requirements.
The Italian government fully in the Financial Statements pages 71 to 128 and in the has two months to respond.
These matters may result in the Business Review pages 2 to 44. convening of another Conference of Services or other actions by the Italian authorities to consider whether to suspend and or revoke the SIGNIFICANT EVENTS SUBSEQUENT TO 31 DECEMBER 2006 original authorisation and or require an environmental impact On 21 January 2003, BG Italia received approval to construct and assessment and or public consultation to be carried out.
BG Group is operate the planned LNG regasification terminal to be located taking and intends to take appropriate action to defend its interests.
within the municipality of Brindisi, Italy, from the Italian Ministry of Economic Development in concert with the Italian Ministry of On 22 February 2007, BG Group appointed a New York law firm, Environment pursuant to Article 8 of Italian Law No.
BG Debevoise & Plimpton LLP Debevoise assisted by independent Italia transferred this Article 8 authorisation to its wholly owned forensic accountants, to conduct an independent internal subsidiary Brindisi LNG S. p. A Brindisi LNG in June 2003. investigation reporting to the Audit Committee.
On 2 April 2007, Debevoise reported its findings to the Audit Committee as to Until 12 February 2007, construction and land reclamation works at whether anyone in management or other current employees of the the planned Brindisi terminal were progressing.
On 12 February 2007, Group who have a significant role in the Groups internal control the Court of Brindisi announced that it was pursuing a criminal over financial reporting participated in, or were aware of, any illegal investigation against certain current and former employees and or corrupt activity within BG Groups Italian subsidiaries such that consultants of BG Group and BG Italia in connection with alleged his or her representations in connection with the preparation of improper conduct during the period October 1999 to March 2003 BG Groups Financial Statements cannot reasonably be relied upon.
associated with the authorisation process for the planned Brindisi Based upon the findings of that investigation on that issue, the LNG regasification terminal.
Specifically, the Italian authorities have Directors are satisfied that they are able to approve BG Groups alleged that improper inducements were given, including payments Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2006.
BG in the amount of Lira 360 million approximately 115 000 between Group is continuing to investigate whether there was any improper September 2000 and June 2001 to the then mayor of Brindisi and his conduct by any employee or agent of the BG Groups Italian alleged associates, and that promises were made to award subsidiaries in connection with the Brindisi LNG project.
construction and other contracts related to the Brindisi project to a consortium of companies associated with the then mayor, in The Italian criminal investigation is ongoing, and no charges have order to improperly influence the granting of authorisations been brought against any BG Group employees, consultants or required to construct and operate the terminal.
Certain current companies named in the investigation.
Accordingly, at this stage and former employees and consultants of BG Group were arrested no determination can yet be made as to whether BG Groups Italian and subsequently released, with one of those individuals remaining subsidiaries and or BG Group and or their respective employees under house arrest.
and or directors and or consultants may be subject to any criminal and or civil actions by the Italian or other government authorities.
The Italian authorities have also alleged that certain current and For further details of how any such actions and the developments former directors of Brindisi LNG, a wholly owned subsidiary of related to the authorisation of the project could adversely affect BG Italia, unlawfully permitted the occupation and alteration BG Groups business, see Risk Factors Brindisi LNG Terminal of public land, namely the port area in Brindisi where the Investigations, page 44, and notes 6 Disposals, re-measurements regasification terminal is being constructed, as a result of and impairments, page 91, and 27 Commitments and improperly authorised permits.
Also, on 12 February 2007, BG Italia was notified by the Court of BG Group has not abandoned the Brindisi project, is actively Brindisi that it was under investigation in relation to the allegations pursuing the release of the site and continues to target first LNG referred to above for possible violations of Legislative Decree No.
deliveries to the terminal during 2010.
However, it is unclear at this 231 2001, an Italian anti-corruption statute which imposes liability stage how these developments may affect the project.
Accordingly, on corporate entities under certain circumstances in the event in preparing the BG Groups 2006 Financial Statements, an criminal acts are committed by management or employees.
impairment provision of 104 million recognised within operating Contemporaneously with the announcement of the criminal costs in the LNG segment has been established against the investigation, the Brindisi LNG terminal site was seized by the Italian cumulative capitalised construction costs of the project.
An initial application for the review of the site seizure was filed with the local court of Brindisi.
However, For other details of significant events subsequent to 31 December the application was rejected on procedural grounds without 2006, see note 1, page 79.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 57 SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS and share interests can be found in the Remuneration report on At 26 March 2007, the following voting interests in the ordinary pages 59 to 69. share capital of the Company, disclosable under the Financial The names of the executive officers of the Company being those Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules which members of the Group Executive Committee who are not Directors replaced Part VI of the Companies Act 1985, with effect from 20 and the Company Secretary and their biographical details are given January 2007, had been notified to the Directors: on pages 54 to 55.
Legal & General Group Plc The aggregate remuneration of the executive officers in 2006 was and or its subsidiaries 137 582 060 ordinary shares 4.04% 4 672 887 2005 5 146 788 and aggregate pension contributions were 57 737 2005 53 452.
At 26 March 2007, the executive officers ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING had the following aggregate beneficial interests in the Companys The Annual General Meeting AGM will be held at 2.00 pm on shares: ordinary shares 1 008 424: long-term incentive schemes Monday, 14 May 2007 at the International Convention Centre, 3 588 843 notional allocation.
For the allocation made in Birmingham.
The Notice of AGM is set out on pages 145 to 149 September 2003, the performance period ended on 5 September of this document.
An explanation of the proposed resolutions is 2006.
BG Groups performance meant that 75% of the original set out on pages 146 to 148. allocation was transferred to participating executive officers in September 2006.
A summary of the business carried out at the AGM will be published on the BG Group website.
At 26 March 2007, executive officers held options under the Sharesave Scheme over a total of 30 232 ordinary shares at exercise AUDITORS prices between 2.19 and 5.82 per share, exercisable between Resolutions to reappoint  LLP as Auditors to November 2007 and April 2012: under the Company Share Option the Company and to authorise the Audit Committee to determine Scheme they held options over a total of 3 682 387 ordinary shares at their remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
exercise prices between 2.5175 and 6.8983 per share, exercisable between November 2003 and September 2016.
A description of the SHARE CAPITAL Companys employee share schemes is given on pages 62 to 63.
The Company was given authority at the 2006 AGM to make market purchases of up to 353 047 470 of its own ordinary 10p shares at a INDEMNITIES AND INSURANCE maximum price per share of 105% of the middle market price.
This BG Group maintains liability insurance for its Directors and officers.
authority will expire at the 2007 AGM and approval from shareholders The Directors have also been granted a qualifying third party will be sought at that meeting to renew the authority for a further indemnity provision under Section 309A-B of the Companies Act year.
During September 2006, the Group completed the share 1985.
Neither the Companys indemnity nor insurance provides repurchase programme of 1 billion, announced in November 2005, cover in the event that a Director is proved to have acted having re-purchased 149 million ordinary shares of 10p each at an fraudulently or dishonestly.
average price of 6.71 per share.
In February 2007, the Group announced its intention to return a further 750 million to EMPLOYEES shareholders in accordance with this authority.
For further The Group had 4 766 employees worldwide at 31 December 2006, of information and details of shares repurchased and those issued which 3 050 were employed outside the UK.
Employees are informed during the year, see page 147 and note 26 to the accounts on page 107. about significant business issues and the Groups performance using electronic mail, webcasts, its intranet and in-house DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS publications, as well as DVDs and briefing meetings at each The names of the current Directors and their biographical details are business location.
The first Group-wide employee survey was carried given on pages 52 and 53. out in 2006.
More details about the survey are set out in the Corporate Responsibility section on page 38.
22% of the Groups Philippe Varin was appointed to the Board as non-executive Director employees are covered by trade union agreements.
Newly-appointed Directors are required to retire at consider that management works effectively with trade unions, the first AGM following their appointment and to seek election by where required.
He will therefore be seeking election by shareholders at the 2007 AGM.
The Group takes the issues of equality and diversity seriously and encourages its partners to do likewise.
By using the talent and skills In addition, Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders every available in all groups and communities in the countries in which it three years.
Accordingly, William Friedrich, Peter Backhouse, Paul operates, the Group is able to build a strong foundation for the lasting Collins and Lord Sharman will retire and are proposed for re-election success of its business.
This is achieved by using appropriate recruitment by shareholders at the 2007 AGM.
Each of these Directors was first and selection techniques, ensuring equality of employment opportunity elected by shareholders at the 2001 AGM and were subsequently reand equal access to development opportunities.
Sir John Coles was first elected to the Board of BG plc at its AGM in April 1998 and therefore will have served on The Group is also committed to providing a work environment free the Board for more than nine years at the date of the 2007 AGM.
In from harassment and discrimination.
This commitment is included in accordance with provision A.
7.2 of the Combined Code, he is subject the Groups policy on Human Resources.
The policy is available on the to re-election on an annual basis.
He was last re-elected at the 2006 Group website.
With the introduction of new Age Discrimination AGM.
Further details, including the Boards reasons for proposing their legislation in the UK in 2006, the Group has focused on age awareness re-election, are set out in the Notice of AGM on pages 145 to 149. and reviewed all relevant policies and processes for any evidence of age-related factors, making amendments, where necessary.
The Details of the Executive Directors service contracts and the letters majority of employees in the UK have received briefings on the of appointment for the non-executive Directors, their emoluments legislation, and this will continue during 2007.
The Group remains 58 Directors report continued committed to fair treatment of people with disabilities in relation to standards have been followed.
The Company has complied with job applications, training, promotion and career development.
Every UK and US disclosure requirements in this report in order to present effort is made to find appropriate alternative jobs for those who are a consistent picture to all shareholders.
unable to continue in their existing job because of disability.
Equally, The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company the Group encourages its partners to take a similar approach to these keeps accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy the issues where Group policies are not able to be implemented directly.
financial position of the Company and of the Group and that enable Employees are encouraged to become shareholders in the Company them to ensure that the Financial Statements comply with the and a significant number participate in the Groups share schemes.
The Directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and During 2006, the Group donated around 0.2m to registered charities to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities, and have in the UK.
By adding contributions of cash, employee time and adopted a control framework for application across the Group.
equipment to community groups in the UK in accordance with the London Benchmarking Group model, this figure rises to around The Directors, having prepared the Financial Statements, have asked 0.4m.
More information on the Groups charitable donations and the Auditors to take whatever steps and to undertake whatever community involvement can be found in the 2006 Corporate inspections they consider to be appropriate for the purposes of Responsibility Report.
enabling them to give their audit report.
Under its Business Principles, the Groups policy is not to make The Directors confirm that the Audit Committee continues to review political donations.
In 2006, no donations were made in any EU the adequacy of the system of internal control adopted by the Group.
member state for political purposes, as defined in Section 347A A copy of the Financial Statements of the Company is placed on the of the Companies Act 1985.
The work carried out by the Auditors does not For further information on BG Groups social investment, see page 39. involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the Auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have SUPPLIERS occurred to the Financial Statements since they were initially The Group aims to pay all its creditors promptly and in accordance presented on the website.
with contractual and other legal obligations.
It is the Groups policy Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of to agree the payment terms with each supplier at the start of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
business and to ensure that they are aware of the terms of payment.
By order of the Board The Group had 25 days purchases outstanding at 31 December 2006 Ben Mathews 2005 24 days based on the average daily amount invoiced by Company Secretary suppliers during the year.
3 April 2007 GOING CONCERN Registered Office: The Directors are satisfied that the Groups and the Companys 100 Thames Valley Park Drive activities are sustainable for the foreseeable future, and the Reading accounts have therefore been prepared on the going concern basis.
Berkshire RG6 1PT Registered in England & Wales No.
3690065 STATEMENT AS TO DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS As required by Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985, each of the Directors has approved this report and confirmed that, so far as he she is aware, there is no relevant audit information being information needed by the auditors in connection with preparing their audit report of which the Companys Auditors are unaware, and he she has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director in order to make him herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR PREPARING THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare financial statements and a Remuneration report for each financial year that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Company and the Group for the financial year.
The Company is also required to prepare financial statements for US shareholders in accordance with the requirements of the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
The Directors consider that, in preparing the Financial Statements on pages 71 to 128, the Company has used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgments and estimates, and all applicable accounting
