Business review 10 Strategy and future prospects Our confidence that we will continue to succeed is rooted in a passionate belief that our competitive advantage stems as much from who we are and how we go about our work, as it does from what we do or the assets in BG Groups portfolio.
Frank Chapman Chief Executive Whats next for BG Group?
A focused strategy for long-term growth Our strategy Connecting low cost gas to selected, high value markets.
Creating value The experience and skills to invest in any part of the gas value-chain.
Future prospects A portfolio of projects and opportunities to drive growth beyond 2012. BUSINESS REVIEW 11 GROUP STRATEGY BG Group LNG supplies to the worlds resources are changing their perspectives BG Group is a major integrated gas largest energy market.
on how these resources should be company with a record of delivering developed.
For example, there is a greater BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT focus on achieving a balance between strong growth by identifying and focusing The strategy is enabling BG Group to retaining gas for domestic markets and on selected high value markets and respond to a number of important providing new supplies for export projects.
securing low cost gas for delivery into developments in the business environment.
BG Groups expertise in gas those markets.
Oil and gas prices remain high, supported and willingness to engage with partner This strategy has remained fundamentally by robust world economic growth.
While governments supports these important unchanged because it has proven robust to high prices enhance revenue, they also stakeholder decisions and positions developments in the business environment place continuing pressure on underlying the Group favourably to participate and it continues to deliver value.
BG Group is affected by this pressure, in new opportunities.
but the low cost asset base provides a BG Group specialises in gas and has the The LNG industry is forecast to grow at highly competitive platform from which skills to compete anywhere along the gas 12% annually through to 2012 and demand the Group expects to continue to deliver a value-chain, from reservoir to burner-tip.
continues to outstrip supply, increasing top quartile performance on unit costs.
The cornerstones of the Groups the value of the Groups existing LNG competitive advantage are a deep In the light of higher prices, governments portfolio.
As a result, the Group has been understanding of gas markets, the skills in countries with significant hydrocarbon able to realise this greater value by and experience to invest throughout the chain, and a focus on project delivery.
These enable the Group to respond swiftly to market trends, targeting investments Our strategy where value can be created.
PORTFOLIO FOR GROWTH Underpinning BG Groups strong growth is a distinctive, low cost, long-life asset base with an in-built potential for continued growth into the next decade.
The strategy is both focused on Integrated Gas Major maximising the potential from the existing asset base and augmenting this through the addition of new projects and opportunities.
Connecting gas to Secure competitively high value markets priced resources Long-term growth is driven by exploration and appraisal.
The Group aims to sustain build and access markets equity reserves strong organic growth via a programme serve customers contracted resources that targets new play opening opportunities, extends existing plays, and seeks to appraise and develop existing discoveries, including some Skills to succeed across the gas chain that can be commercialised rapidly through existing infrastructure.
BG Group has built a leading low cost, exible LNG portfolio of supply and market access in the Atlantic Basin.
Additional value is delivered through a BG Group is a rapidly growing business with operations in over combination of exible supply contracts, 25 countries and across five continents.
BG Group is principally access to multiple markets, control of engaged in exploration and production and the development and shipping, low cost infrastructure and the supply of existing and emerging gas markets around the world.
skills and experience to capture global marketing opportunities.
This is proving Gas discoveries often require complex chains of physical successful in ensuring that BG Group is infrastructure and commercial agreements to deliver the gas able to access the highest value markets, to markets and BG Group has proven skills and experience in wherever and whenever they occur.
creating value from these chains.
In the downstream, BG Group continues to be active in T&D and Power.
In T&D, BG Group has established positions in the growing markets of Brazil and India.
More recently, BG Group has expanded the Power business into the USA.
This is a focused move that strengthens the integrated gas strategy downstream of the LNG regasication terminals and is aimed at maximising the value of Business review 12 Strategy and future prospects continued capturing opportunities to market LNG, of Business Principles sets out beliefs already onstream, fully sanctioned or originally destined for the USA, in and behaviours which guide the way close to sanction.
alternative markets in Europe and Asia.
the Group and its employees conduct Substantial progress has been made business.
The Business Principles apply CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY over the last year to raise and extend to all directors, ofcers and employees.
the production outlook from assets BG Group recognises that activities already onstream.
surrounding the extraction and supply The Corporate Responsibility section page of fossil fuels can have economic, 37 summarises BG Groups social and Incremental growth is expected to come environmental and social impacts and environmental performance.
The 2006 from new projects and opportunities, many works to ensure that neighbouring Corporate Responsibility Report, of which have either been rmed-up or communities benefit from its presence a separate publication, contains more added to the portfolio over the last year.
These new projects give confidence that the Groups future growth projections can FUTURE PROSPECTS BG Group believes that it is good business be achieved out as far as 2012. to operate responsibly and that successful BG Group has a strong portfolio of relationships with host governments and projects, opportunities and exploration In looking to secure growth well beyond potential that can drive growth well into neighbouring communities contribute 2012, BG Group has added significant to good and sustainable returns for the next decade.
In the medium-term this volumes of risked E&P resources to the growth is underpinned by assets that are shareholders.
The BG Group Statement portfolio through exploration success and Creating value across the gas chain BG Group has a proven track Harnessing our resources record of delivering value to shareholders by investing A key element of the BG Group strategy is in securing competitively across the gas value-chain.
The Exploration and Production This ability to invest selectively business has a proven track record of delivering top quartile industry in any part of the chain cost performance matched by significant exploration success.
enables BG Group to respond to changes in the business environment, helps offset elements of business risk and captures value for shareholders.
Incremental investment in the UK The UK North Sea remains a core production area and BG Group continues to follow a strategy of production improvement linked to incremental investment around existing assets.
The recent development of Buzzard and new discoveries, especially Jasmine, are expected to maintain the annual production level from BG Groups North Sea assets at 50 mmboe until at least 2012. BUSINESS REVIEW 13 the acquisition of new licences, some of 2005, demonstrates the Groups continued GLOBAL LNG which contain existing discoveries.
success in the UK North Sea.
BG Groups long-term rm LNG supply volumes continue to build with growth Overall, BG Group has the portfolio in place In India, further development of the last year from Atlantic LNG Train 4 and to deliver another decade of strong growth.
Panna Mukta and Tapti elds has raised Nigeria LNG Trains 4 5.
Contracted planned production from 2006 to 2009 by volumes from Equatorial Guinea are E&P GROWTH PORTFOLIO 60%.
In addition, further potential has expected to be available this year.
The long-life of those E&P assets that are been identied in the Mukta eld by already onstream is a distinctive feature of The next wave of supplies to drive growth applying experience gained on Panna.
Karachaganak is the largest E&P asset BG Group recently signed the sale and The UK is a good example of this, where in the BG Group portfolio.
Here, plans purchase agreement for supply from BG Group has been able to add significant to realise the full potential of this Nigeria LNG Train 7.
Supply from Brass value to existing hubs by improving asset world-class eld are progressing well.
LNG is expected to be secured this year.
performance and making discoveries that The fourth condensate stabilisation train In addition, progress continues on the can be monetised rapidly through existing was sanctioned last year, and plans OKLNG project from which BG Group infrastructure.
The highlight last year was are rming up to develop the Phase III expects to lift its equity volumes.
The the Jasmine discovery in J-Block which, expansion project, which is in itself project is working towards sanction and together with the Jackdaw discovery in a very material development.
is planned to be onstream in 2012.
Enabling our supplies Creating value from markets Unlike oil, gas is difficult to store and transport BG Group maintains a deep understanding of over long distances.
Specialist skills are required gas market trends, enabling the Group to take to link resources to markets.
BG Groups LNG advantage of value enhancing opportunities portfolio and experience in global marketing as and when they arise.
The Group is active are key to ensuring the continued delivery of in Transmission and Distribution, Power and supplies to the highest value markets.
Global LNG: A unique competitive position Building an integrated US gas business The BG Group LNG portfolio has a unique combination With an already established LNG import and gas of exible supplies, low cost infrastructure, sales marketing business in the USA, BG Group has recently relationships with multiple markets, control of acquired gas-red power generating capacity in the shipping capacity and staff experienced in the north-east of the country.
The purchase of these assets marketing of LNG globally.
forms part of an overall strategy to build an integrated gas business in North America.
In this fully liberalised market, BG Group believes that competitors will nd this BG Group is able to add substantial value to the Groups combination of factors difficult to replicate, especially LNG supplies by being exible about where, when and in the current business environment.
in what form energy is sold.
Business review 14 Strategy and future prospects continued Underpinned by access to the US market contracts to Asian buyers out to 2009, licences, adding over 78 000 square and supported by a growing, modern building on recent short-term sales.
kilometres of gross exploration acreage and efficient LNG tanker fleet, the LNG in 2006.
Many of these licences contain EXPANDED EXPLORATION PORTFOLIO portfolio is able to respond to changes in existing discoveries such as Bream in In exploration, BG Group made a number gas markets around the world.
With the Norway, Abu Butabul in Oman and Hassi of key discoveries this year.
These included LNG market currently supply constrained, Ba Hamou in Algeria.
The presence of Jasmine in the UK, Tupi in Brazil and on this exibility is expected to offer increased these discoveries reduces the fundamental the West Delta Deep Marine block in opportunity to access high-margin exploration risk of the licences and Egypt.
Appraisal of these discoveries is a markets.
The regasication projects now offers the potential for early progress priority for the coming year.
In addition, being developed in the UK, Italy and Chile towards production.
there have been other successful are expected to enhance this exibility Exploration and Appraisal wells in the UK, RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES further as they become operational.
The India, Thailand and Canada.
Most of these As an integrated energy company, active first of these, Dragon LNG, is planned to will be developed using existing in a diverse set of countries and operating be onstream in late 2007. infrastructure and are expected to be environments, BG Group is exposed to producing by 2012.
There are also further developments many equivalent technical, political and in global LNG marketing.
BG Group is BG Group has also continued to make commercial risks as its peers in the oil, negotiating to market LNG under term significant progress in securing further gas and energy sectors.
Future prospects Strong existing E&P portfolio New licences 2006: Over 78 000 sq km gross new acreage acquired Karachaganak: Phase III US Alaska CANADA UK NORWAY Development of further potential from one of the worlds largest gas and condensate elds, with first ALGERIA OMAN CHINA production expected in 2012.
NEW ACREAGE THAILAND NIGERIA MADAGASCAR The following key projects and Key opportunities 2010-12 Brazil: Tupi opportunities underpin BG Groups Karachaganak Phase III production growth projections over Abu Butabul the next few years.
Hassi Ba Hamou Jasmine Key projects due onstream 2007-09 Jackdaw Buzzard J-Block Satellites Maria Norway Bream Rosetta Phase III Nigeria Boi West Delta Deep Marine Phase IV Trinidad Starsh Karachaganak Fourth Train Tupi Dolphin Expansion Margarita Hasdrubal Tunisia LPG Gaza Panna Mukta Expansion Appraisal work to rm-up potential Bongkot South of this new discovery will commence Rosetta South Sequoia in 2007.
Mukta Full Potential BUSINESS REVIEW 15 Over the last year, oil and gas prices have committed to capital discipline and uncertainties for BG Group.
Therefore, remained high despite falling back from operating excellence, and has a strong the Group seeks to mitigate their impact peak levels.
Most forecasts anticipate project delivery track record with top through both a globally diversied prices remaining high in the shortto quartile industry performance on both portfolio, and active engagement with medium-term.
However, all forecasts nding and development, and operating host governments.
contain uncertainty and a downward costs.
The existing portfolio is characterised A more detailed discussion of the movement of prices is possible.
BG Group by low cost assets and recent additions risks which could impact BG Group tests all new investment decisions against have been achieved at modest cost.
Timely, is contained in the Risk Factors a wide range of oil related commodity cost effective project delivery remains a key section page 41. prices.
In addition, the Groups focus on gas, focus area for the Group.
low cost base, geographically diverse Governments are also responding to the spread of assets and investments current business environment.
These throughout the gas value-chain provide responses have included such measures some mitigation against the impacts of as scal changes, actions to take greater price reductions.
control of reserve development, and Sustained high commodity prices have changing national priorities for the also placed upward pressures on capital development of hydrocarbon resources.
BG Group remains Such changes can introduce risks and Global LNG Global LNG: Growing a global business Nigeria: OKLNG KUTA AKURE NIGERIA BENIN LAGOS CITY OKLNG OPL 332 ESCRAVOS PORT HARCOURT NLNG BRASS LNG OPL 286-DO Work is progressing towards the sanction of OKLNG, a new build LNG liquefaction plant with four CURRENT AND FUTURE EQUITY POSITIONS trains of 5.5 mtpa each.
The plant EXISTING IMPORT CAPACITY FUTURE IMPORT CAPACITY FUTURE OPPORTUNITY is planned to start-up in 2012.
EXISTING LIQUEFACTION FUTURE LIQUEFACTION LONG-TERM PURCHASES CONTRACTED BG Groups core LNG business continues Plans are in place to secure significant UK: Dragon LNG Regasification to develop in the Atlantic Basin, and the future volumes from: Group is extending this further through Equatorial Guinea: arrangements in Pacic markets.
Brass LNG: In 2006, BG Group supplied around 25% of total ows from the Atlantic to the Pacic OKLNG: and Basin.
The ability to do this in response to Nigeria LNG Train 7. market trends stems from the fact that only a small proportion of BG Groups Beyond this, BG Group continues to LNG supply volumes do not have progress additional opportunities in destination exibility.
marketing gas to Asian buyers and aims over time to establish additional supply positions.
The 4.4 mtpa Dragon LNG regasification terminal in Wales is on target to be onstream during late 2007.
UK ITALY USA ASIA Future purchases and other opportunities EGYPT TRINIDAD & TOBAGO NIGERIA PNG Term sales: 1 to 2 mtpa CHILE
