Corporate governance 52 Board of Directors 12 34 56 78 910 11 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 53 1.
Baroness Hogg 60 Chairman Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Sir Robert Wilson was appointed Peter Backhouse was appointed to the Baroness Hogg was appointed to the Chairman with effect from 1 January Board as a non-executive Director with Board as a non-executive Director with 2004, having been a non-executive effect from 19 July 2000.
He was formerly effect from 27 January 2005.
She is Director since September 2002.
He was executive vice president, refining and a former head of the Prime Ministers chairman of Rio Tinto plc from 1997 to marketing at BP Amoco plc.
Previous roles Policy Unit and has extensive experience 2003 and prior to that was chief executive at BP included deputy chief executive of of business, government and the media.
He is also BP Oil and chief executive of BP Oil Europe.
She is chairman of 3i Group plc and chairman of The Economist Group and a He gained considerable gas experience in Frontier Economics Ltd, a non-executive non-executive director of GlaxoSmithKline international LNG and in UK natural gas as director of Carnival plc and Carnival plc.
He has previously been a non-executive head of BPs UK gas marketing business.
Corporation and is a member of the director of Diageo plc, BP plc and The He is a member of the Advisory Board of Financial Reporting Council.
c, e, f Boots Company PLC now Alliance Carlyle Riverstone Energy Partners, a US 10.
Sir John Coles GCMG 69 Lord Sharman was appointed to the Chief Executive Non-Executive Director Board as a non-executive Director Frank Chapman was appointed Chief Sir John Coles was appointed to the Board with effect from 23 October 2000.
He is Executive with effect from 23 October as a non-executive Director on 1 March non-executive chairman of Aegis Group 2000, having been appointed to the 1998.
Prior to that he had a 37 year career plc and Aviva plc, and a non-executive Board of BG plc in February 1997.
He with the Foreign and Commonwealth director of Reed Elsevier plc.
He is also joined British Gas plc in November 1996 Office FCO and retired as Permanent a member of the Supervisory Board as Managing Director, Exploration and Under-Secretary of State in the FCO of ABN Amro Holding N. V. A chartered Production.
He is an engineer and has and Head of the Diplomatic Service in accountant, he was chairman of KPMG worked in the oil and gas industry for 32 November 1997.
He is chairman of Sight International from 1997 to 1999, having years.
Prior to joining British Gas plc, he Savers International.
g been senior partner since 1994. c spent a total of 22 years with Shell and BP.
Philippe Varin 54 a, b, d, g Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director 3.
William Friedrich 58 Paul Collins was appointed to the Board Philippe Varin was appointed to the Board Deputy Chief Executive as a non-executive Director with effect as a non-executive Director with effect William Friedrich was appointed Deputy from 23 October 2000 after a long career from 2 May 2006.
He became chief Chief Executive with effect from with Citigroup Inc.
The Board nominated executive of Corus Group plc in May 2003.
He is responsible him as the Senior Independent Director Prior to joining Corus, he spent 25 years for the Groups portfolio and strategy from 4 May 2005.
He joined Citicorp in with the Pechiney Group, which he joined development.
He joined British Gas plc in 1961 and subsequently served as the chief in 1978 as a researcher.
He subsequently December 1995 as General Counsel after a investment officer, headed the financial served as vice-president, Engineering and 20 year career with Shearman & Sterling, markets division, corporate planning, Research and as project director for the where he became a partner in 1983. finance and administration, and Europe, construction of the Dunkirk France Whilst with the firm, he practised as a Africa and the Middle East.
He later worked as general corporate lawyer, working mainly appointed a director of Citicorp and its group financial controller, based first in on international transactions, and principal subsidiary, Citibank, in 1985 and Paris then in Chicago at American National ultimately headed the firms worldwide vice-chairman in 1988.
He is a director of Cans headquarters.
In March 1999, he was project development and project finance Actis Capital LLP, The Enstar Group and a appointed senior executive vice president practice.
He is also a non-executive director and vice chairman of Nokia of the Aluminium Sector and a member of director of The Royal Bank of Scotland Corporation.
Ashley Almanza 44 Non-Executive Director Chief Financial Officer Jrgen Dormann was appointed to the Ashley Almanza was appointed Chief Board as a non-executive Director with Financial Officer with effect from 1 August effect from 1 June 2005.
He is responsible for Group finance, chairman of Swiss-based ABB Ltd since tax, treasury, investor relations, internal 2001, having been a non-executive audit, legal and secretariat.
Prior to his roles at British Gas plc in 1993 and has held a ABB, he had a successful career at number of roles including Finance Hoechst and Aventis spanning almost 40 Director of BG International Downstream.
He is vice chairman of the board at He acted as Group Finance Director from Sanofi-Aventis S. A. France and at Adecco October 2000 to January 2001 before he S. A. Switzerland and is a member of the Membership of committees was appointed Group Financial Controller.
f, g a Group Executive Prior to joining British Gas plc, he b Chairmans qualified as a chartered accountant, c Audit working in South Africa and London.
d Finance a, b, d e Nominations f Remuneration g Corporate Responsibility
