Corporate Governance Directors Report The Directors have pleasure in presenting their report and the consolidated Corporate Governance financial statements of Alliance & Leicester plc for the year ended The Groups Statement of Corporate Governance is set out on pages 34 to 37.
Social Responsibilities Business Review and Principal Activities A summary of the Groups Corporate Responsibility Report is set out on pages The principal activity of Alliance & Leicester plc and its subsidiaries is the provision 25 to 28. of a comprehensive range of personal financial services.
In addition, the Companys subsidiary, Alliance & Leicester Commercial Bank plc, provides a wide range of Charitable and Political Donations banking and financial services to business and public sector customers.
No donations were made to political parties.
Charitable donations are disclosed in the summary of the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages The directors are not aware, at the date of this report, of any likely major 25 to 28. changes in the Groups activities in the next year.
The Groups business during the year and future plans are reviewed in detail on pages 4 to 24.
Staff This report together with the sections which are incorporated by reference, Alliance & Leicester values its employees as the key to delivering our business fulfils the requirements of section 234ZZB of the Companies Act 1985. strategy and we recognise our responsibilities to provide a positive working environment.
Results and Dividends Details on the number of employees and related costs can be found in Notes The profit before tax for the year ended 31 December 2006 was 568.9m 9 and 10 on page 68.
Basic earnings per share were 96.4p 2005: 86.9p.
We are committed to equality of opportunity for all our employees.
We will An interim dividend of 17.6 pence per share 2005: 16.8 pence per share not permit discrimination on the grounds of sex, race or national origin, was paid on 9 October 2006. colour, religious belief, disability mental or physical, marital status, The directors propose a final net dividend for the year of 36.5 pence per share age or sexual orientation.
We operate a joint diversity forum with our trade unions, that provides support Alliance & Leicester plc manages its operations via two main business units and guidance on diversity issues, along with an opportunity for all employees Retail Banking and Commercial Banking.
Both financial and non-financial to express their views on our diversity agenda.
performance indicators for each of these divisions are discussed in the We have a national Inform and Consult forum, chaired by our Chief Executive, business and financial review sections set out on pages 10 to 24 and which operates alongside our existing trade union structures.
The forum are summarised on page 2 and in the Group overview on page 8. provides an opportunity for employees to develop a greater understanding of, and to input into, the development of business initiatives.
Feedback from the Directors forum is published to all Group employees.
The following persons were directors of the Company during the year: We provide appropriate levels of reward and recognition for our employees.
In Sir Derek Higgs Chairman addition to basic remuneration, we also provide bonus schemes and a number Mr M P S Barton Deputy Chairman of schemes aimed at recognising and rewarding excellent customer service.
All Mr R A Pym Group Chief Executive of our employees have the ability to share in the success of the Group through Mr M R Aish a range of share plans.
Mr M J Allen to 31.12.2006 Mr R L Banks More details on the Groups employee policies and activities can be found in Mrs J V Barker the Groups Corporate Responsibility Report, a summary of which is set out on Mr D J Bennett pages 25 to 28.
Mr R J Duke Mr R M McTighe Creditor Payment Policy Mr C S Rhodes The Group continues to be a signatory of the DTIs Better Payment Practice Mrs M Salmon Code: more details can be found at www.
It is Group policy to: Mr E J Watts agree the terms of payment at the start of business with suppliers: The names and brief biographies of the current directors are shown on pages ensure suppliers are aware of the payment terms: 30 and 31.
Mrs J V Barker and Messrs R L Banks and E J Watts will retire by rotation and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election at the pay in accordance with any contractual and other legal obligations.
Trade creditors of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2006 were equivalent to 20 days purchases 2005: 23 days, based on the ratio of Directors Interests in Contracts Company trade creditors at the end of the year to the amounts invoiced No director had a material interest at any time during the year in any contract during the year by trade creditors.
see Directors Report on Remuneration from page 39 with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties As a result of its normal business activities, the Group is exposed to a variety Directors Interests in Shares of risks, the most significant of which are operational risk, credit risk and Directors interests in the shares in the Company and options to acquire shares liquidity risk.
are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 43 to 45.
The Group has established a number of committees and policies to manage Substantial Shareholders these risks.
These are set out in the Statement of Corporate Governance on Shareholders with an interest in the issued ordinary share capital of the pages 34 to 37 and Note 2 to the financial statements on page 58 to 59.
Company, disclosed in accordance with Sections 198-208 of the Companies Act 1985, are shown in Note 38 on page 86.
Environment Alliance & Leicester plc recognises that it has a responsibility to act in a way that respects the environment.
The Group aims to reduce the environmental impact of all our business activities to a practicable minimum, in accordance 32 Alliance & Leicester Annual Report and Accounts 2006 with robust environmental practices.
We aim to comply with regulatory and legislative requirements as necessary and avoid any unnecessary costs and penalties.
We also recognise and report on the key direct impact areas of energy and water, as well as monitoring transport and waste impacts.
More details on the Groups environment policies and actions can be found in the Groups Corporate Responsibility Report, a summary of which is set out on pages 25 to 28.
Authority to Purchase Shares During the year, 13,790,794 shares of 50 pence each, representing a nominal value of 6,895,397, were repurchased and cancelled, representing 3.15% of the Companys issued capital as at 31 December 2006.
The aggregate consideration including stamp duty paid for the shares was 151m.
The purpose of the share buyback programme was to help manage the Groups capital base.
Capital efficiency remains a key financial objective and shareholder authority will again be sought, at the Annual General Meeting, for the Company to purchase in the market up to 65.6 million of its shares, representing some 15% of the issued share capital, in order to retain flexibility in managing the Companys capital requirements.
Special Business The Annual General Meeting will be held on 1 May 2007.
Special business to be transacted at the Meeting is set out in full in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Auditors In the case of each of the persons who are directors of the Company at the date when this report was approved: so far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each of the directors has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
A resolution re-appointing Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Companys auditors and authorising the Group Audit Committee to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
On behalf of the Board S Lloyd Group Secretary 20 February 2007 Alliance & Leicester Annual Report and Accounts 2006 33 Corporate Governance
