Corporate Governance Board of Directors Sir Derek Higgs Aged 62 Peter Barton Aged 69 Richard Pym Aged 57 Chairman Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and Senior Group Chief Executive Appointed to the Board in October 2005, Sir Derek Independent Director Appointed to the Board in 1993 as Group Finance Higgs is a Chartered Accountant and a former Appointed to the Board in May 1998, Peter Barton Director, Richard Pym became Managing Director, investment banker.
His previous career included five is a solicitor, investment banker and a Deputy Retail Banking in 2001 and was appointed Group years as a Director of Prudential plc and Chairman Lieutenant of Greater London.
His previous career in Chief Executive in 2002.
A Chartered Accountant, of its fund management business, and 24 years with the financial services industry included nine years his previous career was with Thomson McLintock & the Warburg Group, where he was Head of Global with Lehman Brothers International and four years Co, British Gas plc, BAT Industries plc and The Corporate Finance and Chairman of SG Warburg & Co with Robert Fleming & Co. His other directorships Burton Group plc.
He became Chairman of Halfords Ltd.
He is also Chairman of Partnerships UK Plc include F&C US Smaller Companies plc and the plc in April 2006.
He was a non-executive director and Bramdean Asset Management LLP.
His other Guinness Trust Group, of which he is Vice Chairman.
of Selfridges plc from 1998 to 2003.
Richard is appointments include a non-executive directorship He is also Chairman of Howard fide Walden Estates a Vice President of the British Bankers Association.
at Jones Lang LaSalle Inc.
He is a Pro-Chancellor Limited, a member of the Audit & Scrutiny of the University of Bristol.
Committee of Oxford University, a trustee of The Leonard Ingrams Foundation and an adviser to Armstrong Bonham Carter LLP.
David Bennett Aged 44 Rodney Duke Aged 56 Mike McTighe Aged 53 Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board in 2000, David Bennett Appointed to the Board in January 2006, Rod Dukes Appointed to the Board in June 2000, Mike McTighe is responsible for financial accounting, planning career has been with HSBC, where he spent over 33 is currently Chairman of a small number of private and reporting, strategic planning, group risk years.
Upon his retirement in 2004 he was General equity backed technology start ups.
He is also and group property services.
He has many years Manager Banking Services and a Group General Chairman of Pace Micro Technology plc and a experience in the financial sector, as Finance Manager, managing the banks distribution director of London Metal Exchange Holdings Ltd. Director of Cheltenham & Gloucester plc and then capability for personal and commercial customers.
Previously he was Chairman and CEO of Carrier1 as an Executive Director of the National Bank of He had previously held a number of executive International SA, and before that Executive Director New Zealand Ltd.
He became a non-executive positions across the bank, including investment and Chief Executive, Global Operations of Cable & director of easyJet plc in October 2005. banking, credit cards and operations.
Prior to these appointments, he was a non-executive director of Exedra Clubs Limited with Philips of the Netherlands, Motorola, and GE.
30 Alliance & Leicester Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Malcolm Aish Aged 61 Richard Banks Aged 55 Jane Barker Aged 57 Non-Executive Director Managing Director, Commercial Banking Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board in May 2005, Malcolm Aishs Appointed to the Board in 1998, Richard Banks Appointed to the Board in January 2004, Jane career has been with N M Rothschild & Sons Limited.
has responsibility for the Groups Commercial Barker is a Chartered Accountant and was until He is a non-executive director and member of the Banking operations and Treasury.
He was previously recently the Finance Director of Equitas Limited, Audit Committee of Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Distribution Director, Retail Banking, having held the company set up to reinsure and run off the 1992 International plc.
Malcolm was a LIBA representative a number of senior positions in Alliance & Leicester and prior years non-life liabilities of Lloyds of to the FSA Advisory Group on the Basel Accord.
Commercial Bank plc formerly Girobank plc since London Syndicates.
She remains on the Board of he joined the Company in 1987.
Equitas and will become Chief Executive Officer following the proposed transaction with Berkshire Hathaway group.
She was previously a member of the Council of the Open University and Chair of the Audit Committee of the Open University.
Her previous roles have included being Finance Director of the London Stock Exchange.
Chris Rhodes Aged 43 Margaret Salmon Aged 59 Jonathan Watts Aged 52 Managing Director, Retail Banking Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board in 2002, Chris Rhodes Appointed to the Board in 2004 Margaret Salmon Appointed to the Board in May 2000, Jonathan became Managing Director, Retail Banking in is Chair of the Sector Skills Development Agency Watts is President of Geo Hutchison Network October 2003.
He was previously the Groups and has held non-executive directorships at Services, part of the Hutchison Whampoa Group of Operations Director, and has held a number of Kingfisher plc, Manchester Airport Group plc and companies.
Previously he was Managing Director of senior positions with the Group since he joined the University for Industry.
Her previous executive COLT Telecommunications, Europes largest business in 1988, including Deputy Managing Director roles have included being Chief Executive, BBC telephony, data and internet company and held and Finance Director of Alliance & Leicester Resources Ltd, and HR Director at the BBC and senior positions in the UK and overseas in a number Commercial Bank plc formerly Girobank plc.
of telecommunications and technology companies, including National Band Three Ltd, Aircall Holdings, Sintrom Plc, Datapoint Corp and Control Data Corp. Alliance & Leicester Annual Report and Accounts 2006 31 Corporate Governance
