Investment strategy Last year we implemented more fully a attacks, meant we had slightly less At the start of the year, new and rigorous process to ensure exposure than some of our peers to the 24 reservations about high that the Companys capital is allocated rising markets.
However, the level of to those assets with the best potential uncertainty was such that, as a risk oil and commodity to deliver long-term returns.
It operates averse company, we consider that prices made the on a forward-looking and objective caution to have been appropriate.
basis with the scope to exploit a wide We saw the benefits of our new economic outlook more range of opportunities.
This process geographical approach particularly in uncertain, but the also aims to diversify that capital to successful shifts of capital away from offset potentially adverse moves in the North America and into Japan, worlds equity markets assets we hold.
augmented by some profits taken after shrugged off the good performance in the rest of Asia Many assets other than equities are Pacific.
Having opened an office in Hong now considered routinely and potential risks with a Kong in April, we quickly experienced the thoroughly, but our equity portfolio had dynamic year.
advantage of having a dedicated and an outstanding year.
The outlook locally based team as we invested early deteriorated in spring and we realised into a major leg of recovery in Japan, some equity holdings, but we rebuilt doubling our exposure to that market our equity allocation as companies over the year.
profitability began to prove much more robust than generally expected, and We increased our Japanese portfolio in a markets rallied.
Stronger balance very targetted manner, favouring banks sheets and sustained, firm global in particular, encouraged by the economic activity stimulated mergers, rekindling of the real estate sector, including cross-border and private which had been decimated and has equity buyout deals.
We were remained in the doldrums over the last encouraged too by the continued trend 15 years.
The return of that crucial to reward shareholders with increased source of collateral for lending is key to dividend payments.
The increased outperformed against local indices insight brought by the new team also particularly in the Japanese and the UK allowed us to trim selectively our AsiaSmaller cap portfolios.
Overall, 95% of Pacific portfolio, which is vulnerable to the equity portfolio by value commodity price hikes and any dip in US outperformed the relevant local index.
We still have significant Our prudent attitude to equities early in exposure to Chinese expansion through other companies we hold.
Going forward the year, given the significant risks of spiralling oil prices and more terrorist we expect China to lead global growth.
Distribution by sector m m Distribution m Oil and Gas 247.7 Financials 538.4 UK 977.0 Basic Materials 151.3 Technology 97.0 North America 320.6 Industrials 223.8 Subsidiaries 42.2 Europe 227.8 Consumer Goods 162.6 Private Equity 35.9 Japan 214.3 Health Care 157.3 Real Estate 28.4 Asia Pacific 162.6 Consumer Services 199.1 Fixed Income 21.5 Rest of World6.9 Telecommunications 61.6 Other Net Assets 9.4 Fixed Income 21.5 Utilities 61.0 Total assets less Subsidiaries 42.2 current liabilities 2037.2 Private Equity 35.9 Real Estate 28.4 Total assets less current liabilities 2037.2 Feb Dec Oct Aug June Apr Feb With signs that the corporate sector in better opportunities elsewhere, we financial services subsidiary, Alliance Europe is beginning to pick up, we remain convinced of its potential for Trust Savings, which had a record year 25 increased our exposure to Germany and dynamism, focussed reinvestment and in terms of top line growth and new expect to continue to expand our assets.
We moved out of investment there.
As with Japan, its selecting smaller US companies during Our positive outlook for equities and companies benefit from infrastructure the year, concentrating our direct other growth assets is reflected in our investment globally, they are leading investment in larger and mid-sized decision to gear modestly, borrowing in the corporate restructuring in Europe, companies, preferring to focus our US dollars a total of 2.7% of net assets and Germany has a new government.
dedicated North American team on between November and year-end.
We Supportive policies are likely to persist those.
are investing this in Japan, Europe and and we expect profits growth to surprise Canada where we see opportunities and In the UK, where consumer confidence on the upside.
Therefore we are looking was declining, we pulled back from it provides some hedge against the US for opportunities to increase our some retail stocks, although the currency, which we expect to decline European exposure.
housebuilders we hold did very well and gradually.
We benefitted from being overweight in should benefit from any cut in interest Looking ahead we expect: oil and mining stocks, given a rates this year.
Despite duller growth in particularly strong year for these the local economy, its quality Growth will continue and equity companies, because of the rise in almost companies still remain attractively markets should remain positive all commodity prices.
Shielded to some priced because of their high exposure to although background risks from oil extent from rising oil prices, service world growth and strong dividend and terrorism will persist companies generally did better than performance and are vulnerable to Equities will still be our key manufacturing companies, which saw takeover.
We shall continue to recycle investment area, but we will margins narrow, particularly in Asia.
We proceeds into new opportunities.
continue to diversify into other continued to edge away from consumer As we diversify, we made our first direct assets such as property and stocks, preferring those companies with property investments during the year.
private equity exposure to infrastructure projects in We expect these properties to begin a areas where growth will fuel demand, in We will continue to foster our core holding with clear long-term yield both the emerging countries of Asiagrowth in the pensions market with prospects.
Our fixed income portfolio Pacific and in countries as developed as investment in our financial services performed well and we took some those of North America.
Much existing subsidiary, Alliance Trust Savings.
Especially in the UK & US, infrastructure is now overstretched or longer-dated stocks have been driven ageing, and we believe there are down to extremely low yields as a result interesting investment prospects for of pension demand.
We increased our some time ahead.
To get a Although we have moved to historically greater foothold in the promising very low weightings in the US due to pensions market, we invested in our UK Mining The 20 largest investments at 31 January 2006 180 m m 170 BP 75.7 Alliance Trust Savings 24.9 160 150 Royal Dutch Shell 64.5 Barclays 24.1 140 GlaxoSmithKline 56.9 BHP Billiton 23.2 130 Rio Tinto 42.5 Lloyds TSB 22.0 120 110 HBOS 38.0 Alliance Trust Real Estate 100 Partnership 19.5 iShares Russell Midcap 90 Index Fund 37.3 Tesco 18.9 Vodafone 32.1 iShares Russell 2000 Index Fund 18.9 FTSE W UK MINING - PRICE INDEX Persimmon 28.6 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial 18.2 FTSE ALL SHARE - PRICE INDEX Royal Bank Of Scotland28.1 Prudential 18.0 HSBC 27.7 Exxon Mobil 17.7 Combined holding UK and Australia.
