Portfolio review UK Large Cap UK Small Cap 26 Last year marked another strong The UK Small Cap portfolio rose 161.1m year for large UK companies in by almost 35% over the last 12 spite of lacklustre economic months, ahead of the 27% return growth and the July terrorist from the FTSE World UK Small 806.5m attacks in London.
returned 19.9%, against a return of The resource sector was 19.0% from the benchmark index.
particularly strong, driven by We benefitted from our large holdings of oil and commodity demand from the growing global economy.
The Merrill Lynch stocks, with the oil companies BP and Shell both returning over World Mining Trust and Vedanta Resources rose by over 85% 24%.
Growing Asian demand also drove up commodity prices, and 100% respectively.
Rising mining stocks pushed MLWM helping mining companies.
Our holdings in Rio Tinto, BHP Trust higher, while Vedanta rose on production volume and Billiton and Anglo American all performed very well with profit growth prospects.
We took part in the IPO of copper returns ranging from 58% to over 75%.
mining company, Kazakhmys, which has returned 35% since being listed in October.
Financials had a mixed year, as banks suffered an early sell-off due to fears of a consumer slowdown, but rallied later in the Rising oil prices supported Wood Group and Paladin Resources.
year when company reports showed concerns were overdone.
The growth prospects in Paladins North Sea projects led to a Our exposure was little changed, but we reduced our holding in bid from US operator Talisman Energy, which we accepted.
Royal Bank of Scotland switching the proceeds to HBOS, Lloyds Limited supply of expertise within the oil services industry and and HSBC.
increasing demand bode well for future profit growth.
Despite the most challenging operating environment for many Within the manufacturing industry, Renishaw and Spirax years, housebuilder Persimmon had an outstanding 76% return.
continued to invest extensively in research and development, A well-timed acquisition helped the company break into the and this has been reflected in product development, sales and FTSE-100.
Difficult trading conditions affected the telecoms sector as We effectively doubled our holding in healthcare company, deregulation and new technology increased competitive Gyrus, after subscribing for more shares in support of the pressures.
Despite Telefonicas takeover of O, the profit warning 2 acquisition of ACMI, a US company.
Stronger growth prospects on Vodafone weighed on the sector and dampened returns.
We have been recognised and the share price has increased sharply reduced our holding in BT on fears competition will hit margins.
since the deal was announced.
Looking forward, although risks of global instability are We expect further growth in the UK service sector and continue relatively high, broad prospects are attractive.
The UK to hold Carillion and Serco, which will benefit as the government stockmarket is still cheap compared to other major expands its use of private companies to provide public services.
stockmarkets and is attracting capital from overseas and private finance.
The domestic economic outlook is challenging We expect the economic cycle to remain robust and continue to but UK companies look likely to benefit from falling interest seek companies with visible profit growth and the prospect of rates and their exposure to global growth.
Company Sector m Company Sector m BP Oil & Gas Producers 75.7 Gyrus Health Care Equipment & Services 12.3 Royal Dutch Shell Oil & Gas Producers 64.5 Renishaw Electronic & Electrical GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals & Equipment 9.3 Biotechnology 56.9 Aberforth Smaller Equity Investment Rio Tinto Mining 42.5 Companies Instruments 8.7 HBOS Banks 38.0 Vedanta Resources Mining 8.4 Vodafone Mobile Spirax-Sarco Industrial Engineering 8.2 Telecommunications 32.1 Merrill Lynch World Persimmon Household Goods 28.6 Mining Trust Mining 6.9 Royal Bank of ScotlandBanks 28.1 Crest Nicholson Household Goods 6.5 HSBC Banks 27.7 Serco Support Services 5.4 Barclays Banks 24.1 Kazakhymys Mining 5.1 John Wood Group Oil Equipment, Services & Distribution 4.9 were, in turn, poor performers.
Wal-Mart, for example, declined North America 12%.
We continued to reduce our investments in this area, The US stock market rose 8% in 27 selling PepsiCo.
Pharmaceutical stocks, with the sector up 8%, 320.6m local terms but lagged other performed weakly as the growth of prescription sales slowed major markets, although it was and the industry failed to make progress in introducing new bolstered by the dollar rising by drugs.
Healthcare did better and we sold our holding in Alcon, 6% against sterling.
Performance which had risen 80% over the year, re-investing in Zimmer, an on our North American large cap orthopaedics manufacturer, on a much lower valuation.
company portfolio was 18.5%, During the year, our mid and small cap North American compared to the local benchmark portfolio, which represented less than 4% of our equity portfolio, of 15.4%.
turned in a mixed performance as several sectors, including The market climbed in the face of serveral hurdles.
The Fed banks, did poorly, while resources and healthcare gained raised its interest rates from 2% to 4.5% and the price of oil ground.
Over the year this portfolio returned 20.7% versus surged to $70 per barrel after hurricanes Katrina and Rita 29.1% by its benchmark.
Following on from the geographical devastated the Gulf of Mexico, shutting refineries and reducing split of our portfolio last year, we decided to concentrate our oil and gas output from the region by 20% over the year.
analytical and stock-picking resources in North America on large companies.
We therefore sold all our US small company Our outperformance was largely driven by our heavy investment holdings by the end of the year and switched into Exchange in oil and gas.
Given tight supply the sector did particularly well, Traded Funds ETFs, with a view to redeploying the assets at a climbing 47%, and we increased our exposure with a new later date.
Our largest holding, Exxon Mobil, only rose 22%, being less geared to the rising oil price.
Growing Looking ahead, we expect profits growth to slow, particularly in demand for resources has led to increased demand for the US, amid greater pressure to increase pension funding.
Midextraction equipment and services, encouraging us to add to term elections and change of Fed chairman to Ben Bernanke our investment in Caterpillar which showed a share price rise of may also cause uncertainty.
The US housing market looks set to 52% over the year.
cool and consumers will have to pay for a full year of higher Canada is a particular beneficiary of rising demand for energy costs.
However, as consumer spending slows, commodities, which accounts for 10% of its economy and 35% constrained commodity supply will drive a pick up in of exports.
With the soundest economy of the G8 and good investment, which will be funded by healthy corporate cash prospects for further economic growth, we increased our flows as well as lively merger and acquisition activity both in investment in Canada during the year.
Canadas stock market Canada and the US.
rose 30% and the Canadian dollar climbed 13% against sterling.
Takeover activity increased on the stock market as major new oil and gas discoveries proved increasingly difficult to find.
This situation looks set to continue and we expect our investment in Canada to increase next year.
With petrol in the US reaching $3 a gallon, consumer confidence suffered.
Companies sensitive to consumer demand Company Sector m iShares Russell Midcap Index Fund Exchange Traded Fund 37.3 iShares Russell 2000 Index Fund Exchange Traded Fund 18.9 Exxon Mobil Oil & Gas Producers 17.7 Abbott Laboratories Health Care Equipment & Services 15.1 Microsoft Software & Computer Services 12.1 Motorola Technology Hardware & Equipment 10.2 General Electric General Industrials 9.3 Johnson & Johnson Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology 9.3 Caterpillar Industrial Engineering 9.2 Petro-Canada Oil & Gas Producers 9.0 Portfolio review Asia-Pacific Japan 28 Our Asia-Pacific portfolio We were net buyers in Japan 162.6m returned 36.0%, compared to the throughout the year adding 79m.
local benchmark that rose Our exposure to Japan doubled from 32.4%.
Even though the regions 5% to 10.5%.
Our portfolio returned 214.3m economies were buoyed by 51.6%, against the local benchmark domestic demand and export return of 41.4%.
growth, they had a mixed Japan delivered a third straight year showing last year, with growth of strong corporate earnings growth as companies benefitted from moderating in Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Singapore and recent restructuring and the growth of neighbouring economies.
This was offset by acceleration in Japan and India, The focal point of the turnaround was the financial sector, which while China continued to grow at a torrid pace of more than 9%.
has held back the economy for more than 15 years.
With a dramatic During the year we sold into the strong markets, divesting about clean-up in bank balance sheets, investors began to perceive a 35m of stocks in the region and shifting a large part of that general recovery and demand soared for domestic related stocks money to Japan.
including real estate, retail, and trading companies.
New investment meant real estate revaluation in a number of prime locations.
In Hong Kong, we substantially reduced our positions, particularly in property, selling out of Hong Kong Land, Sun We remained overweight in the financial sector, as earnings Hung Kai and Henderson Land that we felt were fully valued.
recovered at major banks following a huge reduction in bad loans We also reduced our holdings in Chinese power producers, provision.
We expect banks to refocus on their core businesses Beijing Datang and Huaneng Power, because capacity increases and increase business in loans, mortgages and fee-income related and high coal prices were dragging on earnings growth.
We sold Mitsui Trust & Banking and invested in switched some of that money into the retailers Esprit and Sumitomo Trust & Banking, which outpaced its competitors in Dickson Concepts, which appeared undervalued.
In the Chinese core businesses performance.
In the retail sector, we sold the textile sector, we added to Weiqiao Textile and China Ting as we convenience store retailer Lawson and added Diamond City, one of considered the negative sentiment about that sector overdone.
the large shopping mall developers.
In Australia, we reduced our holdings, particularly in stocks The export sector generally underperformed the overall market as oriented to domestic demand such as Woolworths, but investors focused on domestic related issues.
However, our continued to hold oil and resource stocks such as Woodside exposure in autos such as Toyota and FCC was on par with the Petroleum, BHP Billiton and Newcrest Mining.
In banking, we broader index and we expect these world leading companies to switched to ANZ Bank, and Macquarie Bank, with mixed results.
gain market share and remain at the forefront of technological development.
Komatsu, the heavy machinery maker, performed During the year we started positions in India and substantially well on strong housing and overseas sales of mining equipment.
added to our positions in Taiwan.
In India, although economic prospects were exciting, we were cautious about adding stock We added to Ushio, the worlds dominant leader in UV lamps used since many looked fully valued.
We added to Infosys, HCL in semiconductor equipment.
We also started a position in JSR, Technologies and ICICI Bank.
In Taiwan, we focussed on the which is global leader in a number of LCD materials and synthetic technology sector and companies such as AU Optronics and rubber products.
With the acceleration of the LCD television Lite-on Technology, which are geared towards increasing market, JSR will be a major beneficiary.
Company Sector m Company Sector m Woodside Petroleum Oil & Gas Producers 7.8 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Banks 18.2 Hong Kong Exchanges General Financial Mizuho Financial Group Banks 13.9 & Clearing 7.4 Sumitomo Mitsui Banks China Merchants Industrial Financial Group 12.0 Holdings Transportation 7.2 Toyota Motor Automobiles & Parts 11.7 BHP Billiton Mining 6.6 Mitsui Fudosan Real Estate 11.0 Au Optronics Electronic & Electrical Komatsu Industrial Engineering 10.2 Equipment 6.0 East Japan Railway Travel & Leisure 9.3 Keppel Corporation General Industrials 5.9 Shin-Etsu Chemical Chemicals 9.0 PTT Oil & Gas Producers 5.1 Hoya Equipment Electronic & Electrical 8.8 Esprit General Retailers 4.9 FCC Automobiles & Parts 8.5 iShares A50 China Tracker Exchange Traded Fund 4.8 Lite-On Technology Technology Hardware & Equipment 4.7 position as a top global player with the takeover of Allied Europe Domecq.
Holdings such as LVMH and Puma gained from Our European portfolio returned 29 increased global demand for their products.
27.0% against a return of 26.2% Our European banking stocks performed strongly on the whole.
by the local index benchmark.
UBS and new holding Deutsche Bank were helped by a strong Prospects in Europe continued to 227.8m investment banking environment.
BNP Paribas of France improve as a weakened euro benefitted from strong loan demand.
UniCredito of Italy was helped exports from the region, boosted by its acquisition of HVB of Germany, which gave it which has a broad-based further access to the strong growth countries of Central and exposure to global growth.
We started a new holding in Anglo Irish Bank In addition, restructuring continued and corporate balance and sold out of ABN Amro, mainly on strategic concerns.
Our sheets were strong, with cash returns to shareholders still three insurance holdings, AXA, CNP and Sampo, advanced on healthy.
Consolidation activity picked up with bidders attracted gearing to the equity markets and a resilient general insurance by low debt financing, as demonstrated by our holding pricing environment Telefonica buying the UK mobile telecommunications operator O.
2 We tilted our pharmaceuticals exposure to focus on Roche and We were net buyers in Europe, particularly Germany, where, Novartis, which have excellent product pipelines.
Our German despite a snap election and the resulting coalition government, healthcare companies performed excellently, driven by we anticipate further market friendly reform that could help acquisitions and long term growth prospects for their services.
spur the corporate sector further.
German companies were Our technology holdings performed well with software company increasingly seen to be leading the pack because they are SAP and semiconductor equipment stock ASML continuing to already restructuring on their own initiative, which is leading to win market share.
Shares of austriamicrosystems continued to greater efficiencies and competitiveness and pushing rise as the company delivered solid sales growth and margin confidence higher.
Our sale of Thomson proved very timely as the Our Swedish engineering companies, SKF, Sandvik and Atlas shares underperformed the sector and the wider market in the Copco, continued to outperform the market despite periodic second half of the year.
fears that the strong cycle might start to slow.
Their broad industrial and geographic exposures stood them in good stead.
They demonstrated their strength with strong dividend growth and one-off special shareholder distributions.
Dutch staffing company Randstad, a new holding, performed well, benefitting from a turnaround in its home market and by consolidating its number one position in the growing German market.
Although consumer spending remained depressed both in Germany and in much of Europe because of high unemployment rates and fears over job security, some stocks that are exposed to the consumer performed strongly.
In the beverages sector we started a holding in Pernod-Ricard, which consolidated its Company Sector m Total Oil & Gas Producers 14.0 BNP Paribas Banks 12.0 UBS Banks 11.8 AXA Non-Life Insurance 9.6 BBVA Banks 9.3 Roche Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology 8.9 UniCredito Italiano Banks 8.9 SKF Industrial Engineering 8.0 Novartis Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology 7.1 SAP Software & Computer Services 7.1 Portfolio review Real Estate Private Equity 30 The UK commercial real estate We invested a net 5.1m during market remained in strong the year.
The most significant new demand as investors sought both holding established during the diversification and favourable year was Promethean, an AIM- 28.4m 35.9m relative and absolute returns.
listed company with the objective Yields are likely to remain firm in of providing exposure to private 2006 and low interest rates will equity backed businesses.
Our also support current values.
Rents are expected to grow in existing quoted vehicles both performed very well.
Candover office markets, especially in London, but the market has rose by 38% and Standard Life European by 58%, well in excess already factored this in.
of the 20% rise in the FTSE All-Share.
In order to carry out its commitment to diversify investment Our unquoted buyout funds were active throughout the year.
across asset classes, the Alliance Trust established a Albany Ventures took three new positions in software companies partnership with the Second Alliance Trust to invest in direct and Dunedin Buyout realised a fourfold return on Davenham, a property.
Pooling resources allows us to target a wider variety of Manchester-based lender.
Herald Ventures started its assets, while sharing risks.
Joint investments are split, with investment with holdings in a healthcare-related company and a 75% being funded by the Alliance Trust and the remainder by fuel cell technology business.
We subscribed to an issue by the Second Alliance Trust.
Impax Environmental, a UK listed investment trust which Last year this partnership made its first direct property specialises in alternative energy, water treatment and pollution investments with the acquisition of two prime Edinburgh control worldwide.
Although its underlying holdings are mostly properties with a combined value of 26m and gross rental listed, the areas are still in a development phase.
We took a income of 1.3m a year.
Although our investments represented substantial profit on one of our holdings of SVG convertible our first direct property investment in the UK, we already had bonds at the time of its full conversion into equity.
exposure indirectly and our combined exposure to real estate at the end of the year was 66.5m, including our portfolio of listed property shares, property unit trust and mineral interests.
Fixed Income We reduced our fixed income We are seeking to build steadily a portfolio of core properties holdings by 18.8m during the and prefer quality assets with potential to grow rental income year to take advantage of the and capital value over the longer term.
We will also target superior growth opportunities properties where there is opportunity to add value by active offered by equities, and are now asset management.
21.5m concentrated wholly in UK The value of our mineral interests increased significantly last financial preference stocks.
year due to various factors, not least the rise in oil and gas prices and increased investor demand.
Gross royalty income Against a background of declining longer term interest rates, the increased by 21.7% from the previous year.
80% of our royalty portfolio produced a performance of 10.6% for the year which income is derived from gas production, mainly in the US state of compares favourably with a total return of 9.2% on the MSCI Oklahoma.
Eurosterling Credit Index over the same period.
Company Sector m Standard Life European Private Equity Private Equity 10.1 Candover Investments Private Equity 9.6 SVG Capital Private Equity 4.7 Promethean Private Equity 3.9 Dunedin Buyout Fund Private Equity 2.6 Impax Enviromental Markets Private Equity 2.6 Albany Ventures FundPrivate Equity1.5 Euroclear Private Equity 0.6 Herald Ventures II Limited Private Equity 0.5 HBOS 9.25% Fixed Income 8.2 Abbey National 10.375% Fixed Income 6.4 General Accident 8.875% Fixed Income 4.0 Standard Chartered 7.375% Fixed Income 3.1 Valuation Valuation Investment Appreci at 31 Jan at 31 Jan Changes Purchases Salesation 2005 2006 31 m m m m m UK 791.5 224.6 222.7 174.2 967.6 Restated for IFRS.
North America 295.1 162.2 188.3 51.6 320.6 Depreciation in Subsidiaries is offset by 3m dividend paid by ATF to the Europe 170.6 63.4 56.0 49.8 227.8 Alliance Trust.
