2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 Feb Dec Oct Aug June Apr Feb Economic outlook The success of the US economy in this support may weaken going forward.
High oil and commodity coping with higher input costs derived Even a slight change in asset allocation 22 prices dominated the largely from sustained demand from US by Asia could have a significant impact consumers.
A buoyant housing market on the dollar.
world economy over the and heavy consumer borrowing fuelled Growth was far stronger in Asia-Pacific, last year.
The global demand but there are signs this may with China continuing to expand not last.
Although the US demonstrated economy held up well dynamically and India also registering its resilience last year, a shift in good growth after a favourable as US demand consumer sentiment would have an monsoon season.
After upwardly impact not just on the US but on the remained relatively revising its GDP figures, China has global economy, particularly Asia.
Much already replaced France as the worlds robust.
So far, however, will depend on whether US employment fifth-largest economy and is now vying can grow fast enough to sustain companies have been with the UK for fourth position.
In spite confidence and spending.
of its strident growth, China was hit by unable to pass on costs The US economy appears to be rising oil and commodity prices that approaching a watershed after a better to the consumer and appeared to cut into margins on its than expected year.
There are signs that export production.
Chinas continued the heavy pressure on price growth in the US housing market economic expansion depends largely on could slow and this could affect margins might start to stimulating its own potentially massive consumer spending.
Also, after a series consumer demand going forward to take a toll on of increases, US interest rates are help compensate for any slowdown in moving closer to their peak.
If US companies this year.
interest rates stop rising, then the Last year saw positive economic trends dollar could come under pressure as developing in both Japan and Europe.
markets focus on the large trade and Japan, the worlds second largest fiscal deficits, despite the governments economy, has shown encouraging signs declared intention to cut the shortfall in that it is recovering from a long period the latter.
In the wake of the devastating of deflation.
With bank lending and hurricanes last year, reconstruction is consumer prices appearing to be close going to require continued heavy to showing positive growth, the pivotal spending.
Despite a firm year, the real estate market has also been dollar is likely to lose ground next year and although Asian countries have showing early signs of life.
Monetary policy remains favourable to an upturn continued to support the US currency by buying US Treasuries and other assets, and so far authorities have avoided Oil Price West Texas US Federal Funds Rate $ % 75 7 70 6 65 5 60 4 55 3 50 2 45 1 40 0 Source: Thomson Financial Datastream Source: Thomson Financial Datastream 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2006 2004 2002 2000 1998 risking this fragile recovery by not which was already suffering from little raising interest rates prematurely.
If expansion of incomes, spiralling 23 rates are increased later in the year, consumer debt, an upturn in this will be a significant signal that unemployment and concerns over Japanese policy makers are confident pensions.
A further cut in interest rates that the economy has turned the corner.
may be necessary to boost economic growth.
Both Japan and Europe were particularly affected by the oil price Although a significant upturn in Europe and Japan could stimulate demand, this rises because of a weakness in their currencies.
However, currency may not be enough to compensate for weaker growth in the US should its weakness helped to boost exports and housing market fall sharply.
With improve business and consumer continuing political unrest centring on confidence in Europe, and particularly in the Middle East still unsettling markets, Germany.
Its corporate sector oil and commodity prices are likely to benefitted from exposure to high levels act as as a cap on growth, squeeze of demand from emerging markets margins further, or push inflation such as China, particularly for goods higher.
With this pressure likely to such as industrial machinery.
The continue this year, the economic European Central Bank raised interest outlook is mixed at best.
rates in December signalling its confidence that the economy was recovering, although we have yet to see significant improvement in employment and investment figures, both of which will be necessary for a sustainable recovery.
The UK economy has been generally weaker with the manufacturing sector actually contracting in the second half of the year.
The housing market saw house price growth slide back to just 3% from over 20% in the previous year.
This slowdown in the pace of growth took a toll on consumer confidence, Japan - Consumer Price Inflation UK House Price Growth HBOS ex food % % 2.5 35 2.0 30 1.5 25 1.0 20 0.5 15 0 10 -0.5 5 -1.0 -1.5 0 Source: Thomson Financial Datastream Source: Thomson Financial Datastream
