5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 135 Legal proceedings We are involved from time to time in legal proceedings and CCT alleges that the defendants failed to comply with the governmental investigations of a character normally incidental privatisation process and that the offer price for shares in CZN to our business, including claims and pending actions against us between Stages 1 and 2 of the privatisation process was not seeking damages or clarification of legal rights and regulatory correctly adjusted for inflation.
In many cases, insurance CCT claims that an additional Col$25,487,367,179, which would be or other indemnification protection afforded to us relates to such an adjustment of the CZN share price and if converted to year claims and may offset the financial impact on the Group of a 2000 US dollars would yield the amount of approximately successful claim.
US$12,000,000 our share US$4 million, is due or, in the This section summarises the signficant legal proceedings and alternative, a declaration that the privatisation is null and void and investigations in which we are currently involved.
forfeiture of the transfer price paid of Col$849,554,231,321, which if converted to year 2000 US dollars would yield the amount of Pinal Creek Miami Wash area approximately US$400,000,000 our share approximately BHP Copper Inc is involved in litigation concerning groundwater US$133 million, and in both instances together with unquantified sanctions including payment of stamp taxes, a 15 per cent recovery contamination resulting from historic mining operations near the Pinal Creek Miami Wash area located in the State of Arizona, US.
for plaintiff and annual default interests at the maximum rate authorised by law.
The details of this litigation are set forth under the heading Information on the Company Health, Safety, Environment and During the first quarter of 2005, the Council of State applied a Community Decommissioning, site rehabilitation and new legal interpretation applicable to class actions in Colombia environmental costs.
providing that plaintiffs may not file additional class actions based on the same facts and legal arguments as existing actions.
Rio Algom Pension Plan As a consequence the court dismissed Action 1,048 and nullified In June 2003, Alexander E Lomas, a retired member of the Pension all proceedings in Action 1,029 with effect from 20 May 2004 Plan for Salaried Employees of Rio Algom Mines Limited Plan, the date all additional defendants were joined.
All shareholder filed a Notice of Application in a representative capacity in the defendants contend that the nullification means that the service Ontario Superior Court of Justice-Commercial List against Rio of process in Action 1,029 and respective responses, which would Algom Limited RAL and the Plan Trustee alleging certain include process served on BHP Billiton Company BV and its improprieties in their administration of the Plan and use of Plan response, are null and void.
The plaintiff has appealed the courts decision in relation to Based on those allegations, Mr Lomas claims a breach by RAL of Actions 1,029 and 1,048.
The appeal is currently being considered its employment contracts with salaried employees, a breach of by the Council of State.
trust and of the Trust Agreement underlying the Plan, a breach of the Pension Benefits Act of Ontario, and abuse by RAL of both its Bass Strait Longford authority and fiduciary duty.
On 23 November 2004, BHP Billiton Petroleum Bass Strait Pty Ltd issued proceedings against the operator of the Gippsland Basin Mr Lomas makes claims for quantified monetary relief for himself and those Plan members he purports to represent of: joint venture, Esso Australia Resources Pty Ltd, and Esso Australia Pty Ltd in the Supreme Court of Victoria seeking compensation for US$103.75 million C$125 million on account of monies alleged the loss and damage suffered by BHP Billiton Petroleum Bass Strait to have been improperly paid out or withheld from the Plan, arising from the 25 September 1998 explosion and fire at the together with compound interest calculated from the date of Longford facility, Victoria, Australia.
The quantum of the claim will each alleged wrongdoing, and be the subject of evidence in the case to be filed in due course.
punitive, aggravated and exemplary damages in the sum of The damages sought include losses in relation to rebuilding and US$1.66 million C$2.00 million.
restoring the Longford facilities: additional operating costs Mr Lomas also makes various claims for non-quantified relief.
incurred after the incident: and lost profits.
Mr Lomas delivered his supporting affidavit in June 2004.
On 29 November 2004, Esso Australia Resources Pty Ltd issued RAL subsequently filed its affidavit in response.
proceedings against BHP Billiton Petroleum Bass Strait in the Supreme Court of Victoria, claiming that BHP Billiton Petroleum Mr Lomas purports to represent members of the defined benefits Bass Strait has wrongfully withheld certain costs in connection portion of the Plan.
On 19 May 2005, a consent order was with the Longford incident and is seeking damages of obtained compelling Mr Lomas to add all other interested parties approximately US$45 million plus interest and a declaration that to the Application, in particular members of the defined Essos obligation to pay a A$32.5 million class action settlement contributions portion of the Plan.
The defined contribution sum constitutes joint venture expenditure to be borne equally by members have now been included as parties to this action.
Esso and BHP Billiton Petroleum Bass Strait.
The class action RAL has notified its insurers and other third parties of possible settlement sum arose from a court approved settlement reached claims against them in respect of the Application.
in late 2004 of all claims in a class action commenced against Esso on behalf of Victorian gas consumers and employees stood Class action concerning Cerrejon privatisation down by employers during the shortage of gas following the The NGO, Corporacion Colombia Transparente CCT brought three Longford incident.
separate class actions Popular Actions numbers 1,029, 1,032 and BHP Billiton Petroleum Bass Straits proceeding against Esso and 1,048 against various defendants in connection with the Essos proceeding against BHP Billiton Petroleum Bass Strait have privatisation of 50 per cent of the Cerrejon Zona Norte mining been consolidated into a single proceeding and will be heard complex in Colombia in 2002.
The complex is currently owned by together.
Following the consolidation, Esso re-issued its claim, Cerrejon Zona Norte SA CZN and Carbones del Cerrejon LLC which increased from the above amount to approximately CDC.
Our subsidiary Billiton Investment 3 BV owns a 33 per cent US$61.6 million as at end of June 2005, plus interest.
This amounts share in CDC and our subsidiaries Billiton Investment 3BV and now includes a half share of the US$25.35 A$32.5 million class Billiton Investment 8 BV BHP Billiton Shareholders collectively action settlement sum referred to above, plus additional own a 33 per cent share in CZN.
The BHP Billiton Shareholders compounding finance charges claimed by Esso on the amounts have been named as defendants in Action 1,048, and BHP Billiton alleged to have been withheld by BHP Billiton Petroleum Bass Company BV, BHP Billitons original bidder for the complex, has Strait up to June 2005. been named as a defendant in Action 1,029.
Esso has joined BHP Billiton Petroleum North West Shelf Pty Ltd BHP Billiton Company BV was served with process in 2005 and as a third party to the proceedings.
BHP Billiton Petroleum North filed a response in Action 1,029.
None of the BHP Billiton West Shelf originally held the Gippsland Basin joint venture Shareholders have been served with process.
interest before assigning it to BHP Billiton Petroleum Bass Strait.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006 135 5041 BHPB AR06 Pt1 13 9 06 10:12 PM Page 136 Legal proceedings continued Bass Strait Minerva gas field development does not have the jurisdiction or power to deal with FMGs application or to make a recommendation regarding declaration On 4 April 2002, BHP Billiton Petroleum Pty Ltd, as operator on of the Mt Newman railway and behalf of BHP Billiton Petroleum Victoria Pty Ltd 90 per cent seeking an order or permanent injunction preventing the NCC and Santos BOL Pty Ltd 10 per cent collectively the joint from further dealing with the FMG application and or making a venturers entered into a contract with McConnell Dowell recommendation regarding declaration of the Mt Newman line.
Constructors Aust Pty Ltd MCD and Saipem Portugal Comercio Maritimo Lda Saipem collectively the Contractor for the The trial is due to commence on 9 October 2006. turnkey construction of offshore and onshore flowlines and an In a related matter, in February 2005 FMG instituted proceedings in onshore gas plant for the Minerva gas field development near the Federal Court in Perth appealing the decision of the NCC on Port Campbell, Victoria, Australia.
the preliminary issue relating to the Goldsworthy line.
Evidence in On 8 September 2003, the operator notified the Contractor of the each Federal Court trial is to constitute evidence in the other.
joint venturers termination of the contract on the grounds of With respect to FMGs application to the NCC in relation to the various defaults by the Contractor.
The Contractor alleged and still Mt Newman line, the NCC delivered its recommendation in respect alleges that we were not entitled to terminate the contract and of a declaration of that line to the relevant decision maker that purporting to do so constituted repudiation of the contract.
ultimately being the Federal Treasurer on 24 March 2006.
The Contractor elected to accept the alleged repudiation and On 23 May 2006, the Treasurer issued a press release stating that, reserved its rights to claim compensation.
as he had not published a decision to declare the Mt Newman line On 9 March 2004, MCD commenced proceedings against the joint within the statutory period of 60 days from the date of the NCCs venturers in the Supreme Court of Victoria.
In addition to the recommendation, it is taken that a decision not to declare has above allegations, MCD claims in the alternative that the contract been taken and published.
was void for uncertainty and that we have engaged in misleading FMG lodged an appeal against the Treasurers decision with the and deceptive conduct in breach of the Australian Trade Practices Australian Competition Tribunal on 9 June 2006.
MCD presently claims compensation of between US$21 million and US$42 million both our share together with declaratory and Inquiry into certain Australian companies in relation to the injunctive relief in respect of the contract and parent company and UN Oil-For-Food Programme bank guarantees currently held by us under the contract.
On 10 November 2005, the Government of the Commonwealth of On 10 June 2004, the joint venturers filed their defence and Australia established an inquiry into claims by the UN Independent counterclaim against MCD, Saipem and their respective parent Inquiry Committee into the United Nations Oil-for-Food Programme company guarantors under the contract, Saipem SpA of Italy and the so-called Volcker Report that three Australian companies, Aveng Ltd of South Africa.
The joint venturers claim against them is including the Australian wheat exporter AWB Limited AWB, made based on the defaults by the Contractor referred to above.
We have payments to the Government of Iraq or entities controlled by the recently reduced our claim to US$47 million our share, comprising Government of Iraq between 1999 and 2003 in breach of United our additional costs of completing the Minerva flowlines and gas Nations sanctions Inquiry.
The BHP Billiton Group was not named plant with other contractors, plus interest and costs.
in connection with the establishment of the Inquiry.
The trial is scheduled to commence on 30 April 2007.
Public hearings by the Inquirys Commissioner commenced on 16 January 2006 and on 6 February 2006 the Commissioners In view of the reduction of our claim referred to above, this matter is no longer considered material to the Group and we do not powers of inquiry were extended, at his request, to include an investigation into whether any conduct on the part of certain intend to include it in future reports.
BHP Billiton Group Companies, two other companies with whom Australian Taxation Office assessments we had transacted business or any person associated with them in relation to: The Australian Taxation Office ATO has issued assessments against subsidiary companies, primarily BHP Billiton Finance Ltd, in the shipment of approximately 20,000 tonnes of Australian respect of 19992002 financial years.
The assessments relate to wheat to the Grain Board of Iraq in December 1995 to January the deductibility of bad debts in respect of funding subsidiaries 1996 and any agreements or arrangements made in relation to that undertook the Beenup, Boodarie Iron and Hartley projects.
payment therefore or The assessments are for primary tax of US$511 million and interest agreements by AWB to sell 1 million tonnes of Australian wheat net of tax and penalties of US$375 million.
Appeals have been to the Grain Board of Iraq in December 2002, including any lodged in the Federal Court against the assessments.
renegotiations of those agreements or the procurement of any United Nations approval and permission As at 30 June 2006, the total amount in dispute relating to bad to export under the Customs Prohibited Exports Regulations debts on loans is approximately US$886 million, including interest 1958 in respect of the 1995-96 wheat shipment and the 2002 and penalties after tax.
An amount of US$472 million in respect of contracts, the disputed amounts has been paid pursuant to ATO disputed assessments guidelines, of which US$70 million was paid in July might have constituted a breach of any law of Australia and, 2006.
The amounts paid have been recognised as a reduction of the if so, whether the question of criminal or other legal proceedings Groups net deferred tax liabilities.
Upon any successful challenge should be referred to the appropriate agency.
of the assessments, any sums paid will be refundable with interest.
The results of the Inquiry and the Commissioners recommendations are currently scheduled to be completed by Mt Newman and Goldsworthy railway lines 29 September 2006.
In June 2004, Fortescue Metals Group Limited FMG applied to the We have cooperated with the Inquiry from the outset and have National Competition Council NCC to have the use of part of the produced documents in response to notices received from the Mt Newman railway line and part of the Goldsworthy railway line Commissioner to produce documents relating to matters before declared as a service under Part IIIA of the Trade Practices Act the Inquiry.
In addition, several current and former employees of 1974 Cwlth TPA.
The NCC released decisions on two preliminary the BHP Billiton Group have appeared before the Inquiry as issues in respect of the matter.
The NCC found that the two railway witnesses.
lines each provide a separate service and that the Mt Newman line service is capable of being considered further for declaration, while We are conducting an internal review into the matters raised by the Goldsworthy line service is not because it is part of a the Inquiry that concern the BHP Billiton Group, and we will production process.
release the key findings of that review once the review is complete and the Inquiry has concluded.
In December 2004 BHP Billiton Iron Ore Pty Ltd lodged an application with the Federal Court in Melbourne: seeking a declaration that the Mt Newman line service is not a service within the meaning of s44B of the TPA and that the NCC 136 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2006
