Operating and Financial Review Infrastructure enhancing capability and delivery In developing Amlins infrastructure Facilitate high levels of client service in areas and systems we aim to: such as policy issuance and claims handling.
Support our technical teams and Provide leadership to the Lloyds market in management with timely, reliable and addressing historic market inefficiencies.
relevant information to assist daily and Continuously improve our own efficiency strategic decision making.
As Amlin operates in a subscription market, 2006 initiatives it is necessary for us to help drive change in Initiative referred to in Progress infrastructure and processes across the market 2005 annual report achieved in 2006 as well as to continue to invest in our own Enhance systems for the control of aggregate exposures Greater granularity of data and reporting achieved capabilities.
We have therefore been working Drive benefits from investment in our data warehouse Increased reporting capability closely with five other Lloyds businesses, known Support goals for improving contract certainty Largely achieved and policy issuance in the market as G6, so that a critical mass of Deliver an electronic trading capability for on-line risk data Capability delivered and tested with two major brokers support exists for key developments.
Major Completion of Genus for our UK commercial business Testing identified issues which has delayed roll out projects initiated in 2006 by G6 have included Support claims strategy with interoperability between Done, with Amlin and Guy Carpenter recording first the design of a market wordings repository and Amlins workflow system and electronic claims files market settlement using the electronic claims repository the piloting of electronic trading with brokers on Roll out new purchasing and expense workflow system Expense module completed and purchasing module to be implemented as scheduled in 2007 a peer to peer basis.
These projects have been Design of a treasury and investments workflow system Done integrated within our own programme in 2006.
Aggregate exposure control During 2006 we have used our data well as reduce cost.
The feedback from our Monthly data warehouse warehousing capability to enhance our broking partners is that this is a much needed reports delivered recording and reporting of geographic step and being at the forefront of driving this aggregate insurance and reinsurance change is another opportunity for Amlin to exposures.
We are now capturing data differentiate itself positively.
18 at a greater level of detail, providing increased 16 accuracy, which in turn provides greater Amlin and G6 also designed a new electronic 14 scope to efficiently use the Groups balance wordings repository to assist in the agreement of 12 sheet while staying within risk appetite.
As well a full wording at the time of risk placement.
10 as enhancing Amlins underwriting capability, Having reviewed our work the Lloyds Market 8 our progress also means that we can more Association agreed to take over the building of 6 accurately assess potential losses post event.
the repository so that it could become available 4 This will be an ongoing piece of work for the to all market participants.
It is now operational, 2 Group in terms of continually enhancing is available to all our underwriters and wording 0 our capability.
specialists and is fully integrated into our Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec workflow process.
2006 Data warehouse Source: Amlin In 2006 we successfully rolled out further Electronic trading enhancements and moved more data into our Peer to Peer is an electronic messaging warehouse.
We also integrated Amlin Bermuda Policy issuance and approach designed to streamline the risk into the consolidated Group warehouse whilst contract certainty placement process.
It aims to support the providing our new company with its own For the past three years we have been investing existing underwriting process and confine the functionality.
This technology has had a very in people, process and technology to provide need for broker queuing to essential face to face positive impact in terms of providing data which evidential contract certainty to our customers negotiations can be easily tailored to meet each users needs, and broking partners, thereby improving service and for the more sophisticated user, there is and reducing risk.
In 2006 we integrated the Peer to Peer is made possible by the use of agreed capability to drill down through the data.
necessary contract certainty checks into our standards which create a common ground for underwriting workflow system to ensure that electronic messages to travel between brokers In recognition of the value added by this checks are completed ahead of binding a risk and underwriters different electronic gateways.
implementation Amlin won the Microstrategy and that there is an audit trail of the checks being The standards have been agreed with ACORD, award for Most Innovative Business Intelligence completed and by whom.
This technology drives a non-profit organisation that promotes Implementation.
our monitoring of compliance with our goals.
standardisation in the insurance industry, which means that they are open and available 2007 will be a year of delivering additional We have been working with Lloyds and G6 to for use by all market members.
process improvements in our financial reporting enable tax and regulatory checks to be carried using the sophisticated capability that is now out before the inception of risks, as well as the Amlin, working with the other members of G6 available to us.
Historically, a number and a number of major brokers, developed the of these checks have been carried out some implementation rules for placing business using time after inception thus creating inefficiency in ACORD RLC messages.
These are a standard the process as well as delaying delivery of method of sending and receiving risk data policies to customers.
Changing longstanding electronically in a secure and structured manner procedures is always a challenge but we are between participants in the insurance market confident that new methodology, which is under the auspices of ACORD.
This is a major currently being piloted, is the right process and piece of work for the market and has recently will help deliver better service to customers as been endorsed by the Lloyds Market Association.
30 30 Amlin plc Amlin plc Annual Report 2006 Annual Report 2006 Volume of reports 000s ACORD RLC DRI MESSAGES Electronic Placement Peer to Peer Value for money Amlins approach to project development has generally been to take small meaningful BACK OFFICE SYSTEM BACK OFFICE SYSTEM steps towards an ultimate goal, in the belief ACORD ACORD that more can be achieved at a sensible cost GATEWAY GATEWAY than in attempting to implement large ACORD RLC DRI MESSAGES infrastructure projects which carry a higher ACORD risk of failure and have a tendency to cost GATEWAY far more than initially planned.
Amlin has achieved a great deal in this way over HUB the past three years.
Our total expenditure on INTEGRATED INTEGRATED infrastructure development and systems BROKERS CARRIERS eg Amlin maintenance has been 42.3million, split as follows: NON-INTEGRATED NON-INTEGRATED Group IS expenditure m BROKERS CARRIERS London market businesses 2004 2005 2006 NON-INTEGRATED Third party CEDANTS development expenditure 2.0 3.0 3.0 Third party maintenance expenditure 6.1 7.3 9.7 Essentially it means that one standard can be cost for brokers.
It also means that our claims Internal expenditure 1.0 1.0 1.0 used across the market in terms of providing adjusters will be able to see key documentation Sub-total 9.1 11.3 13.7 slips and supporting documents through an on cases where Amlin is a following underwriter UK commercial businesses electronic messaging approach.
on a risk as well as on those where it leads.
Third party Leaders decisions will also be documented.
development expenditure 0.1 0.2 0.1 Peer to Peer benefits Amlin has been involved in steering this project Third party from concept through to its first live use.
We maintenance expenditure 1.7 0.9 0.9 Information can be recieved automatically and fed directly into systems, reducing manual effort and Internal have also built links between our own claims handling errors.
development expenditure 0.3 0.6 0.9 system and the ECF so that documents can be Places structure and procedures around the documents Internal transmitted to and from our systems using sent electronically.
maintenance expenditure 0.9 0.8 0.8 Provides better security than email.
Sub-total 3.0 2.5 2.7 Provides a clear audit trial.
Total 12.1 13.8 16.4 Future development will allow endorsements to be Workflow and processing handled electronically and risks to be bound online Building on our existing capability in the reducing the need for broker box visits.
workflow arena we have put in place a new 2007 objectives expense management system and specified During 2007 we intend to continue to work During 2006 we have proven our technological the development of a purchasing workflow on improving our systems and processes capability to accept risks from three major approach which we expect to be implemented to support the achievement of our Vision broking houses and also from an independent early in 2007.
This provides us with complete and the creation of shareholder value.
In messaging hub all driven by these standards.
transparency in the process with the audit trail particular, we have the following strategic Whilst it is still early days, this will enable us to we need as well as increased efficiency and projects: receive risk data into our systems in a secure accuracy of our expense process.
Optimise use of Electronic Claims File and fashion and at an earlier stage.
build its use to cover 75% of all new claims We have specified the system requirements for Build workflow for reinsurance processing Genus a treasury workflow system and are currently Build upon interoperability to develop Testing of Genus, a flexible web-based system negotiating with suppliers to develop it for two way trading being developed by our UK commercial division, delivery in 2007.
This system will enhance our Move contract certainty from project identified a number of issues that need cash management capability removing the status to business as usual remedying before roll out.
While the delay is reliance on largely manual reporting processes.
Optimise financial operational processes disappointing, when complete the new system Below left to right is expected to enhance client interface and Carl Phillips, Head of Programme management David Harris, Operations Director enable the division to capture significantly Richard Leech, Solutions delivery manager more risk information.
Claims Our claims team have been involved in a two year change programme.
From an infrastructure point of view this has involved building specific systems programmes and designing and implementing a workflow package to support the technical adjusting.
Also, during 2006, the London market Electronic Claims File ECF became a reality.
A market initiative, it essentially means that claims documentation is filed electronically so that all underwriting firms on a risk can access it.
As well as significantly speeding up the claims process, this reduces the need for claims files to be walked around the market and should remove Amlin plc Annual Report 2006 31 ACORD RLC DRI MESSAGES
