Operating and Financial Review Clients meeting their expectations of Amlins premiums are sourced through of our premiums are from business which 99%insurance brokers and the largest 4 79% is placed in the London subscription brokers accounted for 49% of business in 2006. market on which Amlin writes a share of each risk.
We are a lead participant on 46% of this business, of Amlins premiums are from meaning that we have greater influence over the pricing 97.5%commercial clients, of which 54% and contract terms and will generally have a closer are from insurance companies which Amlin reinsures.
relationship with the insured client.
We will also control We provide insurance to personal lines customers the claims adjustment and settlement.
only in specialist areas such as yacht, bloodstock and private car with some homeowners business sourced of premiums are from business where Amlin through managing general agents.
This is on business where we are prepared to assume 100% of a particular risk, such as in the case of UK motor insurance.
How we appeal to our clients Traditionally important factors in the selection of Policy issuance The way we source business and the nature of the insurers remained stable in comparison with Amlin has outperformed the market for both subscription market means that we need to meet 2004.
These include financial strength, where the quality of its policy wordings and the speed the expectations of both our broker intermediaries Amlin again ranks first in this study, claims of their issue components of our service which and the end customer.
We maintain a close performance and speedy decision making.
are relevant not only to the broker but more watch on how brokers rate our performance and importantly to the end client.
The historic aim to excel in areas which are important to them With the increased transparency demanded by standards of performance in this area across and the end client.
insured customers, brokers are focussed on the London market have been poor which where and how both they and their resulted in the FSA demanding rapid and In 2006, independent consultants Gracechurch recommended insurers can deliver added value meaningful improvement.
conducted a biennial survey of the attitudes of to policyholders.
In the 2006 survey, brokers 350 UK based placing brokers towards insurers added a new requirement for insurers to We continued to make excellent progress towards in Lloyds and the wider London market.
understand the needs of the insured, ranking this our goal of agreeing a full contract wording on all factor as second only in importance to financial London market risks before their inception, reaching We were ranked first for brand awareness among strength and equally important as paying claims 91% compliance in 2006.
In January 2007, for Lloyds managing agents, up from second equal efficiently.
The experience of our underwriting the first time we reached 100%.
in the previous survey, and with the highest margin teams, as outlined on page 24, means we are over second since Gracechurch commenced their well equipped to meet this need.
With end clients becoming more demanding, London market survey in 2002.
We were sixth for increased transparency over market processes brand awareness among all insurers, which is a and the FSAs focus in this area, we would not be positive performance against the large global brands surprised to see policy issuance increase in the including Lloyds itself which was in first place.
scale of importance to brokers in the future.
Gross premium income by broker Business source by division 2005 6 2004 2005 2006 Renewals New 45 100 40 19 20 24 28 19 20 16 13 35 80 30 60 25 20 100 98 81 80 76 72 81 80 84 87 40 15 10 20 5 0 2 0 Amlin Bermuda Non-Marine Marine Aviation UK Commercial Marsh Aon Willis Benfield Next 6 Remainder 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 Source: Amlin Source: Amlin Method of acceptance Business led in 2004 5 6 Binding authorities Lineslip Faculative Excess of loss Pro rata Lead Follow 45 100 40 12 12 14 35 80 30 100 100 48 49 50 62 61 66 65 55 49 60 25 20 88 88 86 40 15 10 20 52 51 50 38 39 34 35 45 51 5 0 0 2004 2005 2006 Amlin Bermuda Non-Marine Marine Aviation UK Commercial 04 05 06 04 05 06 04 05 06 04 05 06 04 05 06 Source: Amlin Source: Amlin 20 20 Amlin plc Amlin plc Annual Report 2006 Annual Report 2006 Percent Percent Percent Percent PRESSURE FOR CHANGE RECOGNITION OF AMLIN STRENGTHS Managing Agents and Amlin: Turnaround time for claim files adjusted Importance v performance MAs performance rating Amlins performance rating 1-4 working days 5-10 working days 11 and over Importance rating Rating out of 10 100 80 5 5.5 6 6.5 7 7.5 8 8.5 9 60 Financial strength 40 Pays claims 20 efficiently 0 Understanding business needs 2004 2005 2006 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Speedy Source: Amlin Amlin started measuring claims turnaround time in March 2004 underwriting decisions Commitment to partnerships Empowered Business risk and mitigation underwriters Easy access to underwriters Leadership BRAND AWARENESS INSURED in business lines Financial strength Market leadership Longevity Client service RETAIL Underwriter expertise BROKER World class TECHNOLOGY underwriting expertise Flexible platforms Driving process reform High quality WHOLESALE Ability to respond LLOYDS wordings BROKER to change RISK TO SOURCE FROM: Trusted Intermediary strategies by clients AMLIN Greater transparency Consolidation Innovation Legislation Competition Speedy policy issuance Underwriters make good impression claims have been transacted using ECF technology.
Leading change in the London market Strong corporate Amlin is ahead of its peers in the market in this regard.
While we have every intention of continuing to backer differentiate positively Amlin, we recognise that it Belonging to Lloyds Changing distribution dynamics is in our interests that the London market overall Broker friendly A number of forces are combining which are increases its attractiveness to brokers and environment having an effect on the shape of the distribution clients internationally and that change, in order chain and the way that we trade with insurance to gain traction, requires leadership with a critical Source: Gracechurch London market study 2006 brokers.
Among these are increased demands mass of support.
Frustrated by the pace of for transparency by clients and regulators, the change in the market, Amlin, together with five Claims service emergence of larger local markets around the other Lloyds managing agencies, formed a We were disappointed with our average rating world, an increasing momentum to remove Group, now known as G6, to design and on claims payment efficiency in 2006.
We failed to inefficiencies while increasing the focus on promote improvements in market processes for meet our target that for at least 75% of claims added value and technology providing solutions.
the benefit of all market participants and our files the turnaround time is four days or less.
While the average overall turnaround time was 4 For some classes of business, particularly for days, compared to 4.2 days in 2005, and claims business sourced from overseas, the distribution Significant progress was made in two areas in volumes were up 11.6% in 2006 with 37,833 chain can be long and complex.
First, the design and commissioning of a claims being adjusted, only 71% of the claims moves to integrate the chain with three London new electronic market wordings repository portfolio was adjusted within 4 days or less.
market brokers being acquired by US retail and which is intended to aid the efficient production wholesale brokers.
of policies and the delivery of contract certainty.
Claims service is an area where we expect to Once scoped to a sufficient standard, this was compare favourably, especially as we have While together these London market brokers passed on to the Lloyds Market Association so invested in process improvement and represent only a small amount of Amlins that it could be available for all Lloyds market technology over the last two years, and in 2005 business, these acquisitions are indicative of a participants.
Second, the design, agreement of we were ranked first for overall claims service in trend which may affect the flows of business to data standards and testing of a new peer to a survey of London market claims brokers.
London in two potential ways.
First, it may peer means of transmitting data electronically increase the extent to which the parent acquirer so that the risk placement process can be During 2006, we adopted Electronic Claims seeks to place business in London, and second streamlined.
Benefits of this will include savings File ECF technology, linking it with our bespoke it may reduce the extent to which the London in time and expense for brokers and claims workflow system implemented in 2005. market broker continues to access business underwriters and a clearer audit trail of By moving from paper-based to electronic from some other US based intermediaries.
In information exchanged pre-placement of a risk.
processing, the total time taken from initial either case, these dynamics reinforce the Amlin is already using this technology with a advice to final settlement can be reduced and relevance of our strategies of expanding small number of leading brokers.
We will be brokers will be able to remove costs.
It is also recognition of our expertise and service encouraging brokers to adopt it more widely much easier to share information with following capabilities through our distribution chain.
Further details of both of these underwriters where Amlin is the lead underwriter are investing in technology to provide flexibility in developments are provided on pages 30 and on the risk.
In October 2006 Amlin and Guy the way our underwriters can trade with brokers, 31 under Infrastructure.
Carpenter announced that for the first time a and seeking to lead positive change in the Lloyds market claim had been transacted London market to increase its attractiveness entirely electronically.
Since then until the end of to brokers and clients.
January 2007, 15% of our lead London market Amlin plc Annual Report 2006 21 Percent Operating and Financial Review Clients understanding their needs 1 excess, general liability and property IMCA places great emphasis on safety, coverages.
Amlins Matthew Maxwell and providing qualified experts, training and Graham Desborough both have more than resources to help their customers implement twenty years experience on this account, proven safety techniques.
In return, their dealing with the same principal throughout.
renewal rates are excellent at around 95% and income to the contract has increased ten Amlins Overseas Auto team underwrote fold over the last decade.
Further, Amlin and 51% of their 2006 income in North America IMCA have together developed a new and long-standing accounts such as IMCA enhanced commercial auto package including form an important part of our portfolio.
As our premises coverage, specifically for their clients.
Matthew Maxwell relationship has developed over the years Leading Class Underwriter into one of mutual respect and confidence, For IMCA Parke Stethem, the ability to we have awarded increasing discretion to provide tailored policies backed by the IMCA, making them effectively a local extension financial strength of Amlins Syndicate 2001 Managing risk in of Amlins underwriting in London.
at Lloyds has helped develop a profitable remote partnerships As our agents, IMCA now have authority within and expanding book of business.
certain guidelines to underwrite, quote and bind Interstate Motor Carriers Agency IMCA has coverage, issue policy documents and handle been doing business with the Lloyds market for claims, thereby negating potential delays for Amlins knowledge of the nearly 50 years.
This contract, placed via a US broker dealing with a UK based insurer.
marketplace, cooperative their wholly-owned subsidiary, Parke spirit and creative underwriting Stethem Limited, is the oldest US trucking Unsurprisingly, since Amlins profitability has helped us grow over facility in existence and since the 1960s and reputation rest on our ability to work the years.
They have been it has been led by Amlin and its with high quality agents, we are both selective consistent and dependable during all predecessor syndicates.
and rigorous in managing these partnerships.
insurance cycles and we look forward to We review comprehensively IMCAs monthly continuing this relationship in generations IMCA was formed in 1936 to help truckers find underwriting reports and meet face-to-face to come.
insurance coverage that was specifically several times each year, together with Lloyds designed for their businesses and remains an brokers HSBC, to ensure that our underwriting Gary Weindorf independent agency to this day.
Lloyds is their philosophy is clearly understood and being Executive Vice President and Owner primary source for physical damage, cargo and adhered to.
2 target, and exposures are modelled in our It is particularly important sophisticated digital mapping software.
Other risks are more nebulous and, while we use for London insurers to market intelligence from a variety of expert meet overseas business sources, there is no substitute for underwriter experience.
The underwriting team constantly partners face-to-face in challenges and adjusts its planned scenarios order to understand the to ensure we offer realistic terms to clients in volatile territories.
distinctive aspects of risks we are underwriting in Cover against War On Land risk arising in an Jason Herriott insureds own country is a relatively new foreign territories Leading Class Underwriter insurance class.
Development of new products facilities, light industrial, oil storage facilities allows us to offer business partners the widest Developing new and port equipment.
available protection: a benefit our Lebanese markets clients have been quick to embrace following Jason Herriott, our class underwriter, visited the the recent political and social unrest.
Growth in war and terrorism business is often Lebanon shortly after Hariris assassination to the result of a catastrophic event.
In February meet with brokers, cedants and clients, assess One of our key retail clients is AISHTI, the owner 2005 former Lebanese Prime Minister, Rafik the situation on the ground and determine how of numerous franchises for luxury brands in the Hariri, was assassinated by a huge bomb which Amlin could continue to support clients amid prestigious Solidere district of central Beirut.
also caused damage to a number of high profile the prevailing instability.
Indeed, some hotels and commercial buildings.
Overnight the programmes had been written on an interim market changed.
basis immediately after the assassination for clients left without cover.
He believes it is It is a major challenge to build a leading Amlin has written political risks in the Lebanon particularly important for London insurers to luxury fashion brand in the Lebanon and for some years, but we have increased this meet our overseas business partners on a we rely on our insurers and reinsurers to account considerably over the past two.
face-to-face basis in order to understand the support us year on year.
Amlin and In 2006, Syndicate 2001 led around 70% distinctive aspects of the risks we are Lloyds have done so and we recognise of the Lebanese terrorism and allied perils underwriting in foreign territories.
their contribution to our success.
business which came to the London market.
We provide reinsurance on a facultative War and terrorism underwriting is not unique Tony Salame individual risk basis which supports the local in that one must assess both the account Managing Director direct market.
Insured risks include commercial exposure and perceived risks.
Some risks are and residential property, hotels and leisure quantifiable, such as proximity to a potential 22 Amlin plc Annual Report 2006 Geographical split of gross premium 4 whereas some other insurers would not.
2006 2005 Likewise, we were willing to provide motor cover for the companys ever popular track day events, where clients drive Ferraris, Lamborghinis and the like.
H. R. Owens emblem is a Tradition of Excellence which refers both to upholding a heritage of 49% 26% 11% 4 43% 30% 3 12% being the best and to the provision of the highest 5% 6% 1 levels of customer service.
In order to support 2 1% Atlantic ocean 1% 1% Mandy Doran 1% this brand promise, Amlin also ensures a similar Class Underwriter level of commitment, providing dedicated motor 5% 5% and property claims personnel and a named 2% 2% underwriting contact to this account.
As the Customer service insurer, we have a vested interest in helping begins with flexibility H. R. Owen monitor risks and claims, and Source: Amlin we provide them with management H. R. Owen is well known throughout the world information on a quarterly basis.
for retailing prestige and performance cars, 3 predominantly those of two major During the two years that Amlin has insured manufacturers, Premier Automotive Group and H. R. Owen, the company has reduced the BMW, plus a range of specialist sports cars.
number of dealerships to twelve, all based in London and the South East, as part of its In early 2005, H. R. Owen had 45 dealerships strategy to focus still further on high value around the UK and Amlin was approached by vehicles.
We have tailored our coverage brokers Mainstay to quote for a comprehensive to reflect these changes and, where package of risks inherent in the high value dealerships were sold through management motor trade.
The package included material buyouts, Amlin policies have been retained damage cover for premises, contents and in many cases.
Robin Etheridge stock, business interruption, cash and goods Leading Class Underwriter in transit, employers liability, public and product liability and motor road risks.
Ours is a Creating the model complex reinsurance portfolio During discussions with both broker and client, business Amlins Mandy Doran further explored the and Mainstay Union Mutual Fire Insurance Company of companys risk management and security and Amlin demonstrated a clear Vermont is based in Montpelier, Vermont, where procedures, such that she was able to reduce understanding of our needs.
In order it is a market leader, and has a presence in the the deductible for vehicle theft by 50% in favour to provide the excellent service our whole of New England.
The company has a of the client.
It was also important to customers expect, we rely on our 132-year history, providing residential and small understand the expectations of H. R. Owen insurance partners to be flexible and commercial insurance cover and has been an clients, given they are considering the responsive to help us achieve this.
Amlin client for many years.
purchase of high quality vehicles, including the worlds fastest car, the Veyron Bugatti.
David Jaggar Union has built up a solid base of both Financial Director clients and assets, enjoys an Arating Amlin was flexible in providing cover for test from AM Best and maintains a current drives of vehicles valued at up to 800,000, policyholders surplus of US$76 million.
However, as a mutual it relies heavily on buying catastrophe reinsurance, in which the Lloyds market is prominent, to offset risks to its capital base.
It is also important that catastrophe software modelling company, this cover is backed by financial strength, estimates that the insured loss would be US$30 Working together with Amlin evidenced by Amlins strong A ratings.
billion at todays values and demographics.
and our brokers Aon Re This lends confidence to both the client Union buys reinsurance cover for a 1 in 100 year in the US and London, and the US regulators.
event, which would be considerably larger than we have built up a finely the 1938 event.
balanced reinsurance programme Unions clients inhabit ever more densely which mitigates our catastrophe risk populated areas and live in some of the highest Union uses sophisticated portfolio optimisation while matching our desired risk appetite.
value real estate in the US.
Perceived hurricane techniques in order to manage its catastrophe risks to New England have escalated over the exposures, particularly for their coastal Factoring in the emerging risk of climate past few years and Hurricane Katrina in 2005, policies.
The granular data they provide is change is among the most complex a landmark catastrophe event, has focussed regularly reviewed by Amlins Robin Etheridge modelling challenges facing the industry attention on the entire Eastern seaboard.
and his team in order to price their catastrophe today and we are pleased to be working programme and each year we offer a range of with such an experienced team.
The Great Hurricane of 1938 was the New quotations to mirror the extent of Unions England landmark event and, despite being changing risk exposures.
Over the years that Doug Wacek a category 3 hurricane hitting a sparsely Amlin have reinsured Union, their catastrophe President populated area, AIR, the Boston-based programme has more than trebled in size.
