Aviva plc Business review Annual Report and Accounts 2006 12 Basis of preparation This business review complies with the recommendations of the Forward-looking statements European Union EU Modernisation Directive, the Companies Act This business review contains forward-looking statements about: 1985 Operating and Financial Review and Directors Report Regulations 2005 the Companies Act and is in line with current Our future plans best practice.
It is addressed to, and written for, the members of Our current goals Aviva plc with the aim of providing a fair review of our business development, performance and position at the current time.
Our expectations of our future financial condition, performance In producing this review, we aim to present a view that is balanced and results and comprehensive and that is consistent with the size and complexity of our business.
The review is written in the context of By their nature, all forward-looking statements involve risk and the risks and uncertainties facing our business.
We anticipate that uncertainty because they relate to future events that are beyond the format and content of the review will evolve over time, along our control.
For example, certain insurance risk disclosures are with developments in our business and the external environment.
dependent on our choices about assumptions and models, which by their nature are only estimates.
As such, actual future gains and Key performance indicators losses could differ materially from those that we have estimated.
Other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from The Companies Act requires that a fair review of the business those estimated by the forward-looking statements include, but are contains financial and, where applicable, non-financial key not limited to: performance indicators KPIs.
We consider that our financial KPIs are those that communicate to the members the financial UK domestic and global economic business conditions performance and strength of the group as a whole.
These KPIs Monetary and interest rate policies comprise: Foreign currency exchange rates Return on equity shareholders funds Equity and property prices Proposed ordinary dividend The impact of competition, inflation and deflation Dividend cover Changes to regulations, taxes or UK and foreign legislation Operating profit International Financial Reporting Standards basis The timing and impact of acquisitions and business combinations Operating profit European Embedded Value basis in relevant industries Natural and other disasters Management also use a variety of Other Performance Indicators OPIs in both running and assessing the performance of individual Changes to consumer saving and spending habits business segments and units, rather than the group as a whole.
Our success in managing the above factors OPIs include measures such as present value of new business premiums, new business margins, combined operating ratio and underwriting profit.
Consequently, our actual future financial condition, performance and results could differ materially from the plans, goals and In addition to reporting on our financial performance, it is important expectations set out in our forward-looking statements.
that as a forward thinking company we are aware of our wider We undertake no obligation to update the forward-looking responsibilities and report on the non-financial aspects of our statements contained in this review or any other forward-looking performance.
We consider that our employees and customers are statements we make.
fundamental to the success of our business: as such, they form the basis for our non-financial measures, and include: Accounting basis of preparation Leadership and employee engagement In addition to presenting our results and financial position on Customer satisfaction an International Financial Reporting Standards basis, we also use European Embedded Value EEV as an alternative performance This is the first time that we have sought to report externally on measure and reporting basis.
Details of the accounting basis of either of these measures and we expect that our reporting on preparation are set out in the financial reporting section of this both will evolve.
In particular, reporting on customer satisfaction is business review on pages 60 and 61. complicated by the differing needs of customers in the countries in which we operate and the relative maturities of those businesses.
