Aviva plc Business review continued Annual Report and Accounts 2006 50 Finance Dear Shareholder, To achieve leading financial management and control, we are required to have an increasingly forward-looking view.
We are actively involved in the many debates that will affect reporting developments in our industry such as IFRS phase II on insurance contracts and the EUs Solvency II directive.
These are some time from being implemented, yet the debates that will influence their final positions are happening now.
Capital management Capital strength is important to us since it gives us flexibility to take advantage of opportunities to create value for our shareholders and customers.
We have further strengthened our capital position during the year.
Equity shareholders funds have increased by 18% to 17.5 billion and our excess solvency margin, as measured under the insurance groups directive, was 3.6 billion 2005: 3.6 billion, reflecting the acquisition of AmerUs having reduced the margin by 0.7 billion and the impact of funding the pension scheme deficit.
The underlying strong operational performance demonstrates the capital generative nature of our businesses.
The ability to generate capital is a key strength of the group and enables us to fund both organic growth and bolt-on acquisitions from our internal capital resources.
Additionally, rating agencies have recognised this strength by reaffirming the ratings of our main operating subsidiaries, AA AAvery strong from Standard & Poors and Aa3 excellent from Moodys, both with a stable outlook.
During 2006, we have continued to develop a capital management framework that utilises individual capital assessment ICA principles.
Using an ICA model provides a close link between capital and risk management.
It is important that we increasingly match the amount of capital that we hold to the relative risks that we face.
Our ICA model clearly demonstrates that our diversified business, in terms of geography, products and distribution dramatically reduces the amount of economic capital required to protect against the risk of insolvency.
Such risk-based capital models are increasingly being used to inform our decision-making processes and will, in time, allow us to improve capital efficiency.
Our return on equity shareholders' funds of 13.1% 2005: 15.0%, exceeds our stated target return of 12.5%, notwithstanding our opening shareholders funds being 3.2 billion higher than a year earlier.
Reporting changes 2006 has been a year of considerable change and development in the financial reporting arena.
In March, we published our first financial statements under IFRS, requiring changes to accounting systems and extra disclosures.
Additionally, we are now seeing the introduction of enhanced requirements for the narrative elements of our reporting.
These changes are challenging our finance teams to understand, produce and explain a much greater volume of information.
I was therefore delighted that our hard work in these areas was recognised at the prestigious 2006 IR Magazine UK awards where we won the prize for best disclosure by a FTSE-100 company, an excellent achievement.
Solvency ll Solvency II represents a great opportunity for us to establish a fairer deal while promoting Europe as a truly single market.
The current system of insurance supervision and regulation is a blunt instrument that has not succeeded in creating a level playing field for insurers, is capital inefficient and can ultimately lead to higher prices for consumers.
The industry already suffers from a myriad of different measures against which it is assessed.
It will be important to align regulatory and accounting measures more closely with the underlying economics of the business.
This is a unique opportunity to shape 21st century supervision to the benefit of all and we are fully committed to the project.
Outlook We have built a reputation for professionalism and prudence, but we also have a forward thinking outlook.
We remain committed to efficiently managing risk and capital, while continuing to seek out innovative ways to improve our processes, controls and risk and capital management.
Andrew Moss Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 51 s Finance strategy To cope with the ever-developing demands of the financial and regulatory landscape, we have refreshed and revised our finance strategy.
The new strategy incorporates the four Cs: Capital Increasingly integrating our management of risk and capital Capability Attracting and retaining talented professionals who add value to our business Consistency Generating trusted data from efficient processes and systems Cost Running a cost-effective finance function across our businesses The four strands of the strategy set out above are fundamental to us achieving our longer term aims for our finance community.
They will allow us to provide an operating platform that has a robust risk and control environment, meets FSA requirements and meets the governance expectations of the Aviva board.
Aviva plc Business review continued Annual Report and Accounts 2006 52 Finance continued Capital employed by segment Capital The table below shows how our capital is deployed by segment Capital structure and how that capital is funded: We maintain an efficient capital structure using a combination of 2006 2005 m m equity shareholders funds, preference capital, subordinated debt Long-term savings 19,663 15,598 and borrowings.
This structure is consistent with our risk profile General insurance and health 5,344 5,581 and the regulatory and market requirements of our business.
Other business 1,425 1,876 We believe that the European Embedded Value EEV provides Corporate 19 36 a more meaningful view of our life operations than IFRS: Total capital employed 26,413 23,019 accordingly, our capital structure is analysed on an EEV basis.
Financed by: Equity shareholders funds and minority interests 19,668 16,356 In managing our capital, we seek to: Direct capital instrument 990 990 Match the profile of our assets and liabilities, taking into account Preference shares 200 200 the risks inherent in each business Subordinated debt 2,937 2,808 External debt 1,258 1,002 Maintain financial strength to support new business growth Net internal debt 1,360 1,663 while still satisfying the requirements of policyholders, regulators 26,413 23,019 and rating agencies At 31 December 2006, we had 26.4 billion 31 December 2005: Retain financial flexibility by maintaining strong liquidity, 23.0 billion of total capital employed in our trading operations.
access to a range of capital markets and significant unutilised committed credit lines In 2006, the total capital employed increased by 3.4 billion reflecting growth in our long-term savings operations: these Allocate capital efficiently to support growth and repatriate increased by 4.0 billion driven by the acquisitions of AmerUs, excess capital where appropriate operational results and movements in equity markets in the year.
Manage exposures to movements in exchange rates by In addition to our external funding sources, we have internal debt aligning the deployment of capital by currency with our capital arrangements in place.
These arrangements have allowed the assets requirements by currency.
that support technical liabilities to be invested in a pool of central assets for use across the group.
They have also allowed the Capital management principles redeployment of cash between parts of the business to fund growth.
Although these arrangements are intra-group loans, they An important aspect of our capital management process is the are included as part of the capital base for the purpose of capital setting of target rates of return for individual business units.
Our intra-group loans satisfy arms length criteria and The targets are adjusted to make allowance for risks faced by all interest payments have been made when due.
Management remuneration is partly based on performance against these targets, therefore encouraging Net internal debt represents the upstream of internal loans from focus on creation of value for the shareholder.
business operations to corporate and holding entities net of tangible assets held by these entities.
We have a number of sources of capital available to us and seek to optimise our debt to equity structure so we can maximise returns to The corporate net liabilities represent the element of the pension our shareholders.
We consider alternative sources of capital such as scheme deficit held centrally.
reinsurance and securitisation in addition to more traditional sources of funding.
We select capital funding that is appropriate to its Financial leverage deployment and usage.
Financial leverage, the ratio of the groups external senior and subordinated debt to EEV capital and reserves was 20% 2005: 22%.
Fixed charge cover, which measures the extent to which external interest costs, including subordinated debt interest and preference dividends, are covered by EEV operating profit was 10.3 times 2005: 9.6 times.
We are subject to a number of regulatory capital tests and employ realistic scenario tests to allocate capital and manage risk.
Overall, the group and its subsidiaries satisfy all existing requirements and, as reported below, has significant resources and capital strength.
The ratings of the groups main operating subsidiaries are AA AAvery strong with a stable outlook from Standard & Poors and Aa3 excellent with a stable outlook from Moodys.
These ratings reflect our strong liquidity, competitive position, capital base, increasing underlying earnings and positive strategic management.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 53 Different measures of capital Group We measure our capital using different bases that include measures Accounting basis that comply with the regulatory regime in which we operate and Our capital funding is allocated so that the capital employed by measures that the directors consider appropriate for effective trading operations is greater than the capital provided to those management of the business.
The measures that we use are: operations by the shareholders and subordinated debt holders.
Accounting basis As a result, we are able to enhance the returns earned on our equity capital.
We are required to report our results on an IFRS basis: however, the directors consider that EEV principles provide a more relevant 2006 2005 and meaningful view of our life operations and so we analyse and Shareholders funds EEV basis 20.9bn 17.5bn Total capital employed EEV basis 26.4bn 23.0bn measure the net asset value and total capital employed for the Net asset value per share EEV basis 683p 622p group on this basis.
Regulatory basis Shareholders funds have increased by 3.4 billion to 20.9 billion 2005: 17.5 billion, reflecting our strong operational performance Relevant capital and solvency regulations are used to measure in 2006. and report the financial strength of our insurance subsidiaries.
These measures are based on local regulatory requirements and Accordingly, our net asset value per ordinary share, based on are consolidated under the European Insurance Groups Directive equity shareholders funds was higher at 683 pence per share IGD.
The regulatory capital tests verify that we retain an excess of 2005: 622 pence per share.
solvency capital above the required minimum level calculated using Regulatory basis European Insurance Groups Directive a series of prudent assumptions about the type of business written by our insurance subsidiaries.
2006 2005 Insurance Groups Directive IGD excess solvency 3.6bn 3.6bn In addition to the FSA realistic reporting regime, the UK Accounting Cover times 1.8 times 1.8 times Standards Board requires certain capital disclosures to be made in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 27, Life Assurance As at 31 December 2006, we had an estimated excess regulatory FRS 27.
The purpose of the capital statement is to set out the capital of 3.6 billion 2005: 3.6 billion, as measured under the financial strength of the entity and to provide an analysis of the European Insurance Groups Directive.
This measure represents the disposition and constraints over the availability of capital to meet excess of the aggregate value of regulatory capital employed in risks and regulatory requirements.
The disclosures required by our business over the aggregate minimum solvency requirements FRS 27 are set out in note 49. imposed by local regulators, excluding the surplus held in our UK life funds.
Economic bases In broad terms, for our long-term business, the minimum solvency We believe that economic capital provides a clear measurement of requirements are set at 4% and 1% for non-linked and unit-linked the risks facing our business.
Additionally, it informs the amount of reserves respectively.
For our general insurance portfolio of business, capital that we need to hold to mitigate the risk of insolvency.
the minimum solvency requirement is the higher of 18% of gross We provide full details of our economic measures of capital in the premiums or 26% of gross claims, in both cases adjusted to reflect Risk and capital management section on page 57. the level of reinsurance recoveries.
For our other major nonEuropean businesses USA, Australia and Canada, a risk charge on assets and liabilities approach is used.
Our excess solvency of 3.6 billion reflects operational performance generating solvency capital during the year, offset by the acquisition of AmerUs, which reduced the solvency surplus by 0.7 billion, and the funding of the pension deficit.
From 31 December 2006, we have been required to have positive solvency on an IGD basis.
Our risk management processes ensure adequate review of this measure at all times.
Aviva plc Business review continued Annual Report and Accounts 2006 54 Finance continued Long-term businesses UK life operations Regulatory basis Available capital For our non-participating worldwide life insurance businesses, The realistic inherited estate represents the available capital of our our capital requirements are set as the higher of: with-profit funds.
It is comprised of the assets of the long-term with-profit funds less the realistic liabilities of non-profit policies, Target levels set by reference to internal risk assessment and less asset shares aggregated across the with-profit policies and any internal objectives additional amounts expected at the valuation date to be paid to Minimum capital requirements ie the level of solvency capital in-force policy holders in the future in respect of smoothing costs, at which the local regulator is empowered to take action.
Having assessed the level of operational, demographic, market Realistic balance sheet information is shown below for the three and currency risk of each of our life businesses, the required level main UK with-profit funds: of capital for each business is quantified and expressed as a CGNU Life percentage of the EU minimum.
The required capital across our business varies between 100% and 250% of the EU minimum or Commercial Union Life Assurance Company CULAC equivalent.
Norwich Union Life & Pensions NUL&P The weighted average level of required capital for the whole of our non-participating life businesses, expressed as a percentage The realistic liabilities have been included in the gross insurance of the EU minimum solvency margin or equivalent is 134% 2005: liabilities and the gross liability for investment contracts on our IFRS 128%.
This is a blended rate and is expected to change over time balance sheet at 31 December 2006. with changes in the product mix.
31 December 31 December 2006 2005 The required capital levels discussed above are used in the Estimated Estimated Estimated realistic risk calculation of our embedded value to assess the cost of locked-in realistic Realistic inherited capital Estimated Estimated capital.
At 31 December 2006, the aggregate regulatory capital, assets Liabilities estate margin excess excess bn bn bn bn bn bn based on the requirements of the EU minimum test amounted to CGNU Life 14.3 11.8 2.5 0.5 2.0 1.6 4.3 billion 31 December 2005: 3.9 billion.
The increase in this ratio reflects the impact of favourable equity Realistic liabilities include shareholders proportion of future bonuses of 0.7 billion 31 December 2005: 0.7 billion.
Realistic liabilities adjusted to eliminate market performance on the net worth and acquisition of AmerUs.
shareholders proportion of future bonuses are 48.6 billion 31 December 2005: 50.5 billion.
Realistic liabilities make allowance for guarantees, options and promises on a market consistent stochastic basis.
The value of this provision included in realistic liabilities is 0.5 billion, 0.7 billion and 3.0 billion for CGNU Life, CULAC and NUL&P respectively 31 December 2005: 0.7 billion, 0.9 billion and 3.4 billion respectively.
The estimated realistic estate at 31 December 2005 was 2.1 billion, 1.9 billion and 1.2 billion for CGNU Life, CULAC and NUL&P respectively.
The risk capital margin is 4.2 times covered by the estimated realistic inherited estate 31 December 2005: 2.7 times.
# The NUL&P fund includes the Provident Mutual PM fund, which has realistic assets and liabilities of 2.3 billion and therefore does not impact the realistic inherited estate.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 55 The aggregate investment mix of assets in the three main General insurance with-profit funds at 31 December 2006 was: Economic basis 31 December 31 December 2006 2005 We use a number of measures of risk-based capital to assess %% the capital requirements for our general insurance businesses.
Equity 42 42 Financial modelling techniques enhance our practice of active Property 16 15 capital management, verifying that sufficient capital is available to Fixed interest 36 37 protect against unforeseen events and adverse scenarios, and to Other 6 6 manage risk.
Our aim continues to be an optimal use of capital.
Total 100 100 UK regulatory basis The equity backing ratios, including property, supporting with-profit asset shares are 74% in CGNU Life, 74% in CULAC and 65% in Our main UK regulated general insurance subsidiaries are Aviva NUL&P.
With-profit business is mainly written through CGNU Life.
International Insurance Group AII and Norwich Union Insurance NUI.
The combined businesses of AII and NUI have strong solvency Possible reattribution of the inherited estate positions.
The table below sets out the regulatory capital position of We continue to investigate the possibility of a reattribution of the the general insurance groups at 31 December 2006: inherited estate of two of our with-profit funds: CGNU Life and 2006 2005 CULAC.
In February 2006, we announced the nomination of Clare NUI and AII NUI and AII group group Spottiswoode as policyholder advocate, a consumer led role created NUI AII group pro forma pro forma to represent policyholders, under new Financial Services Authority restated FSA rule governing reattribution.
Capital resources bn 1.1 7.4 8.5 7.5 Capital resources requirements bn 0.4 4.1 4.5 4.0 In November, we agreed terms of reference with Solvency surplus bn 0.7 3.3 4.0 3.5 Clare Spottiswoode, and she has agreed to accept the role of Cover times 3.1 1.8 1.9 1.9 independent policyholder advocate.
The appointment has been approved by the FSA.
We are confident that Clare Spottiswoodes In aggregate, the estimated excess solvency surplus, representing experience as both a regulator, and as a company director, the capital resources assets over the capital resources requirement, makes her qualified to represent independently the with-profit was 4.0 billion 31 December 2005 restated: 3.5 billion after policyholders interests and negotiate on their behalf.
During covering a minimum capital base of 4.5 billion 31 December her nomination period, Clare Spottiswoode has: 2005 restated: 4.0 billion.
Established an independent office The 2005 figures for AII group, and consequently the NUI and All group pro forma, have been restated to reflect admissibility Set up a technical team, including actuarial and legal support and counterparty restrictions relating to intercompany balances Familiarised herself with a reattribution scheme under FSA rules following a revised application of the technical rules.
There is no economic impact on the All group or on our capital adequacy Prepared plans for extensive consultation with policyholders IGD calculation.
Agreed her terms of reference for any reattribution with Aviva, in consultation with the FSA.
At this stage, no decision has been taken to proceed with the reattribution, which will only take place if there is agreement on a fair outcome for policyholders and shareholders.
This will include agreement by us and the independent policyholder advocate on any incentive payments to eligible with-profit policyholders.
Aviva plc Business review continued Annual Report and Accounts 2006 56 Finance continued control and business conduct standards for the groups worldwide Risk operations.
They enable a broadly consistent approach to the management of risk by business units.
The Groups approach to risk and capital management For each policy, a member of senior management is responsible As part of our overall corporate governance framework described for overseeing compliance with that policy throughout the group.
on pages 77 to 81 we have established a risk and financial management structure whose primary objective is to protect the Additionally, we operate a number of oversight committees, group from events that hinder the achievement of our objectives, to monitor aggregate risk data, take risk management decisions, our financial performance, or cause us to fail to exploit opportunities.
and to enforce the implementation of the policies.
Our finance and risk management committee structure is set out below.
We have established a number of policies that deal with the management of both financial and non-financial risks.
Our governance structure and policies are regularly reviewed These policies set out risk appetite, risk management and to reflect the changing commercial and regulatory environment, and our own organisational structure.
Risk Committees: Financial and Operating Risk Board Risk and CSR Audit Regulatory Committee Committee Committee Executive Committee Asset Liability Operational Risk Committee Committee Business Life Insurance Capital Management IT Standards Business General Insurance Reserving Compliance Protection HR Investment Credit Management Derivatives Reinsurance Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 57 Risk and capital management We also use financial condition reports FCRs.
FCRs cover the medium-term financial outlook of the business, including We believe that the measurement of economic capital provides forecasts of the overall financial position and key performance a clear and consistent way to monitor and compare the risks indicators under a variety of economic and operating scenarios, in our businesses.
allowing for new business sales, to inform our capital and risk We have developed a capital management framework using management decisions.
Individual Capital Assessment ICA principles for identifying the We monitor specific risks on a regular basis through our risks that business units, and the group as a whole are exposed risk-monitoring framework.
Our businesses are required to disclose to, quantifying their impact on economic capital.
all material risks along with information on the likelihood and Our ICA estimates how much capital is needed to mitigate the severity of these risks and the mitigating actions taken or planned.
risk of insolvency to a selected remote level, based on a number This process enables us to assess the overall risk exposure of the of stress tests applied to the capital position of the business.
group, to develop a group-wide risk map identifying concentrations These tests, covering both investment and insurance scenarios, of risk and to define the risks that we are prepared to accept.
are specified centrally to provide consistency between business units This risk map is continually monitored and is refreshed quarterly.
Additionally, business units can supplement the tests with others applicable to their own situation.
The risks facing Aviva The events that are tested may not occur at the same time: therefore we allow for the degree of correlation between them Our ICA models inform us about the relative impact on economic that we might expect.
We also allow for diversification benefits capital from the risks we face, enabling us to formulate mitigating ie when two very different risks have offsetting impacts if they strategies.
The types of risks in our business and the way in which happen at the same time when aggregating risks, or when we manage them are discussed in detail below.
This means that the sum of the risks is less than the total of all the individual risks.
Market risk The ICA works to a 99.5% confidence level of solvency over one We are exposed to considerable potential adverse financial impact year equivalent to events occurring in one out of 200 years, in line from changes in the values of our investments, caused by changes with UK Financial Services Authority FSA regulatory requirements.
to interest rates, property prices, and foreign exchange rates.
An ICA has been developed for all material parts of the group, Our business has market risk from fluctuations in both the values and the results of financial and operating experience tests are of assets held and the value of liabilities.
At a group level, we have linked to our risk reporting model.
We also produce projections of market risk from owning a portfolio of international businesses the ICA requirement over a number of years to show how the whose values can change, and from assets that support the economic capital position is likely to evolve.
liabilities of our staff pension scheme.
ICAs have now been produced for a number of years and the We recognise that such risk is inevitable from the businesses that results are used as a basis for discussion with the FSA.
ICA analysis we run, and that a certain level of market risk is acceptable in order is now used in our key decision making processes.
to deliver benefits to both policyholders and shareholders.
Our ICA uses a mixture of scenario-based testing and risk-based For each type of market risk, we have developed clear policies and capital models.
We are continuing to develop our risk-based procedures on how that risk should be monitored and managed, capital modelling capability for all of our businesses as part of our either within our business units or at a group level.
Our group longer term program to introduce more complex risk modelling investment committee GIC is responsible for overseeing market techniques.
These risk-based capital techniques will provide a risk and asset liability management.
more detailed assessment of the capital needs of the business over a range of probabilities of insolvency and different time For example, the GIC identifies the levels of market movement at horizons.
We intend to operate our business increasingly by which mitigating actions should be taken.
Actions could include reference to economic and risk-based capital RBC requirements.
buying downside protection against movements in equity prices or interest rates.
The GIC also considers aggregation of market risk, including indirect market risk exposure from our staff pension schemes, and formulates risk appetite decisions for the amounts invested in different types of asset.
Aviva plc Business review continued Annual Report and Accounts 2006 58 Finance continued We also continually monitor the financial impact of changes to We manage our interest rate risk in a number of ways.
In some market values through a number of measurements of economic categories of our long-term business, we reduce interest rate risk capital or sensitivities to key performance indicators.
through the close matching of assets and liabilities.
On short-term business such as general insurance business, we require a close Several of our longer term savings businesses sell products where matching of assets and liabilities by duration to minimise this risk.
the majority of the market risk is borne by the policyholder.
Any market risk attributable to policyholders is prudently managed If we cannot entirely remove exposure through matching, we also to satisfy the policyholders objectives for risk and reward.
use a variety of derivative instruments including futures, options, swaps, caps and floors in order to hedge against unfavourable Our market risk policy sets out the minimum principles that market movements in interest rates.
business units are expected to follow in managing the assets backing the technical insurance liabilities.
We have set standards for Property price risk the way businesses should match their liabilities with appropriate We invest in property assets, in a variety of locations worldwide that assets, and have a clear decision-making and monitoring process are exposed to fluctuation in values.
We believe investing in these to be followed when liabilities cannot be matched or a degree of assets provides long-term benefits for our businesses and clients.
We regularly monitor how business units Investment in property is managed locally by our business units, are performing asset liability management ALM at both the group subject to the risk appetite of that business unit, and within any investment committee and group asset liability management local regulations on asset admissibility or liquidity.
ALM issues are considered as part of our business risk reporting, and in determining ICA and RBC capital requirements.
Foreign currency exchange risk Equity price risk We operate internationally and we are therefore exposed to the financial impact arising from changes in the exchange rates of Our largest market risk exposure is to changes in equity prices.
Over half of our premium income arises in We believe in the long-term benefits of holding equities and are currencies other than sterling and our net assets are denominated prepared to accept the consequential shorter term fluctuations in in a variety of currencies, but predominantly in sterling, euros and our shareholder funds.
For example a 10% decrease in equity US dollars.
prices causes a 768 million pre-tax decrease in the level of shareholders funds on an IFRS basis and on an EEV basis would We generally do not hedge foreign currency revenues, as we prefer reduce embedded value by 1,065 million, net of tax.
to retain revenue locally in each business to support business growth, to meet local and regulatory market requirements, and Our GIC continually monitors exposure against a risk appetite to maintain sufficient assets in their local currency to match local set and agreed by the Board, and has a process in place to currency liabilities.
We are also exposed to some exchange risk from manage the exposure in different market conditions, including assets held in staff pension schemes, as a part of the investment extreme movements.
strategy agreed with the scheme trustees.
We monitor concentrations of equity risk, for example from Movements in exchange rates may affect the value of consolidated material shareholdings in our strategic business partners, or from shareholders equity, which is expressed in sterling.
This aspect of equities held in our staff pension schemes.
We formulate our foreign exchange risk is monitored centrally against limits that we equity risk management strategy taking into account the full range have set to control the extent to which capital deployment and of our equity holdings.
capital requirements are not aligned.
We use currency borrowings Interest rate risk and derivatives when necessary to keep currency exposures within these predetermined limits, and to hedge specific foreign exchange Interest rate risk is the risk that arises from both the products we risks when we feel it is appropriate: for example, in any acquisition sell and the value of our investments due to changes in the level or disposal activity.
For example, long-term debt and fixed income securities are both exposed to fluctuations in interest rates.
Derivatives risk We are exposed to reductions in interest rates on business carrying We use derivatives in a number of our businesses to enable efficient investment return guarantees, and to interest rate increases on investment management, to hedge investment risks, or as part of business carrying surrender value guarantees.
A 1% decrease in structured retail savings products.
Derivatives can involve complex interest rates would increase shareholders funds on an IFRS basis by financial transactions and to minimise the risks involved we have 806 million pre-tax and on an EEV basis would increase embedded set minimum standards we expect our businesses to adopt when value by 310 million, net of tax.
Sensitivities to increases in interest using derivatives and our group derivatives committee monitors rates are shown in note 50 and the section on EEV reporting.
exposures, the control framework, and approves any proposed transactions that fall outside the local business unit policy limits.
Effect of decrease in equity prices includes the effect of a 10% decrease in property prices.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 59 Credit risk We have a significant exposure to credit risk through our investments in corporate bonds, commercial mortgages, and other securities.
We hold these investments for the benefit of both our policyholders and shareholders.
We monitor and manage two types of credit risk.
Firstly, we manage the exposure to individual counterparties, by measuring exposure against centrally set limits.
The aggregate exposure we are prepared to accept takes account of credit ratings issued by rating agencies such as Standard & Poors.
We also manage the level of risk we are prepared to take, and we are using increasingly detailed analysis to define our optimal balance between risk and reward, monitoring the types of investment available to us to achieve best our aims.
Our group credit committee GCC takes responsibility for monitoring credit exposures to individual counterparties and determining who we are prepared to work with.
Our GIC sets the credit risk appetite as part of our overall management of market risk.
We are also exposed to credit risk through our use of reinsurance.
Our reinsurance security committee, part of our GCC, verifies that reinsurance arrangements are only placed with providers who meet our counterparty credit standards.
Shareholders equity by currency Life Insurance risk 1 Our life insurance businesses are exposed to the full range of life 4 insurance risks from the products that they have written, typically mortality, morbidity risk, as well as experience on persistency and unforeseen expenses.
3 Our policy on life insurance risk sets out the practice standards we 2 expect our business units to follow in underwriting such risks, and our life insurance risk committee regularly monitors its application, and develops detailed guidance on managing the major areas of risk, and sponsors the sharing of best practice between businesses.
We have a significant exposure to annuity business and our most significant life insurance risk is associated with longevity.
Longevity 1 Sterling statistics are monitored in detail, compared with emerging industry 2 Euro 3 US dollar trends, and the results are used to inform both the reserving and 4 Other pricing of annuities.
Inevitably, there remains uncertainty about the development of future longevity that cannot be removed.
Credit risk exposures Should our annuitant mortality assumptions worsen by 5% then shareholders equity would decrease by 300 million pre-tax 1 on an IFRS basis and decrease embedded value by 185 million on an EEV basis, net of tax.
Our business units manage mortality and morbidity risk on protection business using reinsurance and while they can select reinsurers locally, we review reinsurance coverage across the group and our overall reinsurance program is assessed centrally to manage group-wide risk exposures.
Sensitivity tests show that we are not 5 materially affected by mortality risk.
Our equity reduces by only 2 20 million for a 5% worsening in assurance mortality experience 4 on an IFRS basis and decreases embedded value by 165 million on 3 an EEV basis, net of tax.
1 AAA 2 AA 3 A 4 BBB 5 Speculative grade and not rated Not Rated includes mortgages and other debt that does not attract an external rating.
Aviva plc Business review continued Annual Report and Accounts 2006 60 Finance continued Persistency risk is managed at a business unit level through frequent We cede much of our worldwide catastrophe risk to third-party monitoring of current experience, benchmarked against local reinsurers, but retain a pooled element for our own account, market information.
Actual experience against the expected level of gaining diversification benefits.
Our total retained risk increases lapses is also assessed within the analysis of embedded value as catastrophe events become more remote, so that our total operating profit.
Where possible, the financial impact of lapses is loss from our most concentrated exposure northern European reduced through appropriate product design.
The group life wind storm is approximately 370 million for a one in ten year insurance risk committee has developed guidelines on persistency event, compared to approximately 700 million for a one in management, sharing best practice on the setting of lapse 100 year event.
assumptions, product design, experience monitoring, and management action.
Liquidity risk Expenses are managed at a business unit level, as part of general Maintaining sufficient available liquid assets to meet our obligations business management.
as they fall due is an important part of our financial management practice.
Our business units must all operate controls to identify General Insurance risk sources of liquidity risk, monitor potential exposures, and manage their liquidity requirements.
At group level, we maintain a prudent Our general insurance businesses are exposed to a typical range of level of liquidity consistent with the expectations of the FSA and the general insurance risks from the business that they underwrite.
We also maintain a buffer of liquid assets Such risks include: to cover unforeseen contingencies including the provision of Fluctuation in the timing, frequency and severity of claims and temporary funds to any of our business units that experience claim settlements compared to that expected when the business temporary liquidity shortfalls.
was written Unexpected claims arising from a single source Operational risk Inadequate reinsurance protection or other risk transfer We are also exposed to operational risk arising from inadequately techniques controlled internal processes or systems, human error and from external events.
This includes all risks that we are exposed to, other Inadequate reserves.
than the financial risks described above and strategic and group Our group general insurance risk committee GIRC oversees the risks.
Operational risks include, for example, information technology, risk management framework, within a clearly communicated information security, human resources, project management, underwriting strategy.
We have, as a group, made a clear statement outsourcing, tax, legal, fraud and compliance.
on the target for the combined operating ratio COR.
To achieve Our business units are primarily responsible for identifying, this goal, we operate technical management committees focusing managing and reporting these risks as part of our quarterly risk on each of our key general insurance risks in detail for example, reporting processes.
Each operational risk is assessed by considering underwriting, claims management, and reinsurance.
the potential impact and the probability of the event occurring.
Our largest risk is claims incurred from catastrophe events.
Impact assessments are made against financial, operational and This risk is controlled through monitoring risk aggregations and reputational criteria.
Business unit management teams must be satisfied that all material Another material risk is the impact of worsening claims ratios.
risks falling outside our risk appetite are being mitigated, monitored This risk is actively managed through business unit focus on and reported at an appropriate level.
Any risks with a high impact underwriting discipline, control of claims management, and finding level are continually monitored centrally.
innovative solutions to the way we measure and price the risk we Our operational risk committee ORC determines the risk appetite underwrite.
For example, our UK business has developed digital that the group can work within for these types of risk, assesses flood mapping to understand better the risk to household insurance and monitors overall operational risk exposures, identifying any from flood damage, and has developed telematics, our Pay concentrations of operational risk across the group, and in particular As You Drive technology to provide a closer link between risk verifies that mitigating action plans are implemented.
We actively use reinsurance to help reduce the financial impact Accounting basis of preparation of a catastrophe and to manage the volatility of our earnings.
Reinsurance purchases are reviewed annually at both business unit International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and group level to verify that the protection we have purchased The consolidated financial statements and financial data contained matches the level of exposure.
Reinsurance arrangements are in the report and accounts has been prepared using the groups only placed with providers who meet our counterparty security accounting policies on an IFRS basis, as set out on pages 104 to standards.
We use extensive financial modelling and actuarial 113.
These policies are in accordance with standards issued by the analysis to optimise the cost and risk management benefits from IASB and endorsed by the EU, including the early adoption of IFRS 7 our reinsurance program.
The date of transition from UK GAAP to IFRS was 1 January 2004.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 61 Where applicable, the financial statements have also been prepared Critical accounting policies and estimates in accordance with the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP on The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make accounting for insurance business issued by the Association of British estimates and assumptions that affect items reported in the Insurers ABI in December 2005, as amended in December 2006. consolidated income statement, balance sheet, other primary IFRS 7 covers disclosures for financial instruments, and replaces statements and notes to the financial statements.
All estimates are earlier standards on this subject.
Although the new standard based on managements current knowledge, assumptions based on extends the disclosures in the financial statements in several places, that knowledge, and their predictions of future events and actions.
it does not affect the policies themselves.
Actual results can always differ from estimates, possibly significantly.
The only change to the accounting policies in 2006 has been from The table below sets out those items that we consider particularly an amendment to the financial instruments standard IAS 39 that susceptible to changes in estimates and assumptions, and the deals with accounting for financial guarantee contracts.
While not relevant accounting policy.
Full details of the accounting policies are material at the consolidated group level, this does affect the set out on pages 104 to 113. company and its subsidiaries in respect of inter-company Item Accounting policy guarantees given and taken.
Insurance product classification E Insurance and participating investment contract liabilities J European Embedded Value EEV basis of reporting Goodwill, AVIF and other intangible assets M We present the results and financial position of our life and related Impairment of financial investments R businesses on an EEV basis, in addition to the IFRS basis.
The Fair value of derivative financial instruments S directors opinion is that the EEV basis provides a more relevant and Deferred acquisition costs and other assets U transparent view of the performance of the life and related Provisions and contingent liabilities X operations year-on-year than the results presented under the IFRS Pension obligations Y basis.
The EEV methodology adopted is in accordance with the EEV Deferred tax Z Principles introduced by the CFO Forum in May 2004, and the additional guidance on EEV disclosures published by the CFO Forum Future accounting developments in October 2005.
We seek to take an active role in the development of new On an EEV basis, the value of a policy recorded in the year of sale accounting standards, via industry forums and working parties, takes into account future cash flows relating to that policy.
Various and reviewing and providing comment on proposals from the assumptions are used to estimate the present value of a policy.
International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In subsequent years, the present value of the policy is adjusted only Phase II of the IASBs project on insurance contracts remains the to reflect changes in the assumptions used.
most significant area that we are tracking.
During 2006, the In contrast, on an IFRS basis, the value of a sale does not take into insurance industry has worked closely with the IASB in seeking to account future cash flows.
These subsequent cash flows are develop a comprehensive global accounting standard for insurance recorded in the year in which they occur.
The recorded value of a that will reflect the economics of our business.
In June 2006, the sale will reflect the premium received to date, the cost of setting up CFO Forum representing the large European insurers, in which we an appropriate reserve, costs incurred in acquiring that business and play an active role, published principles for measurement and an allowance to recognise some of these acquisition costs should be recognition of insurance liabilities.
We now await publication of the deferred and earned in line with the premium.
Therefore, the value IASBs preliminary views in the first quarter of 2007.
This is the first associated with writing the same business will be recorded differently stage in the development of the IASBs standard and it is unlikely in the year of sale on EEV and IFRS bases.
However, the total profit to be finalised before the end of 2009 at the earliest.
The range of recognised over the full lifetime of an insurance policy is the same as possible outcomes remains large: therefore, it is too early to predict under the IFRS basis of reporting.
We believe that the EEV basis gives the impact this change in accounting will have.
While this standard a fairer indication of the profitability of business on inception.
is under development, we will continue to focus on EEV as the best measure of value for our long-term business.
Additionally, shareholders funds on an EEV basis incorporate internally generated additional value of in-force business AVIF, We continue to monitor other major IASB projects including which is excluded for IFRS reporting.
Our incentive schemes and financial statement presentation, liabilities, revenue recognition and internal management reporting are aligned to the EEV basis.
The announcement from the IASB that no These financial statements include supplementary information on new standards or major amendments would become mandatory EEV reporting in the Alternative method of reporting long-term before 2009 and that the level of public consultation in the business section.
development of new standards would increase was welcomed.
Longer term investment return The long-term nature of much of our operations means that shortterm realised and unrealised gains and losses on general insurance and health business are shown as an adjustment to operating profit.
We focus instead on operating profit incorporating a longer term investment return LTIR.
Our rates of return that we use for equity and property in our LTIR methodology are aligned with the rates that we use under EEV principles.
For fixed interest securities, we include the amortisation of premiums or discounts arising on purchase, thereby producing an LTIR that is equivalent to the gross redemption yield.
