Aviva plc Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2006 72 E Boar urope performance continued d of directors Richard Harvey FIA 56 Lord Sharman of Redlynch OBE 64 Group chief executive Chairman Appointed to the board in May 2000 and became group chief Appointed to the board in January 2005 and became chairman executive in April 2001.
Joined Norwich Union in 1992, holding on 1 January 2006.
Currently chairman of Aegis Group plc media senior positions in New Zealand and the UK before joining the services, an independent non-executive director of BG Group plc Norwich Union board in 1995 and becoming group chief executive utility and Reed Elsevier plc publisher and a member of the of Norwich Union in 1998.
Former chairman of the Association supervisory board of ABN AMRO N. V. banking.
Former chairman of British Insurers.
Richard Harvey will retire as the group chief of KPMG International auditors, former deputy chairman of executive in July 2007.
Group 4 Securicor plc security services and a former independent non-executive director of Young & Co. s Brewery PLC drinks and Member of the nomination and corporate social responsibility committees.
AEA Technology plc commercial technology.
Andrew Moss 48 Chairman of the board and nomination committees and a member of the corporate social responsibility committee.
Group finance director Appointed to the board in May 2004 upon joining the company.
Guillermo fide la Dehesa 65 Previously director finance, risk management and operations Independent non-executive director in Lloyds insurance and formerly held a number of senior Appointed to the board in May 2000.
Joined the board of Norwich management positions at HSBC plc banking.
Andrew Moss Union as a non-executive director in 1999.
Currently non-executive will succeed Richard Harvey as the group chief executive in chairman of Avivas operations in Spain, non-executive viceJuly 2007. chairman of Goldman Sachs Europe banking and a non-executive director of Campofrio consumer, Unin Elctrica Fenosa utility Philip Scott FIA 53 and Bank Santander Central Hispano banking.
Chairman of the Executive director Centre of Economic Policy Research and a member of the Group of Appointed to the board in May 2000.
Joined Norwich Union in Thirty consultative group on international economic and monetary 1973 and held a number of senior positions before joining the affairs.
A former deputy governor of the International Monetary Norwich Union board in 1993.
Currently responsible for the groups Fund and the World Bank, a former deputy general manager of the insurance businesses outside Europe and Morley, the groups UK Bank of Spain and former Secretary of State of Finance in Spain.
Philip Scott will succeed Andrew Moss as the group finance director in July 2007.
Member of the nomination and corporate social responsibility committees.
Patrick Snowball 56 Executive director Appointed to the board in March 2001.
Joined the group in 1989, holding a number of senior positions before joining the board of Norwich Union in 1999.
Currently responsible for the groups United Kingdom businesses namely Norwich Union Insurance, Norwich Union Life and RAC.
A member of the Financial Services Authoritys Practitioner Panel.
Richard Harvey Lord Sharman of Redlynch Andrew Moss Philip Scott Patrick Snowball Overview B Bu us sii n n ee ss ssre rv eiv ew iew G Go ov five e rr n n aa nn ce ce Financial statements Other information Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 73 Wim Dik 68 Carole Piwnica 49 Senior independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Appointed to the board in December 1999.
Currently chairman of Appointed to the board in May 2003.
A member of the New York the supervisory board of Zesko Holding B. V. telecommunications and Paris bars, practising law in Europe and the US specialising in and Tele Atlas N. V. information systems, a non-executive director private equity and EU regulatory matters.
Currently a non-executive of Unilever N. V. and Unilever plc consumer and of LogicaCMG plc director of Toepfer International GmbH trading and a member of computer services.
Former Minister for Foreign Trade in the the biotech advisory board of Monsanto.
A former chairman of Nederlandse Unilever Bedrijven vice-chairman governmental affairs for Tate & Lyle plc B. V. consumer and former chairman and chief executive officer of agricultural industrial, a former non-executive director of S A KPN Royal Dutch Telecom telecommunications.
A former chairman Spadel N. V. food and beverages and former chairman of Amylum of the supervisory board of Holland Casino gaming and a former Group agricultural industrial.
member of the supervisory boards of TNT Post Group mail Member of the audit, remuneration and corporate social responsibility committees.
services, Vos Logistics transport and ABN AMRO N. V. banking.
Russell Walls 63 Chairman of the corporate social responsibility committee and member of the nomination and risk and regulatory committees.
Independent non-executive director Appointed to the board in May 2004.
Currently a non-executive Mary Francis CBE 58 director of Signet Group plc retail and chairman of its audit Independent non-executive director committee.
A former group finance director of BAA plc transport, Appointed to the board in October 2005.
Currently senior Wellcome plc pharmaceuticals and Coats Viyella plc textiles.
independent non-executive director of Centrica plc utilities, Former senior independent non-executive director of Stagecoach a non-executive director of St Modwen Properties plc property Group plc transport and of Hilton Group plc leisure and development, a director of the Bank of England, Fund Distribution a former non-executive director of the Mersey Docks and Limited and Almeida Theatre Company Limited.
A member of the Harbour Company plc transport.
advisory board of the National Consumer Council and Governor Chairman of the audit committee and a member of the risk and regulatory and of the Pensions Policy Institute.
A former Director General of the nomination committees.
Association of British Insurers and senior civil servant.
Richard Whitaker LLB, DMS, FCII Chairman of the risk and regulatory committee and a member of the audit and remuneration committees.
Group company secretary Richard Karl Goeltz 64 Independent non-executive director Appointed to the board in May 2004.
Currently a non-executive director of the Warnaco Group Inc clothing, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Freddie Mac financial services, New Germany Fund investment trust and a director of The London School of Economics and Political Science.
A former chief financial officer of American Express Company financial services, NatWest Group plc banking and The Seagram Company Ltd drinks and a former member of the Accounting Standards Board UK.
Chairman of the remuneration committee and member of the audit committee.
Guillermo fide la Dehesa Wim Dik Mary Francis Richard Karl Goeltz Carole Piwnica Russell Walls
