Aviva plc Business review continued Annual Report and Accounts 2006 42 International and Morley Dear Shareholder, We have made great progress during the past year with our rapidly expanding businesses across the Asia-Pacific region and in North America.
The strong growth of profits and sales across the majority of our businesses demonstrates the effectiveness of our highly diversified distribution network and our ability to deliver results from new opportunities.
The purchase of AmerUs in the US has transformed our business in that country, giving us greater access to the worlds largest savings market.
AmerUs is a leader in the indexed market, ranking number one in sales of indexed life insurance and third in sales of indexed annuities.
The combined Aviva USA business is now the fourth-largest long-term savings operation in the Aviva group.
During 2006 we completed a major new bancassurance agreement in India with Centurion Bank of Punjab, and are already seeing a strong performance from this partnership.
Aviva India greatly strengthened its market presence, with nearly 200 branches across the country and over 30 bancassurance partnerships.
In February we acquired a 51% stake in Eagle Insurance, the third-largest insurer in Sri Lanka.
Through Eagle, we have entered into bancassurance agreements with National Development Bank and Standard Chartered Bank.
Our business in China is now licensed in 15 cities across six provinces.
We are on course to achieve our vision of 10% new business market share across ten cities by 2010.
We are ranked fifth among foreign joint venture insurance companies in China.
We received a licence to operate in Russia from March 2006, and plan to build a leadership position, with a 10% market share and a top-five position, within the next five years.
Our general insurance business in Canada has broadened its distribution and has introduced innovative products during 2006.
Our confidence in our International long-term savings businesses is highlighted by our expectation that, combined with our European businesses, we shall achieve double-digit organic sales growth over the next five years, while growing new business contribution at least as quickly.
We are also committed to meeting or beating the group COR target of 98%.
Strategic developments Customers in our key markets show an increasing appetite to save for the future.
They also want a choice of how to do business with us.
These market conditions present a sizeable opportunity, and we are fully committed to working with governments and business partners to satisfy our customers expectations.
We plan to grow our existing channels.
This includes the successful integration of AmerUs into Aviva USA, acceleration of our bancassurance and direct sales success in India and China, deepening our relationship with DBS in Singapore and Hong Kong, and delivery of additional corporate partnerships in Canada.
During 2006, Morley, our largest fund management business, agreed to establish a single investment sales team with our UK long-term savings business, Norwich Union.
This agreement will strengthen our presence in the retail and wholesale UK distribution channels.
Additionally, Morley acquired ORN Capital, a hedge fund manager, accelerating the development of our alternative investment business.
It is vital to the overall strength of the group that we have capacity to offer customers investment products that meet their individual needs.
We intend to diversify our distribution network.
For example, we are exploring the development of our bancassurance business in the US by taking advantage of expertise gained elsewhere in the Aviva group and are looking to develop the broker channel in China.
Outlook Through the acquisition of AmerUs we have created a dynamic and thriving business in the US.
The developing markets of the Asia-Pacific region and Russia represent a substantial longer-term area of opportunity for us.
We shall be looking to accelerate growth through our strong market positions and key capabilities, notably diversified distribution and product innovation, while continuing to explore the potential of other markets.
Philip Scott Group executive director Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 43 s Canada: 10% discount for environmentally friendly drivers In Canada, we reward policyholders in Quebec who drive hybrid vehicles with an automatic 10% discount on their Aviva auto policy premium.
The discount supports our commitment to environmental management, and fits with our aim to make a leading contribution to the health of the communities in which we operate.
It also rewards those of our policyholders who make a conscious choice to protect the environment.
U For more information on Aviva Canada visit www.
com Aviva plc Business review continued Annual Report and Accounts 2006 44 International and Morley continued Rest of the world Long-term savings Asia 2006 Aviva has a broad range of operations throughout Asia with IFRS businesses based in Hong Kong, Singapore, India, Sri Lanka and profit IFRS EEV New New before operating operating business business China.
The product ranges, distribution channels and strategies tax profit profit PVNBP contribution margin of each operation vary according to local market conditions.
m m m m m % Asia 9 10 37 685 26 3.8 Aviva Singapore and Hong Kong employ a multi-channel distribution Australia 59 44 49 297 17 5.7 strategy including a strong partnership with Development Bank of USA 17 71 32 884 20 2.3 Singapore DBS, South East Asias largest banking group.
In 2006, Rest of we are ranked fourth in Singapore and 14th in Hong Kong.
the world 85 125 118 1,866 63 3.4 Our business in Singapore remains the market leader in the developing IFA segment and in the employee benefits and 2005 IFRS healthcare segment, with our employee benefits business covering profit IFRS EEV New New one-in-three working Singaporeans.
Our strategy is to broaden and before operating operating business business tax profit profit PVNBP contribution margin deepen business opportunities with DBS while developing the IFA m m m m m % and international financial solutions market.
Asia 37 30 30 396 20 5.1 In Hong Kong, our business has progressed significantly over the Australia 49 32 44 337 16 4.7 USA 4 4 25 527 13 2.5 last year with a strong increase in sales both through the development Rest of of our IFA channel, which now represents more than half of our sales, the world 8 2 99 1,260 49 3.9 and through DBS.
The overall insurance market is expected to continue to grow strongly, mainly by the bancassurance and IFA segments.
Investment sales totalled 1,564 million 2005: 1,151 million giving overall new business sales of 3,430 million We expect continued growth in 2007 in the more mature markets 2005: 2,411 million.
of Singapore and Hong Kong.
Stated before the effect of required capital.
Aviva India is our joint venture with the Dabur Group in which we have a 26% shareholding, the maximum stake currently allowed by law.
Aviva India is ranked seventh overall among private insurance companies and we are a leader in the bancassurance market, where we have over 30 2005: 17 bancassurance agreements in place.
The most significant new agreement in 2006 was announced in January and is with the Centurion Bank of Punjab.
On 16 January 2007, we announced a further major bancassurance agreement with IndusInd Bank, one of Indias fastest-growing private sector banks with 1.4 million customers and 148 branches, thereby extending our leadership in the bancassurance market.
The Indian long-term savings market has significant growth potential.
We are continuing to increase our distribution relationships with banks, and have more than doubled our direct sales force to over 14,000 2005: 6,700, with more than 6,000 in training.
On 1 February 2006, we acquired a 51% interest in Eagle Insurance Company Limited Eagle, the third-largest insurer in Sri Lanka, for a cash sum of 15 million.
At the same time, Eagle entered into a bancassurance agreement with National Development Bank i Aviva-COFCO wins Limited, Sri Lankas biggest development bank and Eagles other major shareholder.
Eagle has now entered its second bancassurance consumers award agreement, with Standard Chartered Bank, and sales commenced Aviva-COFCO received an award for the most reliable in September 2006. foreign life insurance company in a poll co-ordinated by Hexun.
com, Chinas leading financial website among In China, our joint venture, Aviva-COFCO, operates a multi-channel, Chinese consumers in middle to higher income groups.
The poll had approximately 700,000 respondents, who multi-product strategy.
We distribute individual products through our voted for sectors such as insurance, banking, futures direct sales force, agencies and brokers and banks.
We also sell group and fund management.
The key measurements used business both directly and through intermediaries.
As our business for the insurance sector were product design and innovation, sales force quality and customer service.
grows in China, we seek to obtain first mover advantage in new Compared with other foreign life insurance players, cities.
In 2006, Aviva-COFCO increased its presence to six provinces, Aviva-COFCO was recognised for its professionalism, with a total of 15 city branches.
We are looking forward to the rapid integrity, and the Aviva parentage.
development of this new market.
As at November 2006, AvivaCOFCO was the fifth-largest foreign joint venture out of a total U of 25, based on first year premiums.
For more information on Aviva-COFCO visit www.
cn Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 45 Continued economic growth in both China and India offers high Growth in Asia PVNBP potential returns in the longer term and, in both countries, we are 800 actively pursuing growth in cities and provinces with significant long-term potential.
700 1 In Taiwan, we have established a branch operation and have signed 600 a memorandum of understanding with First Financial, the owner of 2 500 First Commercial Bank, to explore a possible alliance.
400 We are working to finalise our new opportunity in Malaysia with 1 3 Bumiputra-Commerce Holdings Berhad, which was announced in 2 300 1 4 2 January 2007 and remains subject to regulatory approval.
1 India and 3 3 200 4 4 Sri Lanka Overall, the life EEV operating return from our Asia businesses 2 Hong Kong 100 was 37 million 2005: 30 million principally due to higher new 3 China business contribution which increased by 30% to 26 million 2005: 4 Singapore 0 20 million driven by our substantial life and pension sales growth 2004 2005 2006 of 70% to 685 million 2005: 396 million.
Our new business margin was 3.8% 2005: 5.1%, reflecting stronger sales of lower India Growth in sales and margin limited period single premium offerings in Singapore.
bancassurance partnerships In Singapore and Hong Kong, sales increased to 319 million 90 40 2005: 227 million and to 216 million 2005: 103 million 80 35 respectively, reflecting strong sales through our partnership with 70 DBS together with an increase in sales through other distribution 30 channels, notably in the developing IFA channel in Hong Kong.
60 25 In India and China, sales continue to grow rapidly with our share of 50 sales amounting to 84 million 2005: 32 million and 50 million 20 40 2005: 35 million, respectively.
In Sri Lanka, sales have amounted 15 to 16 million since the acquisition of Eagle.
30 10 20 Australia 5 10 Aviva Australia primarily focuses on individual protection products 0 0 and provides wealth management services through the Navigator 2004 2005 2006 platform included under the fund management section.
We are PVNBP ranked seventh in the individual protection market with a rapidly Bancassurance deals growing market share and we provide market-leading products and services.
New business sales in the protection market grew by China Growth in sales and sales offices 13% during 2006.
Our strategy is to grow through expanding and diversifying our independent adviser distribution and continuing to 60 16 expand into new distribution channels through alliances and 14 bancassurance partnerships.
50 12 In 2006, new distribution arrangements have been established 40 with AON and AMP for the distribution of our protection products.
10 We have also been placed on the approved product list for Bendigo 30 8 Bank and ANZ advisers, which provide access to significant new distribution.
Our protection product is highly regarded and it was 6 20 ranked ahead of all competitors in terms of business quality by 4 NMG Consulting.
Our business superannuation product has been 10 given the top rating by Chant West Financial Services: however, 2 we have seen a shift from corporate pension sales towards 0 0 Navigator retirement funds, which we record as investment sales, 2004 2005 2006 as a result of changes to superannuation legislation.
This trend is expected to continue and is reflected in lower life and pension PVNBP sales of 297 million 2005: 337 million.
Sales offices The life EEV operating return was 49 million 2005: 44 million due to favourable experience variances.
New business contribution was 17 million 2005: 16 million, while new business margin increased to 5.7% 2005: 4.7% benefiting from improved business mix, in particular a higher proportion of protection business.
PVNBP m PVNBP m PVNBP m Sales offices Bancassurance deals Aviva plc Business review continued Annual Report and Accounts 2006 46 International and Morley continued USA Rest of the World General insurance and health premium and profit Avivas presence in the United States market increased four-fold with the completion of the acquisition of AmerUs on 1,600 200 15 November 2006.
AmerUs ranks in the top three in the fixed- 1,400 indexed segment of the annuity markets and is number one in the 160 indexed life segment, reflecting our strong customer focus and 1,200 pioneering product development.
We are currently integrating the 1,000 operations of AmerUs with our long established operations based 120 in Boston and generating economies of scale.
We plan to grow the 800 combined business by leveraging the knowledge, relationships, 80 600 products and expertise of both constituent companies.
400 Our life EEV operating return increased to 32 million 2005: 40 25 million including 22 million from AmerUs, which mainly 200 represented contribution from new business and expected return 0 0 on opening embedded value.
In our operations based in Boston, 2004 2005 2006 the operating profit was lower at 10 million affected by some Net written premium one-off negative lapse variances and operating assumption changes.
2006 full year pro forma new business contribution and Operating profit life EEV operating return for AmerUs amounted to 94 million and 205 million, respectively.
Total new business amounted to 884 million 2005: 527 million of which 324 million was generated by AmerUs in the six weeks following acquisition.
Sales in our operations based in Boston increased by 7% as a result of strong growth of structured settlement products following the A. M. Best rating upgrade to A in November 2005.
Full year sales by the AmerUs business were 2,261 million 2005: 1,882 million including 330 million of funding agreement sales 2005: 38 million.
Excluding the impact of funding agreements, which are irregular by nature, sales of the underlying life and annuity products showed strong quarter on quarter growth throughout 2006, with the final quarter recording the best ever sales performance.
The medium-term outlook for this market is strong.
The US is expected to be the main source of world savings growth in the next 15 years as the baby boomer generation of over 70 million people approach and enter retirement.
The products of AmerUs, in particular, are tailored to appeal to this market.
In the short term there is some disruption to the market, caused by high short-term bond yields and uncertainty regarding the future regulation of fixedi Australia: Navigator indexed annuities.
We do not expect that these factors will diminish the mediumand long-term growth potential.
helps UK pensions move down under Russia Navigator, our online fund administration system, has improved the process involved in UK pension transfers.
Aviva Russia was granted its licence in March 2006 and trading has Now, Australian residents with money in UK pension commenced in corporate sales on a limited scale.
Our strategy is to schemes can transfer their funds quicker and position the business to take advantage of the rapid growth more easily.
expected to occur as the life insurance industry develops.
We aim to Navigator is one of the first providers internationally to register with UK regulators as a qualifying regulated achieve at least a top-five market position and a 10% share of the overseas pension scheme, which allows UK pension life insurance market within five years.
plan members to transfer benefits overseas.
As a leading Australian retirement solutions provider and the UKs top insurer, we have many customers who will benefit from this new development, including many of the Australians who have worked in the UK, either before migrating or when visiting.
We are one of the first businesses in the world to offer this flexibility to our customers.
U For more information on Navigator visit www.
au Measured in terms of pro forma PVNBP.
Net written premium m Operating profit m Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 47 Rest of the world General insurance and We are increasing levels of customer and broker satisfaction by health leveraging our scale and creating greater efficiencies through investment in claims supply-chain initiatives and in technology platforms.
2006 IFRS IFRS Combined Net Our operating profit was stable at 148 million 2005: 147 million profit operating operating written Underwriting before tax profit ratio premium result and our COR was 98% 2005: 97%.
Our results benefited by m m % m m 11 million from lower than average weather-related claims.
Canada 169 148 98 1,389 27 However, this benefit has been offset by lower premium rates on Other 48 40 85 86 11 commercial lines and flat rates on personal lines, driven by Rest of the world 217 188 97 1,475 38 legislative rate changes.
Additionally, rising claims inflation has caused a deterioration in the claims ratio.
Although the number of 2005 policies written increased in 2006, small decreases in premium rates IFRS IFRS Combined Net and high retention levels, which have resulted from customers profit operating operating written Underwriting before tax profit ratio premium result lower propensity to switch insurer, have led to net written m m % m m premiums remaining stable on a local currency basis at Canada 178 147 97 1,324 35 1,389 million 2005: 1,324 million.
Other 86 40 97 106 3 Rest of the world 264 187 97 1,430 38 We expect 2007 to be another competitive year and we expect that rates will fall slightly.
Retention levels are high in the market given General insurance business only.
stable insurance rates and this is leading to consolidation in the broker channel driven by insurers seeking to buy distribution.
Canada During 2006, we have invested in two market-leading group brokers in Quebec, consolidating our position in this key market.
Aviva Canada is the second-largest general insurer in Canada, with The focus for 2007 is to increase our long-term value by a 9% market share and is the leading insurer in Ontario, Canadas broadening our distribution with innovative products, maintaining largest general insurance market.
Supported by 3,200 employees, underwriting discipline and writing only profitable business.
in 40 locations and by more than 3,000 independent broker partners, we provide innovative home, motor and business insurance, and a healthcare claims service to over three million Other personal and commercial customers.
Our other international operations are a health insurance business Our business in Canada continues to meet the needs of in Asia, a captive reinsurer in Bermuda and a market-leading customers through innovative, market-leading products and general insurer in Sri Lanka, which was acquired in February 2006. services.
Where required, the Premiere Healthcare claims service The operating profit from our other general insurance and health provides quality medical services for customers delivered through businesses was 40 million 2005: 40 million.
a network of preferred healthcare providers and this service is also an effective method of managing the cost of claims.
We are also Morley and rest of the world Fund management continuing the expansion of Autograph, Canadas first pay-as-youdrive motor insurance product.
Operating profit IFRS basis Operating profit EEV basis 12 months 12 months 12 months 12 months Our multi-channel, multi-distribution strategy is underpinned 2006 2005 2006 2005 m m m m by relationships with independent brokers, combined with a Morley 76 49 44 26 commitment to developing corporate partnerships as well as new Rest of the world 12 7 12 7 schemes offered to groups and affinity partners.
We continue to Morley and rest develop our e-commerce portal capability, with online quotation of the world 88 56 56 33 and automated workflow tools, and are focused on making it easier for customers and brokers to do business with us.
Our fund management businesses are a key element of the groups strength and balance.
They manage the assets of our internal funds and provide fund management services to financial services companies, external pension funds, public sector organisations and specialist distributors of retail financial products.
It is important for our customers that we are able to offer funds that are directly invested for the customer in addition to more traditional insurance products, and that we are able to offer a diverse range of funds that meet our customers individual preferences.
Overleaf, we discuss the results of our largest fund management business, Morley, and our international operations.
We have other significant fund management businesses that are reported in the UK and Europe business reviews on pages 31 and 41 respectively.
Aviva plc Business review continued Annual Report and Accounts 2006 48 International and Morley continued Morley To meet high demand for new property-related investments, we launched new specialist funds, including the European institutional Morley is one of the largest UK-based active fund managers, with fund Encore and a global real estate investment trust product in total funds under management of 166 billion 2005: 154 billion conjunction with property company CB Richard Ellis Global Real and offices in London, Melbourne, Dublin, Luxembourg, Warsaw, Estate Securities.
The growth of our property funds under management continues We are recognised as a provider of a broad range of specialist fund apace with strong fund inflows.
Our leading property team management solutions to our clients, which include Aviva group continues to be recognised by the industry, winning property companies, many of the UKs largest financial services companies, fund manager of the year from both Property Week and external pension funds, public sector organisations and public and Pensions Management.
People are our core asset and the competition for talent in fund We seek to compete against the best in our industry, by offering management is particularly intense: hence, we are pleased to have high quality products with repeatable out performance in our core been successful in attracting a number of high quality managers as areas of fixed income, pan-European equities, property and tactical part of a continuous programme of development and growth.
We also continue to provide and develop a small We have been particularly successful in recruiting into our UK number of specialist asset classes in areas such as sustainable and equity team during the year.
responsible investment SRI and alternatives.
Corporate responsibility is integral to the way Morley runs its Our strategy is primarily one of organic growth: however, we business.
Through SRI and our corporate governance activity, we actively consider acquisitions where synergies and strategic continue to build on Morleys reputation as a responsible investor.
We aim to deliver sustainable and Our SRI team continues to be highly regarded in the market and profitable growth through a focus on increasing our revenue by was the only UK-based team to win a UK equities mandate from offering higher-margin products in our areas of strength while Frances state pensions reserve fund.
It was also recognised as carefully managing our cost base.
SRI Provider of the Year by Global Pensions 2006.
During the year, Morley and our UK long-term savings business, Our funds under management increased by 12 billion.
Norwich Union Life, agreed to establish a single team, operating We achieved strong sales to third-party life companies and within a joint venture approach, responsible for the sale of collective discretionary fund managers and also won a number of institutional investment products to consolidate and strengthen our participation mandates across our core asset classes of fixed income, UK equities, in both the retail and wholesale UK sales channels over the property, including specialist partnership vehicles, and asset long term.
Growth in funds under management also resulted from During 2006, we launched a number of new institutional and generally positive global investment returns.
Finally, in May, we retail funds, sold under either the Morley or Norwich Union brand completed the take-on of b3.3 billion of funds from the Ark Life names in the UK, and under the new Aviva Morley Funds brand Assurance company resulting from Avivas bancassurance joint name overseas.
We also set up new specialist funds to satisfy increasing client The Morley group as a whole achieved strong profit demand for absolute return products: the Convertible Arbitrage growth in 2006 as operating profit increased to 79 million Hedge Fund, the Absolute Bond Fund and the Absolute Tactical 2005: 52 million, including a 3 million contribution Asset Allocation Fund.
Together with Barclays Capital, we launched 2005: 3 million from our pooled pension business which the Global Balanced and Global Cautious funds, which use is reported in the UK long-term savings segment.
Our fund derivatives to deliver higher income than could normally be management operating profit grew significantly to 76 million expected from a standard investment portfolio.
Our innovative 2005: 49 million, reflecting increased investment management management of these products was recognised by Institutional fee revenue and higher performance fees, which contributed Investor awarding our fund managers the equity derivatives end 14 million 2005: 10 million to profit and were mainly user of the yearaward, and we have seen strong early sales flows.
recognised in the second half of the year.
62 million of the profit was in respect of the UK 2005: 36 million while overseas In June, we completed the purchase of a 56% stake in hedge fund businesses, including Hibernian Investment Managers, accounted management company ORN Capital as part of our strategy to for 14 million 2005: 13 million.
Our fee income benefited from accelerate our alternatives business, adding one multi-strategy and new business mandates and strongly performing investment a number of single-strategy hedge funds to our range of absolute markets that, coupled with our management of our expense base, return products.
delivered a further improvement in our cost income ratio to 72% 2005: 77%.
We continue to position our business to work with our clients to develop tailored investment solutions and capitalise on the growing demand for specialist investment products.
Collective investment sales are reported in our UK long-term savings segment.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 49 Rest of the world Our International fund management businesses consist primarily of Navigator, operating in Australia and Singapore, and a small fund management operation in Canada.
In Australia, Navigator offers full-service and low-cost platforms that give customers access to wealth-creation and post-retirement products and we are ranked seventh in this platform market.
Navigator had an excellent year with overall new business growing by 34% in 2006 to 1,110 million 2005: 848 million, benefiting from ongoing improvements in the product offering and a strong focus on customer service.
In the 2006 S&P Assirt adviser survey, we improved our overall ranking for the third consecutive year and are now above the industry average for overall service levels.
During 2006, we completed a strategic investment in the financial advisory group Infocus Wealth Management as part of our strategy of acquiring strategic stakes in high potential distribution groups.
Professional Investment Holdings and Financial Technology Services, in which we purchased stakes in 2005, are performing well.
The Australian financial services market is one of the fastest growing in the world, due in part to compulsory superannuation contributions.
We are well placed to take advantage of this rapidly expanding market.
Recently announced changes to pension laws and strongly favourable tax legislation are expected to have a positive impact on the platform and fund management industry.
In Singapore, Navigator is a fund administration platform that offers customers cost effective access to a range of mutual funds from different fund managers through one product wrapper.
The business continued to grow strongly during 2006 with significantly higher sales of 261 million 2004: 90 million, i Morley Awards: reflecting strong distribution relationships with key brokers, an increased fund choice and an ongoing buoyant Morley has enjoyed a year of award-winning progress, with expansion into Europe, innovative product economic environment.
launches and strong performance for our investors.
Our businesses reported operating profits of 12 million Our property team continues to be recognised by the industry, winning property fund manager of the year at 2005: 7 million reflecting strong product offerings and the Property Week Awards 2006 and Property Investment benefit of buoyant investment markets.
Manager of the Year at Pensions Management 2006, and winning two European awards Outstanding Company of the Year and Investor of the Year at the Central and Eastern European Real Estate Quality Awards.
Our sustainable and responsible investment SRI team continues to be highly regarded in the market and was the only UK-based team to be awarded a UK equities mandate by Frances state pension reserve fund.
We were recognised as SRI provider of the year by Global Pensions 2006, and we retained our top ranking for our understanding of SRI and extra-financial issues in the Thomson Extel Survey for the fourth successive year.
We are delighted that our hard work, forward thinking approach to asset management and focus on SRI issues continues to be recognised by our peers, clients and industry associates.
U For more information on Morley visit www.
