20 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2006 Report of the Directors A review of the investment activities for the year ended The directors present their report and the 31 October 2006 and the outlook for the coming financial audited accounts for the Group for the year are given in the Chairmans Statement and Managers year ended 31 October 2006.
Status Company Objectives & Policy The Company is an investment company as defined in Section The Companys objectives are to achieve a long term asset 266 of the Companies Act 1985 and operates as an growth in excess of FTSE All-Share Index and, regular dividend investment trust in accordance with Section 842 of the growth in excess of the increase in the Retail Prices Index.
The Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
It is required to seek Companys policy is to achieve these objectives by investing in Inland Revenue approval of its status as an investment trust a broadly diversified international portfolio of shares.
under the above-mentioned Section 842 every year, and this approval will continue to be sought.
Inland Revenue approval Performance for the year and dividends of the Companys status as an investment trust has been Total net assets at 31 October 2006 amounted to received in respect of the year ended 31 October 2005 515,363,000 compared with 435,623,000 at 31 October although this approval is subject to there being no subsequent 2005 as restated, and the net asset value per ordinary share enquiries under Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
directors are of the opinion that the Company has continued to conduct its affairs in a manner that will enable it to Group net revenue after taxation for the year was 11,900,000, continue to gain such approval.
an increase of 7.6% from the previous year.
2006 2005 % Change It is the stated investment policy of the Company to invest no Net assets as at 31 October 515.4m 435.6m 18.3% more than 15% of its gross assets in other listed investment Revenue earnings for the year 11.9m 11.1m 7.6% companies including listed investment trusts.
Dividend payable per share for the year 9.48p 8.25p 14.9% The Company intends to continue to manage its affairs so that its investments fully qualify for a stocks and shares The Board aims to achieve regular dividend growth in excess component of an Individual Savings Account and also fully of the Retail Prices Index.
qualify for a Personal Equity Plan.
Performance measurement and key performance indicators Business Review In order to measure the success of the Company in meeting The following review is designed to provide information its objectives and to evaluate the performance of the primarily about the Companys business and results for the Manager, the directors take into account the following key year ended 31 October 2006 and covers: performance indicators: Investment objective and policy Performance for the year and dividend Performance measured against the Benchmark Performance measurement and key performance The Board reviews and compares, at each meeting, the indicators performance of the portfolio as well as the net asset value Management arrangements and share price for the Company and its Benchmark, the Internal controls and management of risks FTSE All-Share Index.
Gearing Discount to net asset value NAV Share capital At each Board meeting, the Board monitors the level of Future developments the Companys discount premium to NAV and reviews the average discount premium for the Companys relevant Association of Investment Companies AIC sector.
The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2006 21 Report of the Directors continued The Board considers the use of share buy-backs to enhance iii payment of a performance fee in any year is subject to an shareholder value.
During the year 2,100,229 shares were outperformance hurdle rate of 1.5% per annum: purchased.
The Company publishes a NAV per share figure on iv for the first 1% of outperformance in excess of the hurdle a daily basis, through the official newswire of the London rate, a performance fee of 0.15% of gross assets will be Stock Exchange.
This figure is calculated in accordance with paid, and in respect of each further 1% of the AIC formula and excludes current financial year revenue outperformance, a fee of a further 0.2% of gross assets items.
This means that it is on a different basis to the NAV per up to a maximum performance fee in any one year of ordinary share calculated within the year end financial 0.55% of gross assets, so that the maximum total fee statements, which does include current financial year revenue payable in any one year is 0.85% of gross assets.
subject to a transition arrangement whereby the Performance against the Companys peer group maximum fees payable in the years to 31 October 2006 In addition to comparison against the Companys and 31 October 2007 are 0.5% and 0.675% respectively: Benchmark and various indices, the Board also considers the v no performance fee will be paid in any year if either the performance of its AIC peer group at each Board meeting.
Companys net asset value or its share price is lower at the Total expense ratio TER end of the financial year than at the end of the previous The TER is a measure of the total expenses incurred by financial year: the Company including those charged to capital, vi no performance fee will be paid if in any financial year expressed as a percentage of the average shareholders distributable income plus revenue reserves is lower than funds over the year.
The TER is defined here as the total the gross dividends payable in the previous financial year: annual pre tax operating expenses management fee and and other administration costs expressed as a percentage of average shareholders funds over the year.
The TER before vii the notice period for termination of the contract has been performance fees and borrowing costs, amounted to reduced from twelve months to six months.
0.43% 2005: 0.61% of the assets of the Company, and including performance fees was 0.63% 2005: 0.61%.
All publications of the Companys NAV take account of any The Board regularly monitors all Company expenses.
performance fee owing or potentially owing.
During the year under review the Manager used certain Management Arrangements services which were paid for, or provided by, various brokers.
Investment management, accounting, company secretarial In return it placed business, which may have included and administrative services are provided to the Group by transactions relating to the Company, with these brokers.
wholly owned subsidiary companies of Henderson Global With effect from 1 January 2006 revised commission sharing Investors Holdings plc Henderson and by BNP Paribas arrangements have been put in place by the Manager in line Fund Services UK Limited.
From 1 November 2005: with new regulations.
i the basic annual management fee was reduced from 0.45% to 0.30% of gross assets per annum: Internal controls and management of risks There are in place extensive internal controls to evaluate and ii the Manager is eligible for a fee based on the degree of manage the major financial, operational and compliance risks outperformance, calculated on the basis of the average facing the Company.
Details of the internal controls system net asset value total return over a rolling three year period and how the Board undertakes the analysis of the Companys compared to a composite index representing in equal business risks are contained in the Corporate Governance proportions the FTSE All-Share Index and the FTSE World Report on pages 27 to 31. ex UK Index: 22 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2006 Report of the Directors continued The risk of the portfolio is monitored regularly by the Board Directors and mitigated by stock diversification.
By its nature as an The names and biographies of the directors holding office at investment trust, the Companys business activities are the date of this report are listed on page 19.
All directors, exposed to market price risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, with the exception of Mr Burns who joined on 24 February foreign currency risk and counterparty risk.
The Companys 2006, served throughout the year.
policies for managing these risks are set out in note 17 to The Combined Code requires that every director retires by the accounts.
rotation at least every three years, the Companys Articles of Association provide that one third of directors retire by Gearing rotation each year.
Directors are also required to retire if they The Board has in place facilities which allow it to borrow as have served more than nine years on the Board, but may then and when appropriate.
At 31 October 2006 the Company had offer themselves for re-election.
The directors retiring at the committed short term facilities of 40m.
The facilities are forthcoming AGM are Mr R D Brewster, Mr R W Killingbeck, subject to regular review.
Actual gearing at 31 October 2006 Mr J Morley, Mr F I Sumner and Mr D G Thomas who, being was 4.3%.
eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Gearing is the difference between the values of quoted Mr R D Brewster, Mr J Morley and Mr F I Sumner are retiring investments and equity shareholders funds divided by equity as they have served on the Board for more than nine years shareholders funds x 100. and Mr R W Killingbeck and Mr D G Thomas are retiring as it has been three years since they were last reappointed by Share Capital shareholders.
At 31 October 2006 the Company had in issue 116,461,140 ordinary shares of 25p each.
The market price per share at Directors Remuneration that date was 385.5p, giving the Company a market A report on directors remuneration is on pages 25 and 26. capitalisation of 449.0 million.
Equity shareholders funds totalled 515.3 million, the NAV per share at that date being Directors Interests in Shares 442.5p per share inclusive of retained revenue for the year.
Ordinary shares of 25p 31 October 1 November Accordingly, the market price per share stood at a discount of 2006 2005 12.9% to the NAV inclusive of retained revenue for the year.
With beneficial interest: The Company seeks shareholder authority annually to buy R D Brewster 45,214 45,175 back its shares in the market for cancellation.
During the year R R J Burns 25,000 the Company bought back 2,100,229 of its ordinary shares at R W Killingbeck 25,000 4,000 an average discount of 13.5%.
J Morley 27,035 25,050 M B Moule 20,000 Future developments F I Sumner 5,500 5,500 While the future performance of the Company is D G Thomas 12,000 12,000 Non beneficial interest: dependent, to a large degree, on the performance of R R J Burns 20,000 international financial markets, which, in turn, are subject retired on 24 February 2006 to many external factors, the Boards intention is that the appointed 24 February 2006.
Company will continue to pursue its stated investment objective in accordance with the strategy outlined earlier.
The interests of the directors in the ordinary shares of the Further comments on the outlook for the Company for the Company at the beginning and end of the financial year are next twelve months are set out in both the Chairmans shown in the table above.
Since the year end, the following Statement on pages 3 and 4 and the Managers Report directors have become interested in further shares: on page 5.
Mr R D Brewster 23 shares and Mr J Morley 350 shares.
The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2006 23 Report of the Directors continued There were no contracts subsisting during or at the end of the securities of a limited value for cash without first offering year in which a director of the Company is or was materially them to existing shareholders in accordance with statutory interested and which is or was significant in relation to the pre-emption procedures.
This too will expire at the AGM in Companys business.
No director has a service contract with March 2007. the Company.
Appropriate resolutions to renew both authorities will be proposed at the 2007 AGM and are set out in full in the Notice Directors Indemnity of Annual General Meeting on pages 57 and 58.
An ordinary Directors and officers liability insurance cover is in place in resolution will be proposed to authorise the directors to allot respect of the directors.
The Companys Articles of Association shares up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of provide, subject to the provisions of UK legislation, an 1,454,569 being 5% of the issued share capital as at the date indemnity for directors in respect of costs which they may of the Notice of the AGM.
A special resolution will also be incur relating to the defence of any proceedings brought proposed to give the directors authority to allot securities for against them arising out of their positions as directors, in cash on a non pre-emptive basis up to a maximum aggregate which they are acquitted or judgement is given in their favour nominal amount of 1,454,569 being 5% of the Companys by the Court.
issued share capital as at the date of the Notice of the AGM.
Substantial Share Interests The directors do not intend to allot shares pursuant to these Shareholder % of issued shares authorities other than to take advantage of opportunities in Barclays Plc 3.5% the market as they arise and only if they believe it to be Legal & General 3.4% advantageous to the Companys existing shareholders to do so and when it would not result in any dilution of NAV per share, Declarations of interests in the issued share capital of the that is at a premium to NAV, the NAV being calculated with Company, at 2 January 2007, are set out above.
In addition, the Board is aware that, at 31 October 2006, If renewed, both of these authorities will expire at the 15.4% of the issued share capital was held on behalf of conclusion of the AGM in 2008. participants in the in the Henderson Investment Trust Share Plan and 2.0% on behalf of participants in the Henderson PEPs Authority to Make Market Purchases of the Companys Own and ISAs schemes.
These participants are given the opportunity Shares to instruct the relevant nominee company to exercise their At the AGM held on 24 February 2006, the Company was voting rights appertaining to their shares in respect of all authorised and sanctioned to make market purchases of up to general meetings of the Company, but if the participants 17,687,181 of the Companys own issued ordinary shares.
choose not to do so the voting rights are not exercised.
During the year the Company made market purchases for cancellation of 2,100,229 ordinary shares of 25p representing Annual General Meeting AGM 1.8% of the number of shares in issue at 31 October 2005.
The AGM will be held on Thursday 1 March 2007 at 12 noon.
The aggregate consideration paid for the shares was The Notice of Meeting is set out on pages 57 and 58.
7,585,799 excluding stamp duty and commissions.
The reason for the buy backs was to enhance the net asset value Authority to Allot Shares and Disapply Pre-emption Rights per share.
On 24 February 2006 the directors were granted authority to allot a limited number of authorised but unissued ordinary Since 31 October 2006 the Company has made purchases for shares.
This authority will expire at the forthcoming AGM in cancellation of 95,588 ordinary shares.
Authority was also given to the directors to allot 24 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2006 Report of the Directors continued The Board is seeking shareholder approval to renew the authority Corporate Governance to purchase on the London Stock Exchange up to a maximum of A statement on Corporate Governance is on pages 27 to 31.
14.99% of the Companys ordinary shares in issue at the date of the AGM equivalent to 17,443,196 ordinary shares of 25p each Environmental Policy at 12 January 2007, the date of the Notice of the AGM.
The Company has no employees and outsources its investment management and company secretarial services to The directors do not intend to use this authority unless to do subsidiaries of Henderson Group plc Henderson.
so would result in an increase in the net asset value per Henderson has implemented environmental management ordinary share and would be in the best interests of practices, which include systems to limit the use of nonshareholders generally.
The authority being sought provides an renewable resources and minimise the impact of operations additional source of potential demand for the Companys on the environment, and is focused on reducing greenhouse shares.
The Company may utilise the authority to purchase gas emissions and to minimise waste, where possible.
shares by either a single purchase or a series of purchases when market conditions allow, with the aim of maximising Payment of Suppliers the benefit to shareholders.
It is the payment policy for the financial year to 31 October 2007 to obtain the best possible terms for all business and, Auditors therefore, there is no single policy as to the terms used.
In  LLP have indicated their willingness general the Company agrees with its suppliers the terms on to continue in office.
Accordingly, resolutions to re-appoint which business will take place and it is the Companys policy  LLP as auditors to the Company, and to abide by such terms.
There were no trade creditors at to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration, 31 October 2006 2005: nil.
will be proposed at the AGM.
Going Concern Directors Statement as to Disclosure of Information to The directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to Auditors adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts as The directors who were members of the Board at the time of the assets of the Company consist mainly of securities which approving this Report are listed on page 19.
Each of those are readily realisable and, accordingly, the Group has adequate directors confirms that: financial resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
to the best of his knowledge and belief, there is no information relevant to the preparation of their report of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and By order of the Board he has taken all the steps a director might reasonably be W J King FCIS expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit For and on behalf of Henderson Secretarial Services Limited information and to establish that the Companys auditors Secretary are aware of that information.
