The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2006 5 Managers Review Alex Crooke Our value based investment style, focusing on cash generative Our Asian portfolio underwent reconstruction with the and dividend paying companies, has performed well during 2006. appointment of Mike Kerley to the investment team and we are The value style has delivered a high success rate of holding attempting to broaden our coverage both by geography and companies subject to takeover bids and in addition a significant depth within the Asian markets.
Over the coming years domestic level of dividend income.
These two are very much related around consumption is likely to overtake exports as the key driver for a current theme whereby equity is being replaced by cheaper these markets and we hope to benefit from this switch.
The US forms of funding for companies.
Quoted companies around the performance again matched its respective index, in spite of the world have been generating significant levels of cash and are significant size bias and tracking error.
This emphasises the both buying companies and their own shares while also considerable difficulty of out performing in America.
rewarding shareholders with higher dividends.
Despite the growth Our asset allocation has not changed materially over the year, in prices, the valuation rating of most developed equity markets other than reducing and then buying back into Japan.
Most has remained broadly unchanged due to strong earnings growth.
equity markets around the world are highly correlated but Japan Our performance in the UK and Europe can be attributed to a continues to dance to a different tune.
The Japanese yen has mixture of holding the right stocks and avoiding certain of the been very weak as domestic investors borrow locally and invest very largest companies that have disappointed.
Japanese interest rates look set to rise which concentration of smaller and mid cap stocks has been beneficial could herald a strengthening currency.
Our contrarian nature as we have focused both portfolios into a reduced number of favours Japan as valuations are at historic low levels and the weak holdings over the past couple of years.
The economic backdrop to currency offers a good entry point.
Overall, the asset allocation the UK has been benign: with very full employment and a added a significant contribution, as we invested a substantial buoyant property market both being supportive of consumer portion of the assets in the UK and Europe where the highest confidence.
The huge influx of Eastern European labour into the performance numbers were delivered.
UK has helped reduce labour bottlenecks in the economy while Over the year we sold a number of UK and European holdings in keeping wage inflation low.
Those industries that are labour order to reduce the gearing of the portfolio.
At the year end the intensive such as retail and construction have clearly benefited.
gearing was solely provided by the debentures in issue.
While we The recent increase in interest rates has had little immediate see share valuations as attractive in absolute terms, markets rarely impact and certainly has done nothing to cool the housing move in straight lines and we would prefer to have the facilities market.
We expect the UK to deliver a less strong year of available to invest if share prices come back.
Global economic performance against a backdrop of rising interest rates but the growth should be below trend in 2007 and some of the reasonable valuations and yield support should continue to be companies with very high valuations may struggle to deliver profit attractive to private equity bidders.
upgrades to justify investors faith.
