The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2006 19 Directors Richard Brewster Richard Burns Richard Killingbeck James Morley Francis Sumner David Thomas Richard Brewster FCA Chairman Age 61 was appointed as a James Morley FCA Age 57 was appointed as a director in 1994. director in 1991 and became Chairman in 2005.
Having qualified as a After qualifying as a chartered accountant with Arthur Andersen, he has chartered accountant he has spent over 30 years in industry.
From 1983 spent most of his career in the travel and financial services industries, he was Chief Executive Officer of D. S. Smith plc until 1991 when he firstly with Avis Europe and then with Guardian Royal Exchange, the became Chief Executive Officer of Jarvis Porter plc until 1998.
Since international composite insurance company, in both cases as Group then he has extended his interests in private equity investment and was Finance Director.
Following the acquisition of GRE by AXA in 2000, Mr until November 2005 Chief Executive Officer of Interbrandpro Holding Morley left to become Group Finance Director of Arjo Wiggins Appleton.
GmbH, an international promotional print and speciality board business.
In June 2002 he was appointed Group Finance Director of Cox Insurance His other non-executive interests are as a consultant to Pridie Brewster Holdings.
Mr Morley left Cox in June 2005 following its acquisition by the Corporate Finance and as Chairman of Merrill Lynch British Smaller Fieldstreet Group.
Mr Morley is currently Chief Operating Officer of Companies Trust plc.
Primary Group, a privately owned international insurance broker.
Mr Morley is also a non-executive director of W S Atkins plc, where he is Richard Burns Age 60 was appointed a director in 2006.
He is a Chairman of the Audit Committee and Senior Independent Director.
former joint senior partner of Baillie Gifford & Co and former fund manager of Monks Investment Trust plc.
He is also a director of Francis Sumner Senior Independent Director Age 64 was EP Global Opportunities Trust plc, Euronova European Smaller Companies appointed as a director in 1997.
He spent most of his working life as a Fund, JPMorgan Indian Investment Trust plc, Mid Wynd Investment Trust City solicitor specialising in corporate finance.
He was for many years a plc and Standard Life Equity Income Trust plc.
From 1999 to 2006 he partner in Norton Rose, Bankers having been one of his plc clients.
He is was a director of the AITC now called AIC.
currently the Deputy Chairman of the Crown Agents, Vice Chairman of The City and Guilds of London Institute and Vice Chairman of The Richard Killingbeck Director Age 44 was appointed as a director Assessment and Qualifications Alliance.
He has been involved in the financial services industry for 20 years, primarily as a fund manager.
He has held a number of senior David Thomas FIA Age 62 was appointed as a director in 2000.
He positions in the industry both in London and New York including being was Director and General Manager of Investments of The Equitable Life the Chief Executive Officer of Singer & Friedlander Investment Assurance Society until April 2001.
For two years from August 1996 he Management.
He is currently Managing Director of Close Investments was Chairman of the Investment Committee of the Association of Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Close Brothers Group PLC.
British Insurers and at that time was also a member of the Hampel Committee on Corporate Governance.
In addition he sat on the Institutional Investors Advisory Group of The Stock Exchange for several years and was a member of the Lord Chancellors Honorary Investment Advisory Committee which assisted the Public Trustee.
Currently, he is a trustee of the pension fund for the staff of Westminster Abbey and is Chairman of the Abbeys Investment Committee, as well as being an investment adviser to the Staffordshire County Council Pension Fund.
Member of the Management Engagement Committee Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Nomination Committee Management Alex Crooke Tim Stevenson Antony Gifford Mike Kerley Michael Wood-Martin Wendy King The portfolio is managed by Alex Crooke who is engaged full time in investment trust management.
He is assisted by Tim Stevenson Europe, Antony Gifford Deputy Manager North America, Mike Kerley Pacific ex-Japan and Michael Wood-Martin Japan.
Wendy King acts as the Company Secretary and is the representative of Henderson Secretarial Services Limited, the corporate secretary to the Company.
