Directors report Report of the Directors The issued ordinary share capital was increased by 45.1million ordinary Business Review shares during the year as a result of the exercise of options under the The Company is required to set out in this report a fair review of the Sharesave and Executive Share Option Schemes.
At 31st December business of the Group during the financial year ended 31st December 2006 the issued ordinary share capital totalled 6,534,698,021 shares.
2006 and of the position of the Group at the end of the financial year Substantial Shareholdings and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Until 19th January 2007, persons with notifiable interests in the Group known as a Business Review.
Companys shares were required to notify the Company of such The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business Review interests under sections 198 to 208 of the Companies Act 1985. can be found in the following sections of the Annual Report: As at 19th January 2007, the Company had been notified of the following notifiable interest in its shares: Financial highlights and performance indicators pages 2-3 Financial Review pages 15-63 Legal & General Group plc 3.59% Risk factors pages 64-66 On 20th January 2007 the Companies Act 1985 provisions in respect Corporate responsibility pages 143-146 of substantial shareholdings were repealed and the Disclosure and which are incorporated into this report by reference.
Transparency Rules of the FSA came into force.
Profit Attributable As at 27th February 2007, the Company had been notified under Rule 5 The profit attributable to equity shareholders of Barclays PLC for the of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the FSA of the following year amounted to 4,571m, compared with 3,447m in 2005. holding of voting rights in its shares: Dividends Legal & General Group plc 3.70%.
The final dividends for the year ended 31st December 2006 of 20.5p per Board Membership ordinary share of 25p each and 10p per staff share of 1 each have been The membership of the Boards of Directors of Barclays PLC and Barclays agreed by the Directors.
The final dividends will be paid on 27th April Bank PLC is identical and biographical details of the Board members 2007 in respect of the ordinary shares registered at the close of business are set out on pages 112 and 113.
Frits Seegers was appointed as an on 9th March 2007 and in respect of the staff shares so registered on executive Director with effect from 10th July 2006.
With the interim dividends of 10.5p per ordinary Marcus Agius were appointed as non-executive Directors with effect share and of 10p per staff share that were paid on 2nd October 2006, from 1st April 2006 and 1st September 2006 respectively.
Sir David the total distribution for 2006 is 31p 2005: 26.6p per ordinary share Arculus retired from the Board on 27th April 2006 and Robert Steel and 20p 2005: 20p per staff share.
The dividends for the year absorb retired from the Board on 11th October 2006.
Matthew Barrett and a total of 1,973m 2005: 1,687m.
David Roberts left the Board on 31st December 2006. Dividend Reinvestment Plan Chris Lucas will join the Board as Group Finance Director on 1st April Ordinary shareholders may have their dividends reinvested in Barclays 2007 and Naguib Kheraj will leave the Board on 31st March 2007.
PLC ordinary shares by participating in the Dividend Reinvestment Plan.
The plan is available to all ordinary shareholders provided that they Retirement and Re-election of Directors do not live in, and are not subject to the jurisdiction of, any country In accordance with its Articles of Association, one-third rounded where their participation in the plan would require Barclays or The Plan down of the Directors of Barclays PLC are required to retire by rotation Administrator to take action to comply with local government or at each Annual General Meeting AGM, together with Directors regulatory procedures or any similar formalities.
Any shareholder appointed by the Board since the last AGM.
The retiring Directors are wishing to obtain details of the plan and a mandate form should contact eligible to stand for re-election.
In addition, under the UK Combined The Plan Administrator to Barclays at The Causeway, Worthing, BN99 Code on Corporate Governance the Code, every Director should seek 6DA.
Those wishing to participate for the first time in the plan should re-election by shareholders at least every three years.
send their completed mandate form to The Plan Administrator so as to The Directors retiring by rotation at the 2007 AGM and offering be received by 4th April 2007 for it to be applicable to the payment of themselves for re-election are Stephen Russell, Leigh Clifford, Sir Andrew the final dividend on 27th April 2007.
Existing participants should take Likierman and John Varley.
Sir Nigel Rudd retires annually in accordance no action unless they wish to alter their current mandate instructions, with the Code and is offering himself for re-election.
In addition, Frits in which case they should contact The Plan Administrator.
Seegers and Marcus Agius, who were appointed as Directors since the Share Capital last AGM, will be offering themselves for re-election at the 2007 AGM.
The Company did not repurchase any shares during the year.
As at Chris Lucas, who will join the Board on 1st April 2007, will also offer 27th February 2007 the latest practicable date for inclusion in this himself for re-election at the 2007 AGM.
report, the Company had an unexpired authority to repurchase shares Directors Interests up to a maximum of 968.6 million ordinary shares.
Directors interests in the shares of the Group on 31st December 2006, according to the register maintained under the Companies Act 1985, are shown on page 140.
The register is available for inspection during business hours at the Groups head office and will be available for inspection at the 2007 AGM.
Barclays PLC 114 Annual Report 2006 Governance Directors Emoluments Employee Involvement Information on emoluments of Directors of Barclays PLC, in accordance Barclays is committed to ensuring that employees share in the success with the Companies Act 1985 and the Listing Rules of the United of the Group.
Staff are encouraged to participate in share option and Kingdom Listing Authority, is given in the Remuneration report on pages share purchase schemes and have a substantial sum invested in 125 to 140 and in Note 46 to the accounts.
Directors Indemnities Employees are kept informed of matters of concern to them in a variety The Board believes that it is in the best interests of the Group to attract of ways, including the corporate news magazines, intranets, briefings and retain the services of the most able and experienced Directors by and mobile phone SMS messaging.
These communications help offering competitive terms of engagement, including the granting of achieve a common awareness among employees of the financial and indemnities on terms consistent with the applicable statutory economic factors affecting the performance of Barclays.
Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions as defined by Barclays is also committed to providing employees with opportunities section 309B of the Companies Act 1985 were accordingly in force to share their views and provide feedback on issues that are important during the course of the financial year ended 31st December 2006 for to them.
An annual bi-annual in the case of BGI Employee Opinion the benefit of the then Directors and, at the date of this report, are in 2 Survey is undertaken with results being reported to the Board HR and force for the benefit of the Directors in relation to certain losses and Remuneration Committee and all employees.
Roadshows and employee liabilities which they may incur or have incurred in connection with forums also take place.
their duties, powers or office.
In addition, Barclays undertakes regular and formal Group, business unit Activities and project specific consultations with Amicus, our recognised union in Barclays PLC Group is a major global financial services provider engaged the UK.
in retail and commercial banking, credit cards, investment banking, wealth management and investment management services.
The Group Equality and Diversity operates through branches, offices and subsidiaries in the UK and The diversity agenda at Barclays seeks to include customers, colleagues overseas.
Our objective is to recruit and retain the best people, regardless of but not limited to race, religion, age, gender, sexual Community Involvement orientation or disability.
We strive to ensure our workforce reflects the The total commitment for 2006 was 46.5m 2005: 39.1m.
communities in which we operate, and the international nature of the The Group committed 39.6m in support of the community in the UK organisation.
We recognise that diversity is a key part of responsible 2005: 35.3m and 6.9m was committed in international support business strategy in support of our increasingly global business.
The UK commitment includes 35.2m of charitable Barclays is committed to providing additional support to employees donations 2005: 16.7m.
with disabilities and making it easier for them to inform us of their Barclays is a member of the Percent Club a group of companies that specific requirements including the introduction of a dedicated intranet have undertaken to ensure that donations to the community over time site.
Through our Reasonable Adjustments Scheme, appropriate amount to at least 1% of their UK pre-tax profit.
assistance can be given, including both physical workplace adjustments, and relevant training and access to trained mentors is Barclays has an extensive community programme covering many also provided for disabled employees.
A wide range of recruitment countries around the world.
The Group provides funding and support initiatives have been taken to increase the number of people with to over 8,279 charities and voluntary organisations, ranging from small, disabilities working in Barclays.
local charities, like Passage UK, to international organisations like Unicef.
We also have a very successful employee programme which in Health and Safety 2006 saw more than 33,000 employees and pensioners worldwide Barclays is committed to ensuring the health, safety and welfare of our taking part in Barclays supported volunteering, giving and fundraising employees and, so far as is reasonably practicable, to providing and activities.
Further information on our community involvement is given maintaining safe working conditions.
Barclays regards legislative on pages 143 and 146. compliance as a minimum and where appropriate we seek to implement higher standards.
Barclays also recognises its responsibilities Political Donations towards all persons on Barclays premises, such as contractors, visitors The Group did not give any money for political purposes in the UK nor and members of the public, and ensures, so far as is reasonably did it make any donations to EU political organisations or incur any EU practicable, that they are not exposed to risks to their health and safety.
political expenditure during the year.
Absa Group Limited, in which the Group acquired a majority stake in 2005, made donations totalling In 2006 Barclays reviewed its Statement of Commitment which applies 212,729 in 2006 2005: 224,400 in accordance with its policy of in all business areas in which Barclays has operational control.
In this making political donations to the major South African political parties statement, Barclays commits to: to support the development of democracy in South Africa.
The Group demonstrate personal leadership that is consistent made no other political donations in 2006. with this vision: At the AGM in 2006, shareholders gave a limited authority for Barclays provide the appropriate resources to fulfil this commitment: PLC and Barclays Bank PLC to make political donations and incur carry out risk assessments and take appropriate actions political expenditure, within an agreed limit, as a precautionary measure to mitigate risk: in light of the wide definitions in The Political Parties, Elections and consult our employees on matters affecting their Health Referendums Act 2000.
This was a renewal of an authority given by and Safety: shareholders in 2002.
These authorities, which have not been used, ensure that appropriate information, instruction, training expire on 26th April 2007.
The risk of inadvertently breaching The and supervision are provided: Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 remains and the appoint competent persons to provide specialist advice: and Directors consider it prudent to seek a renewal of the authority given by review Barclays Health and Safety Group Process, and the Statement shareholders for Barclays Bank PLC.
A resolution to authorise Barclays of Commitment, at regular intervals.
Bank PLC to make political donations and incur political expenditure up to a maximum aggregate sum of 125,000 is therefore being proposed at the Barclays PLC 2007 AGM.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 115 Directors report Barclays monitors its health and safety performance using a variety of The Auditors measurements on a monthly basis and the Board HR and Remuneration The Board Audit Committee reviews the appointment of the external Committee receives annual reports on health and safety performance auditors, as well as their relationship with the Group, including monitoring from the Human Resources Director.
As part of its Partnership the Groups use of the auditors for non-audit services and the balance Agreement with trade union Amicus in the UK, Barclays funds seven of audit and non-audit fees paid to the auditors.
More details on this can full time Health and Safety Representatives.
be found on pages 121 and 122 and Note 9 to the accounts.
Having reviewed the independence and effectiveness of the external auditors, Creditors Payment Policy the Committee has recommended to the Board that the existing auditors, Barclays values its suppliers and acknowledges the importance of  LLP, be reappointed.
 paying invoices, especially those of small businesses, promptly.
LLP have signified their willingness to continue in office and ordinary Normal policy is to pay all small business purchases within 30 days.
resolutions reappointing them as auditors and authorising the Directors It is the Groups practice to agree terms with suppliers when entering to set their remuneration will be proposed at the 2007 AGM.
We negotiate with suppliers on an individual basis and meet our obligations accordingly.
The Group does not follow any So far as each of the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
Each of the specific published code or standard on payment practice.
Directors has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Paragraph 12 3 of Schedule 7 of the Companies Act 1985 requires Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit disclosure of trade creditor payment days.
Disclosure is required by information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of the Company, rather than the Group.
The Groups principal trading that information.
For these purposes, relevant audit information means subsidiary in the UK is Barclays Bank PLC, the accounts for which are information needed by the Companys auditors in connection with prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting preparing their report.
The components for the trade creditor calculation are not easily identified.
However, by identifying as closely as possible the The Annual General Meeting components that would be required if Schedule 4 of the Companies Act The Barclays PLC AGM will be held at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference applied, the trade creditor payment days for Barclays Bank PLC for 2006 Centre on Thursday 26th April 2007.
The Notice of Meeting is included in were 28 days 2005: 35 days.
This is an arithmetical calculation and a separate document sent to shareholders with this report.
A summary does not necessarily reflect our practice, which is described above, nor of the resolutions being proposed at the 2007 AGM is set out below: the experience of any individual creditor.
Ordinary Resolutions To receive the Directors and Auditors Reports and the Audited Financial Instruments The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies, Accounts for the year ended 31st December 2006.
To approve the Remuneration report for the year ended including the policy for hedging each major type of forecasted transaction for which hedge accounting is used, and the exposure to 31st December 2006.
To re-elect the following Directors: market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk are set out in pages 67 to 94 under the headings, Barclays approach to risk management, Credit Marcus Agius: Frits Seegers: Risk Management, Market risk management, Capital and liquidity risk management and Derivatives and in Note 14 and Notes 52 to 57 to Chris Lucas: Stephen Russell: the accounts.
Leigh Clifford: Events after the Balance Sheet Date Sir Andrew Likierman: On 19th January 2007 Barclays announced that it entered into an John Varley: and agreement to purchase EquiFirst Corporation, the non-prime Sir Nigel Rudd.
mortgage origination business of Regions Financial Corporation, for To reappoint  LLP as auditors of a consideration of approximately US$225m.
Completion, which is the Company.
subject to receipt of the required licences and applicable regulatory To authorise the Directors to set the remuneration of the auditors.
approval, as well as a post-closing adjustment based on EquiFirsts To authorise Barclays Bank PLC to make political donations.
balance sheet at the actual completion date, is expected in the first half To renew the authority given to the Directors to allot securities.
Special Resolutions On 8th February 2007 Barclays completed the acquisition of To renew the authority given to the Directors to allot securities for Indexchange Investment AG from Bayerische Hypo-und Vereinsbank cash other than on a pro-rata basis to shareholders and to sell for a consideration of approximately 240m.
To renew the Companys authority to purchase its own shares.
To adopt new Articles of Association to allow the Company to take advantage of the new provisions of the Companies Act 2006 which enable companies to communicate electronically or via a website with all shareholders.
This is only a summary of the business to be transacted at the meeting and you should refer to the Notice of Meeting for full details.
By order of the Board Lawrence Dickinson Company Secretary 8th March 2007 Barclays PLC 116 Annual Report 2006
