Financial statements Independent Auditors report UK Audit Report of the Independent Registered Auditors Basis of Audit Opinion to the members of Barclays PLC We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial statements on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
the financial statements of Barclays PLC for the year ended An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant 31st December 2006 which comprise the Income Statements, Balance to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the Sheets, Cash Flow Statements, Statements of Recognised Income and auditable part of the Remuneration report.
It also includes an Expense and the related notes on pages 162 to 250.
These financial assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether out on pages 151 to 160.
We have also audited the information in the the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys Remuneration report that is described as having been audited the circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
auditable part on pages 133 to 139.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom statements and the auditable part of the Remuneration report are free law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other by the European Union are set out in the statement of Directors irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall responsibilities on page 141.
The Directors are also responsible for adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements preparing the Remuneration report.
and the auditable part of the Remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable Opinion part of the Remuneration report in accordance with relevant legal and In our opinion: regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with and the Parent Companys affairs as at 31st December 2006 and of Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
the Groups and the Parent Companys profit and cash flows for the We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any year then ended: other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or the financial statements and the auditable part of the Remuneration into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior report have been properly prepared in accordance with the consent in writing.
Companies Act 1985 and, as with regards to the Group financial We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the auditable part of the Remuneration report have been properly prepared financial statements.
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as with regards to the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also 3 report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors' report is consistent with the financial statements.
In addition, we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper  LLP accounting records, if we have not received all the information and Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law London, United Kingdom regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
8th March 2007 We review whether the Corporate Governance Report reflects the Companys and Groups compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys or Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans statement, Group chief executives review, Financial review, Risk management, Directors report, Corporate governance report, the unaudited part of the Remuneration report, Accountability and audit and Presentation of information.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Notes a The maintenance and integrity of the Barclays PLC website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 149 Independent Registered Public Accounting Firms report Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting We conducted our audit of internal control over financial reporting in Firm to the Board of Directors and Shareholders of accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Barclays PLC Oversight Board United States.
Those standards require that we plan We have completed an integrated audit of Barclays PLC the Company and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether and its subsidiary undertakings 31st December 2006 consolidated effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all financial statements on pages 151 to 274 and of its internal control over material respects.
An audit of internal control over financial reporting financial reporting as of 31st December 2006 and an audit of its 2005 includes obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial and 2004 consolidated financial statements in accordance with the reporting, evaluating managements assessment, testing and standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, States.
Our opinions, based on our audits, are presented below.
and performing such other procedures as we consider necessary in the circumstances.
We believe that our audit provides a reasonable Consolidated financial statements basis for our opinions.
In our opinion, the accompanying Consolidated Income Statements, Consolidated Balance Sheets, Consolidated Cash Flow Statements and A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process the Consolidated Statements of Recognised Income and Expense designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Barclays financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for PLC and its subsidiary undertakings at 31st December 2006 and 2005 external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting and the results of their operations and cash flows for each of the three standards and principles.
A companys internal control over financial years in the period ended 31st December 2006, in conformity with reporting includes those policies and procedures that i pertain to the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly European Union.
These financial statements are the responsibility of the reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company: Companys management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion ii provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance audits of these financial statements in accordance with the standards with generally accepted accounting standards and principles, and that of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain accordance with authorisations of management and directors of the reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free company: and iii provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention of material misstatement.
An audit of financial statements includes or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and the companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting statements.
principles used and significant estimates made by management, and Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial evaluating the overall financial statements presentation.
We believe reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the IFRSs as adopted by the European Union vary in certain significant risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in respects from accounting principles generally accepted in the conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or United States of America.
Information relating to the nature and procedures may deteriorate.
effect of such differences is presented in Note 60 to the consolidated financial statements.
Internal control over financial reporting Also, in our opinion, managements assessment, included in the accompanying Managements report on internal control over financial  LLP reporting as set out in the Accountability and audit section on page Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors 141, that the Company maintained effective internal control over London, United Kingdom financial reporting as of 31st December 2006 based on criteria 8th March 2007 established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission COSO, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on those criteria.
Furthermore, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of 31st December 2006, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the COSO.
The Companys management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting.
Our responsibility is to express opinions on managements assessment and on the effectiveness of the Companys internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
Barclays PLC 150 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Accounting policies value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Significant Accounting Policies See accounting policy 14 for the accounting policy for goodwill.
Intra-group transactions and balances are eliminated on consolidation 1.
Reporting entity These financial statements are prepared for the Barclays PLC Group and consistent accounting policies are used throughout the Group for the purposes of the consolidation.
Barclays or the Group under Section 227 2 of the Companies Act 1985.
The Group is a major global financial services provider engaged As the consolidated financial statements include partnerships where a in retail and commercial banking, credit cards, investment banking, Group member is a partner, advantage has been taken of the exemption wealth management and investment management services.
In addition, of Regulation 7 of the Partnerships and Unlimited Companies individual financial statements have been prepared for the holding Accounts Regulations 1993 with regard to the preparation and filing company, Barclays PLC the Company, under Section 226 2 b of the of individual partnership financial statements.
Associates and joint ventures Barclays PLC is a public limited company, incorporated in England and An associate is an entity in which the Group has significant influence, Wales and having a registered office in England and Wales.
but not control, over the operating and financial management policy decisions.
This is generally demonstrated by the Group holding in 2.
Compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards The consolidated financial statements of the Barclays PLC Group, and excess of 20%, but no more than 50%, of the voting rights.
the individual financial statements of Barclays PLC, have been prepared A joint venture exists where the Group has a contractual arrangement in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs with one or more parties to undertake activities typically, though not and interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting necessarily, through entities which are subject to joint control.
Interpretations Committee IFRIC, as adopted by the European Union.
Unless designated as at fair value through profit and loss as set out in They are also in accordance with IFRSs as published by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and interpretations issued by IFRIC.
policy 7, the Groups investments in associates and joint ventures are initially recorded at cost and increased or decreased each year by the The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the Groups share of the post-acquisition net income or loss, or other consolidated and individual financial statements are set out below.
movements reflected directly in the equity of the associated or jointly These policies have been consistently applied.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of an associate or joint venture is included in the carrying amount of the investment 3.
Basis of preparation The consolidated and individual financial statements have been net of any accumulated impairment loss.
When the Groups share of losses in an associate or joint venture equals or exceeds the recorded prepared under the historical cost convention modified to include the fair valuation of certain financial instruments and contracts to buy or interest, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made sell non-financial items and trading inventories to the extent required or permitted under accounting standards and as set out in the relevant payments on behalf of the entity.
They are stated in millions of pounds Sterling m, The Groups share of the results of associates and joint ventures is based the currency of the country in which Barclays PLC is incorporated.
on financial statements made up to a date not earlier than three months 3 Critical accounting estimates before the balance sheet date, adjusted to conform with the accounting polices of the Group.
Unrealised gains on transactions are eliminated to The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires the extent of the Groups interest in the investee.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of impairment management to exercise judgement in the process of applying the accounting policies.
The notes to the financial statements set out areas in the asset transferred.
involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where In the individual financial statements, investments in subsidiaries, assumptions are significant to the consolidated and individual financial associates and joint ventures are stated at cost less impairment, if any.
statements such as fair value of financial instruments Note 58, allowance for loan impairment Note 17, goodwill Note 23, intangible 5.
Foreign currency translation The consolidated and individual financial statements are presented in assets Note 24, and retirement benefit obligations Note 35.
Sterling, which is the functional currency of the parent company.
Consolidation Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities Subsidiaries The consolidated financial statements combine the financial are measured using their functional currency, being the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates.
statements of Barclays PLC and all its subsidiaries, including certain special purpose entities where appropriate, made up to 31st December.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the appropriate Entities qualify as subsidiaries where the Group has the power to govern functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the financial and operating policies of the entity so as to obtain benefits the transactions.
Monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are from its activities, generally accompanying a shareholding of more than retranslated at the rate prevailing at the period end.
Foreign exchange one half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting gains and losses resulting from the retranslation and settlement of these rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered in items are recognised in the income statement except for qualifying cash assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
Details of the flow hedges or hedges of net investments.
See policy 12 for the policies principal subsidiaries are given in Note 47. on hedge accounting.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is Non-monetary assets that are measured at fair value are translated transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date using the exchange rate at the date that the fair value was determined.
Exchange differences on equities and similar non-monetary items held The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the at fair value through profit or loss, are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss.
Translation differences on equities classified as available purchase of subsidiaries.
The cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities for sale financial assets and non-monetary items are included directly in equity.
incurred or assumed, plus any costs directly related to the acquisition.
The excess of the cost of an acquisition over the Groups share of the fair Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 151 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Accounting policies For the purposes of translation into the presentational currency, assets, adjustment to the effective interest on the loan once drawn.
liabilities and equity of foreign operations are translated at the closing Commitment fees in relation to facilities where draw down is not rate, and items of income and expense are translated into Sterling at probable are recognised over the term of the commitment.
the rates prevailing on the dates of the transactions, or average rates Insurance premiums of exchange where these approximate to actual rates.
Insurance premiums are recognised in the period earned.
The exchange differences arising on the translation of a foreign Net trading income operation are included in cumulative translation reserves within Income arises from the margins which are achieved through marketshareholders equity and included in the profit or loss on disposal making and customer business and from changes in market value or partial disposal of the operation.
caused by movements in interest and exchange rates, equity prices Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of foreign and other market variables.
Trading positions are held at fair value and subsidiaries are maintained in the functional currency of the foreign the resulting gains and losses are included in the Income statement, operation, translated at the closing rate and are included in hedges together with interest and dividends arising from long and short of net investments where appropriate.
positions and funding costs relating to trading activities.
On transition to IFRS, the Group brought forward a nil opening balance Dividends from subsidiaries on the cumulative foreign currency translation adjustment arising from In the individual financial statements of Barclays PLC, dividends from the retranslation of foreign operations, which is shown as a separate subsidiaries are accounted for on the basis of dividends received in the item in shareholders equity.
Interest, fees and commissions Prior to 1st January 2005 Interest Interest Interest is recognised in interest income and interest expense in the Interest income is recognised in the income statement as it accrues, income statement for all interest bearing financial instruments classified with the exception of interest on non-performing loans as set out in as held to maturity, available for sale or other loans and receivables accounting policy 8. using the effective interest method.
Fees and commissions The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised Fee income relating to loans and advances is recognised in the income cost of a financial asset or liability or group of assets and liabilities and statement to match the cost of providing a continuing service, together of allocating the interest income or interest expense over the relevant with a reasonable profit margin.
Where a fee is charged in lieu of period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts the interest, it is recognised in the income statement as interest receivable expected future cash payments or receipts through the expected life of on a level yield basis over the life of the advance.
Fees and commissions the financial instrument, or when appropriate, a shorter period, to the receivable in respect of all other services provided are recognised in the net carrying amount of the instrument.
The application of the method income statement when the related services are performed and when has the effect of recognising income and expense receivable considered recoverable.
or payable on the instrument evenly in proportion to the amount outstanding over the period to maturity or repayment.
Mortgage indemnity premiums Premiums are deferred and included in accruals and deferred income in In calculating effective interest, the Group estimates cash flows using the Group balance sheet.
Following regular reviews of the amount of projections based on its experience of customers behaviour income required to cover anticipated losses in respect of this lending, considering all contractual terms of the financial instrument but deferred income is released to the income statement on an annual basis.
Fees, including those for early redemption, are included in the calculation to the extent that they can Insurance premiums be measured and are considered to be an integral part of the effective Insurance premiums are recognised in the period earned.
Cash flows arising from the direct and incremental costs Lending related fees and commissions payable and incentives of issuing financial instruments are also taken into account in the Fees and commissions payable to introducers in respect of obtaining calculation.
Where it is not possible to otherwise estimate reliably the certain lending business, where this is the primary form of distribution, cash flows or the expected life of a financial instrument, effective are charged to the income statement as fees and commissions payable, interest is calculated by reference to the payments or receipts specified over the anticipated life of the loans.
in the contract, and the full contractual term.
The costs of mortgage incentives, which comprise cashbacks and Fees and commissions interest discounts, are charged to the income statement as a reduction Unless included in the effective interest calculation, fees and to interest receivable as incurred.
commissions are recognised on an accruals basis as the service is provided.
Fees and commissions not integral to effective interest arising 7.
Financial assets and liabilities from negotiating, or participating in the negotiation of a transaction Financial assets from a third party, such as the acquisition of loans, shares or other The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: securities or the purchase or sale of businesses, are recognised on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss: loans and completion of the underlying transaction.
Portfolio and other receivables: held to maturity investments and available for sale financial management advisory and service fees are recognised based on the assets.
Management determines the classification of financial assets applicable service contracts.
Asset management fees related to and liabilities at initial recognition.
investment funds are recognised over the period the service is provided.
Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss The same principle is applied to the recognition of income from wealth Financial instruments are classified in this category if they are held for management, financial planning and custody services that are trading, or if they are designated by management under the fair value continuously provided over an extended period of time.
Instruments are classified as held for trading if they are: Commitment fees, together with related direct costs, for loan facilities i acquired principally for the purposes of selling or repurchasing in where draw down is probable are deferred and recognised as an the near term: Barclays PLC 152 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements ii part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that are Purchases of held to maturity financial assets are recognised on trade managed together and for which there is evidence of a recent date, being the date on which the Group commits to purchase the asset.
actual pattern of short-term profit-taking: or Available for sale iii a derivative, except for a derivative that is a financial guarantee Available for sale assets are non-derivative financial assets that are contract or a designated and effective hedging instrument.
designated as available for sale and are not categorised into any of the other categories described above.
They are initially recognised at fair Financial instruments cannot be transferred into or out of this category value including direct and incremental transaction costs.
Financial instruments included in this category are subsequently held at fair value.
Gains and losses arising from changes recognised initially at fair value and transaction costs are taken directly in fair value are included as a separate component of equity until sale to the Income statement.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair when the cumulative gain or loss is transferred to the income value are included directly in the Income statement.
Interest determined using the effective interest method are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows have expired see accounting policy 6, impairment losses and translation differences or the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of on monetary items are recognised in the income statement.
The assets ownership and the transfer qualifies for derecognition.
are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows have expired Regular way purchases and sales of financial instruments held for or the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards trading or designated under the fair value option are recognised on of ownership.
trade date, being the date on which the Group commits to purchase Regular way purchases and sales of available for sale financial or sell the asset.
instruments are recognised on trade date, being the date on which the The fair value option is used in the following circumstances: Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
i financial assets backing insurance contracts and financial assets Financial liabilities backing investment contracts are designated at fair value through Financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost, except for trading profit or loss because the related liabilities have cash flows that are liabilities and liabilities designated at fair value, which are held at fair contractually based on the performance of the assets or the related value through profit or loss.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when liabilities are insurance contracts whose measurement incorporates extinguished.
Fair valuing the assets through profit and loss Determining fair value significantly reduces the recognition inconsistencies that would Where the classification of a financial instrument requires it to be stated arise if the financial assets were classified as available for sale: at fair value, this is determined by reference to the quoted bid price or ii financial assets, loans to customers, financial liabilities, financial asking price as appropriate in an active market wherever possible.
guarantees and structured notes may be designated at fair value Where no such active market exists for the particular asset or liability, through profit or loss if they contain substantive embedded the Group uses a valuation technique to arrive at the fair value, derivatives: including the use of prices obtained in recent arms-length transactions, discounted cash flow analysis, option pricing models and other iii financial assets, loans to customers, financial liabilities, financial 3 valuation techniques commonly used by market participants.
guarantees and structured notes may be designated at fair value through profit or loss where doing so significantly reduces Profits or losses are only recognised on initial recognition when such measurement inconsistencies that would arise if the related profits can be measured solely by reference to observable current derivatives were treated as held for trading and the underlying market transactions or valuation techniques based solely on observable financial instruments were carried at amortised cost: and market inputs.
iv certain private equity and other investments that are managed, and Prior to 1st January 2005, financial assets were accounted for as follows: evaluated on a fair value basis in accordance with a documented Loans and advances risk management or investment strategy and reported to key Loans and advances, other than those held in a dealing portfolio, are management personnel on that basis.
recorded in the balance sheet at cost, less interest in suspense debited Loans and receivables to the customers account, specific and general provisions.
Advances Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or held in a dealing portfolio for the purpose of trading on a secondary determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market and market are valued at the lower of cost and market value.
which are not classified as available for sale.
Loans and receivables are Investment securities initially recognised at fair value including direct and incremental Investment securities are debt securities and equity shares intended transaction costs.
They are subsequently valued at amortised cost, for use on a continuing basis by the Group and identified as such.
using the effective interest method see accounting policy 6 on page Investment securities are stated at cost less any provision for 152.
They are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows have impairment.
The cost of dated investment securities is adjusted for the expired or the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and amortisation of premiums or discounts on purchase over the period to rewards of ownership.
The amortisation of premiums and discounts is included Regular way purchases and sales of loans and receivables are in interest receivable.
Other debt securities and equity shares are stated at market value and Held to maturity profits and losses arising from this revaluation are taken directly to the Held to maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with income statement through dealing profits.
Listed securities are valued fixed or determinable payments that the Groups management has the based on market prices, with long positions at bid and short positions intention and ability to hold to maturity.
They are initially recognised at at offer price.
Unlisted securities are valued based on the Directors fair value including direct and incremental transaction costs.
They are estimate, which takes into consideration discounted cash flows, price subsequently valued at amortised cost, using the effective interest earnings ratios and other valuation techniques.
They are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows have expired.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 153 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Accounting policies In the case of private equity investments, listed and unlisted investments indicative of the counterpartys ability to pay all amounts due according are stated at cost less any provision for impairment.
to the contractual terms of the assets being evaluated.
Impairment of financial assets Future cash flows in a group of financial assets that are collectively The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is evaluated for impairment are estimated on the basis of the contractual objective evidence that a financial asset or a portfolio of financial assets cash flows of the assets in the group and historical loss experience for carried at amortised cost is impaired.
A financial asset or portfolio of assets with credit risk characteristics similar to those in the group.
financial assets is impaired and impairment losses are incurred if, and Historical loss experience is adjusted based on current observable data only if, there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or to reflect the effects of current conditions that did not affect the period more loss events that occurred after the initial recognition of the asset on which the historical loss experience is based and to remove the and prior to the balance sheet date a loss event and that loss event effects of conditions in the historical period that do not currently exist.
or events has had an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the The methodology and assumptions used for estimating future cash financial asset or the portfolio that can be reliably estimated.
Objective flows are reviewed regularly to reduce any differences between loss evidence that a financial asset or a portfolio is impaired includes estimates and actual loss experience.
observable data that comes to the attention of the Group about the following loss events: Following impairment, interest income is recognised using the original effective rate of interest which was used to discount the future cash a significant financial difficulty of the issuer or obligor: flows for the purpose of measuring the impairment loss.
b a breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in interest or When a loan is uncollectable, it is written off against the related principal payments: provision for loan impairment.
Such loans are written off after all the c the lender, for economic or legal reasons relating to the borrowers necessary procedures have been completed and the amount of the loss financial difficulty, granting to the borrower a concession that the has been determined.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously lender would not otherwise consider: written off are credited to the income statement.
d it becomes probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases other financial reorganisation: and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment e the disappearance of an active market for that financial asset loss is reversed by adjusting the allowance account.
The amount of the because of financial difficulties: or reversal is recognised in the income statement.
f observable data indicating that there is a measurable decrease in Equity securities acquired in exchange for loans and advances in order the estimated future cash flows from a portfolio of financial assets to achieve an orderly realisation are accounted for as a disposal of the since the initial recognition of those assets, although the decrease loan and an acquisition of equity securities.
Where control is obtained cannot yet be identified with the individual financial assets in the over an entity as a result of the transaction, the entity is consolidated.
portfolio, including: Any further impairment of the assets or business acquired is treated as i adverse changes in the payment status of borrowers in the an impairment of the relevant asset or business and not as an portfolio: impairment of the original instrument.
ii national or local economic conditions that correlate with In the case of equity instruments classified as available for sale, a defaults on the assets in the portfolio.
significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered in determining whether impairment exists.
Where The Group first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment such evidence exists, the cumulative net loss that has been previously exists individually for financial assets that are individually significant, recognised directly in equity is removed from equity and recognised in and individually or collectively for financial assets that are not the income statement.
In the case of debt instruments classified as individually significant.
If the Group determines that no objective available for sale, impairment is assessed based on the same criteria as all evidence of impairment exists for an individually assessed financial other financial assets.
Reversals of impairment of debt instruments are asset, whether significant or not, it includes the asset in a group of recognised in the income statement.
Reversals of impairment of equity financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics and collectively shares are not recognised in the income statement, increases in the fair assesses them for impairment.
Assets that are individually assessed value of equity shares after impairment are recognised directly in equity.
for impairment and for which an impairment loss is or continues to be recognised are not included in a collective assessment of impairment.
Prior to 1st January 2005 For loans and receivables and assets held to maturity, the amount of Specific provisions are raised when the Group considers that the impairment loss is measured as the difference between the assets creditworthiness of a borrower has deteriorated such that the recovery carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows of the whole or part of an outstanding advance is in serious doubt.
discounted at the assets original effective interest rate.
The amount of Typically, this is done on an individual basis, although scope exists the loss is recognised using an allowance account and recognised in within the retail businesses, where the portfolio comprises the income statement.
homogeneous assets and where statistical techniques are appropriate, to raise specific provisions on a portfolio basis.
The calculation of the present value of the estimated future cash flows of a collateralised financial asset reflect the cash flows that may result General provisions are raised to cover losses which are judged to be from foreclosure costs for obtaining and selling the collateral, whether present in loans and advances at the balance sheet date, but which have or not foreclosure is probable.
not been specifically identified as such.
These provisions are adjusted at least half yearly by an appropriate charge or release of general provision For the purposes of a collective evaluation of impairment, financial based on a statistical analysis.
The accuracy of this analysis is assets are grouped on the basis of similar risk characteristics, taking into periodically assessed against actual losses.
Gradings are used to rate the account asset type, industry, geographical location, collateral type, pastcredit quality of borrowers.
Each grade corresponds to an Expected due status and other relevant factors.
These characteristics are relevant Default Frequency and is calculated by using manual or computer to the estimation of future cash flows for groups of such assets by being driven score-sheets validated by an analysis of the Groups own Barclays PLC 154 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements historical data.
This grade can be derived from different sources 10.
Securitisation transactions depending upon the borrower e. g. internal model, credit rating Certain Group undertakings have issued debt securities or have entered agency.
The general provision also takes into account the economic into funding arrangements with lenders in order to finance specific climate in the market in which the Group operates and the level of loans and advances to customers.
security held in relation to each category of counterparty.
The general All financial assets continue to be held on the Group balance sheet, and provision includes a specifically identified element to cover country a liability recognised for the proceeds of the funding transaction, unless: transfer risk calculated on a basis consistent with the overall general provision calculation.
General provisions are created with respect to i substantially all the risks and rewards associated with the financial the recoverability of assets arising from off-balance sheet exposures instruments have been transferred, in which case, the assets are in a manner consistent with the general provisioning methodology.
derecognised in full: or The aggregate specific and general provisions which are made during ii if a significant portion, but not all, of the risks and rewards have the year, less amounts released and recoveries of bad debts previously been transferred, the asset is derecognised entirely if the transferee written off, are charged against operating profit and are deducted from has the ability to sell the financial asset, otherwise the asset loans and advances.
Impaired lendings are written off against the continues to be recognised only to the extent of the Groups balance sheet asset and provision in part, or in whole, when the extent continuing involvement.
of the loss incurred has been confirmed.
Where i or ii above applies to a fully proportionate share of all or If the collection of interest is doubtful, it is credited to a suspense specifically identified cash flows, the relevant accounting treatment account and excluded from interest income in the income statement.
is applied to that proportion of the asset.
Although it continues to be charged to the customers accounts, the 11.
Collateral and netting suspense account in the balance sheet is netted against the relevant The Group enters into master agreements with counterparties loan.
If the collection of interest is considered to be remote, interest is whenever possible and, when appropriate, obtains collateral.
Master no longer applied and suspended interest is written off.
Loans on which agreements provide that, if an event of default occurs, all outstanding interest is suspended are not reclassified as accruing interest until transactions with the counterparty will fall due and all amounts interest and principal payments are up to date and future payments are outstanding will be settled on a net basis.
Collateral Assets acquired in exchange for advances in order to achieve an orderly The Group obtains collateral in respect of customer liabilities where this realisation continue to be reported as advances.
The asset acquired is is considered appropriate.
The collateral normally takes the form of a recorded at the carrying value of the original advance updated as at the lien over the customers assets and gives the Group a claim on these date of the exchange.
Any subsequent impairment is accounted for as assets for both existing and future liabilities.
The Group also receives collateral in the form of cash or securities in 9.
Sale and repurchase agreements including stock borrowing respect of other credit instruments, such as stock borrowing contracts, and lending and derivative contracts in order to reduce credit risk.
Collateral received 3 Securities may be lent or sold subject to a commitment to repurchase in the form of securities is not recorded on the balance sheet.
Such securities are retained on the balance sheet when received in the form of cash is recorded on the balance sheet with a substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership remain with the corresponding liability.
These items are assigned to deposits received Group, and the counterparty liability is included separately on the from bank or other counterparties.
Any interest payable or receivable balance sheet as appropriate.
arising is recorded as interest expense or interest income respectively Similarly, where the Group borrows or purchases securities subject to except for funding costs relating to trading activities which are recorded a commitment to resell them a reverse repo but does not acquire in net trading income.
the risks and rewards of ownership, the transactions are treated as Netting collateralised loans, and the securities are not included in the Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported balance sheet.
in the balance sheet if, and only if, there is a legally enforceable right to The difference between sale and repurchase price is accrued over the life set off the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a of the agreements using the effective interest method.
Securities lent to net basis, or to realise an asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
counterparties are also retained in the financial statements.
Securities In many cases, even though master netting agreements are in place, borrowed are not recognised in the financial statements, unless these the lack of an intention to settle on a net basis results in the related are sold to third parties, at which point the obligation to repurchase assets and liabilities being presented gross in the balance sheet.
the securities is recorded as a trading liability at fair value and any 12.
Derivatives and hedge accounting subsequent gain or loss included in net trading income.
Derivatives are used to hedge interest rate, exchange rate, commodity, Prior to 1st January 2005 and equity exposures and exposures to certain indices such as house price indices and retail price indices related to non-trading positions.
The cash legs of repos and reverse repos are included within loans and In addition, the use of derivatives and their sale to customers as risk advances to banks, loans and advances to customer, deposits by banks management products is an integral part of the Groups trading and customer accounts.
The Group aims to earn net interest income activities.
Derivatives entered into for hedging purposes and for trading and net trading income from these activities, as well as funding its own purposes include foreign exchange, interest rate, credit, equity and holdings of securities.
The difference between sale and repurchase and commodity derivatives mainly in the form of swaps, forwards, options purchase and resale prices for such transactions, including dividends and combinations of these instrument types.
received where appropriate, is charged or credited to the income statement over the life of the relevant transactions.
Derivatives Derivatives are measured initially at fair value and subsequently remeasured to fair value.
Fair values are obtained from quoted prices prevailing in active markets, including recent market transactions, and Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 155 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Accounting policies valuation techniques, including discounted cash flow models and Cash flow hedges option pricing models as appropriate.
All derivatives are included in For qualifying cash flow hedges, the fair value gain or loss associated assets when their fair value is positive, and liabilities when their fair with the effective portion of the cash flow hedge is recognised initially value is negative, unless there is the legal ability and intention to settle in shareholders equity, and recycled to the income statement in the net as per accounting policy 11. periods when the hedged item will affect profit or loss.
Any ineffective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in Embedded derivatives the income statement immediately.
Some hybrid contracts contain both a derivative and a non-derivative component.
In such cases, the derivative component is termed an When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no embedded derivative.
Where the economic characteristics and risks of longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or the embedded derivatives are not closely related to those of the host loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised contract, and the host contract itself is not carried at fair value through when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income profit or loss, the embedded derivative is bifurcated and reported at fair statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, value with gains and losses being recognised in the income statement.
the cumulative gain or loss that was recognised in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
Profits or losses cannot be recognised on the initial recognition of embedded derivatives unless the host contract is also carried at fair Hedges of net investments value.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations, including monetary items that are accounted for as part of the net investment, are Hedge accounting accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges: the effective portion of the Where derivatives are held for risk management purposes, and when gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity transactions meet the criteria specified in IAS 39, the Group applies and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income fair value hedge accounting, cash flow hedge accounting, or hedging statement.
The cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity of a net investment in a foreign operation as appropriate to the risks is recognised in the income statement on the disposal or partial disposal being hedged.
When a financial instrument is designated as a hedge, the Group Hedges of net investments may include non-derivative liabilities as well formally documents the relationship between the hedging instrument as derivative financial instruments although for a non-derivative liability and hedged item as well as its risk management objectives and its only the foreign exchange risk is designated as a hedge.
strategy for undertaking the various hedging transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging Derivative contracts entered into as economic hedges that do not transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or qualify for hedge accounting are held at fair value through profit or loss.
cash flows of hedged items.
Prior to 1st January 2005 The Group discontinues hedge accounting when: Derivatives entered into as trading transactions, together with any i It is determined that a derivative is not, or has ceased to be, highly associated hedging, are measured at fair value and the resultant profits effective as a hedge: and losses are included in net trading income, along with interest and dividends arising from long and short positions and funding costs ii the derivative expires, or is sold, terminated, or exercised: relating to trading activities.
Assets and liabilities resulting from gains or iii the hedged item matures or is sold or repaid: or losses on derivative and foreign exchange contracts are reported gross and reduced by the effects of qualifying netting agreements with iv a forecast transaction is no longer deemed highly probable.
In certain circumstances, the Group may decide to cease hedge The fair value of derivatives is determined by calculating the expected accounting even though the hedge relationship continues to be highly cash flows under the terms of each specific contract, discounted back effective by no longer designating the financial instrument as a hedging to a present value.
The expected cash flows for each contract are instrument.
To the extent that the changes in the fair value of the determined either directly by reference to actual cash flows implicit in hedging derivative differ from changes in the fair value of the hedged observable market prices or through modelling cash flows using risk in the hedged item: or the cumulative change in the fair value of the appropriate financial-markets pricing models.
hedging derivative differs from the cumulative change in the fair value of expected future cash flows of the hedged item, the hedge is deemed The effect of discounting expected cash flows back to present value is ineffective.
The amount of ineffectiveness, provided it is not so great as achieved by constructing discount curves derived from the market price to disqualify the entire hedge for hedge accounting, is recorded in the of the most appropriate observable interest rate products such as income statement.
deposits, interest rate futures and swaps.
The calculation of fair value for any financial instrument may also require adjustment of the quoted Fair value hedge accounting price or model value to reflect the cost of credit risk where not Changes in fair value of derivatives that qualify and are designated as embedded in underlying models or prices used, or to reflect hedging fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with costs not captured in pricing models to the extent they would be taken changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are into account by a market participant in determining a price.
attributable to the hedged risk.
Derivatives used for hedging purposes are measured on an accruals If the hedge relationship no longer meets the criteria for hedge basis consistent with the assets, liabilities, positions or future cash flows accounting, it is discontinued.
For fair value hedges of interest rate risk, being hedged.
The gains and losses on these instruments arising from the fair value adjustment to the hedged item is amortised to the income changes in fair value are not recognised in the income statement statement over the period to maturity of the previously designated immediately as they arise.
Such gains are either not recognised in the hedge relationship using the effective interest method.
balance sheet or are recognised and carried forward.
When the hedged If the hedged item is sold or repaid, the unamortised fair value transaction occurs, the gain or loss is recognised in the income adjustment is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Barclays PLC 156 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements statement at the same time as the hedged item.
The criteria required for The Group uses the following annual rates in calculating depreciation: a derivative instrument to be classified as a designated hedge are that: Freehold buildings and long-leasehold property i the transaction must be reasonably expected to match or eliminate more than 50 years to run 2-3.3% a significant proportion of the risk inherent in the assets, liabilities, Leasehold property Over the remaining other positions or cash flows being hedged and which results from less than 50 years to run life of the lease potential movements in market rates and credit risk: and Costs of adaptation of freehold and a ii adequate evidence of the intention to hedge and linkage with the leasehold property 7-10% underlying risk inherent in the assets, liabilities, other positions or Equipment installed in freehold and a cash flows being hedged, must be established at the outset of the leasehold property 7-10% transaction.
Computers and similar equipment 20-33% Fixtures and fittings and other equipment 10-20% Designated hedges are reviewed for effectiveness by regular tests to determine that the hedge is closely negatively correlated to the Note designated hedged position in each and every identified time band in a Where leasehold property has a remaining useful life of less than 15 years, costs of adaptation and installed equipment are depreciated over the the maturity profile.
remaining life of the lease.
Profits and losses on interest rate swaps and options entered into for Depreciation rates, methods and the residual values underlying the hedging purposes are measured on an accrual accounting basis, calculation of depreciation of items of property, plant and equipment included in the related category of income and expense and reported as are kept under review to take account of any change in circumstances.
part of the yield on the hedged transaction.
Amounts paid or received When deciding on depreciation rates and methods, the principal factors over the life of futures contracts are deferred until the contract is closed: the Group takes into account are the expected rate of technological accumulated deferred amounts on futures contracts and settlement developments and expected market requirements for, and the expected amounts paid or received on forward contracts are accounted for as pattern of usage of, the assets.
When reviewing residual values, the elements of the carrying value of the associated instrument, affecting Group estimates the amount that it would currently obtain for the the resulting yield.
disposal of the asset after deducting the estimated cost of disposal if the A premium paid or received in respect of a credit derivative hedging an asset were already of the age and condition expected at the end of its asset or liability is amortised over the life of the protection purchased or useful economic life.
sold against either interest payable or interest receivable.
Where a credit No depreciation is provided on freehold land, although, in common event occurs which triggers a recovery under the credit derivative, then with all long-lived assets, it is subject to impairment testing, if deemed the recovery will be offset against the profit and loss charge on the appropriate.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the Foreign exchange contracts which qualify as hedges of foreign currency proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised in the income exposures, including positions relating to investments the Group makes 3 statement.
outside the UK, are retranslated at the closing rate with any forward premium or discount recognised over the life of the contract in net 14.
Goodwill Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiary and associated entities Profits and losses related to qualifying hedges, including foreign and joint ventures, and represents the excess of the fair value of the exchange contracts, of firm commitments and probable anticipated purchase consideration and direct costs of making the acquisition, transactions are deferred and recognised in income or as adjustments over the fair value of the Groups share of the assets acquired, and to carrying amounts when the hedged transactions occur.
the liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed on the date of Hedging transactions that are superseded or cease to be effective the acquisition.
are measured at fair value.
Any profit or loss on these transactions, For the purpose of calculating goodwill, fair values of acquired assets, together with any profit or loss arising on hedging transactions that liabilities and contingent liabilities are determined by reference to are terminated prior to the end of the life of the asset, are deferred and market values or by discounting expected future cash flows to present amortised into interest income or expense over the remaining life of value.
This discounting is either performed using market rates or by the item previously being hedged.
When the underlying asset, liability using risk-free rates and risk-adjusted expected future cash flows.
position or cash flow is terminated prior to the hedging transaction, Goodwill is capitalised and reviewed annually for impairment, or more or an anticipated transaction is no longer likely to occur, the hedging frequently when there are indications that impairment may have transaction is measured on the fair value accounting basis, as described occurred.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose in the section on derivatives used for trading purposes below, prior to of impairment testing.
Goodwill on acquisitions of associates and joint being transferred to the trading portfolio.
The profit or loss arising from ventures is included in the amount of the investment.
Gains and losses the fair value measurement prior to the transfer to the trading portfolio on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of the goodwill is included in the category of income or expense relating to the relating to the entity sold.
The carrying amount of goodwill in the UK GAAP balance sheet as at 13.
Property, plant and equipment 31st December 2003 has been brought forward without adjustment on Property and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation transition to IFRSs.
and provisions for impairment, if any.
Additions and subsequent expenditures are capitalised only to the extent that they enhance the Computer software future economic benefits expected to be derived from the assets.
Computer software is stated at cost, less amortisation and provisions for impairment, if any.
Depreciation is provided on the depreciable amount of items of property and equipment on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful The identifiable and directly associated external and internal costs of economic lives.
The depreciable amount is the gross carrying amount, acquiring and developing software are capitalised where the software is less the estimated residual value at the end of its useful economic life.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 157 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Accounting policies controlled by the Group, and where it is probable that future economic Financial guarantees are initially recognised in the financial statements benefits that exceed its cost will flow from its use over more than one at fair value on the date that the guarantee was given.
Costs associated with maintaining software are recognised as an the fair value option is applied, subsequent to initial recognition, the expense when incurred.
banks liabilities under such guarantees are measured at the higher of the initial measurement, less amortisation calculated to recognise in the Capitalised computer software is amortised over three to five years.
income statement the fee income earned over the period, and the best Other intangible assets estimate of the expenditure required to settle any financial obligation Other intangible assets consist of brands, customer lists, licences and arising as a result of the guarantees at the balance sheet date.
other contracts, core deposit intangibles, mortgage servicing rights and Any increase in the liability relating to guarantees is taken to the income customer relationships.
Other intangible assets are initially recognised statement in Provisions for undrawn contractually committed facilities when they are separable or arise from contractual or other legal rights, and guarantees provided.
Any liability remaining is recognised in the the cost can be measured reliably and, in the case of intangible assets income statement when the guarantee is discharged, cancelled or not acquired in a business combination, where it is probable that future expires.
economic benefits attributable to the assets will flow from their use.
The value of intangible assets which are acquired in a business combination 17.
Issued debt and equity securities is generally determined using income approach methodologies such as Issued financial instruments or their components are classified as the discounted cash flow method and the relief from royalty method liabilities where the contractual arrangement results in the Group that estimate net cash flows attributable to an asset over its economic having a present obligation to either deliver cash or another financial life and discount to present value using an appropriate rate of return asset to the holder, to exchange financial instruments on terms that are based on the cost of equity adjusted for risk.
potentially unfavourable or to satisfy the obligation otherwise than by the exchange of a fixed amount of cash or another financial asset for a Other intangible assets are stated at cost less amortisation and fixed number of equity shares.
Issued financial instruments, or their provisions for impairment, if any, and are amortised over their useful components, are classified as equity where they meet the definition of lives in a manner that reflects the pattern to which they contribute to equity and confer on the holder a residual interest in the assets of the future cash flows, generally over 4-25 years.
The components of issued financial instruments that contain 15.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment and both liability and equity elements are accounted for separately with the intangible assets equity component being assigned the residual amount after deducting At each balance sheet date, or more frequently where events or changes from the instrument as a whole the amount separately determined as in circumstances dictate, property, plant and equipment and intangible the fair value of the liability component.
assets, are assessed for indications of impairment.
If indications are Financial liabilities, other than trading liabilities and financial liabilities present, these assets are subject to an impairment review.
Goodwill is designated at fair value, are carried at amortised cost using the effective subject to an impairment review as at the balance sheet date each year.
interest method as set out in policy 6.
Derivatives embedded in financial The impairment review comprises a comparison of the carrying amount liabilities that are not designated at fair value are accounted for as set of the asset with its recoverable amount: the higher of the assets or the out in policy 12.
Equity instruments, including share capital, are initially cash-generating units net selling price and its value in use.
Net selling recognised at net proceeds, after deducting transaction costs and any price is calculated by reference to the amount at which the asset could related income tax.
Dividend and other payments to equity holders are be disposed of in a binding sale agreement in an arms-length deducted from equity, net of any related tax.
transaction evidenced by an active market or recent transactions for similar assets.
Value in use is calculated by discounting the expected Prior to 1st January 2005 future cash flows obtainable as a result of the assets continued use, Debt securities in issue and similar securities are stated at the net issue including those resulting from its ultimate disposal, at a market-based proceeds adjusted for amortisation of premiums, discounts and discount rate on a pre-tax basis.
expenses related to their issue where the liability is a fixed amount.
The carrying values of fixed assets and goodwill are written down by Where the liability fluctuates, based on, for example, the performance of the amount of any impairment and this loss is recognised in the income an index then the debt security reflects the current value of the liability.
statement in the period in which it occurs.
A previously recognised Loan capital in issue is stated at the net issue proceeds adjusted for impairment loss relating to a fixed asset may be reversed in part or in full amortisation of premiums, discounts and expenses related to their when a change in circumstances leads to a change in the estimates used issue.
Amortisation is calculated in order to achieve a constant yield to determine the fixed assets recoverable amount.
The carrying amount across the life of the instrument.
of the fixed asset will only be increased up to the amount that it would have been had the original impairment not been recognised.
Share capital losses on goodwill are not reversed.
For the purpose of conducting Share issue costs impairment reviews, cash-generating units are the lowest level at which Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or management monitors the return on investment on assets.
options including those issued on the acquisition of a business are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Financial guarantees Financial guarantee contracts are contracts that require the issuer to Dividends on ordinary shares make specified payments to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised in equity in the period because a specified debtor fails to make payments when due in in which they are paid or, if earlier, approved by the Barclays PLC the accordance with the terms of a debt instrument.
Such financial guarantees are given to banks, financial institutions and Treasury shares other bodies on behalf of customers to secure loans, overdrafts and Where the Company or any member of the Group purchases the other banking facilities facility guarantees, and to other parties in Companys share capital, the consideration paid is deducted from connection with the performance of customers under obligations shareholders equity as treasury shares until they are cancelled.
Where related to contracts, advance payments made by other parties, tenders, such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration retentions and the payment of import duties.
received is included in shareholders equity.
Barclays PLC 158 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 19.
Insurance contracts and investment contracts Liability adequacy test The Group offers wealth management, term assurance, annuity, Liability adequacy tests are performed at each balance sheet date to property and payment protection insurance products to customers ensure the adequacy of contract liabilities net of DAC and VOBA assets.
that take the form of longand short-term insurance contracts.
Current best estimates of future contractual cash flows, claims handling and administration costs, and investment returns from the assets The Group classifies its wealth management and other products as backing the liabilities are taken into account in the tests.
Where a insurance contracts where these transfer significant insurance risk, deficiency is highlighted by the test, DAC and VOBA assets are written generally where the benefits payable on the occurrence of an insured off first, and insurance liabilities increased when these are written off in event are at least 5% more than the benefits that would be payable if full.
Any deficiency is immediately recognised in the income statement.
the insured event does not occur.
Reinsurance Barclays Wealth contracts that do not contain significant insurance Shortand long-term insurance business is ceded to reinsurers under risk or discretionary participation features are classified as investment contracts to transfer part or all of one or more of the following risks: contracts.
Financial assets and liabilities relating to investment mortality, investment and expenses.
All such contracts are dealt with as contracts, and assets backing insurance contracts are classified and insurance contracts.
The benefits to which the Group is entitled under measured as appropriate under IAS 39, Financial Instruments: its reinsurance contracts are recognised as reinsurance assets.
Group assesses reinsurance assets at each balance sheet date.
If there Long-term insurance contracts is objective evidence of impairment, the carrying amount of the These contracts, insure events associated with human life for example, reinsurance asset is reduced accordingly resulting in a charge to the death or survival over a long duration.
Premiums are recognised as income statement.
revenue when they become payable by the contract holder.
Claims and Prior to 1st January 2005 surrenders are accounted for when notified.
Maturities on the policy maturity date and regular withdrawals are accounted for when due.
The Group treated all products taking the legal form of an insurance contract as insurance contracts.
A liability for contractual benefits that are expected to be incurred in the future is recorded when the premiums are recognised, based on the From 1st January 2004 the Group has chosen to change its accounting expected discounted value of the benefit payments and directly related policy in relation to insurance contracts to use Modified Statutory administration costs, less the expected discounted value of the future Solvency Basis rather than an Embedded Value basis to account premiums that would be required to meet the benefits and other for insurance policies in the UK.
This change resulted in insurance expenses.
The calculation of the liability contains assumptions contracts and investment contracts being accounted for on a similar regarding mortality, maintenance expenses and investment income.
basis and represents the most appropriate accounting policy in the circumstances.
This change in policy reduced other operating income Liabilities under unit-linked life insurance contracts such as by 47m in 2004 and reduced retained earnings by 592m as at endowment policies in addition reflect the value of assets held within 1st January 2004.
The impact on earnings per share was immaterial.
Leases 3 Short-term insurance contracts Lessor Under its payment protection insurance products the Group is Assets leased to customers under agreements, which transfer committed to paying benefits to the policyholder rather than forgiving substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, with or without interest or principal on the occurrence of an insured event, such as ultimate legal title, are classified as finance leases.
When assets are held unemployment, sickness, or injury.
Property insurance contracts mainly subject to a finance lease, the present value of the lease payments, compensate the policyholders for damage to their property or for the discounted at the rate of interest implicit in the lease, is recognised as value of property lost.
The difference between the total payments receivable Premiums are recognised as revenue proportionally over the period of under the lease and the present value of the receivable is recognised as the coverage.
Claims and claims handling costs are charged to income unearned finance income, which is allocated to accounting periods as incurred, based on the estimated liability for compensation owed to under the pre-tax net investment method to reflect a constant periodic policyholders arising from events that have occurred up to the balance rate of return.
sheet date even if they have not yet been reported to the Group, based Assets leased to customers under agreements which do not transfer on assessments of individual cases reported to the Group and statistical substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as analyses for the claims incurred but not reported.
The leased assets are included within property, plant Deferred acquisition costs DAC and equipment on the Groups balance sheet and depreciation is Commissions and other costs that are related to securing new provided on the depreciable amount of these assets on a systematic insurance and investment contracts are capitalised and amortised over basis over their estimated useful lives.
Lease income is recognised on a the estimated lives of the relevant contracts.
straight-line basis over the period of the lease unless another systematic basis is more appropriate.
Deferred income liability Fees that are designed to recover commissions and other costs related Lessee to either securing new insurance and investment contracts or renewing The leases entered into by the Group are primarily operating leases.
existing investment contracts are included as a liability and amortised Operating lease rentals payable are recognised as an expense in the over the estimated life of the contract.
income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term unless another systematic basis is more appropriate.
Value of business acquired On acquisition of a portfolio of contracts, such as through the acquisition 21.
Employee benefits of a subsidiary, the Group recognises an intangible asset representing the The Group provides employees worldwide with post-retirement benefits value of business acquired VOBA, representing the future profits mainly in the form of pensions.
The Group operates a number of embedded in acquired insurance contracts and investment contracts pension schemes which may be funded or unfunded and of a defined with a discretionary participation feature.
The asset is amortised over the contribution or defined benefit nature.
In addition, the Group remaining terms of the acquired contracts.
contributes, according to local law in the various countries in which it Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 159 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Accounting policies operates, to Governmental and other plans which have the where the unavoidable costs of the future obligations relating to the characteristics of defined contribution plans.
lease are expected to exceed anticipated rental income and other benefits.
The net costs are discounted using market rates of interest For defined benefit schemes, actuarial valuation of each of the schemes to reflect the long-term nature of the cash flows.
obligations using the projected unit credit method and the fair valuation of each of the schemes assets are performed annually, using the Provision is made for the anticipated cost of restructuring, including assumptions set out in Note 35.
The difference between the fair value of redundancy costs when an obligation exists.
An obligation exists when the plan assets and the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the Group has a detailed formal plan for restructuring a business and the balance sheet date, adjusted for any historic unrecognised actuarial has raised valid expectations in those affected by the restructuring gains or losses and past service cost, is recognised as a liability in the by starting to implement the plan or announcing its main features.
An asset, arising for example, as a result of past over The provision raised is normally utilised within nine months.
funding or the performance of the plan investments, is recognised to Contingent liabilities are possible obligations whose existence will be the extent that it does not exceed the present value of future confirmed only by uncertain future events or present obligations where contribution holidays or refunds of contributions.
the transfer of economic benefit is uncertain or cannot be reliably Cumulative actuarial gains and losses in excess of the greater of 10% of measured.
Contingent liabilities are not recognised but are disclosed the assets or 10% of the obligations of the plan are recognised in the unless they are remote.
income statement over the remaining average service lives of the 24.
Taxes, including deferred taxes employees of the related plan, on a straight-line basis.
Income tax payable on taxable profits current tax, is recognised For defined contribution schemes, the Group recognises contributions as an expense in the period in which the profits arise.
Income tax due in respect of the accounting period in the income statement.
Any recoverable on tax allowable losses is recognised as an asset only to contributions unpaid at the balance sheet date are included as a liability.
the extent that it is regarded as recoverable by offset against current or future taxable profits.
The Group also provides health care to certain retired employees, which are accrued as a liability in the financial statements over the period of Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on employment, using a methodology similar to that for defined benefit temporary timing differences arising from the differences between the pensions plans.
tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
Deferred income tax is determined Short-term employee benefits, such as salaries, paid absences, and using tax rates and legislation enacted or substantially enacted by the other benefits, are accounted for on an accruals basis over the period balance sheet date and is expected to apply when the deferred tax asset which employees have provided services in the year.
Bonuses are is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred and current recognised to the extent that the Group has a present obligation to its tax assets and liabilities are only offset when they arise in the same tax employees that can be measured reliably.
reporting group and where there is both the legal right and the intention All expenses related to employee benefits are recognised in the income to settle on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability statement in staff costs, which is included within operating expenses.
Segment reporting The Group engages in equity settled share-based payment transactions Business segments are distinguishable components of the Group that in respect of services received from certain of its employees.
The fair provide products or services that are subject to risks and rewards that are value of the services received is measured by reference to the fair value different to those of other business segments.
Geographical segments of the shares or share options granted on the date of the grant.
The cost provide products or services within a particular economic environment of the employee services received in respect of the shares or share that is subject to risks and rewards that are different to those of options granted is recognised in the income statement over the period components operating in other economic environments.
Business that the services are received, which is the vesting period.
The fair value segments are the primary reporting segments.
Group costs are allocated of the options granted is determined using option pricing models, to segments on a reasonable and consistent basis.
Transactions between which take into account the exercise price of the option, the current segments are generally accounted for in accordance with Group policies share price, the risk free interest rate, the expected volatility of the share as if the segment were a stand-alone business with intra-segment price over the life of the option and other relevant factors.
Except for revenue and costs being eliminated in Head office.
those which include terms related to market conditions, vesting The analyses by geographical segment is based on the location of conditions included in the terms of the grant are not taken into account the customer.
Non-market vesting conditions are taken into account by adjusting the number of shares or share options included in 26.
Cash and cash equivalents the measurement of the cost of employee services so that ultimately, For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash comprises cash on the amount recognised in the income statement reflects the number of hand and demand deposits, and cash equivalents comprise highly liquid vested shares or share options.
Where vesting conditions are related to investments that are convertible into cash with an insignificant risk of market conditions, the charges for the services received are recognised changes in value with original maturities of less than three months.
regardless of whether or not the market related vesting condition is met, Trading balances, repos and reverse repos are not considered to be part provided that the non-market vesting conditions are met.
Trust activities Provisions are recognised for present obligations arising as The Group commonly acts as trustees and in other fiduciary capacities consequences of past events where it is more likely than not that a that result in the holding or placing of assets on behalf of individuals, transfer of economic benefit will be necessary to settle the obligation, trusts, retirement benefit plans and other institutions.
These assets and and it can be reliably estimated.
income arising thereon are excluded from these financial statements, as they are not assets of the Group.
When a leasehold property ceases to be used in the business or a demonstrable commitment has been made to cease to use a property where the costs exceed the benefits of the property, provision is made, Barclays PLC 160 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Accounting presentation Changes in Accounting Presentation On 1st July 2005, Barclays acquired the wealth business of ING In order to provide more relevance to users and to enhance the Securities Bank France consisting of ING Ferri and ING Private Banking.
comparability of its financial statement presentation, the Group has On 9th May 2005, Barclays announced the terms of a recommended reformatted the income statement, the balance sheet, the statement of acquisition of a majority stake in Absa Group Limited Absa.
Barclays has cash flows and certain notes to the accounts, including the presentation consolidated Absa from 27th July 2005. of discrete notes that contain information regarding securitisations and leasing disclosed elsewhere in the accounts for 2005.
Where appropriate, 2004: On 11th March 2004, Barclays purchased the remaining 40% comparative figures have been re-presented to conform with the current minority share in Barclays Cairo Bank.
Previously reported amounts of assets, liabilities, equity, On 1st December 2004, Barclays completed the acquisition of Juniper profits and changes in cash and cash equivalents have not been affected Financial Corporation from Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce.
Disposals Changes in presentation affecting cash flows in 2005 and 2004 have 2006: On 1st January 2006, Barclays completed the sale of the Barclays been disclosed in Note 42.
South African branch business to Absa Group Limited.
This consists of Future Accounting Developments the Barclays Capital South African operations and Corporate and IFRS 7 Financial Instruments Disclosures and an amendment to IAS 1 Business Banking activities previously carried out by the South African Presentation of Financial Statements on capital disclosures were branch of International Retail and Commercial Banking excluding issued by the IASB in August 2005 for application in accounting periods Absa, together with the associated assets and liabilities.
beginning on or after 1st January 2007 and have been adopted by the On 25th July 2006, Barclays Asset & Sales Finance BASF disposed of its European Commission.
The new or revised disclosures will be adopted interest in its motor vehicle contract hire business, Appleyard Finance by the Group for reporting in 2007.
The following International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee On 31st August 2006, Barclays disposed of Bankhaus Wolbern which IFRIC interpretations issued during 2005 and 2006 which first apply to was formerly part of Absa.
accounting periods beginning on or after 1st January 2007 are not expected to result in any changes to the Groups accounting policies: On 22nd December 2006 Barclays disposed of its interest in FirstCaribbean International Bank to Canadian Imperial Bank of Interpretation 7 Applying the Restatement Approach under Commerce.
IAS 29 Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies Interpretation 8 Scope of IFRS 2 On 31st December 2006, BA&SF disposed of its European Vendor Interpretation 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives Finance business, including Barclays Industrie Bank GmbH and Barclays Interpretation 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment Technology Finance Ltd, to CIT Group.
Consideration will be given during 2007 to the implications, if any, of the 2004: On 7th April 2004, Barclays completed the disposal of its following IFRIC interpretations issued during 2006 which would first shareholding in Edotech Limited to Astron, the business process apply to the Group accounting period beginning on 1st January 2008: outsourcing group.
3 IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions Recent developments IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements On 19th January 2007, Barclays announced that it had entered into an agreement to purchase EquiFirst Corporation, the non-prime mortgage IFRS 8 Operating Segments was issued in November 2006 and would origination business of Regions Financial Corporation.
Completion is first be required to be applied to the Group accounting period beginning expected in the first half of 2007, subject to the receipt of the required on 1st January 2009.
The standard replaces IAS 14 Segmental Reporting licences and applicable regulatory approval.
and would align operating segmental reporting with segments reported to senior management as well as requiring amendments and additions On 8th February 2007, Barclays completed the acquisition of Indexchange to the existing segmental reporting disclosures.
The Group is Investment AG, Germanys leading provider of exchange traded funds, considering the advantages that permitted early adoption in 2007 from Bayerische Hypo-und Vereinsbank.
The transaction was announced may make to the transparency of the segmental disclosures.
US GAAP On 28th February 2007, Barclays completed the acquisition of Significant differences exist between accounting principles generally approximately 96% of the share capital of Nile Bank in Uganda.
accepted under IFRS and those generally accepted in the US.
The effect The transaction was announced in December 2006. of US GAAP on profit attributable to equity holders of the parent and shareholders equity excluding minority interest for Barclays PLC Group is set out in Note 60.
Acquisitions 2006: On 1st November 2006, Barclays Bank PLC acquired the US mortgage servicing business of HomEq Servicing Corporation from Wachovia Corporation.
2005: On 1st June 2005, Barclays Asset and Sales Finance BASF acquired a 51% share and controlling stake in Fiats Iveco Vehicle Finance Business.
The transaction will expand BASFs commercial vehicle expertise.
On 30th June 2005, EnterCard, the joint venture between Barclays Bank PLC and FreningsSparbanken also known as Swedbank, which was announced on 4th February 2005, began operations.
Barclays Bank PLC has a 50% economic interest in the joint venture.
EnterCard provides credit cards in the Nordic market, initially in Sweden and Norway.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 161 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Consolidated income statement Consolidated income statement For the year ended 31st December a 2006 2005 2004 Notes m m m Continuing operations Interest income 2 21,805 17,232 13,880 Interest expense 2 12,662 9,157 7,047 Net interest income 9,143 8,075 6,833 Fee and commission income 3 8,005 6,430 5,509 Fee and commission expense 3 828 725 662 Net fee and commission income 7,177 5,705 4,847 Net trading income 4 3,614 2,321 1,487 Net investment income 4 962 858 1,027 Principal transactions 4,576 3,179 2,514 Net premiums from insurance contracts 5 1,060 872 1,042 Other income 6 214 147 131 Total income 22,170 17,978 15,367 Net claims and benefits incurred on insurance contracts 5 575 645 1,259 Total income net of insurance claims 21,595 17,333 14,108 Impairment charges 7 2,154 1,571 1,093 Net income 19,441 15,762 13,015 Staff costs 8 8,169 6,318 5,227 Administration and general expenses 9 3,914 3,768 2,990 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 25 455 362 297 Amortisation of intangible assets 24 136 79 22 Operating expenses 12,674 10,527 8,536 Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 22 46 45 56 Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 323 45 Profit before tax 7,136 5,280 4,580 Tax 10 1,941 1,439 1,279 Profit after tax 5,195 3,841 3,301 Profit attributable to minority interests 38 624 394 47 Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 4,571 3,447 3,254 5,195 3,841 3,301 p pp Earnings per share Basic earnings per share 11 71.9 54.4 51.0 Diluted earnings per share 11 69.8 52.6 49.8 Interim dividend per ordinary share 10.50 9.20 8.25 Proposed final dividend per ordinary share 1 20.50 17.40 15.75 m m m Interim dividend 666 582 528 Proposed final dividend 1 1,307 1,105 1,001 The Board of Directors approved the accounts set out on pages 151 to 274 on 8th March 2007.
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the Consolidated accounts.
Note a Does not reflect the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 which became effective from 1st January 2005.
Barclays PLC 162 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Consolidated balance sheet Consolidated balance sheet As at 31st December 2006 2005 Notes m m Assets Cash and balances at central banks 7,345 3,906 Items in the course of collection from other banks 2,408 1,901 Trading portfolio assets 12 177,867 155,723 Financial assets designated at fair value: held on own account 13 31,799 12,904 held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts 13 82,798 83,193 Derivative financial instruments 14 138,353 136,823 Loans and advances to banks 15 30,926 31,105 Loans and advances to customers 16 282,300 268,896 Available for sale financial investments 18 51,703 53,497 Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed 19 174,090 160,398 Other assets 20 5,850 4,734 Current tax assets 21 557 Investments in associates and joint ventures 22 228 546 Goodwill 23 6,092 6,022 Intangible assets 24 1,215 1,269 Property, plant and equipment 25 2,492 2,754 Deferred tax assets 21 764 686 Total assets 996,787 924,357 Liabilities Deposits from banks 26 79,562 75,127 Items in the course of collection due to other banks 2,221 2,341 Customer accounts 27 256,754 238,684 Trading portfolio liabilities 12 71,874 71,564 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 28 53,987 33,385 Liabilities to customers under investment contracts 13 84,637 85,201 Derivative financial instruments 14 140,697 137,971 Debt securities in issue 29 111,137 103,328 3 Repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent 19 136,956 121,178 Other liabilities 30 10,337 11,131 Current tax liabilities 21 1,020 747 Insurance contract liabilities, including unit-linked liabilities 31 3,878 3,767 Subordinated liabilities 32 13,786 12,463 Deferred tax liabilities 21 282 700 Provisions 33 462 517 Retirement benefit liabilities 35 1,807 1,823 Total liabilities 969,397 899,927 Shareholders equity Called up share capital 36 1,634 1,623 Share premium account 36 5,818 5,650 Other reserves 37 390 1,377 Retained earnings 37 12,169 8,957 Less: treasury shares 37 212 181 Shareholders equity excluding minority interests 19,799 17,426 Minority interests 38 7,591 7,004 Total shareholders equity 27,390 24,430 Total liabilities and shareholders equity 996,787 924,357 The accompanying notes form an integral part of the Consolidated accounts.
Marcus Agius Chairman John Varley Group Chief Executive Naguib Kheraj Group Finance Director Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 163 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense For the year ended 31st December a 2006 2005 2004 m m m Available for sale reserve: Net gains losses from changes in fair value 87 249 n a Losses transferred to net profit due to impairment 86 n a Net gains transferred to net profit on disposal 327 120 n a Net losses transferred to net profit due to fair value hedging 14 260 n a Cash flow hedging reserve: Net losses from changes in fair value 437 50 n a Net gains transferred to net profit 50 69 n a Currency translation differences arising 781 300 58 Tax 253 50 Other 25 102 Amounts included directly in equity 1,130 20 58 Profit after tax 5,195 3,841 3,301 Total recognised income and expense for the year 4,065 3,861 3,243 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 3,682 3,379 3,196 Minority interests 383 482 47 4, 065 3,861 3,243 The accompanying notes form an integral part of the Consolidated accounts.
Barclays PLC 164 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Consolidated cash flow statement Consolidated cash flow statement For the year ended 31st December 2006 2005 2004 m m m Reconciliation of profit before tax to net cash flows from operating activities: Profit before tax 7,136 5,280 4,580 Adjustment for non-cash items: Allowance for impairment 2,154 1,571 1,093 Depreciation and amortisation and impairment of intangibles 612 450 328 Other provisions, including pensions 558 654 703 Net profit from associates and joint ventures 46 45 56 Net profit on disposal of investments and property, plant and equipment 778 530 211 Net profit from disposal of associates and joint ventures 263 45 Net profit from disposal of subsidiaries 60 Other non-cash movements 1,702 1,475 1,185 Changes in operating assets and liabilities: Net increase in loans and advances to banks and customers 27,385 63,177 42,763 Net increase in deposits and debt securities in issue 46,944 67,012 71,711 Net decrease in derivative financial instruments 1,196 841 Net increase in trading portfolio assets 18,323 42,589 28,686 Net increase in trading liabilities 310 9,888 6,925 Net decrease in financial investments 1,538 27,129 Net increase in other assets 1,527 410 2,246 Net decrease in other liabilities 1,580 2,818 Tax paid 2,141 1,082 690 Net cash from operating activities 10,047 3,649 9,458 Purchase of available for sale investments 47,086 53,483 47,520 Proceeds from sale or redemption of available for sale investments 46,069 51,111 41,163 Purchase of intangible assets 212 91 64 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 654 588 532 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 786 98 125 Acquisitions, net of cash acquired 248 2,115 211 Disposal of subsidiaries, net of cash disposed 15 Increase in investment in subsidiaries 432 160 58 Decrease in investment in subsidiaries 44 49 70 Acquisition of associates and joint ventures 162 176 21 3 Disposal of associates and joint ventures 739 40 47 Other cash flows associated with investing activities 17 23 15 Net cash used in investing activities 1,154 5,292 6,986 Dividends paid 2,215 1,894 1,425 Proceeds of borrowings and issuance of debt securities 2,493 1,179 666 Repayments of borrowings and redemption of debt securities 366 464 611 Issue of shares and other equity instruments 179 135 60 Repurchase of shares and other equity instruments 699 Net purchase of treasury shares 31 140 35 Net issue of shares to minority interest 632 2,267 705 Net cash from used in financing activities 692 1,083 1,339 Exchange loss gain on foreign currency cash and cash equivalents 562 237 470 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 10,147 797 663 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 20,805 21,602 13,854 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 30,952 20,805 14,517 Cash and cash equivalents comprise: Cash and balances at central banks 7,345 3,906 1,753 Loans and advances to banks 30,926 31,105 80,632 Less: amounts with original maturity greater than three months 15,892 17,987 71,180 15,034 13,118 9,452 Available for sale treasury and other eligible bills 51,703 53,497 Less: non-cash and amounts with original maturity greater than three months 50,684 53,281 1,019 216 Trading portfolio assets 177,867 155,723 Less: non-cash and amounts with original maturity greater than three months 170,329 152,183 7,538 3,540 Other 16 25 3,312 30,952 20,805 14,517 In 2005 the opening cash and cash equivalents balance has been adjusted to reflect the adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 165 Accounts of Barclays PLC Parent company accounts Income statement For the year ended 31st December a 2006 2005 2004 m m m Dividends received from subsidiary 1,964 2,012 2,138 Interest income 4 43 Management charge from subsidiary undertaking 4 4 3 Profit before tax 1,964 2,012 2,138 Tax Profit after tax 1,964 2,012 2,138 Balance sheet As at 31st December 2006 2005 Notes m m Assets Non-current assets Investment in Barclays Bank PLC 45 8,641 8,462 Current assets Cash and balances at central banks 575 438 Other current assets 17 4 Total assets 9,233 8,904 Liabilities Current liabilities Amounts payable within one year 4 4 Shareholders equity Called up share capital 36 1,634 1,623 Share premium account 36 5,818 5,650 Capital redemption reserve 37 309 309 Retained earnings 37 1,468 1,318 Total shareholders equity 9,229 8,900 Total liabilities and shareholders equity 9,233 8,904 The accompanying notes form an integral part of the accounts.
Marcus Agius Chairman John Varley Group Chief Executive Naguib Kheraj Group Finance Director Note a Does not reflect the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 which became effective from 1st January 2005.
Barclays PLC 166 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements Statement of recognised income and expense For the year ended 31st December 2006 2005 2004 m m m Profit after tax 1,964 2,012 2,138 Total recognised income and expense for the year 1,964 2,012 2,138 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 1,964 2,012 2,138 Cash flow statement For the year ended 31st December 2006 2005 2004 m m m Reconciliation of profit before tax to net cash flows from operating activities: Profit before tax 1,964 2,012 2,138 Changes in operating assets and liabilities: Increase decrease in other assets 13 1 1 Increase decrease in other liabilities 1 1 Net cash from operating activities 1,951 2,012 2,138 Purchase of shares in Barclays Bank PLC 179 135 114 Net cash used in investing activities 179 135 114 Proceeds from issue of shares 179 135 114 Dividends paid 1,814 1,612 1,413 Repurchase of ordinary shares 699 Net cash used in financing activities 1,635 1,477 1,998 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 137 400 26 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 438 38 12 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 575 438 38 3 Cash and cash equivalents comprise: Cash and balances at central banks 575 438 38 Net cash from operating activities includes: Dividends received 1,964 2,012 2,138 Interest received 4 43 The parent companys sole activity is to hold the investment in its wholly-owned subsidiary, Barclays Bank PLC.
Dividends received are treated as operating income.
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the accounts.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 167 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 1 Dividends per share The Directors have recommended the final dividends in respect of 2006 of 20.5p per ordinary share of 25p each and 10p per staff share of 1 each, amounting to a total of 1,307m, which will be paid on 27th April 2007.
The financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2006 do not reflect these dividends, which will be accounted for in shareholders equity as an appropriation of retained profits in the year ending 31st December 2007.
The financial statements to 31st December 2006 include the 2005 final dividend of 1,105m.
2 Net interest income 2006 2005 2004 m m m Cash and balances with central banks 91 94 Financial investments 2,811 2,272 n a Debt securities n a n a 2,597 Loans and advances to banks 903 690 957 Loans and advances to customers 16,290 12,944 10,312 Other 1,710 1,317 10 Interest income 21,805 17,232 13,880 Deposits from banks 2,819 2,056 1,535 Customer accounts 3,076 2,715 2,053 Debt securities in issue 5,282 3,268 1,569 Subordinated liabilities 777 605 692 Other 708 513 1,198 Interest expense 12,662 9,157 7,047 Net interest income 9,143 8,075 6,833 Interest income includes 98m 2005: 76m, 2004: n a accrued on impaired loans.
In 2006 and 2005, other interest income principally includes interest income relating to reverse repurchase agreements.
In 2004, such income was classified within the loans and advances to banks and the loans and advances to customers categories.
Similarly, other interest expense principally includes expenditure relating to repurchase agreements.
In 2004, the expenditure was included within deposits from banks and customer accounts.
Included in net interest income is hedge ineffectiveness as detailed in Note 14.
3 Net fee and commission income 2006 2005 2004 m m m Fee and commission income Brokerage fees 70 64 27 Investment management fees 1,535 1,250 821 Securities lending 185 151 111 Securities transactions and investment activity fees 1,790 1,465 959 Banking and credit related fees and commissions 6,031 4,805 4,386 Foreign exchange commission 184 160 164 Fee and commission income 8,005 6,430 5,509 Fee and commission expense 828 725 662 Net fee and commission income 7,177 5,705 4,847 Barclays PLC 168 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 4 Principal transactions 2006 2005 2004 m m m Rates related business 2,848 1,732 1,141 Credit related business 766 589 346 Net trading income 3,614 2,321 1,487 Net gain from disposal of available for sale assets investment securities 307 120 45 Dividend income on equity investments 15 22 17 Net gain from financial instruments designated at fair value 447 389 n a Income from assets backing insurance policies n a n a 717 Other investment income 193 327 248 Net investment income 962 858 1,027 Principal transactions 4,576 3,179 2,514 Net trading income includes the profits and losses arising both on the purchase and sale of trading instruments and from the revaluation to market value, together with the interest income earned from these instruments and the related funding cost.
The gain loss from disposal of available for sale assets was calculated on an instrument by instrument basis.
Of the total net trading income, 947m 2005: 498m, 2004: 556m was earned on securities and 480m 2005: 340m, 2004: 213m was earned in foreign exchange dealings.
Rates related business includes fixed income, foreign exchange, commodities, emerging markets, money markets sales, trading and research, prime services and equity products: Credit related business includes primary and secondary activities for loans and bonds for investment grade, high yield and emerging market credits, as well as hybrid capital products, asset-based finance, commercial mortgage backed securities, credit derivatives, structured capital markets and large asset leasing.
The net gain on financial assets designated at fair value included within principal transactions was 489m 2005: 391m, 2004: n a of which gains of 42m 2005: 2m gain, 2004: n a were included in net trading income and gains of 447m 2005: 389m, 2004: n a were included in net investment income.
The net loss on financial liabilities designated at fair value included within principal transactions was 920m 2005: 666m, 2004: n a all of which was included within net trading income.
3 5 Insurance premiums and insurance claims and benefits 2006 2005 2004 m m m Gross premiums from insurance contracts 1,108 909 1,069 Premiums ceded to reinsurers 48 37 27 Net premiums from insurance contracts 1,060 872 1,042 2006 2005 2004 m m m Gross claims and benefits incurred on insurance contracts 588 694 1,275 Reinsurers share of claims incurred 13 49 16 Net claims and benefits incurred on insurance contracts 575 645 1,259 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 169 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 6 Other income 2006 2005 2004 m m m Increase in fair value of assets held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts 7,417 9,234 n a Increase in liabilities to customers under investment contracts 7,417 9,234 n a Property rentals 55 54 46 Other income 159 93 85 Other income 214 147 131 Included in other income are sub-lease payments of 18m 2005: 18m, 2004: 12m.
Included in other income is a gain on reinsurance.
7 Impairment charges 2006 2005 2004 m m m Impairment charges on loans and advances New and increased impairment allowances 2,722 2,129 1,755 Releases 389 333 396 Recoveries 259 222 255 Impairment charges on loans and advances 2,074 1,574 1,104 Other credit provisions Release in respect of provision for undrawn contractually committed facilities and guarantees provided 6 7 11 Impairment charges on loans and advances and other credit provisions 2,068 1,567 1,093 Impairment on available for sale assets 86 4 n a Impairment charges 2,154 1,571 1,093 8 Staff costs 2006 2005 2004 m m m Salaries and accrued incentive payments 6,635 5,036 4,098 Social security costs 502 412 339 Pension costs defined contribution plans 128 76 92 Pension costs defined benefit plans Note 35 282 271 235 Other post-retirement benefits Note 35 30 27 29 Other 592 496 434 Staff costs 8,169 6,318 5,227 Included in salaries and accrued incentive payments is 640m 2005: 338m, 2004: 204m arising from equity settled share-based payments, of which 78m 2005: 44m, 2004: 54m is a charge related to options-based schemes.
Also included is 6m 2005: nil, 2004: nil arising from cash settled share-based payments.
The average number of persons employed by the Group worldwide during the year, excluding agency staff, was 118,600 2005: 92,800, 2004: 77,000.
Barclays PLC 170 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 9 Administration and general expenses 2006 2005 2004 m m m Administrative expenses 3,980 3,443 2,766 Impairment loss property and equipment Note 25 14 intangible assets Note 24 7 99 Operating lease rentals 345 316 215 Gain on property disposals 432 Administration and general expenses 3,914 3,768 2,990 Auditors remuneration 2006 Audit Taxation Other Audit related services services Total m m m m m Audit of the Groups annual accounts 7 7 Other services: Fees payable for the audit of the Companys associates pursuant to legislation 11 11 Other services supplied pursuant to such legislation 10 1 11 Other services relating to taxation 6 6 Services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed to be entered into by or on behalf of the Company or any of its associates 4 4 Other 4 15 Total auditors remuneration 28 5 6 5 44 2005 Audit Taxation Other Audit related services services Total m m m m m Audit of the Group's annual accounts 6 6 3 Other services: Fees payable for the audit of the Companys associates pursuant to legislation 8 8 Other services supplied pursuant to such legislation 1 1 Other services relating to taxation 4 4 Services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed to be entered into by or on behalf of the Company or any of its associates 3 3 Other 7 7 Total auditors remuneration 15 7 4 3 29 The figures shown in the above table relate to fees paid to  LLP and its associates.
Fees paid to other auditors not associated with  LLP in respect of the audit of the Companys subsidiaries were 2m 2005: 3m, 2004: nil.
Fees payable for the audit of the Companys associates pursuant to legislation comprise the fees for the statutory audit of the subsidiaries and associated pension schemes both inside and outside Great Britain and fees for the work performed by the associates of  LLP in respect of the consolidated financial statements of the Company.
The fees relating to the audit of the associated pension schemes were 0.3m 2005: 0.3m, 2004: 0.3m.
Other services supplied pursuant to such legislation comprise services in relation to statutory and regulatory filings.
These includes audit services for the review of the interim financial information under the Listing Rules of the UK listing authority and for the first time in 2006, fees paid for preparation for reporting under Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 404.
In addition, other services include Section 404 advisory, IFRS advisory, securitisations and services relating to the Absa acquisition.
Taxation services include compliance services such as tax return preparation and advisory services such as consultation on tax matters, tax advice relating to transactions and other tax planning and advice.
Services relating to corporate finance transactions comprise due diligence related to transactions and accounting consultations and audits in connection with such transactions.
Auditors remuneration for 2004 was as follows: audit fees 12m, audit related fees 3m, taxation services 5m and other services 2m.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 171 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 10 Tax The charge for tax is based upon the standard UK corporation tax rate of 30% 2005: 30%, 2004: 30% and comprises: 2006 2005 2004 m m m Current tax charge Current year 1,929 1,583 1,240 Adjustment for prior years 8 59 48 Total 1,937 1,524 1,192 Deferred tax charge credit Origination and reversal of temporary differences 16 7 65 Adjustment for prior years 20 71 22 Change in tax rate 4 3 Other 4 10 Total 4 85 87 Tax charge 1,941 1,439 1,279 2006 2005 2004 m m m Current tax charge United Kingdom 1,138 1,013 938 Overseas 799 511 254 Total 1,937 1,524 1,192 Deferred tax charge credit United Kingdom 96 52 90 Overseas 92 33 3 Total 4 85 87 Tax charge 1,941 1,439 1,279 Available overseas tax credits of 515m 2005: 270m, 2004: 360m have been applied to reduce UK tax in accordance with UK legislation.
The effective tax rate for the years 2006, 2005 and 2004 is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 30% 2005: 30%, 2004: 30%.
The differences are set out below: 2006 2005 2004 m m m Profit before tax 7,136 5,280 4,580 Tax charge at standard UK corporation tax rate of 30% 2005: 30%, 2004: 30% 2,141 1,584 1,374 Adjustment for prior years 28 130 26 Differing overseas tax rates 17 35 110 Non-taxable gains and income including amounts offset by previously unrecognised tax losses 393 129 51 Share-based payments 27 12 Deferred tax assets not recognised 4 7 24 Other non-allowable expenses 159 168 68 Overall tax charge 1,941 1,439 1,279 Effective tax rate 27% 27% 28% Barclays PLC 172 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 11 Earnings per share 2006 2005 2004 m m m Profit attributable to equity holders of parent 4,571 3,447 3,254 Dilutive impact of convertible options 30 38 16 Profit attributable to equity holders of parent including dilutive impact of convertible options 4,541 3,409 3,238 2006 2005 2004 million million million Basic weighted average number of shares in issue 6,357 6,337 6,381 Number of potential ordinary shares 150 149 124 Diluted weighted average number of shares 6,507 6,486 6,505 p pp Basic earnings per share 71.9 54.4 51.0 Diluted earnings per share 69.8 52.6 49.8 The calculation of basic earnings per share is based on the profit attributable to equity holders of the parent and the number of basic weighted average number of shares excluding own shares held in employee benefits trusts, currently not vested, and shares held for trading.
When calculating the diluted earnings per share, the profit attributable to equity holders of the parent is adjusted for the conversion of outstanding options into shares within Absa Group Limited and Barclays Global Investors UK Holdings Limited.
The weighted average number of ordinary shares excluding own shares held in employee benefit trusts, currently not vested, and shares held for trading, is adjusted for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, totalling 150 million 2005: 149 million, 2004: 124 million.
Of the total number of employee share options and share awards at 31st December 2006, 5 million were anti-dilutive 2005: nil, 2004: 51 million.
Subsequent to the balance sheet date, the Group continued to make on-market purchases of treasury shares under its various employee share schemes.
No adjustment has been made to earnings per share in respect of these purchases.
3 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 173 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 12 Trading portfolio 2006 2005 m m Trading portfolio assets Treasury and other eligible bills 2,960 6,074 Debt securities United Kingdom government bonds 4,986 4,786 Other government bonds 46,845 46,426 Other mortgage and asset backed securities 17,032 10,290 Bank and building society certificates of deposit 14,159 15,837 Other issuers 57,554 51,028 Debt securities 140,576 128,367 Equity securities 31,548 20,299 Traded loans 1,843 408 Physical commodity trading positions 940 575 Trading portfolio assets 177,867 155,723 Trading portfolio liabilities Treasury and other eligible bills 608 1,120 Debt securities United Kingdom government bonds 6,889 7,784 Other government bonds 44,950 44,601 Other mortgage and asset backed securities 26 40 Bank and building society certificates of deposit 113 45 Other issuers 6,164 9,903 Debt securities 58,142 62,373 Equity securities 12,697 8,071 Short positions in commodity contracts 427 Trading portfolio liabilities 71,874 71,564 Barclays PLC 174 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 13 Financial assets designated at fair value Held on own account 2006 2005 m m Loans and advances designated at fair value 13,196 8,600 Debt securities designated at fair value 12,100 171 Equity securities designated at fair value 3,711 3,915 Other financial assets designated at fair value 2,792 218 Financial assets designated at fair value held on own account 31,799 12,904 Credit risk on loans and advances designated at fair value The maximum exposure to credit risk on loans and advances designated at fair value at 31st December 2006 was 13,196m 2005: 8,600m.
The amount by which related credit derivatives and similar instruments mitigate the exposure to credit risk at 31st December 2006 was 28m 2005: 2,505m.
The net gain attributable to changes in credit risk for loans and advances designated at fair value was nil in 2006 2005: 3m.
The gains or losses on related credit derivatives was nil for the year 2005: nil.
The cumulative net gain attributable to changes in credit risk for loans and advances designated at fair value since initial recognition is 3m at 31st December 2006 2005: 3m.
The cumulative change in fair value of related credit derivatives at 31st December 2006 is nil 2005: nil.
Certain loans and advances designated at fair value are subject to securitisation.
Held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts liabilities arising from investment contracts 2006 2005 m m Financial assets designated at fair value held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts 82,798 83,193 Cash and bank balances within the portfolio 1,839 2,008 Assets held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts 84,637 85,201 Liabilities to customers under investment contracts 84,637 85,201 A portion of the Groups fund management business takes the legal form of insurance policies, under which legal title to the underlying investment is held by the Group, but the inherent risks and rewards in the investments are borne by the customer.
In the normal course of business, the Groups 3 financial interest in such investments is restricted to fees for investment management services.
Due to the nature of these contracts, the carrying value of the assets is always the same as the value of the liabilities and any change in the value of the assets results in an equal but opposite change in the value of the amounts due to the policyholders.
In the balance sheet, the assets are included as Financial assets designated at fair value held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts.
Cash balances within the portfolio have been included in the Groups cash balances.
The associated obligation to deliver the value of the investments to customers at their fair value on balance sheet date is included as Liabilities to customers under investment contracts.
The increase decrease in the value arising from the return on the investments and the corresponding increase decrease in linked liabilities to customers is included in the Other income note in Note 6.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 175 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 14 Derivative financial instruments Financial instruments The Groups objectives and policies on managing the risks that arise in connection with derivatives, including the policies for hedging, are included in Note 52 to Note 56 under the headings, Financial Risk, Interest Rate Risk, Credit Risk, Currency Risk and Liquidity Risk.
The notional amounts of certain types of financial instruments provide a basis for comparison with instruments recognised on the balance sheet but do not necessarily indicate the amounts of future cash flows involved or the current fair value of the instruments and, therefore, do not indicate the Groups exposure to credit or price risks.
The derivative instruments become favourable assets or unfavourable liabilities as a result of fluctuations in market rates or prices relative to their terms.
The aggregate contractual or notional amount of derivative financial instruments on hand, the extent to which instruments are favourable or unfavourable and, thus the aggregate fair values of derivative financial assets and liabilities can fluctuate significantly.
The fair value of a derivative contract represents the amount at which that contract could be exchanged in an arms-length transaction, calculated at market rates current at the balance sheet date.
The fair values and notional amounts of derivative instruments held for trading are set out in the following table: 2006 2005 Notional Fair value Notional Fair value contract contract Year ended 31st December amount Assets Liabilities amount Assets Liabilities Derivatives held for trading m m m m m m Foreign exchange derivatives Forward foreign exchange 767,734 8,074 7,808 585,635 7,574 6,707 Currency swaps 411,889 10,029 10,088 351,319 8,316 8,045 OTC options bought and sold 320,184 3,923 3,849 244,810 2,595 2,516 OTC derivatives 1,499,807 22,026 21,745 1,181,764 18,485 17,268 Exchange traded futures bought and sold 852 2,304 Exchange traded options bought and sold 115 6 Foreign exchange derivatives 1,500,774 22,026 21,745 1,184,074 18,485 17,268 Interest rate derivatives Interest rate swaps 8,718,015 61,267 61,510 7,311,939 68,341 67,669 Forward rate agreements 1,335,594 337 374 1,345,368 431 434 OTC options bought and sold 2,301,239 13,977 13,558 1,267,683 12,256 11,598 OTC derivatives 12,354,848 75,581 75,442 9,924,990 81,028 79,701 Exchange traded futures bought and sold 1,057,767 188 256 1,862,606 Exchange traded options bought and sold 848,629 241 156 826,351 Exchange traded swaps 3,405,109 2,760,110 Interest rate derivatives 17,666,353 76,010 75,854 15,374,057 81,028 79,701 Credit derivatives Swaps 1,224,548 9,275 8,894 609,381 4,172 4,806 Equity and stock index derivatives OTC options bought and sold 114,227 11,171 15,613 208,068 9,974 13,067 Equity swaps and forwards 24,580 656 846 8,108 328 164 OTC derivatives 138,807 11,827 16,459 216,176 10,302 13,231 Exchange traded futures bought and sold 30,159 154 176 52,454 Exchange traded options bought and sold 30,473 161 171 26,789 Equity and stock index derivatives 199,439 12,142 16,806 295,419 10,302 13,231 Commodity derivatives OTC options bought and sold 52,899 2,568 2,443 68,377 4,070 3,881 Commodity swaps and forwards 164,863 14,933 13,497 211,541 17,674 17,336 OTC derivatives 217,762 17,501 15,940 279,918 21,744 21,217 Exchange traded futures bought and sold 68,710 13 33 50,244 Exchange traded options bought and sold 9,169 306 474 11,871 435 680 Commodity derivatives 295,641 17,820 16,447 342,033 22,179 21,897 Derivative assets liabilities held for trading 20,886,755 137,273 139,746 17,804,964 136,166 136,903 Barclays PLC 176 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 14 Derivative financial instruments continued The fair values and notional amounts of derivative instruments held for risk management are set out in the following table: 2006 2005 Notional Fair value Notional Fair value contract contract Year ended 31st December amount Assets Liabilities amount Assets Liabilities Derivatives held for risk management m m m m m m Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges Currency swaps 14 1 Interest rate swaps 51,614 132 312 27,042 230 290 OTC interest rate options bought 782 1 Exchange traded interest rate swaps 12,077 11,899 Commodity swaps and forwards 204 89 343 193 Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges 63,895 132 401 40,080 232 483 Derivatives designated as fair value hedges Currency swaps 1,454 233 1,686 81 Interest rate swaps 16,940 240 152 29,394 387 190 Equity options 1,029 58 56 1,084 36 46 Forward foreign exchange 66 28 14 OTC interest rate options bought 1,287 Derivatives designated as fair value hedges 19,489 298 441 33,479 423 331 Derivatives designated as hedges of net investments Forward foreign exchange 2,730 78 Currency swaps 9,320 650 31 5,919 2 254 Derivatives designated as hedges of net investment 12,050 650 109 5,919 2 254 Derivative assets liabilities held for risk management 95,434 1,080 951 79,478 657 1,068 Interest rate derivatives, designated as cash flow hedges, primarily hedge the exposure to cash flow variability from interest rates of variable rate loans to banks and customers, variable rate debt securities held and highly probable forecast financing transactions and reinvestments.
Interest rate derivatives designated as fair value hedges primarily hedge the interest rate risk of fixed rate borrowings in issue, fixed rate loans to 3 banks and customers and investments in fixed rate debt securities held.
Currency derivatives are primarily designated as hedges of the foreign currency risk of net investments in foreign operations.
The Groups total derivative asset and liability position as reported on the balance sheet is as follows: 2006 2005 Notional Fair value Notional Fair value contract contract amount Assets Liabilities amount Assets Liabilities Year ended 31st December m m m m m m Total derivative assets liabilities held for trading 20,886,755 137,273 139,746 17,804,964 136,166 136,903 Total derivative assets liabilities held for risk management 95,434 1,080 951 79,478 657 1,068 Recognised derivative assets liabilities 20,982,189 138,353 140,697 17,884,442 136,823 137,971 The Group has hedged the following forecast cash flows, which primarily vary with interest rates.
These cash flows are expected to impact the income statement in the following periods, excluding any hedge adjustments that may be applied: 2006 Between Between Between Between Up to one to two to three to four to More than Total one year two years three years four years five years five years m m m m m m m Forecast receivable cash flows 5,111 1,500 1,452 954 689 410 106 Forecast payable cash flows 1,280 704 349 121 73 30 3 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 177 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 14 Derivative financial instruments continued 2005 Between Between Between Between Up to one to two to three to four to More than Total one year two years three years four years five years five years m m m m m m m Forecast receivable cash flows 3,230 779 768 704 458 265 256 Forecast payable cash flows 2,300 358 350 337 287 238 730 The maximum length of time over which the Group is hedging its exposure to the variability in future cash flows for forecasted transactions, excluding those forecasted transactions related to the payment of variable interest on existing financial instruments, is eight years 2005: 29 years.
No gain or loss on forecast transactions accorded hedge accounting in 2006 that are no longer expected to occur remains in equity.
Net gains losses arising on fair value hedges in net interest income during the year were: 2006 2005 m m On hedging instruments 460 204 On the hedged items attributable to the hedged risk 465 164 Ineffectiveness 5 40 Ineffectiveness recognised in relation to cash flow hedges in net interest income was a loss of 23m 2005: loss of 34m.
Ineffectiveness recognised in relation to hedge of net investment was a gain of 13m 2005: loss of 5m.
15 Loans and advances to banks 2006 2005 m m Repayable: on demand 2,887 3,929 not more than three months 18,809 15,921 over three months but not more than six months 800 2,006 over six months but not more than one year 3,064 3,169 over one year but not more than three years 1,595 1,852 over three years but not more than five years 1,130 779 over five years but not more than ten years 1,012 1,047 over ten years 1,633 2,406 Total 30,930 31,109 Less: Allowance for impairment Note 17 4 4 Loans and advances to banks 30,926 31,105 By geographical area United Kingdom 6,229 4,624 Other European Union 8,513 5,423 United States 9,056 13,267 Africa 2,219 880 Rest of the World 4,913 6,915 Total 30,930 31,109 Less: Allowance for impairment Note 17 4 4 Loans and advances to banks 30,926 31,105 The Group is required to maintain balances with central banks and other regulatory authorities and these amounted to 1,262m at 31st December 2006 2005: 1,218m.
Information relating to effective interest rates can be found in Note 53.
The geographical analysis is based on the location of the customer to which the lendings are made.
Barclays PLC 178 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 16 Loans and advances to customers 2006 2005 m m Repayable: on demand 33,994 34,945 not more than three months 44,728 44,280 over three months but not more than six months 10,092 11,332 over six months but not more than one year 15,904 21,870 over one year but not more than three years 32,559 31,254 over three years but not more than five years 27,868 27,967 over five years but not more than ten years 38,091 26,840 over ten years 82,395 73,854 Total 285,631 272,342 Less: Allowance for impairment Note 17 3,331 3,446 Loans and advances to customers 282,300 268,896 By geographical area United Kingdom 170,518 163,759 Other European Union 43,430 38,923 United States 25,677 22,925 Africa 31,691 33,221 Rest of the World 14,315 13,514 Total 285,631 272,342 Less: Allowance for impairment Note 17 3,331 3,446 Loans and advances to customers 282,300 268,896 Loans and advances to customers by industry 2006 2005 At 31st December m m Financial services 45,954 43,102 3 Agriculture, forestry and fishing 3,997 3,785 Manufacturing 15,451 13,779 Construction 4,056 5,020 Property 16,528 16,325 Energy and water 6,810 6,891 Wholesale and retail, distribution and leisure 15,490 17,760 Transport 5,586 5,960 Postal and communication 2,180 1,313 Business and other services 29,425 24,247 Home loans 98,172 89,529 Other personal 31,840 35,543 Finance lease receivables Note 41 10,142 9,088 285,631 272,342 Less: Allowance for impairment Note 17 3,331 3,446 Loans and advances to customers 282,300 268,896 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 179 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 16 Loans and advances to customers continued Loans and advances to customers in the UK 2006 2005 At 31st December m m Financial services 14,011 11,958 Agriculture, forestry and fishing 2,307 2,409 Manufacturing 9,047 8,469 Construction 2,761 3,090 Property 10,010 10,547 Energy and water 2,360 2,701 Wholesale and retail distribution and leisure 12,951 12,747 Transport 2,745 2,797 Postal and communication 899 455 Business and other services 19,266 15,403 Home loans 67,687 61,256 Other personal 22,551 26,724 Finance lease receivables 3,923 5,203 Loans and advances to customers in the UK 170,518 163,759 Loans and advances to customers outside the UK 2006 2005 At 31st December m m Financial services 31,943 31,144 Agriculture, forestry and fishing 1,690 1,376 Manufacturing 6,404 5,310 Construction 1,295 1,930 Property 6,518 5,778 Energy and water 4,450 4,190 Wholesale and retail distribution and leisure 2,539 5,013 Transport 2,841 3,163 Postal and communication 1,281 858 Business and other services 10,159 8,844 Home loans 30,485 28,273 Other personal 9,289 8,819 Finance lease receivables 6,219 3,885 Loans and advances to customers outside the UK 115,113 108,583 The geographical analysis is based on the location of the customer to which the lendings are made.
Effective interest rates are included in Note 53.
Certain of the Groups loans and advances are subject to securitisations which are described in Note 34.
Barclays PLC 180 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 17 Allowance for impairment The movement in the allowance for impairment is as follows: 2006 2005 m m At beginning of year 3,450 2,637 Acquisitions and disposals 23 555 Unwind of discount 98 76 Exchange and other adjustments 153 125 Amounts written off 2,174 1,587 Recoveries 259 222 Amounts charged against profit 2,074 1,574 At end of year 3,335 3,450 Allowances for loan impairment represent managements estimate of the losses incurred in the loan portfolios at the balance sheet date.
For the retail and small business portfolios, which comprise large numbers of small homogeneous assets with similar risk characteristics, statistical techniques are used to calculate impairment allowances on a portfolio basis.
These models contain judgemental inputs.
The impairment charge in relation to retail and small business portfolios is 1,809m or 87% 2005: 1,254m or 80% of the total impairment charge in 2006.
For larger accounts, impairment allowances are calculated on an individual basis using discounted expected future cash flows.
Subjective judgements are made in this process.
Changes in these estimates could result in a change in allowances and have a direct impact on the impairment charge.
The impairment charge in relation to larger accounts is 265m or 13% 2005: 320m or 20% of the total impairment charge in 2006.
2006 2005 Allowance for impairment at 31st December m m United Kingdom 2,477 2,266 Other European Union 311 284 United States 100 130 Africa 417 647 Rest of the World 30 123 Allowance for impairment at 31st December 3,335 3,450 2006 2005 3 Non-performing loans m m Impaired loans 4,444 4,550 Accruing loans which are contractually overdue 90 days or more as to principal or interest 598 609 Restructured loans 46 51 Non-performing loans 5,088 5,210 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 181 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 18 Available for sale financial investments 2006 2005 m m Debt securities 47,912 50,024 Equity securities 1,371 1,250 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 2,420 2,223 Available for sale financial investments 51,703 53,497 2006 2005 Movement in available for sale financial investments m m At beginning of year 53,497 48,097 Exchange and other adjustments 3,999 1,791 Acquisitions and transfers 47,086 54,556 Disposals sale and redemption 44,959 50,609 Gains losses from changes in fair value recognised in equity 162 248 Impairment 86 4 Amortisation of discounts premium 2 86 At end of year 51,703 53,497 The following table analyses the book value of securities under IFRS, which are carried at fair value.
2006 2005 Available for sale securities Available for sale securities Gross Gross Gross Gross Amortised unrealised unrealised Book Amortised unrealised unrealised Book cost gains losses value cost gains losses value m m m m m m m m Debt securities United Kingdom government 761 3 758 31 31 Other government 12,735 27 175 12,587 14,827 83 50 14,860 Other public bodies 277 4 1 280 216 2 2 216 Mortgage and asset backed securities 1,706 1,706 3,062 3,062 Corporate issuers 27,100 22 33 27,089 25,597 101 108 25,590 Other issuers 5,450 58 16 5,492 6,257 17 9 6,265 Total debt securities 48,029 111 228 47,912 49,990 203 169 50,024 Equity securities 1,047 353 29 1,371 1,007 247 4 1,250 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 2,420 2,420 2,223 2,223 Available for sale financial investments 51,496 464 257 51,703 53,220 450 173 53,497 Gross gains of 354m 2005: 318m and gross losses of 47m 2005: 198m have been realised on the sale of available for sale financial investments.
A maturity analysis of available for sale financial investments is included in Note 56.
The basis of determining cost during the calculation of gains and losses on available for sale investments is on an instrument by instrument basis.
Barclays PLC 182 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 19 Securities borrowing, securities lending, repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements The following amounts were included in the balance sheet and are reported on a net basis where the Group has the intention and the ability to settle net or realise simultaneously.
2006 2005 m m Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed Banks 85,336 83,610 Customers 88,754 76,788 Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed 174,090 160,398 Repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent Banks 79,833 66,939 Customers 57,123 54,239 Repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent 136,956 121,178 Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed are accounted for as collateralised loans.
It is the Groups policy to seek collateral at the outset equal to 100% to 105% of the loan amount.
The level of collateral held is monitored daily and further collateral calls made to bring the level of cash held and the market value of collateral in line with the loan balance.
Under certain transactions, including reverse repurchase agreements and stock borrowing transactions, the Group is allowed to sell or repledge the collateral held.
The fair value at the balance sheet date of collateral accepted and repledged to others was as follows: 2006 2005 m m Fair value of securities accepted as collateral under reverse repurchase agreements and stock borrowing transactions which can be repledged or resold 279,591 248,010 Of which, fair value of securities repledged transferred to others 210,182 203,777 20 Other assets 2006 2005 3 m m Sundry debtors 4,298 3,569 Prepayments 658 722 Accrued income 722 329 Reinsurance assets 172 114 Other assets 5,850 4,734 Included in the above are balances are 5,065m 2005: 3,848m expected to be recovered within no more than 12 months after the balance sheet date: and balances of 785m 2005: 886m expected to be recovered more than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 183 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 21 Current and deferred tax The components of taxes are as follows: 2006 2005 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Current tax United Kingdom 420 481 484 Overseas 137 539 263 Current tax 557 1,020 747 Deferred tax United Kingdom 1,613 1,111 1,425 1,517 Overseas 392 412 284 206 Deferred tax 2,005 1,523 1,709 1,723 Deferred taxes are calculated on all temporary differences under the liability method.
The movement on the deferred tax account is as follows: 2006 2005 m m At beginning of year 14 244 Income statement charge credit 4 85 Equity Available for sale investments 4 10 Cash flow hedges 128 112 Share-based payments 24 101 Other equity movements 48 24 Acquisitions and disposals 264 199 Exchange and other adjustments 32 119 At end of year 482 14 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following items: 2006 2005 m m Deferred tax liabilities Accelerated tax depreciation 705 883 Available for sale investments 116 119 Cash flow hedges 138 Other 702 583 Deferred tax liabilities 1,523 1,723 Deferred tax assets Pensions and other retirement benefits 622 609 Allowance for impairment on loans 69 41 Other provisions 436 342 Cash flow hedges 91 44 Tax losses carried forward 1 26 Share-based payments 380 232 Other 406 415 Deferred tax assets 2,005 1,709 Net deferred tax asset liability 482 14 Disclosed as deferred tax liabilities 282 700 Disclosed as deferred tax assets 764 686 Net deferred tax asset liability 482 14 Barclays PLC 184 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 21 Current and deferred tax continued Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if, and only if, there is a legally enforceable right to set off and the balances relate to income tax levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities within the same tax group where there is the intention and ability to settle on a net basis or realise the assets and liabilities simultaneously.
The amount of deferred tax liability expected to be settled after more than 12 months is 1,046m 2005: 982m.
The amount of deferred tax asset expected to be recovered after more than 12 months is 1,582m 2005: 1,686m.
The deferred tax assets balance includes 106m 2005: 27m which is the excess deferred tax assets over deferred tax liabilities in entities which have suffered a loss in either the current or prior year.
This is based on management assessment that it is probable that the relevant entities will have taxable profits against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The deferred tax charge credit in the income statement comprises the following temporary differences: 2006 2005 m m Accelerated tax depreciation 120 130 Pensions and other retirement benefits 24 39 Allowance for impairment on loans 30 1 Other provisions 105 133 Tax losses carry forward 25 20 Available for sale investments 8 52 Cash flow hedges 14 1 Share-based payments 77 115 Other 101 66 Total 4 85 Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items: 2006 2005 m m Deductible temporary differences gross 395 340 Unused tax losses gross 190 363 Unused tax credits 98 24 3 The following tax losses expire: 3m in 2007 and 4m in 2009.
The other tax losses, tax credits and temporary differences do not expire under current tax legislation.
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because it is not probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the Group can utilise the benefits.
The amount of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, branches, associates and joint ventures for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised is 3,387m 2005: 2,126m.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 185 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 22 Investment in associates and joint ventures Share of net assets Associates Joint ventures Total 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 m m m m m m At beginning of year 427 399 119 30 546 429 Share of results before tax 63 63 6 12 57 51 Share of tax 10 10 1 4 11 6 Share of post-tax results 53 53 7 8 46 45 Dividends paid 17 23 17 23 New investments 2 7 81 9 81 Acquisitions 51 72 102 23 153 95 Disposals 404 39 72 1 476 40 Exchange and other adjustments 38 35 5 6 33 41 At end of year 74 427 154 119 228 546 Goodwill included above: Associates Joint ventures Total 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 m m m m m m Cost At beginning of year 122 122 83 205 122 Acquisitions 83 83 Disposals 121 121 Transfer 43 43 At end of year 1 122 40 83 41 205 The fair value of the investment in Gabetti Holding SpA, which is listed on the Milan stock exchange, is 16m 2005: 15m.
Disposal of FirstCaribbean International Bank On 22nd December 2006 the Group disposed of its investment in FirstCaribbean International Bank, its former principal associate, for cash consideration, net of transaction costs of 583m, which, after deducting the Groups share of its net assets on the date of disposal, resulted in a profit of 247m.
Following this transaction, there were no individually significant associates or joint ventures.
Of the 46m share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures, FirstCaribbean International Bank contributed 41m 2005: 37m.
Barclays PLC 186 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 22 Investment in associates and joint ventures continued The table below provides summarised financial information of the Groups associates and joint ventures the entities entire financial position and results of operations are presented, not the Groups share.
2006 2005 FirstCaribbean FirstCaribbean International Other Joint International Other Joint Bank associates ventures Bank associates ventures m m m m m m Property, plant and equipment 599 142 86 454 119 Financial investments 42 376 66 24 Trading portfolio assets 1 389 Loans to banks and customers 1,378 797 4,379 1,575 393 Other assets 541 199 267 226 16 Total assets 2,523 1,140 5,497 2,321 552 Deposits from banks and customers 1,421 769 4,519 1,527 369 Trading portfolio liabilities 1 115 Other liabilities 887 187 270 572 188 Shareholders equity 214 184 593 222 5 Total liabilities 2,523 1,140 5,497 2,321 552 Net income 274 264 178 234 213 176 Operating expenses 167 167 178 148 161 213 Profit loss before tax 107 97 86 52 37 Profit loss after tax 96 90 2 76 37 26 The amounts included above are based on accounts made up to 31st December 2006 with the exception of FirstCaribbean International Bank and certain undertakings included within the Other associates category for which the amounts are based on accounts made up to dates not earlier than three months before the balance sheet date.
Other associates in 2006 includes 1,525m 2005: 1,885m of assets, 1,380m 2005: 1,741m of liabilities and 25m 2005: 20m of profit after tax in associates within the Absa Group.
3 The Groups share of commitments and contingencies incurred in relation to its joint ventures is nil 2005: 1m and its share of contingent liabilities of an associate or joint venture for which it is contingently liable is nil 2005: 252m.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 187 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 23 Goodwill 2006 2005 m m Net book value At beginning of year 6,022 4,518 Acquisitions 390 1,417 Disposals 14 Exchange and other adjustments 306 87 At end of year 6,092 6,022 Goodwill is reviewed annually for impairment, or more frequently when there are indications that impairment may have occurred.
There was no impairment identified in 2006 2005: nil.
2006 2005 m m UK Banking 2,820 2,824 Barclaycard 403 418 International Retail and Commercial Banking 1,481 1,725 Barclays Capital 72 89 Barclays Global Investors 673 322 Barclays Wealth 629 629 Head office functions and other operations 14 15 Goodwill 6,092 6,022 Goodwill is allocated to business operations.
The recoverable amount of each operations goodwill is based on value-in-use calculations using an appropriate pre-tax cost of equity for the market and associated risk.
The principal goodwill relating to UK Banking and International Retail and Commercial Banking are Woolwich and Absa respectively.
Woolwich and Absa future cash flows are based on approved budgets and plans.
Woolwich has applied a growth factor of 3% proxy for inflation to cash flows for the period 2010 to 2020.
Absa has applied a growth rate of 8% to cash flows for the four years from 2010 to 2013 and a rate of 4% for the years from 2014 to 2020.
Both businesses justify the use of longer cash flow projections due to the long-term nature of these businesses within the Barclays Group.
Barclays PLC 188 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 24 Intangible assets 2006 Internally Core Mortgage generated Other deposit Customer servicing Licences software software intangibles Brands lists rights and other Total m m m m m m m m Cost or valuation At 1st January 2006 188 43 306 183 582 139 1,441 Acquisitions 114 2 116 Additions 95 86 16 13 210 Exchange and other adjustments 16 6 64 38 115 8 14 261 At 31st December 2006 267 123 242 145 467 122 140 1,506 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1st January 2006 90 18 7 9 29 19 172 Amortisation charge 29 7 20 16 44 11 9 136 Impairment charge 2 5 7 Exchange and other adjustments 5133912 24 At 31st December 2006 116 29 24 22 64 10 26 291 Net book value 151 94 218 123 403 112 114 1,215 2005 Internally Core generated Other deposit Customer Licences software software intangibles Brands lists and other Total m m m m m m m Cost or valuation At 1st January 2005 138 5 36 53 232 Acquisitions disposals 9 288 172 524 10 1,003 Additions 68 23 82 173 Exchange and other adjustments 18 6 18 11 22 6 33 At 31st December 2005 188 43 306 183 582 139 1,441 3 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1st January 2005 84 3 2 4 93 Amortisation charge 20 3 7 9 27 13 79 Impairment charge 5 3 1 9 Exchange and other adjustments 19 9 1 9 At 31st December 2005 90 18 7 9 29 19 172 Net book value 98 25 299 174 553 120 1,269 Impairment charges on internally generated and other software reflect impairment of certain capitalised IT assets following a review of the future economic benefits likely to be generated by them.
Impairment charges detailed above have been included within other operating expenses.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 189 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 25 Property, plant and equipment 2006 2005 Operating Operating leased leased Property Equipment assets Total Property Equipment assets Total m m m m m m m m Cost At 1st January 2,450 2,541 365 5,356 2,303 2,026 361 4,690 Acquisitions and disposals 126 159 285 Additions 180 475 655 125 463 588 Disposals 422 382 804 80 130 210 Fully depreciated assets written off 1 89 90 1 1 2 Exchange and other adjustments 53 116 169 23 24 4 5 At 31st December 2,154 2,429 365 4,948 2,450 2,541 365 5,356 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1st January 1,022 1,575 5 2,602 978 1,429 1 2,408 Acquisitions and disposals 1 1 2 Depreciation charge 118 335 2 455 92 268 2 362 Impairment 14 14 Disposals 148 341 489 20 113 133 Fully depreciated assets written off 189 90 1 1 2 Exchange and other adjustments 12 26 2 36 28 9 2 35 At 31st December 993 1,454 9 2,456 1,022 1,575 5 2,602 Net book value 1,161 975 356 2,492 1,428 966 360 2,754 Operating leased assets represent assets such as plant and equipment leased to customers under operating leases.
Certain of the Groups equipment is held on finance leases.
Impairment of 14m follows a review of the future use of an existing office building in our UK property portfolio.
In 2007 the freehold of the building will be disposed of by either a shortor long-term leaseback, depending on the conclusions of the review.
Consequently the value has been written down to fair value, less cost of sale.
The carrying value of property on transition to IFRS was the deemed cost.
The following table shows the historical cost of property: 2006 2005 m m Historical cost of property At cost 1,982 2,257 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 958 1,050 Net book value 1,024 1,207 Barclays PLC 190 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 26 Deposits from banks 2006 2005 m m Repayable on demand 19,163 13,924 no more than three months 55,534 54,620 over three months but not more than six months 1,418 2,488 over six months but not more than one year 891 1,168 over one year but not more than three years 593 442 over three years but not more than five years 1,406 725 over five years but not more than ten years 367 1,288 over ten years 190 472 Deposits from banks 79,562 75,127 By geographical area United Kingdom 14,292 7,307 Other European Union 27,521 23,496 United States 5,140 7,418 Africa 4,508 4,192 Rest of the World 28,101 32,714 Deposits from banks 79,562 75,127 Other time deposits in the United Kingdom and United States are mostly over 50,000.
Deposits in offices in the United Kingdom from non-residents amounted to 41,762m 2005: 49,286m.
For details on the effective rate of interest please refer to Note 53.
3 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 191 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 27 Customer accounts 2006 2005 m m Repayable on demand 153,642 144,015 no more than three months 89,079 72,590 over three months but not more than six months 5,594 9,282 over six months but not more than one year 3,604 2,606 over one year but not more than three years 1,655 3,072 over three years but not more than five years 1,436 1,503 over five years but not more than ten years 807 2,223 over ten years 937 3,393 Customer accounts 256,754 238,684 By geographical area United Kingdom 170,120 153,686 Other European Union 21,260 19,038 United States 17,903 16,690 Africa 27,205 29,866 Rest of the World 20,266 19,404 Customer accounts 256,754 238,684 In offices in the United Kingdom: Current and Demand accounts interest free 25,650 22,980 Current and Demand accounts interest bearing 31,769 28,416 Savings accounts 62,745 57,715 Other time deposits retail 36,110 35,142 Other time deposits wholesale 53,733 42,967 Total repayable in offices in the United Kingdom 210,007 187,220 In offices outside the United Kingdom: Current and Demand accounts interest free 2,169 2,300 Current and Demand accounts interest bearing 17,626 20,494 Savings accounts 3,041 3,230 Other time deposits 23,911 25,440 Total repayable in offices outside the United Kingdom 46,747 51,464 Deposits in offices in the United Kingdom received from non-residents amounted to 40,291m 2005: 33,309m.
Other time deposits in the United Kingdom and the United States are mostly over 50,000.
28 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 2006 2005 Contractual Contractual amount due amount due Fair value on maturity Fair value on maturity m m m m Financial liabilities designated at fair value Debt securities 32,261 37,393 25,951 26,260 Deposits 19,990 20,465 7,434 7,437 Other 1,736 2,913 Total financial liabilities designated at fair value 53,987 60,771 33,385 33,697 Financial liabilities designated at fair value include certain financial instruments that pay out the higher of a guaranteed amount or a notional plus a performance related amount.
There were no significant gains or losses attributable to changes in own credit risk for financial liabilities designated at fair value in 2006 2005: nil.
Barclays PLC 192 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 29 Debt securities in issue 2006 2005 m m Bonds and medium-term notes repayable: on demand 14 not more than three months 578 42 over three months but not more than six months 311 3,571 over six months but not more than one year 991 2,628 over one year but not more than three years 5,243 5,626 over three years but not more than five years 2,187 1,725 over five years but not more than ten years 1,394 299 over ten years 4,848 7,256 15,552 21,161 Other debt securities in issue repayable: on demand 17 880 not more than three months 70,227 54,070 over three months but not more than six months 8,358 10,414 over six months but not more than one year 4,320 6,149 over one year but not more than three years 5,165 3,169 over three years but not more than five years 1,611 1,151 over five years but not more than ten years 2,623 7 over ten years 3,264 6,327 95,585 82,167 Debt securities in issue 111,137 103,328 Debt securities in issue at 31st December 2006 included certificates of deposit of 52,800m 2005: 43,109m and commercial paper of 26,546m 2005: 28,275m.
Debt securities in issue included amounts raised from the securitisations, which are described in Note 34.
The average interest rate during 2006 for commercial paper was 4.9% 2005: 3.4% and for negotiable certificates of deposits was 5.1% 2005: 3.5%.
3 30 Other liabilities 2006 2005 m m Obligations under finance leases Note 41 92 289 Sundry creditors 4,118 6,131 Accruals and deferred income 6,127 4,711 Other liabilities 10,337 11,131 Included in the above are balances of 9,265 2005: 8,998m expected to be settled within no more than 12 months after the balance sheet date: and balances of 1,072m 2005: 2,133m expected to be settled more than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Accruals and deferred income included 107m 2005: 113m in relation to deferred income from investment contracts and 822m 2005: 819m in relation to deferred income from insurance contracts.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 193 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 31 Insurance assets and liabilities Insurance assets Reinsurance assets are 172m 2005: 114m and relate principally to the Groups long-term business.
Reinsurers share of provisions relating to the Groups short-term business are 82m 2005: 15m.
The reinsurance assets expected to be recovered after more than one year are 92m 2005: 99m.
Insurance contract liabilities including unit-linked liabilities Insurance liabilities comprise the following: 2006 2005 m m Insurance contract liabilities: linked liabilities 1,591 1,532 non-linked liabilities 2,121 2,187 Provision for claims 166 48 Insurance contract liabilities including unit-linked liabilities 3,878 3,767 Insurance contract liabilities relate principally to the Groups long-term business.
Insurance contract liabilities associated with the Groups short-term non-life business are 198m 2005: 133m.
Claims development The amount and timing of claims payments is normally within one year.
Movements in insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets Movements in insurance assets and insurance contract liabilities were as follows: 2006 2005 Gross Reinsurance Net Gross Reinsurance Net m m m m m m At beginning of year 3,767 114 3,653 3,596 109 3,487 Acquisitions 252 29 223 Change in year 111 58 53 81 24 57 At end of year 3,878 172 3,706 3,767 114 3,653 Assumptions used to measure insurance liabilities The assumptions that have the greatest effect on the measurement of the amounts recognised above, and the processes used to determine them were as follows: Long-term business linked and non-linked Mortality mortality estimates are based on standard industry and national mortality tables, adjusted where appropriate to reflect the Groups own experience.
A margin is added to ensure prudence for example, future mortality improvements for annuity business.
Renewal expenses level and inflation expense reserves are a small part of overall insurance liabilities, however, increases in expenses caused by unanticipated inflation or other unforeseen factors could lead to expense reserve increases.
Expenses are therefore set using prudent assumptions.
Initial renewal expense levels are set by considering expense forecasts for the business and, where appropriate, building in a margin to allow for the increasing burden of fixed costs on the UK closed life book of business.
The inflation assumption is set by adding a margin to the market rate of inflation implied by index-linked gilt yields.
Short-term business Short-term business for single premium policies the proportion of unearned premiums is calculated based on estimates of the frequency and severity of incidents.
Changes in assumptions Sensitivity analysis regarding changes in these assumptions are described under the heading Sensitivity Analysis on page 206.
There have been no changes in assumptions in 2006 that have had a material effect on the financial statements.
Barclays PLC 194 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 31 Insurance assets and liabilities continued Uncertainties associated with cash flows related to insurance contracts and risk management activities Long-term insurance contracts linked and non-linked For long-term insurance contracts where death is the insured risk, the most significant factors that could detrimentally affect the frequency and severity of claims are the incidence of disease, such as AIDS, or general changes in lifestyle, such as in eating, exercise and smoking.
Where survival is the insured risk, advances in medical care and social conditions are the key factors that increase longevity.
The Group manages its exposure to risk by operating in part as a unit-linked business, prudent product design, applying strict underwriting criteria, transferring risk to reinsurers, managing claims and establishing prudent reserves.
Short-term insurance contracts For payment protection contracts where inability to make payments under a loan contract is the insured risk, the most significant factors are the health of the policyholder and the possibility of unemployment which depends upon, among other things, long-term and short-term economic factors.
The Group manages its exposure to such risks through prudent product design, efficient claims management, prudent reserving methodologies and bases, regular product, economic and market reviews and regular adequacy tests on the size of the reserves.
Absa insures property and motor vehicles, for which the most significant factors that could effect the frequency and severity of claims are climatic change and crime.
Absa manages its exposure to risk by diversifying insurance risks accepted and transferring risk to reinsurers.
Sensitivity analysis The following table presents the sensitivity of the level of insurance contract liabilities disclosed in this note to movements in the actuarial assumptions used to calculate them.
The percentage change in variable is applied to a range of existing actuarial modelling assumptions to derive the possible impact on net profit after tax.
The disclosure is not intended to explain the impact of a percentage change in the insurance assets and liabilities disclosed above.
2006 2005 Net profit Net profit Change in after tax Change in after tax variable impact variable impact %m %m Long-term insurance contracts: Improving mortality annuitants only 10 23 10 19 Worsening of mortality assured lives only 10 25 10 28 Worsening of base renewal expense level 20 23 20 20 Worsening of expense inflation rate 10 9 10 5 3 Short-term insurance contracts: Worsening of claim expense assumptions 10 9 10 13 Any change in net profit after tax would result in a corresponding increase or decrease in shareholders equity.
The above analyses are based on a change in a single assumption while holding all other assumptions constant.
In practice this is unlikely to occur.
Options and guarantees The Groups contracts do not contain options or guarantees that could confer material risk.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 195 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 32 Subordinated liabilities Subordinated liabilities comprise dated and undated loan capital as follows: 2006 2005 Notes m m Undated loan capital a 5,422 4,397 Dated loan capital b 8,364 8,066 13,786 12,463 a Undated loan capital 2006 2005 Notes m m Non-convertible The Bank 6% Callable Perpetual Core tier One Notes a, n 404 432 6.86% Callable Perpetual Core tier One Notes US$1,000m a, n 571 623 5.3304% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments b, o 501 5.926% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments US$1,350m c, p 690 Junior Undated Floating Rate Notes US$121m d, q 62 71 Undated Floating Rate Primary Capital Notes Series 3 d, r 146 147 9.875% Undated Subordinated Notes e, s 319 319 9.25% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds ex-Woolwich plc f, t 178 186 9% Permanent Interest Bearing Capital Bonds g, u 102 102 7.125% Undated Subordinated Notes h, v 550 573 6.875% Undated Subordinated Notes i, w 656 670 6.375% Undated Subordinated Notes j, x 481 498 6.125% Undated Subordinated Notes k, y 571 611 6.5% Undated Subordinated Notes FFr 1,000m l, z 105 107 5.03% Reverse Dual Currency Undated Subordinated Loan Yen 8,000m m, aa 34 23 5% Reverse Dual Currency Undated Subordinated Loan Yen 12,000m m, aa 52 35 Undated loan capital non-convertible 5,422 4,397 Security and subordination None of the undated loan capital of the Bank is secured.
The Junior Undated Floating Rate Notes the Junior Notes rank behind the claims against the Bank of depositors and other unsecured unsubordinated creditors and holders of dated loan capital.
All other issues of the Banks undated loan capital rank pari passu with each other and behind the claims of the holders of the Junior Notes, except for the 6% and 6.86% Callable Perpetual Core tier One Notes the TONs and the 5.3304% and 5.926% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments the RCIs such issues, excluding the TONs and the RCIs, being the Undated Notes and Loans.
The TONs and the RCIs rank pari passu with each other and behind the claims of the holders of the Undated Notes and Loans.
Barclays PLC 196 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 32 Subordinated liabilities continued Interest Notes a These TONs bear a fixed rate of interest until 2032.
After that date, in the event that the TONs are not redeemed, the TONs will bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance, based on London interbank rates.
b These RCIs bear a fixed rate of interest until 2036.
After that date, in the event that the RCIs are not redeemed, the RCIs will bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance, based on London interbank rates.
c These RCIs bear a fixed rate of interest until 2016.
d These Notes bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance, based on London interbank rates.
e These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2008.
After that date, in the event that the Notes are not redeemed, the coupon will be reset to a fixed margin over a reference gilt rate for a further period of five years.
f These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2021.
After that date, in the event that the Notes are not redeemed, the Notes will be reset to a fixed margin over a reference gilt rate for a further period of five years.
g The interest rate on these Notes is fixed for the life of this issue.
h These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2020.
i These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2015.
j These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2017.
k These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2027.
l These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2009.
After that date, in the event that the Notes are not redeemed, the Notes will bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance based on European interbank rates.
m These Loans bear a fixed rate of interest until 2028 based on a US Dollar principal amount, but the interest payments have been swapped, resulting in a Yen interest rate payable, which is fixed periodically in advance based on London interbank rates.
After that date, in the event that 3 the Loans are not redeemed, the Loans will bear Yen interest rates fixed periodically in advance, based on London interbank rates.
The Bank is not obliged to make a payment of interest on its Undated Notes and Loans excluding the 9.25% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds if, in the preceding six months, a dividend has not been declared or paid on any class of shares of Barclays PLC or, in certain cases, any class of preference shares of the Bank.
The Bank is not obliged to make a payment of interest on its 9.25% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds if, in the immediately preceding 12 months interest period, a dividend has not been paid on any class of its share capital.
Interest not so paid becomes payable in each case if such a dividend is subsequently paid or in certain other circumstances.
During the year, the Bank declared and paid dividends on its ordinary shares and on all classes of preference shares.
No payment of principal or any interest may be made unless the Bank satisfies a specified solvency test.
The Bank may elect to defer any payment of interest on the RCIs b and c above.
Any such deferred payment of interest must be paid on the earlier of i the date of redemption of the RCIs, and ii the coupon payment date falling on or nearest to the tenth anniversary of the date of deferral of such payment.
Whilst such deferral is continuing, neither the Bank nor Barclays PLC may declare or pay a dividend, subject to certain exceptions, on any of its ordinary shares or Preference Shares.
The Bank may elect to defer any payment of interest on the TONs if it determines that it is, or such payment would result in it being, in non-compliance with capital adequacy requirements and policies of the FSA.
Any such deferred payment of interest will only be payable on a redemption of the TONs.
Until such time as the Bank next makes a payment of interest on the TONs, neither the Bank nor Barclays PLC may a declare or pay a dividend, subject to certain exceptions, on any of their respective ordinary shares or Preference Shares, or make payments of interest in respect of the Banks Reserve Capital Instruments and b certain restrictions on the redemption, purchase or reduction of their respective share capital and certain other securities also apply.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 197 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 32 Subordinated liabilities continued Repayment Notes n These TONs are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole on any coupon payment date falling in or after June 2032. o These RCIs are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole on any coupon payment date falling in or after December 2036. p These RCIs are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole on any coupon payment date falling in or after December 2016. q These Notes are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole or in part on any interest payment date.
r These Notes are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole on any interest payment date.
s These Notes are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole in 2008, or on any fifth anniversary thereafter.
t These Bonds are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole in 2021, or on any fifth anniversary thereafter.
u These Bonds are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole at any time.
v These Notes are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole in 2020, or on any fifth anniversary thereafter.
w These Notes are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole in 2015, or on any fifth anniversary thereafter.
x These Notes are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole in 2017, or on any fifth anniversary thereafter.
y These Notes are repayable at the option of the Bank, in whole in 2027, or on any fifth anniversary thereafter.
z These Notes are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole in 2009, or on any fifth anniversary thereafter.
aa These Loans are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole in 2028, or on any fifth anniversary thereafter.
In addition, each issue of undated loan capital is repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole for certain tax reasons, either at any time, or on an interest payment date.
There are no events of default except non-payment of principal or mandatory interest.
Any repayments require the prior approval of the FSA.
All issues of undated loan capital have been made in the eurocurrency market and or under Rule 144A, and no issues have been registered under the US Securities Act of 1933.
Barclays PLC 198 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 32 Subordinated liabilities continued b Dated loan capital Dated loan capital, issued by the Bank for the development and expansion of the Groups business and to strengthen its capital base, by Barclays Bank Spain SA Barclays Spain, Barclays Bank of Botswana Ltd BBB and Barclays Bank Zambia PLC Barclays Zambia to enhance their respective capital bases and by Absa and Barclays Bank of Ghana Ltd BBG for general corporate purposes, comprise: 2006 2005 Notes m m Non-convertible The Bank Floating Rate Unsecured Capital Loan Stock 2006 2 7.4% Subordinated Notes 2009 US$400m a 204 233 Subordinated Fixed to CMS-Linked Notes 2009 31m b 21 21 12% Unsecured Capital Loan Stock 2010 a 27 26 Floating Rate Subordinated Step-up Callable Notes 2011 US$100m 58 Floating Rate Subordinated Step-up Callable Notes 2011 US$125m 73 Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2011 US$400m 235 5.75% Subordinated Notes 2011 1,000m a 676 783 5.25% Subordinated Notes 2011 250m ex-Woolwich plc a 186 200 Fixed Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2011 Yen 5,000m 25 Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2012 b, n 301 298 Callable Subordinated Floating Rate Notes 2012 b, n 44 44 Step-up Callable Floating Rate Subordinated Bonds 2012 ex-Woolwich plc b, n 151 150 Callable Subordinated Floating Rate Notes 2012 US$150m b, n 77 88 Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2012 US$100m b, n 51 58 Capped Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2012 US$100m b, n 51 58 Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2013 US$1,000m b, n 513 585 5.015% Subordinated Notes 2013 US$150m a 77 88 4.875% Subordinated Notes 2013 750m a 540 565 5.5% Subordinated Notes 2013 DM 500m d, n 179 183 Floating Rate Subordinated Step-up Callable Notes 2013 Yen 5,500m b, n 24 27 Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2013 AU$150m c, n 61 65 5.93% Subordinated Notes 2013 AU$100m e, n 41 43 Callable Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2015 US$1,500m b, n 767 877 3 4.38% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes 2015 US$75m a 37 42 4.75% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes 2015 US$150m a 76 86 Floating Rate Subordinated Step-up Callable Notes 2016 US$750m b, n 382 Callable Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016 1,250m b, n 844 Callable Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2017 US$500m b, n 255 292 10.125% Subordinated Notes 2017 ex-Woolwich plc k, n 113 115 Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2018 40m b 27 27 Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2019 50m b 32 33 Callable Fixed Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2019 1,000m l 696 742 9.5% Subordinated Bonds 2021 ex-Woolwich plc a 290 297 Subordinated Floating Rate Notes 2021 100m b 66 67 Subordinated Floating Rate Notes 2022 50m b 34 34 Subordinated Floating Rate Notes 2023 50m b 34 34 5.75% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes 2026 a 608 631 5.4% Reverse Dual Currency Subordinated Loan 2027 Yen 15,000m m 66 46 6.33% Subordinated Notes 2032 a 50 55 Subordinated Floating Rate Notes 2040 100m b 67 69 Barclays Bank SA, Spain Barclays Spain Subordinated Floating Rate Capital Notes 2011 50m b 22 27 Absa 14.25% Subordinated Callable Notes 2014 ZAR 3,100m f, n 269 318 10.75% Subordinated Callable Notes 2015 ZAR 1,100m g, n 89 113 Subordinated Callable Notes 2015 ZAR 400m h, n 29 41 8.75% Subordinated Callable Notes 2017 ZAR 1,500m i, n 113 174 8.1% Subordinated Callable Notes 2020 ZAR 2,000m j, n 143 Barclays Bank of Ghana Ltd BBG 14% Fixed Rate BBG Subordinated Callable Notes 2016 GHC 100,000m a, n 6 Dated loan capital non-convertible 8,339 8,028 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 199 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 32 Subordinated liabilities continued 2006 2005 Notes m m Convertible Barclays Bank of Botswana BBB Subordinated Unsecured Floating Rate Capital Notes 2014 BWP 100m n, o 9 11 Barclays Bank Zambia PLC Barclays Zambia Subordinated Unsecured Floating Rate Capital Notes 2015 ZMK 30,000m n, p 5 5 Absa Redeemable cumulative option-holding preference shares ZAR 147m q 11 22 Total convertible 25 38 Repayable not more than one year 2 over one year but not more than five years 1,147 302 over five years 7,217 7,762 Total repayable 8,364 8,066 None of the Groups dated loan capital is secured.
The debt obligations of the Bank, Barclays Spain, BBG, BBB, Barclays Zambia and Absa rank ahead of the interests of holders of their equity.
Dated loan capital of the Bank, Barclays Spain, BBG, BBB, Barclays Zambia and Absa has been issued on the basis that the claims there under are subordinated to the respective claims of their depositors and other unsecured unsubordinated creditors.
Interest Notes a The interest rates on these Notes are fixed for the life of those issues.
b These Notes bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance based on London or European interbank rates.
c These Notes bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance based on Sydney Bill of exchange rates.
d These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2008.
After that date, in the event that the Notes are not redeemed, the Notes will bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance based on London interbank rates.
After that date, in the event that the Notes are not redeemed, the Notes will bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance based on Sydney Bill of exchange rates.
f These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2009.
After that date, in the event that the Notes are not redeemed, the coupon will be reset to a fixed margin over a reference rate for a further period of five years.
g These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2010.
After that date, in the event that the Notes are not redeemed, the Notes will bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance based on Johannesburg interbank acceptance rates.
h These Notes bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance based on Johannesburg interbank acceptance rates.
i These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2012.
j These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2015.
k These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2012.
l These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2014.
m This Loan bears a fixed rate of interest based on a US Dollar principal amount, but the interest payments have been swapped, resulting in a Yen interest rate payable which is fixed periodically in advance based on London interbank rates.
n Repayable at the option of the issuer, prior to maturity, on conditions governing the respective debt obligations, some in whole or in part, and some only in whole.
o These Notes bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance based on the Bank of Botswana Certificate Rate.
All of these Notes will be compulsorily converted to Preference Shares of BBB, having a total par value equal in sum to the principal amount of Notes outstanding at the time of conversion, should BBB experience pre-tax losses in excess of its retained earnings and other capital surplus accounts.
p These Notes bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance based on the Bank of Zambia Treasury Bill rate.
All of these Notes will be compulsorily converted to Preference Shares of Barclays Zambia, having a total par value equal in sum to the principal amount of Notes outstanding at the time of conversion, should Barclays Zambia experience pre-tax losses in excess of its retained earnings and other capital surplus accounts.
q The dividends are compounded and payable semi-annually in arrears on 30th September and 31st March of each year.
The shares were issued by Absa Group Limited on 1st July 2004 and the redemption dates commence on the first business day after the third anniversary of the date of issue of the redeemable preference shares and ending on the fifth anniversary of the date of issue.
Such exercise and notice will be deemed to be effective only on the option exercise dates, being 1st March, 1st June, 1st September or 1st December of each year.
The shares are convertible into ordinary shares at the option of the preference shareholders on the redemption dates in lots of 100.
Barclays PLC 200 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 32 Subordinated liabilities continued The 7.4% Subordinated Notes 2009 the 7.4% Notes issued by the Bank have been registered under the US Securities Act of 1933.
All other issues of dated loan capital by the Bank, Barclays Spain, BBG, BBB, Barclays Zambia and Absa, which were made in non-US markets, have not been so registered.
With respect to the 7.4% Notes, the Bank is not obliged to make i a payment of interest on any interest payment date unless a dividend is paid on any class of share capital and ii a payment of principal until six months after the respective maturity date with respect to such Notes.
Repayment terms Unless otherwise indicated, the Groups dated loan capital outstanding at 31st December 2006 is redeemable only on maturity, subject in particular cases, to provisions allowing an early redemption in the event of certain changes in tax law or, in the case of BBB and Barclays Zambia to certain changes in legislation or regulations.
Any repayments prior to maturity require in the case of the Bank, the prior approval of the FSA, in the case of BBB, the prior approval of the Bank of Botswana, in the case of Barclays Zambia, the prior approval of the Bank of Zambia, and in the case of Absa, the prior approval of the South African Registrar of Banks.
There are no committed facilities in existence at the balance sheet date which permit the refinancing of debt beyond the date of maturity.
33 Provisions Undrawn contractually committed facilities Redundancy and Onerous and reguarantees Sundry contracts structuring provided provisions Total m m m m m At 1st January 2006 79 74 55 309 517 Exchange 2 2 16 16 Additions 45 180 35 159 419 Amounts used 53 133 9 94 289 Unused amounts reversed 2 21 35 115 173 Amortisation of discount 4 4 At 31st December 2006 71 102 46 243 462 At 1st January 2005 39 97 55 212 403 3 Acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries 51 51 Exchange 7 7 Additions 63 196 20 170 449 Amounts used 27 178 104 309 Unused amounts reversed 41 20 27 88 Amortisation of discount 4 4 At 31st December 2005 79 74 55 309 517 Provisions expected to be recovered or settled within no more than 12 months after 31st December 2006 were 388m 2005: 360m.
Sundry provisions are made with respect to commission clawbacks, warranties and litigation claims.
The Group has a restructuring programme, largely focused on activities within the UK, which involves the reshaping of the Groups operations through the centralisation of core processes, application of new technologies, and reduction of workforce.
It is anticipated that the majority of the remaining provision related to this programme will be utilised in 2007.
Redundancy and restructuring provisions are reported within operating expenses in the income statements.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 201 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 34 Securitisations During the year, the Group has engaged in securitisation transactions involving Barclays residential mortgage loans, business loans and credit card balances.
In addition, the Group acts as a conduit for commercial paper, whereby it acquires static pools of residential mortgage loans from other lending institutions for securitisation transactions.
In these transactions, the assets, or interests in the assets, or beneficial interests in the cash flows arising from the assets, are transferred to a special purpose entity, or to a trust which then transfers its beneficial interests to a special purpose entity, which then issues floating rate debt securities to third-party investors.
Securitisations may, depending on the individual arrangement: result in continued recognition of the securitised assets and the recognition of the debt securities issued in the transaction: partial continued recognition of the assets to the extent of the Groups continuing involvement in those assets: or derecognition of the assets and the separate recognition, as assets or liabilities, of any rights and obligations created or retained in the transfer.
Full derecognition only occurs when the Group transfers both its contractual right to receive cash flows from the financial assets and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, including credit risk, prepayment risk and interest rate risk.
The following table shows the carrying amount of securitised assets, stated at the amount of the Groups continuing involvement where appropriate, together with the associated liabilities, for each category of asset in the balance sheet: 2006 2005 Carrying Carrying amount of Associated amount Associated assets liabilities of assets liabilities m m m m Loans and advances to customers Note 16 Residential mortgage loans 12,577 13,271 6,779 6,861 Commercial loans 6,081 5,558 5,000 4,760 Credit card receivables 5,700 5,195 6,815 6,799 Total 24,358 24,024 18,594 18,420 Assets designated at fair value through profit or loss Note 13 Retained interest in residential mortgage loans 628 175 Retained interests in residential mortgage loans include interest only strips which represent a continuing exposure to the prepayment and credit risk in the underlying securitised assets, the total amount of which was 15,063m 2005: 6,291m.
These are initially recorded as an allocation of the original carrying amount based on the relative fair values of the portion derecognised and the portion retained.
Barclays PLC 202 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 35 Retirement benefit obligations Pension schemes The UK Retirement Fund UKRF, which is the main scheme of the Group, amounting to 91% of all the Groups schemes in terms of benefit obligations, comprises five sections.
The 1964 Pension Scheme Most employees recruited before July 1997 are members of this non-contributory defined benefit scheme.
Pensions are calculated by reference to service and pensionable salary and are normally subject to a deduction from State pension age.
The Retirement Investment Scheme RIS A defined contribution plan for most joiners between July 1997 and 1st October 2003.
This was closed to new entrants on 1st October 2003 and the large majority of existing members of the RIS transferred to afterwork in respect of future benefit accrual with effect from 1st January 2004.
There are now no longer any active members of the RIS.
The Pension Investment Plan PIP A defined contribution plan created from 1st July 2001 to provide benefits for certain employees of Barclays Capital.
afterwork Combines a contributory cash balance element with a voluntary defined contribution element.
New employees since 1st October 2003 are eligible to join afterwork.
In addition, the large majority of active members of the RIS now closed were transferred to afterwork in respect of future benefit accrual after 1st January 2004.
Career Average Section The Career Average Section was established in the UKRF with effect from 1st May 2004 following the transfer of members from the Woolwich Pension Fund.
The Career Average Section is a non-contributory career average scheme and was closed to new entrants on 1st December 2006.
In addition, the costs of ill-health retirements and death in service benefits are generally borne by the UKRF for each of the five sections.
Governance The assets of the UKRF are held separately from the assets of the Group and are administered by trustees.
Barclays Pension Fund Trustees Ltd BPFTL acts as corporate trustee for the UKRF.
BPFTL is a private limited company, incorporated on 20th December 1990, and is a subsidiary of Barclays Bank PLC.
As the corporate trustee for the UKRF, BPFTL is the legal owner of the assets of the UKRF and BPFTL holds these assets in trust for the beneficiaries of the scheme.
BPFTL comprises nine Directors, of which six are Employer Directors selected by the Bank and three are Employee Directors nominated by the 3 Pension Fund Advisory Committee PFAC.
Employee Directors are selected from those eligible active employees and pensioner members who apply to be considered for the role.
Employee Director vacancies are advertised to all eligible active and pensioner members.
This enables any eligible member with an interest in becoming an Employee Director to express that interest and be considered for the role.
The PFAC provides the mechanism through which Employee Directors are selected.
The PFAC will accept nominations from eligible members and select from amongst all properly nominated candidates.
There are also three Alternate Employer Directors and three Alternate Employee Directors.
The selection process for these appointments are as detailed above.
The role of alternate directors is to provide cover for individual directors, should they not be available for meetings.
Currently, the Bank decides the funding rate after consulting with the trustees.
Under the Pensions Act 2004, which has practical impact for the UKRF from its next triennial valuation due in September 2007, the Bank and the trustee must agree the funding rate including a recovery plan to fund any deficit against the scheme specific statutory funding objective.
In addition to the UKRF, there are other defined benefit and defined contribution schemes in the UK and overseas.
The same approach to pensions governance applies to the other schemes in the UK but different legislation covers schemes outside of the UK where in most cases the Bank has the power to determine the funding rate.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 203 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 35 Retirement benefit obligations continued The following tables present an analysis of defined benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for all the Groups pension schemes and post-retirement benefits the latter are unfunded and present the amounts recognised in the income statement including those related to post-retirement health care.
Income statement charge 2006 2005 2004 Other postOther postOther postretirement retirement retirement Pensions benefits Total Pensions benefits Total Pensions benefits Total m m m m m m m m m Staff cost charge Current service cost 378 21 399 348 22 370 330 20 350 Interest cost 900 8 908 853 4 857 772 6 778 Expected return on scheme assets 999 999 898 898 834 834 Recognised actuarial loss 314 4 4 3 3 Past service cost 29 29 13 1 141 1 Curtailment or settlements 29 29 49 49 34 34 Total included in staff costs 282 30 312 271 27 298 235 29 264 Staff costs are included in other operating expenses.
Change in benefit obligation 2006 2005 Post-retirement Post-retirement Pensions benefits Total Pensions benefits Total UK Overseas UK Overseas UK Overseas UK Overseas m m m m m m m m m m Benefit obligation at beginning of the year 18,149 938 103 79 19,269 15,494 522 80 65 16,161 Current service cost 358 20 20 1 399 332 16 18 4 370 Interest cost 863 37 4 4 908 822 31 3 1 857 Past service cost 4 25 29 12 1 1 14 Curtailments or settlements 43 2 45 58 3 61 Actuarial gain loss 1,566 15 11 3 1,589 2,024 28 18 4 2,074 Contributions by plan participants 15 2 17 13 2 15 Benefits paid 536 40 19 4 599 490 24 16 5 535 Business combinations 11 11 335 335 Exchange and other adjustments 12 60 7 55 30 9 39 Benefit obligation at end of the year 17,256 894 97 76 18,323 18,149 938 103 79 19,269 The benefit obligation arises from plans that are wholly unfunded and wholly or partly funded as follows: 2006 2005 m m Unfunded obligations 237 224 Wholly or partly funded obligations 18,086 19,045 Total 18,323 19,269 Barclays PLC 204 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 35 Retirement benefit obligations continued Change in plan assets 2006 2005 Post-retirement Post-retirement Pensions benefits Total Pensions benefits Total UK Overseas UK Overseas UK Overseas UK Overseas m m m m m m m m m m Fair value of plan assets at beginning of the year 15,571 819 16,390 13,261 436 13,697 Expected return on plan assets 965 34 999 867 31 898 Employer contribution 357 26 2 4 389 358 11 1 3 373 Settlements 11 2 13 7 7 Contributions by plan participants 15 2 17 13 2 15 Actuarial gain 423 25 448 1,599 2 1,601 Benefits paid 536 30 2 4 572 490 24 1 3 518 Business combinations 335 335 Exchange and other adjustments 23 129 152 30 26 4 Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year 16,761 745 17,506 15,571 819 16,390 Amounts recognised on balance sheet The pension and post-retirement benefit assets and liabilities recognised on the balance sheet are as follows: 2006 2005 Post-retirement Post-retirement Pensions benefits Total Pensions benefits Total UK Overseas UK Overseas UK Overseas UK Overseas m m m m m m m m m m Benefit obligation at end of period 17,256 894 97 76 18,323 18,149 938 103 79 19,269 Fair value of plan assets at end of period 16,761 745 17,506 15,571 819 16,390 3 Net deficit 495 149 97 76 817 2,578 119 103 79 2,879 Unrecognised actuarial gains losses 953 20 17 14 902 1,039 63 29 11 1,142 Net recognised liability 1,448 129 80 62 1,719 1,539 56 74 68 1,737 Recognised assets 53 35 88 52 34 86 Recognised liability 1,501 164 80 62 1,807 1,591 90 74 68 1,823 Net recognised liability 1,448 129 80 62 1,719 1,539 56 74 68 1,737 The UKRF deficit measured using the IAS 19 assumptions has decreased over the year from 2.5bn at 31st December 2005 to 0.5bn at 31st December 2006.
Among the reasons for this change were greater than expected returns on assets and an increase in AA long-term corporate bond yields which resulted in a higher discount rate of 5.12% 31st December 2005: 4.83%, partially offset by an increase in the inflation assumption to 3.08% 31st December 2005: 2.75%.
A number of additional changes were made to the assumptions used in valuing the liabilities, including a decrease in the assumed rate of real salary increases to 1% 31st December 2005: 1.55%, a change in the assumption regarding pension increases to recognise the caps and floors which apply to guaranteed pension increases, and the introduction of an explicit allowance for early retirement and commutation.
Mortality assumptions remain unchanged from those in force at 31st December 2005.
The Group operates a number of schemes that are insured with third-party insurers.
Reimbursement rights of 60m in relation to these schemes have been included within Other assets.
The present value of the benefits payable under these schemes is 60m and has been included within the net pension liability recognised on the balance sheet.
The IAS 19 pension surplus of the Absa Group Pension Fund as at 31st December 2006 was 60m 2005: 90m.
A net IAS 19 liability of nil 2005: nil has been recognised on the balance sheet consisting of 286m defined benefit obligation 2005: 335m and 286m fair value of plan assets 2005: 335m.
These balances are not recognised in the financial statements of the Absa Group Limited in accordance with South African legislative requirements.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 205 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 35 Retirement benefit obligations continued Assumptions Obligations arising under defined benefit schemes are actuarially valued using the projected unit credit method.
Under this method, where a defined benefit scheme is closed to new members, such as in the case of the 1964 Pension Scheme, the current service cost expressed as a percentage of salary is expected to increase in the future, although this higher rate will be applied to a decreasing payroll.
The latest actuarial IAS valuations were carried out as at 31st December using the following assumptions: UK schemes Overseas schemes 2006 2005 2006 2005 % p. a.
Discount rate 5.12 4.83 6.94 7.42 Rate of increase in salaries 4.08 4.30 5.66 5.93 Inflation rate 3.08 2.75 3.94 4.11 Rate of increase for pensions in payment 2.88 2.75 3.58 3.66 Rate of increase for pensions in deferment 3.08 2.75 2.24 2.97 Initial health care inflation 8.93 10.00 9.93 10.87 Long-term health care inflation 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.03 Expected return on plan assets 6.32 6.30 7.89 8.58 The expected return on plan assets assumption is weighted on the basis of the fair value of these assets.
Health care inflation assumptions are weighted on the basis of the health care cost for the period.
All other assumptions are weighted on the basis of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the period.
The UK Schemes discount rate assumption is based on the yield on the iBoxx over 15 year AA corporate bond index.
The overseas health care inflation assumptions relate to the US and Mauritius.
Mortality assumptions The post-retirement mortality assumptions used in valuing the liabilities of the UKRF were based on the standard tables PA92 as published by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries.
These tables are considered to be most relevant to the population of the UKRF based on their mortality history.
These were then adjusted in line with both current industry experience and the actual experience of the UKRFs own pensioners relative to the standard table.
An allowance has been made for future mortality improvements based on the medium cohort projections published by the CMIB.
On this basis the post-retirement mortality assumptions for the UKRF are as follows: 2006 2005 2004 2003 Longevity at 60 for current pensioners years Males 25.8 25.8 25.7 23.3 Females 29.5 29.5 29.4 26.4 Longevity at 60 for future pensioners currently aged 40 years Males 27.1 27.1 27.0 24.9 Females 30.7 30.6 30.6 27.9 Sensitivity analysis Sensitivity analysis for each of the principal assumptions used to measure the benefit obligation of the UKRF are as follows: Impact on UKRF benefit obligation Decrease Decrease Increase Increase % bn 0.5% increase to: Discount rate 10.5 1.8 Rate of inflation 10.0 1.7 Rate of salary growth 2.3 0.4 1 year increase to longevity at 60 2.4 0.4 Post-retirement health care A one percentage point change in assumed health care trend rates, assuming all other assumptions remain constant would have the following effects for 2006: 1% increase 1% decrease m m Effect on total of service and interest cost components 1.7 1.4 Effect on post-retirement benefit obligation 22.1 18.7 Barclays PLC 206 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 35 Retirement benefit obligations continued Assets A long-term strategy has been set for the asset allocation of the UKRF which comprises a mixture of equities, bonds, property and other appropriate assets.
This recognises that different asset classes are likely to produce different long-term returns and some asset classes may be more volatile than others.
The long-term strategy ensures that investments are adequately diversified.
Asset managers are permitted some flexibility to vary the asset allocation from the long-term strategy within control ranges agreed with the trustee from time to time.
The UKRF also employs derivative instruments, where appropriate, to achieve a desired exposure or return, or to match assets more closely to liabilities.
b Excludes 613m 2005: 512m representing the money purchase assets of the UKRF.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 207 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 35 Retirement benefit obligations continued The UKRF plan assets include 27m relating to UK private equity investments 2005: 53m and 447m relating to overseas private equity investments 2005: 280m.
These are disclosed within UK equities and Other equities respectively.
Amounts included in the fair value of plan assets include 7m 2005: 4m relating to shares in Barclays Group, 10m 2005: 1m relating to bonds issued by the Barclays Group, 1m 2005: nil relating to other investments in the Barclays Group, and 8m 2005: 5m relating to property occupied by Group companies.
The expected return on assets is determined by calculating a total return estimate based on weighted average estimated returns for each asset class.
Asset class returns are estimated using current and projected economic and market factors such as inflation, credit spreads and equity risk premiums.
The actual return on plan assets was 1,447m 2005: 2,499m.
Actuarial gains and losses The actuarial gains and losses arising on plan liabilities and plan assets are as follows: UK schemes Overseas schemes Total 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004 m m m m m m m m m Present value of obligations 17,353 18,252 15,574 970 1,017 587 18,323 19,269 16,161 Fair value of plan assets 16,761 15,571 13,261 745 819 436 17,506 16,390 13,697 Net deficit in the plans 592 2,681 2,313 225 198 151 817 2,879 2,464 Actuarial losses gains arising on benefit obligation 1,577 2,042 1,204 12 32 62 1,589 2,074 1,266 arising on benefit obligation % of plan liabilities 9% 11% 8% 1% 3% 11% 9% 11% 8% Actuarial gains arising on plan assets 423 1,599 570 25 29 448 1,601 579 arising on plan assets % of plan assets 3% 10% 4% 3% 2% 3% 10% 4% Funding The most recent triennial funding valuation of the UK Retirement Fund was performed in September 2004 and forms the basis of the Groups commitment that the fund has sufficient assets to make payments to members in respect of their accrued benefits as and when they fall due.
This funding valuation uses a discount rate that reflects the assumed future return from the actual asset allocation at that date, and takes into account projected future salary increases when assessing liabilities arising from accrued service.
The funding valuation is updated annually on the basis of interim assumptions.
The UK Retirement Fund recorded a funding surplus of 1.3bn as at 31st December 2006 2005: 0.9bn.
The Group has agreed funding contributions which, in aggregate, are no less than those which are sufficient to meet the Groups share of the cost of benefits accruing over each year.
The Group has, in the recent past, chosen to make funding contributions in excess of this, more consistent with the IAS service cost.
Defined benefit contributions paid with respect to the UKRF were as follows: m Contributions paid 2004 255 2005 354 2006 351 In 2007 the Group will follow the same funding approach, and expects to make a contribution to the UKRF of no less than 263m as per the schedule of contributions agreed with the Trustee.
The next triennial valuation will be performed in September 2007.
To comply with the requirements of the Pensions Act 2004, the Group and trustees plan to agree a scheme-specific funding target, statement of funding principles, and a schedule of contributions which in 2008 will supersede those in place under the current actuarial funding valuation.
Excluding the UKRF, the Group is expected to pay contributions of approximately 7m to UK schemes and 44m to overseas schemes in 2007. a The Pensions Protection Fund PPF solvency ratio for the main UK scheme as at 31st December 2006 was estimated to be 121% 31st December 2005: 110%.
Note a The PPF solvency ratio represents the funds assets as a percentage of pension liabilities calculated using a section 179 valuation model.
Barclays PLC 208 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 36 Ordinary shares and share premium Number of Ordinary Share shares shares premium Total mmmm At 1st January 2006 6,490 1,623 5,650 7,273 Issued to staff under the Sharesave Share Option Scheme 18 5 67 72 Issued under the Incentive Share Option Plan 25 6 96 102 a Issued under the Executive Share Option Scheme 1 3 3 a Issued under the Woolwich Executive Share Option Plan 1 2 2 At 31st December 2006 6,535 1,634 5,818 7,452 At 1st January 2005 6,454 1,614 5,524 7,138 Issued to staff under the Sharesave Share Option Scheme 26 6 79 85 Issued under the Incentive Share Option Plan 8 2 39 41 Issued under the Executive Share Option Scheme 2189 At 31st December 2005 6,490 1,623 5,650 7,273 The authorised share capital of Barclays PLC is 2,500m 2005: 2,500m, comprising 9,996 million 2005: 9,996 million ordinary shares of 25p each and 1 million 2005: 1 million staff shares of 1 each.
All issued shares are fully paid.
2006 2005 Called up share capital, allotted and fully paid m m Ordinary shares: At beginning of year 1,622 1,613 Issued to staff under the Sharesave Share Option Scheme 5 6 Issued under Incentive Share Option Plan 6 2 Issued under Woolwich Executive Share Option Plan 1 At end of year 1,633 1,622 Staff shares 1 1 Total 1,634 1,623 Share repurchase 3 No share repurchases were made during the year 2005: nil.
At the 2006 AGM on 27th April, Barclays PLC was authorised to repurchase 968,600,000 of its ordinary shares of 25p.
The authorisation is effective until the AGM in 2007.
Shares under option The Group has four schemes that give employees rights to subscribe for shares in Barclays PLC.
A summary of the key terms of each scheme are included in Note 51.
At 31st December 2006, 78.9 million 2005: 85.7 million options were outstanding under the terms of the Sharesave Share Option Scheme Sharesave, 1.7 million 2005: 2.6 million options were outstanding under the terms of the Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS, 0.7 million 2005: 1.3 million options were outstanding under the terms of the Woolwich Executive Share Option Plan Woolwich ESOP and 77.5 million 2005: 105.1 million options were outstanding under the terms of the Incentive Share Option Plan ISOP, enabling certain Directors and members of staff to subscribe for ordinary shares between 2006 and 2015 at prices ranging from 176p to 562p.
In addition to the above, the independent trustee of the Barclays Group ESAS Employees Benefit Trust ESAS Trust, established by Barclays Bank PLC in 1996, operates the Executive Share Award Scheme ESAS.
ESAS is a deferred share bonus plan for employees of the Group.
The key terms of the ESAS are described in Note 51.
The independent trustees of the ESAS Trust make awards of Barclays shares and grant options over Barclays shares to beneficiaries of the ESAS Trust.
Beneficiaries of the ESAS Trust include employees and former employees of the Barclays Group.
The independent trustee of the Barclays Group PSP and ESOS Employees Benefit Trust PSP Trust, established by Barclays Bank PLC in 1996, operates the Performance Share Plan PSP and may satisfy awards under the ESOS.
No awards have been made under this trust since 1999.
All awards are in the form of options over Barclays shares.
The Sharepurchase scheme which was established in 2002 is open to all eligible UK employees, including executive Directors.
The key terms of the Sharepurchase scheme are described in Note 51.
The total number of Barclays shares held in Group employee benefit trusts at 31st December 2006 was 168 million 2005: 148 million.
Dividend rights have been waived on nil 2005: nil of these shares.
The total market value of the shares held in trust based on the year-end share price of 7.30 2005: 6.11 was 1,227m 2005: 904m.
As at 31st December 2006, options over 9.6 million 2005: 9.5 million of the total shares held in the trusts were exercisable.
Note a The nominal value for share options issued during 2006 for the Executive Share Option Scheme and Woolwich ESOP was less than 500,000 in each case.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 209 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 37 Reserves Other reserves Barclays PLC Group Capital Other Available Cash flow Currency redemption capital for sale hedging translation reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve Total m m m m m m At 1st January 2006 309 617 225 70 156 1,377 Net gains losses from changes in fair value 71 421 350 Net gains transferred to net profit 308 51 359 Currency translation differences 464 464 Losses transferred to net profit due to impairment 86 86 Changes in insurance liabilities 23 23 Net losses transferred to net profit due to fair value hedging 13 13 Tax 22 172 130 64 At 31st December 2006 309 617 132 230 438 390 Capital Other Available Cash flow Currency redemption capital for sale hedging translation reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve Total m m m m m m At 1st January 2005 309 617 314 302 58 1,484 Net losses from changes in fair value 250 51 301 Net gains transferred to net profit 120 69 189 Currency translation differences 214 214 Changes in insurance liabilities 64 64 Net losses transferred to net profit due to fair value hedging 260 260 Tax 85 112 27 At 31st December 2005 309 617 225 70 156 1,377 The capital redemption reserve and other capital reserve represent transfers from retained earnings in accordance with relevant legislation.
These reserves are not distributable.
The available for sale reserve represents the unrealised change in the fair value of available for sale investments.
The cash flow hedging reserve represents the net gains on effective cash flow hedging instruments that will be recycled to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss.
The currency translation reserve represents the cumulative gains and losses on the retranslation of the Groups net investment in foreign operations, net of the effects of instruments that have qualified as hedges.
Barclays PLC 210 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 37 Reserves continued Retained earnings and treasury shares Barclays PLC Group Retained Treasury earnings shares Total m m m At 1st January 2006 8,957 181 8,776 Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 4,571 4,571 Equity-settled share schemes 663 663 Tax on equity-settled share schemes 96 96 Amortisation on treasury shares ESOP 394 394 Dividends paid 1,771 1,771 Net purchases of treasury shares 425 425 Other 47 47 At 31st December 2006 12,169 212 11,957 At 1st January 2005 6,784 119 6,665 Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 3,447 3,447 Equity-settled share schemes 346 346 Tax on equity-settled share schemes 101 101 Amortisation on treasury shares ESOP 78 78 Dividends paid 1,581 1,581 Net purchases of treasury shares 140 140 Other 62 62 At 31st December 2005 8,957 181 8,776 The Treasury shares primarily relate to shares held by employee benefit trusts, to the extent that they have not yet been expensed.
The Group operates in a number of countries subject to regulations under which a local subsidiary has to maintain a minimum level of capital.
The current policy of the Group is that local capital requirements are met, as far as possible, by the retention of profit.
Certain countries operate exchange control regulations which limit the amount of dividends that can be remitted to non-resident shareholders.
It is not possible to determine the amount of profit retained and other reserves that are restricted by these regulations, but the net profit retained of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures at 31st December 2006 totalled 5,667m 2005: 3,980m.
If such overseas reserves were to be remitted, other tax liabilities, which have not been provided for in the accounts, might arise.
3 Retained earnings Barclays PLC Parent company Capital Retained redemption earnings reserve Total m m m At 1st January 2006 1,318 309 1,627 Profit after tax 1,964 1,964 Dividends paid 1,814 1,814 At 31st December 2006 1,468 309 1,777 At 1st January 2005 918 309 1,227 Profit after tax 2,012 2,012 Dividends paid 1,612 1,612 At 31st December 2005 1,318 309 1,627 Details of principal subsidiaries held through Barclays Bank PLC are shown in Note 47.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 211 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 38 Minority interests 2006 2005 m m At beginning of year 7,004 3,330 Share of profit after tax 624 394 Dividend and other payments 452 318 Equity issued by subsidiaries 639 2,273 Available for sale reserve: net loss gain from changes in fair value 2 1 Cash flow hedges: net loss gain from changes in fair value 9 1 Currency translation differences 317 86 Additions 51 1,281 Disposals 34 4 Other 87 48 At end of year 7,591 7,004 During the year, subsidiaries issued the following Preference Shares: 3 million Preference Shares of nominal ZAR0.01 each Principal amount: ZAR3,000m: 219m with a variable dividend issued on 25th April 2006.
27 million Preference Shares of nominal US$0.25 each Principal amount: US$675m: 378m with a 6.625% dividend issued on 25th April 2006.
3 million Preference Shares of nominal US$0.25 each Principal amount: US$75m: 41m with a 6.625% dividend issued on 28th April 2006.
39 Contingent liabilities and commitments Contingent liabilities and commitments In common with other banks, the Group conducts business involving acceptances, performance bonds and indemnities.
The majority of these facilities are offset by corresponding obligations of third parties.
Nature of instruments An acceptance is an undertaking by a bank to pay a bill of exchange drawn on a customer.
The Group expects most acceptances to be presented, but reimbursement by the customer is normally immediate.
Endorsements are residual liabilities of the Group in respect of bills of exchange, which have been paid and subsequently rediscounted.
Guarantees and letters of credit are given as security to support the performance of a customer to third parties.
As the Group will only be required to meet these obligations in the event of the customers default, the cash requirements of these instruments are expected to be considerably below their nominal amounts.
Other contingent liabilities include transaction related customs and performance bonds and are, generally, short-term commitments to third parties which are not directly dependent on the customers creditworthiness.
Commitments to lend are agreements to lend to a customer in the future, subject to certain conditions.
Such commitments are either made for a fixed period, or have no specific maturity but are cancellable by the lender subject to notice requirements.
Documentary credits commit the Group to make payments to third parties, on production of documents, which are usually reimbursed immediately by customers.
Barclays PLC 212 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 39 Contingent liabilities and commitments continued The following tables summarise the nominal principal amount of contingent liabilities and commitments with off-balance sheet risk: 2006 2005 m m Acceptances and endorsements 287 283 Guarantees and letters of credit pledged as collateral security 31,252 38,035 Other contingent liabilities 7,880 8,825 Contingent liabilities 39,419 47,143 Documentary credits and other short-term trade related transactions 414 380 Undrawn note issuance and revolving underwriting facilities: Forward asset purchases and forward deposits placed 360 43 Standby facilities, credit lines and other 204,730 203,362 Commitments 205,504 203,785 Capital commitments At 31st December 2006 the commitments for capital expenditure under contract amounted to 9m 2005: 1m.
Assets pledged Assets are pledged as collateral to secure liabilities under repurchase agreements, securitisations and stock lending agreements or as security deposits relating to futures and options.
The aggregate amount of secured liabilities is 108,928m 2005: 105,679m.
The following table summarises the nature and carrying amount of the assets pledged as security against these liabilities: 2006 2005 m m Trading portfolio assets 77,255 79,648 Loans and advances to banks 5,952 4,480 Loans and advances to customers 17,763 14,094 Available for sale investments 20,495 26,818 Other 4 55 Assets pledged 121,469 125,095 3 40 Legal proceedings Barclays has for some time been party to proceedings, including a class action, in the United States against a number of defendants following the collapse of Enron: the class action claim is commonly known as the Newby litigation.
On 20th July 2006 Barclays received an Order from the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas Houston Division the 'Court' which dismissed the claims against Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays Capital Inc. in the Newby litigation.
On 4th December 2006, in response to the plaintiffs procedural objections, the Court stayed Barclays dismissal from the proceedings and allowed the plaintiffs to file a supplemental complaint.
The Court will consider the plaintiffs supplemental complaint in connection with consideration of a summary judgment motion filed by Barclays.
Barclays considers that the Enron related claims against it are without merit and is defending them vigorously.
It is not possible to estimate Barclays possible loss in relation to these matters, nor the effect that they might have upon operating results in any particular financial period.
Barclays has been in negotiations with the staff of the US Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to a settlement of the Commissions investigations of transactions between Barclays and Enron.
Barclays does not expect that the amount of any settlement with the Commission would have a significant adverse effect on its financial position or operating results.
On 3rd November 2006 Barclays announced that it had reached a settlement in principle with Enron in the Enron bankruptcy proceedings.
A settlement agreement was signed on 30th November 2006 and became effective on 3rd January 2007.
The settlement has had no negative impact on Barclays earnings as an adequate provision had already been made for the likely cost in prior periods.
In reaching the settlement Barclays has denied any wrongdoing or liability.
Barclays is engaged in various other litigation proceedings both in the United Kingdom and a number of overseas jurisdictions, including the United States, involving claims by and against it which arise in the ordinary course of business.
Barclays does not expect the ultimate resolution of any of the proceedings to which Barclays is party to have a significant adverse effect on the financial position of the Group and Barclays has not disclosed the contingent liabilities associated with these claims either because they cannot reasonably be estimated or because such disclosure could be prejudicial to the conduct of the claims.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 213 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 41 Leasing The Group is both lessor and lessee under finance and operating leases, providing asset financing for its customers and leasing assets for its own use.
In addition, assets leased by the Group may be sublet to other parties.
An analysis of the impact of these transactions on the Group balance sheet and income statement is as follows a As Lessor Finance lease receivables The Group specialises in asset-based lending and works with a broad range of international technology, industrial equipment and commercial companies and provides customised finance programmes to assist manufacturers, dealers and distributors of assets.
Finance lease receivables are included within loans and advances to customers see Note 16.
The Groups net investment in finance lease receivables was as follows: 2006 2005 Gross Present value of Gross Present value of investment in Future minimum lease Unguaranteed investment in Future minimum lease Unguaranteed finance lease finance payments residual finance lease finance payments residual receivables income receivable values receivables income receivable values m m m m m m m m Not more than one year 3,650 734 2,916 166 2,038 514 1,524 61 Over one year but not more than five years 5,824 1,490 4,334 334 5,345 1,222 4,123 113 More than five years 3,790 898 2,892 15 5,252 1,811 3,441 31 Total 13,264 3,122 10,142 515 12,635 3,547 9,088 205 The allowance for uncollectable finance lease receivables included in the allowance for impairment amounted to 22m at 31st December 2006 2005: 11m.
Operating lease receivables The Group acts as lessor, whereby items of plant and equipment are purchased and then leased to third parties under arrangements qualifying as operating leases.
The items purchased to satisfy these leases are treated as plant and equipment in the Groups financial statements and are generally disposed of at the end of the lease term see Note 25.
The future minimum lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable operating leases at 31st December 2006 were as follows: 2006 2005 Plant and Plant and equipment equipment m m Not more than one year 18 22 More than one year but not more than two years 5 17 More than two years but not more than five years 9 14 More than five years 7 10 Total 39 63 b As Lessee Finance lease commitments The Group leases items of property, plant and equipment on terms that meet the definition of finance leases.
Finance lease commitments are included within other liabilities see Note 30.
Obligations under finance leases were as follows: 2006 2005 Total future Total future minimum minimum payments payments m m Not more than one year 11 99 Over one year but not more than two years 25 71 Over two years but not more than five years 55 109 More than five years 55 97 Less: future finance charges 54 87 Net obligations under finance leases 92 289 Barclays PLC 214 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 41 Leasing continued b As Lessee continued The carrying amount of assets held under finance leases at the balance sheet date was: 2006 2005 m m Cost 44 77 Accumulated depreciation 25 18 Net book value 19 59 Operating lease commitments The Group leases various offices, branches and other premises under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements.
The leases have various terms, escalation and renewal rights.
There are no contingent rents payable.
The Group also leases equipment under non-cancellable lease arrangements.
Where the Group is the lessee the future minimum lease payment under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 2006 2005 Property Equipment Property Equipment m m m m Less than one year 335 9 297 8 Between one to two years 337 9 271 7 Between two to three years 311 2 261 7 Between three to four years 268 242 2 Between four to five years 223 204 Over five years 2,057 1,672 Total 3,531 20 2,947 24 The total of future minimum sublease payments to be received under non-cancellable subleases at the balance sheet date is 251m 2005: 246m.
42 Consolidated cash flow statement In order to provide more relevance to users and to enhance the comparability of its financial statement presentation, the Group has changed certain classifications within the cash flow statement in 2006.
3 These changes have increased net cash from operating activities by 14,147m in 2005 2004: 4,287m with a corresponding decrease in net cash used in investing activities of 111m 2004: 12m increase and decrease in net cash from financing activities of 14,036m 2004: 4,299m.
The amounts of cash and cash equivalents in 2005 and 2004 have not been affected by the changes.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 215 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 43 Disposals The Group was involved in the following disposals: % Disposal Date Bankhaus Wolbern 100% 31 08 06 European Vendor Finance Business 100% 31 12 06 2006 m Total disposal consideration 140 Net assets disposed 80 Profit on disposal of subsidiaries 60 Total disposal consideration 140 Deferred consideration 116 Cash and cash equivalents disposed of 39 Disposal of subsidiaries, net of cash disposed 15 Cash received in respect of disposal of ownership in Barclays Global Investors UK Holdings Limited through the exercise of options under the BGI EOP scheme 44 Decrease in investment in subsidiaries 44 Barclays PLC 216 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 44 Acquisitions The Group was involved in the following acquisitions in 2006: Date HomEq Servicing Corporation mortgage servicing business 01 11 06 Details of the net assets acquired and the consideration paid are set out below.
Carrying value Fair value pre-acquisition adjustments 2006 m m m Assets Cash and balances at central banks 10 10 Loans and advances to customers 153 153 Intangible assets 123 9 114 Other assets 11 Total assets 286 8 278 Liabilities Deposits by customers 2 2 Other liabilities 18 18 Total liabilities 20 20 Net assets acquired 258 Goodwill Total 258 Acquisition cost Cash paid 258 Total consideration 258 The acquired business contributed 5m to consolidated profit before tax for the period from acquisition date to 31st December 2006.
3 If the acquisition had occurred on 1st January 2006 for 2005 on 1st January 2005, total Group income would have been 22,258m 2005: 18,065m, profit before tax would have been 7,167m 2005: 5,295m, and basic earnings per share would have been 72.2p 2005: 54.5p.
The initial accounting for the business combination that took effect during the year has been determined only provisionally as a result of the proximity of the acquisition to the year end.
Cash outflows in respect of acquisitions 2006 m Cash consideration in respect of acquisition 258 Cash and cash equivalents acquired 10 Net cash outflow on acquisition 248 Cash paid in respect of acquisition of shares in Barclays Global Investors UK Holdings Limited 410 Cash paid in respect of acquisition of shares in Absa Bank Limited 22 Increase in investment in subsidiaries 432 45 Investment in Barclays Bank PLC The investment in Barclays Bank PLC is stated in the balance sheet of Barclays PLC at a cost of 8,641m 2005: 8,462m.
The increase of 179m 2005: 135m during the year represents the cost of additional shares.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 217 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 46 Related party transactions and Directors remuneration a Related party transactions Parties are considered to be related if one party has the ability to control the other party or exercise significant influence over the other party in making financial or operation decisions, or one other party controls both.
The definition includes subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and the Groups pension schemes, as well as other persons.
Subsidiaries Transactions between Barclays PLC and subsidiaries also meet the definition of related party transactions.
Where these are eliminated on consolidation, they are not disclosed in the Group financial statements.
Transactions between Barclays PLC and its subsidiary, Barclays Bank PLC are fully disclosed directly in its balance sheet and income statement.
A list of the Groups principal subsidiaries is shown in Note 47.
Associates, joint ventures and other entities The Group provides banking services to its associates, joint ventures and the Group pension funds principally the UK Retirement Fund, providing loans, overdrafts, interest and non-interest bearing deposits and current accounts to these entities as well as other services.
Group companies, principally within Barclays Global Investors, also provide investment management and custodian services to the Group pension schemes.
The Group also provides banking services for unit trusts and investment funds managed by Group companies and are not individually material.
All of these transactions are conducted on the same terms to third-party transactions and are not individually material.
Amounts included in the accounts, in aggregate, by category of related party entity are as follows: For the year ended and as at 31st December 2006 Pension Entities funds unit under trusts and Joint common investment Associates ventures directorships funds Total Loans m m m m m Income statement: Interest received 45 38 2 85 Interest paid 31 57 88 Fees received for services rendered including investment management and custody and commissions 14 7 28 49 Fees paid for services provided 115 51 1 167 Principal transactions 3 2 1 Assets: Loans and advances to banks and customers 784 146 65 995 Derivative transactions Other assets 19 3 17 39 Liabilities: Deposits from banks 9 3 12 Customer accounts 19 18 5 34 76 Derivative transactions 2 2 Other liabilities 13 8 21 Barclays PLC 218 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 46 Related party transactions and Directors remuneration continued For the year ended and as at 31st December 2005 Pension Entities funds unit under trusts and Joint common investment Associates ventures directorships funds Total m m m m m Income statement: Interest received 23 14 37 Interest paid 37 45 82 Fees received for services rendered including investment management and custody and commissions 5 7 17 29 Fees paid for services provided 120 34 154 Principal transactions 33 1 34 Assets: Loans and advances to banks and customers 632 19 651 Derivative transactions 36 36 Other assets 26 1 19 46 Liabilities: Deposits from banks 827 827 Customer accounts 13 22 501 536 Derivative transactions 1 1 Other liabilities 22 6 28 For the year ended and as at 31st December 2004 Pension Entities funds unit under trusts and Joint common investment Associates ventures directorships funds Total m m m m m 3 Income statement: Interest received 13 9 1 23 Interest paid 17 31 48 Fees received for services rendered including investment management and custody and commissions 8 19 27 Fees paid for services provided 286 19 305 Principal transactions Assets: Loans and advances to banks and customers 202 88 30 320 Derivative transactions 21 4 25 Other assets Liabilities: Deposits from banks 1,634 1,634 Customer accounts 26 28 30 84 Derivative transactions Other liabilities 174 3 177 No guarantees, pledges or commitments have been given or received in respect of these transactions in 2006, 2005 or 2004.
There are no leasing transactions between related parties for 2006, 2005 or 2004.
Derivatives transacted on behalf of the Pensions Funds Unit Trusts and Investment Funds amounted to 1,209m 2005: 280m, 2004: 161m.
In 2006 Barclays channelled 19m 2005: nil of its charitable donations through the Charities Aid Foundation, a registered charitable organisation, in which a Director of the Company is a Trustee.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 219 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 46 Related party transactions and Directors remuneration continued Key Management Personnel The Groups Key Management Personnel, and persons connected with them, are also considered to be related parties for disclosure purposes.
Key Management Personnel are defined as those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of Barclays PLC directly or indirectly and comprise the Directors of Barclays PLC and the Officers of the Group, certain direct reports of the Group Chief Executive and the heads of major business units.
In the ordinary course of business, the Bank makes loans to companies where a Director or other member of Key Management Personnel or any connected person is also a Director or other member of Key Management Personnel or any connected person of Barclays.
These loans are made on substantially the same criteria and terms, including interest rates and collateral, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with other persons and did not involve more than the normal risk of collectability or present other unfavourable features.
There were no material related party transactions with companies where a Director or other member of Key Management Personnel or any connected person is also a Director or other member of Key Management Personnel or any connected person of Barclays.
The Group provides banking services to Directors and other Key Management Personnel and persons connected to them.
Transactions during the year and the balances outstanding at 31st December 2006 were as follows: Directors, other Key Management Personnel and connected persons 2006 2005 2004 m m m Loans outstanding at 1st January 7.4 7.8 6.7 Loans issued during the year 2.7 3.4 2.7 Loan repayments during the year 2.3 3.2 1.5 Loans outstanding at 31st December 7.8 8.0 7.9 Interest income earned 0.3 0.4 0.3 No allowances for impairment were recognised in respect of loans to Directors or other members of Key Management Personnel or any connected person in 2006 or 2005.
2006 2005 2004 m m m Deposits outstanding at 1st January 4.7 2.5 5.9 Deposits received during the year 105.2 20.4 18.2 Deposits repaid during the year 94.8 18.2 21.1 Deposits outstanding at 31st December 15.1 4.7 3.0 Interest expense on deposits 0.2 0.1 0.1 Fees payable and other expenses Fees receivable and other income Guarantees issued by the Group Of the loans outstanding above, nil 2005: 0.7m, 2004: 0.1m relates to Directors and other Key Management Personnel and persons connected to them that left the Group during the year.
Of the deposits outstanding above, 0.1m 2005: nil, 2004: nil relates to Directors and other Key Management Personnel and persons connected to them that left the Group during the year.
All loans are provided on normal commercial terms to Directors and other Key Management Personnel and persons connected to them, with the exception of 3,645 of loans which are provided to non-Director members of Key Management Personnel on staff preferential interest rates 5% and 4,278 of loans which are provided on an interest free basis.
Barclays PLC 220 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 46 Related party transactions and Directors remuneration continued Remuneration of Directors and other Key Management Personnel Directors, other Key Management Personnel and connected persons 2006 2005 2004 m m m Salaries and other short-term benefits 34.2 32.9 31.7 Pension costs 0.8 1.1 2.1 Other long-term benefits 9.3 21.5 11.4 Termination benefits 1.4 1.5 0.4 Share-based payments 27.2 25.3 14.3 Employer social security charges on emoluments 10.0 10.4 7.3 82.9 92.7 67.2 b Disclosures required by the Companies Act 1985 The following information is presented in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: Directors remuneration 2006 2005 m m Aggregate emoluments 32.0 17.3 Gains made on the exercise of share options 5.5 0.3 Amounts paid under long-term incentive schemes Actual pension contributions to money purchase scheme 2006: one Director, 11,414 and 2005: two Directors, 114,856 0.1 Notional pension contributions to money purchase scheme 2006: no Directors and 2005: no Directors 37.5 17.7 As at 31st December 2006, four Directors were accruing retirement benefits under a defined benefit scheme 2005: four Directors.
Three Directors Naguib Kheraj, David Roberts and Frits Seegers have agreed to waive their fees as non-executive Directors of Absa Group Limited and Absa Bank Limited.
The respective fees for 2006 were ZAR0.4m 0.03m, ZAR0.4m 0.03m and ZAR0.1m 0.01m.
The fees for 2005 were ZAR0.2m 0.02m for Naguib Kheraj and ZAR0.1m 0.01m for David Roberts Frits Seegers was not a non-executive Director of Absa Group 3 Limited or Absa Bank Limited in 2005.
In both 2005 and 2006 the fees were paid to Barclays.
Directors and Officers shareholdings and options The beneficial ownership of the ordinary share capital of Barclays PLC by all Directors and Officers of Barclays PLC involving 22 persons and Barclays Bank PLC involving 23 persons at 31st December 2006 amounted to 3,999,415 ordinary shares of 25p each 0.06% of the ordinary share capital outstanding and 4,001,170 ordinary shares of 25p each 0.06% of the ordinary share capital outstanding, respectively.
Executive Directors and Officers of Barclays PLC as a group involving 11 persons held, at 31st December 2006, options to purchase 9,735,764 Barclays PLC ordinary shares of 25p each at prices ranging from 316p to 510p under Sharesave and at 397p under the Executive Share Option Scheme and ranging from 326p to 534p under the Incentive Share Option Plan, respectively.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 221 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 46 Related party transactions and Directors remuneration continued Contracts with Directors and their connected persons and Managers The aggregate amounts outstanding at 31st December 2006 under transactions, arrangements and agreements made by banking companies within the Group for persons who are, or were during the year, Directors of Barclays PLC and persons connected with them and for Managers, within the meaning of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, of Barclays Bank PLC were: Number of Number of Directors or connected Amount Managers persons m Directors Loans 4 Quasi-loans and credit card accounts 17 6 0.1 Managers Loans 4 0.4 Quasi-loans and credit card accounts 3 c US disclosures For US disclosure purposes, the aggregate emoluments of all Directors and Officers of Barclays PLC who held office during the year 2006: 24 persons, 2005: 25 persons, 2004: 30 persons for the year ended 31st December 2006 amounted to 72.1m 2005: 75.2m, 2004: 48.1m.
In addition, the aggregate amount set aside for the year ended 31st December 2006, to provide pension benefits for the Directors and Officers amounted to 0.8m 2005: 0.2m, 2004: 1.9m.
The aggregate emoluments of all Directors and Officers of Barclays Bank PLC who held office during the year 2006: 25 persons, 2005: 26 persons, 2004: 31 persons for the year ended 31st December 2006 amounted to 72.2m 2005: 75.4m, 2004: 48.3m.
In addition, the aggregate amount set aside by the Bank and its subsidiaries for the year ended 31st December 2006, to provide pension benefits for the Directors and Officers amounted to 0.8m 2005: 0.2m, 2004: 1.9m.
Barclays PLC 222 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 47 Principal subsidiaries Percentage of equity Country of registration capital held or incorporation Company name Nature of business % Botswana Barclays Bank of Botswana Limited Banking 74.9 Egypt Barclays Bank Egypt SAE Banking 100 England Barclays Bank PLC Banking, holding company 100 England Barclays Mercantile Business Finance Limited Loans and advances including leases to customers 100 England Barclays Global Investors UK Holdings Limited Holding company 90.6 England Barclays Global Investors Limited Investment management 90.6 England Barclays Life Assurance Company Limited Life and pension business 100 England Barclays Bank Trust Company Limited Banking, securities industries and trust services 100 England Barclays Stockbrokers Limited Stockbroking 100 England Barclays Capital Securities Limited Securities dealing 100 England Barclays Global Investors Pensions Management Limited Investment management 90.6 England FIRSTPLUS Financial Group PLC Secured loans 100 England Gerrard Investment Management Limited Investment management 100 Ghana Barclays Bank of Ghana Limited Banking 100 Ireland Barclays Insurance Dublin Limited Payment protection insurance 100 Ireland Barclays Assurance Dublin Limited Payment protection assurance 100 a Isle of Man Barclays Private Clients International Limited Banking 100 b Japan Barclays Capital Japan Limited Securities dealing 100 Jersey Barclays Private Bank & Trust Limited Banking, holding company 100 Kenya Barclays Bank of Kenya Limited Banking, financial and related services 68.5 South Africa Absa Group Limited Banking 56.5 Spain Barclays Bank SA Banking 99.7 Switzerland Barclays Bank Suisse S. A.
Banking and trust services 100 USA Barclays Capital Inc. Securities dealing 100 USA Barclays Financial Corporation Credit card issuer 100 USA Barclays Global Investors, National Association Investment management and securities industry 90.6 Zimbabwe Barclays Bank of Zimbabwe Limited Banking 67.8 In accordance with Section 231 5 of the Companies Act 1985, the above information is provided solely in relation to principal subsidiaries.
3 The country of registration or incorporation is also the principal area of operation of each of the above subsidiaries.
Investments in these subsidiaries are held directly by Barclays Bank PLC except where marked.
Full information of all subsidiaries will be included in the Annual Return to be filed at Companies House.
Notes a BBPLC is the beneficial owner of 38.1% of shares and Barclays Holdings Isle of Man Limited is the beneficial owner of 61.9% of shares.
b Barclays Capital Japan Limited, Tokyo Branch was licensed to operate in Japan as a branch of a foreign principal subsidiary incorporated in the Cayman Islands until 30th April 2006.
Pursuant to changes in the Japanese law, a Japanese domestic company was incorporated on 8th November 2005 into which the entire business was transferred in from the branch as at 30th April 2006.
This domestic company was renamed Barclays Capital Japan Limited.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 223 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 48 Other entities There are a number of entities that do not qualify as subsidiaries under UK Law but which are consolidated under IAS 27 SIC-12 when the substance of the relationship between the Group and the entity usually a Special Purpose Entity SPE indicates that the entity is controlled by the Group.
Such entities are deemed to be controlled by the Group when relationships with such entities gives rise to benefits that are in substance no different from those that would arise were the entity a subsidiary.
The consolidation of such entities may be appropriate in a number of situations, but primarily when: the operating and financial polices of the entity are closely defined from the outset i. e. it operates on an autopilot basis with such policies being largely determined by the Group: the Group has rights to obtain the majority of the benefits of the entity and or retains the majority of the residual or ownership risks related to the entity: or the activities of the entity are being conducted largely on behalf of the Group according to its specific business objectives.
Such entities are created for a variety of purposes including securitisation, structuring, asset realisation, intermediation and management.
Entities may have a different reporting date from that of the parent of 31st December.
Dates may differ for a variety of reasons including local reporting regulations or tax laws.
In accordance with our accounting policies, for the purpose of inclusion in the consolidated financial statements of Barclays PLC, entities with different reporting dates are made up until 31st December.
Entities may have restrictions placed on their ability to transfer funds, including payment of dividends and repayment of loans, to their parent entity.
Reasons for the restrictions include: Central bank restrictions relating to local exchange control laws.
Central bank capital adequacy requirements.
Company law restrictions relating to treatment of the entities as going concerns.
Although the Groups interest in the equity voting rights in certain entities exceeds 50%, these entities are excluded from consolidation because the Group either does not direct the financial and operating policies of these entities, or on the ground that another group has a superior economic interest in such entities.
Consequently, these entities are not deemed to be controlled by Barclays under IAS 27 SIC-12.
The table below includes information in relation to such entities as required by the Companies Act 1985, Section 231 5.
Subsidiaries excluded from consolidation Equity Retained Percentage of shareprofit ordinary share holders loss for Country of registration capital held funds the year or incorporation Name %mm UK Oak Dedicated Limited 100 7 2 UK Oak Dedicated Two Limited 100 5 1 UK Oak Dedicated Three Limited 100 a USA Ivanhoe Funding LLC 75 6 UK Fitzroy Finance 100 UK St James Fleet Investments Two Limited 100 2 b Cayman Islands 29 Park Investment No1 Limited b Cayman Islands 29 Park Investment No2 Limited Notes a Barclays has 51% of voting rights in the entity.
b Barclays appoint the majority of Directors of these entities.
Barclays PLC 224 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 49 Events after the balance sheet date On 19th January 2007 Barclays announced that it entered into an agreement to purchase EquiFirst Corporation, the non-prime mortgage origination business of Regions Financial Corporation, for a consideration of approximately US$225m.
Completion, which is subject to receipt of the required licences and applicable regulatory approval, as well as a post-closing adjustment based on EquiFirsts balance sheet at the actual completion date, is expected in the first half of 2007.
On 8th February 2007 Barclays completed the acquisition of Indexchange Investment AG from Bayerische Hypo-und Vereinsbank for a consideration of approximately 240m.
50 Trust activities The Group provides custody, trustee, corporate administration, investment management and advisory services to third parties which involve the Group making allocation, purchase and sale decisions in relation to a wide range of financial instruments.
Those assets that are held in a fiduciary capacity are not included in these financial statements.
At the balance sheet date the Group had the following assets under administration: 2006 2005 bn bn Indexed assets 612 609 Active assets 235 198 Managed cash and other assets 170 153 Total 1,017 960 51 Share-based payments The Group operates share schemes for employees throughout the world.
The main current schemes are: Sharesave Eligible employees in the UK, Spain and Ireland may participate in the Barclays Sharesave scheme.
Under this scheme, employees may enter into contracts to save up to 250 per month and, at the expiry of a fixed term of three, five or seven years, have the option to use these savings to acquire shares in the Company at a discount, calculated in accordance with the rules of the scheme.
The discount is currently 20% of the market price at the date the options are granted.
Participants in the scheme have six months from the date of vest in which the option can be exercised.
Sharepurchase Sharepurchase was introduced in January 2002.
It is an HM Revenue & Customs approved all-employee share plan.
The plan is open to all eligible UK 3 employees, including executive Directors.
Under the plan, participants are able to purchase up to 1,500 worth of Barclays PLC ordinary shares per tax year, which, if kept in trust for five years, can be withdrawn from the plan tax-free.
Matching shares were introduced to the scheme during 2005 where the purchase of Barclays shares by the participant are matched equally by the Company up to a value of 600 per tax year.
Any shares in the plan will earn dividends in the form of additional shares, which must normally be held by the trustee for three years before being eligible for release.
Executive Share Award Scheme ESAS For certain employees of the Group an element of their annual bonus is in the form of a deferred award of a provisional allocation of Barclays PLC shares under ESAS.
The total value of the bonus made to the employee of which ESAS is an element is dependent upon the business unit, Group and individual employee performance.
The ESAS element of the annual bonus must normally be held for at least three years.
Additional bonus shares are subsequently awarded to recipients of the provisional allocation and vest upon achieving continued service for three and five years from the date of award.
ESAS awards are also made to eligible employees for recruitment purposes.
All awards are subject to potential forfeit if the individual resigns and commences work with a competitor business.
Performance Share Plan PSP The Performance Share Plan PSP was approved by shareholders at the 2005 AGM to replace the ISOP scheme.
Performance shares are free Barclays shares for which no exercise price is payable and which qualify for dividends.
Performance share awards are communicated to participants as an initial allocation.
Barclays performance over a three-year period determines the final number of shares that may be released to participants.
Options granted under the following schemes are over subsidiaries of Barclays PLC: Barclays Global Investors Equity Ownership Plan BGI EOP The Equity Ownership Plan extends to key employees of BGI.
The exercise price of the options is determined by the Remuneration Committee of Barclays PLC based on the fair value of BGI as determined by an independent appraiser.
The options are granted over shares in Barclays Global Investors UK Holdings Limited, a subsidiary of Barclays Bank PLC.
Options are normally not exercisable until vesting, with a third of the options held generally becoming exercisable at each anniversary of grant.
The shareholder has the right to offer to sell the shares to Barclays Bank PLC 355 days following the exercise of the option.
Barclays Bank PLC may accept the offer and purchase the shares at the most recent agreed valuation but is under no obligation to do so.
Options lapse ten years after grant.
The most recently agreed valuation at 30th June 2006 was 91.43.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 225 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 51 Share-based payments continued Absa Group Limited Black Economic Empowerment BEE Transaction On 25th June 2004, Absa shareholders approved the allocation of 73,152,300, redeemable cumulative option-holding Absa preference shares to Batho Bonke Capital Limited.
Each redeemable preference share carries the option to acquire one Absa ordinary share.
The shares carry the same rights as ordinary shares including voting rights, and receive dividends which are payable semi-annually.
Options vest after three years and lapse after five years from the date of issue.
Exercise may occur in lots of 100 only and within a price range varying from ZAR48 to ZAR69 3.50-5.03 dependent on the 30-day volume weighted trading price on the JSE Limited.
Options are redeemed by Absa on the final exercise date.
Absa Group Limited Share Incentive Trust AGLSIT In terms of the rules of Absa Group Limited Share Incentive Trust the maximum number of shares which may be issued or transferred and or in respect of which options may be granted to the participants shall be limited to shares representing 10% of the total number of issued shares.
Options are allocated to Absa employees according to the normal Human Resources talent management process.
The options issued up to August 2005 had no performance criteria linked to them and vested in equal tranches after three, four and five years respectively.
No dividends accrue to the option holder over the period.
The options expire after a period of ten years from the issuing date.
Options issued since August 2005 have vesting performance criteria associated with them, which require headline earnings per share to exceed an agreed benchmark over a three-year period from July 2005 for the options to vest.
Absa Group Limited Share Ownership Trust AGLSOT The Absa Group Limited Share Ownership Trust AGLSOT enabled all Absa employees to participate in a one-off offer to purchase 200 redeemable cumulative option-holding preference shares.
Absa Group Limited Executive Share Award Scheme AGLESAS For certain employees of Absa an element of their annual bonus is in the form of a deferred award of a provisional allocation of Absa Group Limited shares under Absa ESAS.
The total value of the bonus made to the employee of which ESAS is an element is dependent upon the business unit and individual employee performance.
The ESAS element of the annual bonus must be held for at least three years.
All awards are subject to potential forfeit if the individual resigns.
In addition, options remain outstanding under the following closed schemes: Incentive Share Option Plan ISOP The ISOP was open by invitation to the employees and Directors of Barclays PLC.
Options were granted at the market price at the date of grant calculated in accordance with the rules of the plan, and are normally exercisable between three and ten years from that date.
The final number of shares over which the option may be exercised is determined by reference to set performance criteria.
The number of shares under option represents the maximum possible number that may be exercised.
No awards were made under ISOP during 2006.
Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS The ESOS is a long-term incentive scheme and was available by invitation to certain senior executives of the Group with grants usually made annually.
Options were issued with an exercise price equivalent to the market price at the date of the grant without any discount, calculated in accordance with the rules of the scheme, and are normally exercisable between three and ten years from that date.
No further awards are made under ESOS.
Woolwich Executive Share Option Plan Woolwich ESOP Options originally granted over Woolwich PLC shares at market value were exercised in 2001 or exchanged, in accordance with the proposals made under the offer to acquire the Woolwich, for options over Barclays PLC shares.
Under the rules of ESOP, the performance conditions attached to the exercise of options were disapplied on acquisition of Woolwich PLC by Barclays.
At the balance sheet date, nil options remained outstanding or exercisable in respect of the following closed scheme: Woolwich Save as You Earn Woolwich SAYE Under this scheme, employees entered into contracts to save up to 250 per month and, at the expiry of a fixed term of three, five, or seven years, have the option to use these savings to acquire the shares in the Company at a discount calculated in accordance with the rules of the scheme.
The discount was 20% of the market price at the date the options were granted.
Several cash-settled schemes also operate within the Group.
Barclays Africa Share Plan The Barclays Africa Share Plan grants a number of notional shares and settles in a cash award linked to the Barclays PLC share price.
The exercise price of options is equal to the increment of the market price of Barclays shares over the original price on the date of grant.
The final number of notional shares over which the option may by exercised is determined by reference to set performance criteria.
Awards will vest three years from grant and expire four years from that date.
Barclays PLC 226 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 51 Share-based payments continued Absa Group Phantom Performance Share Plan Absa Phantom PSP The Absa Phantom PSP was implemented during the year to replace the Absa Group Limited Share Incentive Trust AGLSIT scheme.
Shares are awarded at no cost to participants and the cash paid is equal to the market value of ordinary shares of Absa Group Limited.
The performance of Absa over a three-year period determines the final number of notional shares that any cash payment would be based on.
Awards vest after three years to the extent that the performance conditions are satisfied.
The weighted average fair value per option granted during the year is as follows: 2006 2005 Sharesave 1.88 1.29 Sharepurchase 6.55 5.57 ESAS 6.73 5.03 PSP 7.53 3.99 BGI EOP 21.18 10.41 AGLSIT 2.70 2.42 AGLESAS 8.42 ISOP 2.78 Fair values for Sharesave, PSP, BGI EOP, AGLSIT and ISOP are calculated at the date of grant using either a Black-Scholes model or Monte Carlo simulation.
Sharepurchase, ESAS and AGLESAS are nil cost awards on which the performance conditions are substantially completed at the date of grant.
Consequently the fair value of these awards is based on the market value at that date.
As described above, the terms of the ESAS scheme require shares to be held for a set number of years from the date of vest.
The calculation of the vest date fair value of such awards includes a reduction for this post-vesting restriction.
This discount is determined by calculating how much a willing market participant would rationally pay to remove the restriction using a Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The significant weighted average assumptions used to estimate the fair value of the options granted in 2006 are as follows: 2006 Sharesave PSP BGI EOP AGLSIT Weighted average share price 6.20 6.74 81.12 8.92 3 Weighted average exercise price 5.11 81.12 6.57 Expected volatility 25% 25% 24% 29% Expected option life 4 years 3 years 4 years 5 years The significant weighted average assumptions used to estimate the fair value of the options granted in 2005 are as follows: Sharesave PSP BGI EOP AGLSIT ISOP Weighted average share price 5.71 5.33 39.09 8.25 5.73 Weighted average exercise price 4.44 n a 39.09 8.41 5.66 Expected volatility 24% 20% 25% n a 34% Option life 4 years 3 years 4 years 5-8 years 5 years The significant weighted average assumptions used to estimate the fair value of the options granted in 2004 are as follows: Sharesave BGI EOP ISOP Weighted average share price 5.28 20.11 4.77 Weighted average exercise price 3.59 20.11 4.18 Expected volatility 25% 25% 34% Option life 5 years 5 years 5 years Expected volatility and dividend yield on the date of grant have been used as inputs into the respective valuation models for Sharesave and PSP.
Expected volatility has been determined using historical volatility of its peers over the expected life of the options for BGI EOP and AGLSIT applies a five-year rolling period.
The yield on UK government bonds with a commensurate life has been used to determine the risk-free discount rate of 5% for all schemes other than AGLSIT.
Option life is estimated based upon historical data for the holding period of options between grant and exercise dates.
The risk-free rate on the AGLSIT scheme represents the yield, recorded on date of option grant, on South African government zero coupon bond of a term commensurate to the expected life of the option.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 227 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 51 Share-based payments continued For the purposes of determining the expected life and number of options to vest, historical exercise patterns have been used, together with an assumption that a certain percentage of options will lapse due to leavers.
The assumed dividend yield for Barclays PLC is the average annual dividend yield on the date of grant of 4%.
The expected dividends for BGI UK Holdings Limited are assumed to grow in line with the expected increases in share prices for the industry sector until exercise giving a yield of 2%.
Dividend yield for AGLSIT of 3.5% was based on the average 12-month trailing yield over the year to grant date.
Analysis of the movement in the number and weighted average exercise price of options is set out below: a a d Sharesave Sharepurchase Number Weighted average Number Weighted average 000s ex.
price 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 Outstanding at beginning of year 121,515 100,284 20,269 Granted in the year 59,758 46,374 22,563 20,269 Exercised released in the year 33,663 22,237 Less: forfeited in the year 5,251 2,906 Less: expired in the year Outstanding at end of year 142,359 121,515 42,832 20,269 Of which exercisable: 9,607 9,548 b c BGI EOP Absa BEE Number Weighted average Number Weighted average 000s ex.
b Options award granted over Barclays Global Investors UK Holdings Limited shares.
c Options award granted over Absa Group Limited shares.
Barclays PLC 228 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 51 Share-based payments continued a a AGLSIT AGLSOT Number Weighted average Number Weighted average 000s ex.
price 2006 2005 2006 2005 Outstanding at beginning of year acquisition date Granted in the year 37 Exercised released in the year Less: forfeited in the year Less: expired in the year Outstanding at end of year 37 Of which exercisable: b b ISOP ESOS Number Weighted average Number Weighted average 000s ex.
b Options award granted over Barclays PLC shares.
b Option award granted over Barclays Global Investors UK Holdings Limited shares.
c Option award granted over Absa Group Limited shares.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 231 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 51 Share-based payments continued The aggregate intrinsic value of options either fully vested or expected to vest at the balance sheet date and the total intrinsic value of options exercisable at the balance sheet date is: Aggregate intrinsic Total value of options fully intrinsic value vested or expected of options to vest exercisable 2006 2005 2006 2005 m m m m a Sharesave 243 188 3 3 b BGI EOP 233 172 76 80 c Absa BEE 299 215 c AGLSIT 89 123 35 35 c AGLSOT 16 16 a ISOP 210 176 44 24 a ESOS 6 5 6 5 a Woolwich ESOP 2 3 2 3 Total 1,098 898 166 150 The total fair value of shares vested during the year was: 2006 2005 2004 m m m a d ESAS 227 125 80 The total unrecognised share-based payment cost and weighted average vesting period related to awards that have not yet vested is: Total unrecognised Weighted share-based payment average remaining cost vesting period 2006 2005 2006 2005 m m Years Years a Sharesave 60 67 3 3 a d Sharepurchase 11 5 2 3 a d ESAS 121 122 2 2 a d PSP 64 18 2 2 b BGI EOP 55 15 2 2 c AGLSIT 11 19 2 3 c AGLSOT 2 4 1 1 c d Absa PSP 28 2 a ISOP 3 23 1 Total 355 273 n a n a There were no modifications to the share-based payment arrangements in the years 2006, 2005 and 2004.
As at 31st December 2006, the total liability arising from cash-settled share-based payment transactions was 7m 2005: nil.
At 31st December 2006, 6.9 million 2005: 5.4 million options were outstanding under the terms of the BGI EOP which would represent a 7.3% interest if exercised.
Employees in BGI own 9.4% of the shares in Barclays Global Investors UK Holdings Limited 2005: 12.1%.
If all the current options were exercised, 400.5m 2005: 137.5m would be subscribed.
Since the scheme was introduced, options over 19.3 million 2005: 17.1 million shares have been exercised, of which 8.3 million are still held by employees and represent a minority interest in the Group.
At 31st December 2006, there were 73.2 million, 18.8 million and 4.8 million options granted over Absa Group Limited shares under the Absa Group Limited Black Economic Empowerment Transaction, Absa Group Limited Share Incentive Trust and Absa Group Limited Share Ownership Trust respectively.
In aggregate, these options would represent a 14.4% interest in Absa Group Limited if exercised.
Notes a Options award granted over Barclays PLC shares.
Barclays PLC 232 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 52 Financial risks The main sources of financial risk that the Group faces are those arising from financial instruments credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk and insurance risk.
The Group devotes considerable resources to maintaining effective controls to manage, measure and mitigate each of these risks and regularly reviews its risk management procedures and systems to ensure that these are the best available.
Financial instruments are fundamental to the Groups business and constitute the core element of its operations.
The risks associated with financial instruments are a significant component of the risks faced by the Group.
Financial instruments create, modify or reduce the liquidity, credit and market risks of the Groups balance sheet.
These risks and the Groups policies and objectives for managing such risks are outlined below.
Credit risk management Credit risk is the risk of suffering financial loss from any of the Groups customers, clients or market counterparties failing to fulfil their contractual obligations to the Group.
Credit risk mainly arises from loans and advances, but may also arise where the downgrading of an entitys credit rating causes the fair value the Groups investment in that entitys financial instruments to fall.
Credit risk is the Groups most significant risk and it deploys considerable resources to controlling it.
Nearly two-thirds of risk-based economic capital is allocated to businesses for credit risks.
Each business has an embedded risk management team reporting to a Business Risk Director who reports to the Group Risk Director, who leads the Group Risk function, including credit, which is charged with devising and implementing Group risk policy, such as ensuring: maximum exposure guidelines are in place relating to the exposures to any individual customer or counterparty: country risk policy specifies risk appetite by country and avoids excessive concentrations of credit in individual countries: and policies are in place that limit lending to certain industries, for example, commercial real estate.
A Credit Committee of Directors and experienced senior managers formulates overall Group credit policy and resolves all significant credit policy issues.
Credit risk measurement The Groups credit rating systems use statistical modelling techniques throughout its business which assist the Group in front line credit decisions, such as managing its existing portfolios and making new commitments.
The Group assesses the credit quality and assigns an internal risk rating to all borrowers and other counterparties, including retail customers.
Each internal rating corresponds to the statistical probability of a customer in that rating class defaulting within the next 12-month period.
The probability of default, the exposure at default and the loss given default are calculated for all loan portfolios.
This allows the Group to monitor its exposures, enabling it to derive measures such as Risk Tendency.
Risk Tendency is a statistical estimate of the average loss for each loan portfolio for a 12-month period, taking into account the size of the portfolio and its risk characteristics under current economic conditions, and is used to track the change in risk as the portfolio of loans changes over time.
3 The Group monitors its financial exposure to individual counterparties, to industries and countries to ensure that no undue concentrations of credit arise.
Credit risk mitigation The Group uses a wide variety of techniques to reduce credit risk on its lending.
The most basic of these is performing an assessment of the ability of a borrower to service the proposed level of borrowing without distress.
In addition, the Group commonly obtains security for the funds advanced, such as in the case of a retail or commercial mortgage, a reverse repurchase agreement, or a commercial loan with a floating charge over book debts and inventories.
The Group also uses various forms of specialised legal agreements to reduce risk, including netting agreements which permit it to offset positive and negative balances with customers in certain circumstances to minimise the exposure at default, financial guarantees, and the use of covenants in commercial lending agreements.
Other techniques include the use of credit derivatives and other forms of credit collateral.
In addition, the Group actively manages its exposures to clients, countries and industries through diversification, minimising individual concentrations.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 233 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 52 Financial risks continued Market Risk Management Market risk is the risk that Barclays earnings or capital, or its ability to meet business objectives, will be adversely affected by changes in the level or volatility of market rates or prices such as interest rates, credit spreads, commodity prices, equity prices and foreign exchange rates.
The main market risks arise from trading activities.
Barclays is also exposed to non-trading market risks to asset and liability management and to the Pension Fund.
To facilitate the management, control, measurement and reporting of market risk, Barclays has grouped market risk into three broad categories: Trading market risk.
These risks arise in trading transactions where Barclays acts as principal with clients or with the market.
Barclays policy is that market risks arising from trading activities are concentrated in Barclays Capital.
These risks arise from banking activities, including those incurred on non-trading positions such as customer assets and liabilities and capital balances.
Barclays also incurs market risks that are assessed under a slightly different framework.
The principal risks of this type are defined benefit pension scheme risk and asset management structural market risk.
The Board approves the market risk appetite for all types of market risk.
The Market Risk Director is responsible for the market risk control framework and, under delegated authority from the Risk Director, sets a limit framework within the context of the approved market risk appetite.
A daily market risk report summarises Barclays market risk exposures against agreed limits.
This daily report is sent to the Risk Director, the Market Risk Director, the Finance Director and the appropriate Business Risk Directors.
In Barclays Capital, the Head of Market Risk is responsible for implementing the market risk control framework.
Day to day responsibility for market risk lies with the senior management of Barclays Capital, supported by the Market Risk Management team that operates independently of the trading areas.
Daily market risk reports are produced for the main Barclays Capital business areas covering the six main types of trading market risk: interest rate, inflation, credit spread, commodity, equity and foreign exchange.
A more detailed trading market risk presentation is produced fortnightly and discussed at Barclays Capitals Traded Products Risk Review meeting.
The attendees at this meeting include the senior managers from Barclays Capital and the central market risk team.
Market risk measurement The measurement techniques used to measure and control market risk include: Daily Value at Risk: Stress Tests: Annual Earnings at Risk: Economic capital.
Daily Value at Risk DVaR DVaR is an estimate of the potential loss which might arise from unfavourable market movements, if the current positions were to be held unchanged for one business day, measured to a confidence level of 98%.
Daily losses exceeding the DVaR figure are likely to occur, on average, twice in every 100 business days.
Stress Tests Stress tests provide an indication of the potential size of losses that could arise in extreme conditions.
The stress tests carried out by Barclays Capital include risk factor stress testing, where stress movements are applied to each of the six risk categories namely interest rate, inflation, credit spread, commodity, equity and foreign exchange rate: emerging market stress testing where emerging market portfolios are subject to stress movements: and ad hoc stress testing, which includes applying stress scenarios to the trading risk book.
If potential stressed losses exceed the trigger limit, the positions captured by the stress test are reviewed and discussed by Barclays Capital Market Risk and the respective senior management.
Outside Barclays Capital, stress testing is carried out by the business centres and is reviewed by the senior management and business-level asset and liability committees.
The stress testing is tailored to the business and is typically scenario analysis and historical stress movements applied to respective portfolios.
Annual Earnings at Risk AEaR AEaR measures the sensitivity of annual earnings to shocks in market rates at the 99th percentile for change over a one-year period.
This shock is consistent with the standardised interest rate shock recommended by the Basel II framework for assessing banking book interest rate risk.
AEaR is used to measure structural interest rate market risk and structural asset management risk.
Economic capital The total average economic capital required by the Group is determined by risk assessment models and after considering the Groups estimated portfolio effects.
Methodologies are used for both operational and business risks to calculate risk sensitive capital allocations.
The Group regularly enhances its economic capital methodologies and benchmarks outputs to external reference points.
Economic capital is allocated on a consistent basis across all of the Groups businesses and risk activities, and these allocations reflect varying levels of risk.
Trading Market Risk Group policy is to concentrate trading activities in Barclays Capital.
This includes transactions where Barclays Capital acts as principal with clients or with the market.
For maximum efficiency, client and market activities are managed together.
Barclays PLC 234 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 52 Financial risks continued In anticipation of future customer demand, Barclays maintains access to market liquidity by quoting bid and offer prices with other market makers and carries an inventory of capital market and treasury instruments, including a broad range of cash, securities and derivatives.
Trading positions and any offsetting hedges are established as appropriate to accommodate customer or Barclays requirements.
Analysis of trading market risk exposures The table below shows the DVaR statistics for Barclays Capitals trading activities: Barclays Capital DVaR: Summary table for 2006 and 2005 12 months to 12 months to b 31st December 2006 31st December 2005 a a a a Average High Low Average High Low m m m m m m Interest rate risk 20.1 28.8 12.3 25.4 44.8 15.4 Credit spread risk 24.3 33.1 17.9 23.0 28.3 19.0 Commodities risk 11.3 21.6 5.7 6.8 11.4 4.5 Equities risk 7.8 11.6 5.8 6.0 8.3 3.9 Foreign exchange risk 4.0 7.7 1.8 2.8 5.4 1.6 Diversification effect 30.4 n a n a 32.0 n a n a Total DVaR 37.1 43.2 31.3 32.0 40.7 25.4 The graph below shows the history of total DVaR on a daily basis for 2005 and 2006.
DVaR in 2005 and 2006 daily values m 50 40 30 20 3 0 05 06 DVaR Back-testing Barclays recognises the importance of assessing the effectiveness of its DVaR model.
The main approach employed is the technique known as backtesting, which counts the number of days when trading losses are bigger than the estimated DVaR figure.
The regulatory standard for backtesting is to measure DVaR assuming a one-day holding period with a 99% level of confidence.
For Barclays Capitals regulatory trading book, there were no instances in 2006 or 2005, of a daily trading revenue loss exceeding the corresponding back-testing DVaR.
Asset and Liability Market Risk Interest rate exposures arise from mismatches of fixed rate assets and liabilities in UK banking operations and are passed to Treasury where these positions are aggregated and the net position passed to the market via Barclays Capital.
Due mainly to timing considerations, market risk can arise when some of the net position stays with Treasury.
Similarly, market risk can arise due to the impact of interest rates on customer behaviour.
The latter risk is managed and measured by the Retail Market Risk team using behavioural models.
The positions are converted into wholesale swap or option exposures, passed to Treasury and managed by the process outlined above.
Structural interest rate risk arises from the variability of income from non-interest bearing products, managed variable rate products and the Groups equity.
Structural foreign currency risk results from holding non-Sterling investments in subsidiaries, branches, associates or joint ventures.
These structural risks are managed by Treasury.
Interest rate exposures, structural interest rate risk and other market risks may be managed through the use of derivatives.
Where this is the case, hedge accounting is obtained where possible so that the benefits of Risk management are reflected in the financial statements.
Liquidity Risk Management Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group is unable to meet its payment obligations when they fall due or to replace funds when they are withdrawn.
The Group has several core liquidity management strategies.
The first is to project future cash flows and make plans to address normal operating requirements, as well as variable scenarios and contingencies.
The second is to manage day to day funding, by controlling intraday liquidity in real Notes a The high and low DVaR figures reported for each category did not necessarily occur on the same day as the high and low DVaR reported as a whole.
Consequently a diversification effect number for the high and low DVaR figures would not be meaningful and it is therefore omitted from the above table.
The increase reflects the inclusion of Absa Capital.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 235 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 52 Financial risks continued time and by forecasting future cash flows to ensure that requirements can be met.
The third is maintaining a diverse and stable funding base.
Finally, the Group maintains a portfolio of highly marketable assets that can easily be liquidated as protection against any unforeseen interruption to cash flows.
The Groups funding base comprises a mixture of different funding sources, including retail and corporate customer deposits, and shortand longterm debt issuances.
Although current accounts are repayable on demand and savings accounts at short notice, the Groups broad base of customers numerically and by depositor type helps to protect against unexpected fluctuations.
Such accounts form a stable funding base for the Groups operations and liquidity needs.
Important factors in assuring liquidity are competitive rates and the maintenance of depositors confidence.
Such confidence is based on a number of factors including the Groups reputation, the strength of earnings and the Groups financial position.
The ability to raise funds is in part dependent on maintaining the Banks credit rating.
The funding impact of a credit downgrade is regularly estimated.
Whilst the impact of a single downgrade may affect the price at which funding is available, the effect on liquidity is not considered material in Group terms.
Liquidity Risk Measurement Based on principles agreed by the FSA, monitoring and reporting of liquidity risk involves the measurement of cash flows and projections for the next day, week and month.
In addition to cash flow management, Treasury also monitors unmatched medium-term assets and the level and type of undrawn lending commitments, the usage of overdraft facilities and the impact of contingent liabilities such as standby letters of credit and guarantees.
Treasury develops and implements the process for submitting the Groups projected cash flows to stress scenarios.
The output of stress testing informs the Groups contingency funding plan.
This is maintained by Treasury and is aligned with the Group and country business resumption plans to encompass decision-making authorities, internal and external communication and, in the event of a systems failure, the restoration of liquidity management and payment systems.
Sources of liquidity are regularly reviewed to maintain a wide diversification by currency, geography, provider, product and term.
An important source of structural liquidity is provided by our core retail deposits in the UK, Europe and Africa, comprising mainly current accounts and savings accounts.
To avoid reliance on a particular group of customers or market sectors, the distribution of sources and the maturity profile of deposits are also carefully managed.
An analysis of the Groups liquidity position is presented at Note 56.
Insurance Risk Management Insurance risk is the risk that the Group will have to make higher than anticipated payments to settle claims arising from its long-term and short-term insurance businesses.
Long-term insurance business For long-term insurance contracts where death is the insured risk, the most significant factors that could detrimentally affect the frequency and severity of claims are the incidence of disease, such as AIDS, or general changes in lifestyle, such as in eating, exercise and smoking.
Short-term insurance business For payment protection contracts where inability to make payments under a loan contract is the insured risk, the most significant factors are the health of the policyholder and the possibility of unemployment which depends upon, among other things, long-term and short-term economic factors.
Absa insures property and motor vehicles, for which the most significant factors that could affect the frequency and severity of claims are climatic change and crime.
Derivatives held for risk management The Group uses both cash flow hedging and fair value hedging techniques to achieve hedge accounting for interest rate portions.
For example, cash flow hedge relationships have been established between interest rate swaps receive fixed with pay variable legs and cash flows generated by customer assets on which we receive a variable interest rate including forecast customer assets which are expected to be originated in the future.
The cash flows on the variable leg of the swap and the interest flows on the assets are both based on the same benchmark rate e. g. LIBOR or EURIBOR.
Fair value hedge relationships are also established between interest rate swaps with receive fixed pay variable legs and fixed rate liabilities e. g. issued loan stock.
Various techniques are used to ensure that the hedge relationship results in an effective reduction in the risks intended to be hedged.
For cash flow hedging a hypothetical interest rate swap is created which would completely offset the risks which are being hedged.
The ratio of movements due to changes in the risk being hedged in the fair value of this instrument or the hedged item for fair value hedges and the movement in the fair value of the actual interest rate swaps used as hedges is calculated to determine how close the actual interest rate swap is to a perfect hedging instrument.
In some circumstances these ratios are calculated for various scenarios and regression analysis is used to assess the level of effectiveness.
Barclays PLC 236 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 53 Interest rate risk The Groups objectives and policies in managing the interest rate risks that arise in connection with the use of financial instruments are set out in Note 52 under the headings Market risk Management and Asset and Liability Market Risk.
The table below summarises the repricing profiles of the Groups financial instruments and other assets and liabilities as at 31st December 2006.
Items are allocated to time periods by reference to the earlier of the next contractual interest rate repricing date and the maturity date.
As at 31st December 2006 Over Over Over three six Over three Over Not months months one year years five years more but not but not but not but not but not Trading than more more more more more Overportfolio Nonthree than six than one than three than five than ten ten and interest months months year years years years years derivatives bearing Total m m m m m m m m m m Assets Cash and balances at central banks 7,012 333 7,345 Items in course of collection from other banks 654 1,754 2,408 Trading portfolio assets 177,867 177,867 Financial assets designated at fair value: held on own account 17,831 834 387 1,121 2,544 1,131 6,231 1,720 31,799 held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts 5,351 369 740 860 1,196 2,912 12,946 58,424 82,798 Derivative financial instruments 138,353 138,353 Loans and advances to banks 25,012 483 233 211 69 36 1 4,881 30,926 Loans and advances to customers 195,500 15,048 14,225 24,850 9,485 6,399 7,699 9,094 282,300 Available for sale financial 3 instruments 25,899 2,427 7,780 3,737 3,234 6,701 1,091 834 51,703 Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed 157,592 4,721 8,338 3,431 8174,090 Total financial assets 434,851 23,882 31,703 30,779 19,959 17,179 27,968 316,220 77,048 979,589 Non-financial assets 17,198 17,198 Total assets 434,851 23,882 31,703 30,779 19,959 17,179 27,968 316,220 94,246 996,787 Not more than three months includes instruments at floating interest rates.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 237 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 53 Interest rate risk continued As at 31st December 2006 continued Over Over Over three six Over three Over Not months months one year years five years more but not but not but not but not but not Trading than more more more more more Overportfolio Nonthree than six than one than three than five than ten ten and interest months months year years years years years derivatives bearing Total m m m m m m m m m m Liabilities Deposits from other banks 72,353 1,377 763 351 7 199 4,512 79,562 Items in course of transmission due to other banks 20 2,201 2,221 Customer accounts 207,023 3,965 3,963 2,371 506 43 216 38,667 256,754 Trading portfolio liabilities 71,874 71,874 Financial liabilities designated at fair value: held on own account 20,186 5,635 3,800 1,538 1,607 1,843 774 18,604 53,987 liabilities to customers under investment contracts 6,931 372 730 806 1,164 2,875 12,794 58,965 84,637 Derivative financial instruments 140,697 140,697 Debt securities in issue 92,649 5,624 2,430 4,020 1,630 3,249 1,535 111,137 Repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent 122,612 6,132 2,348 1,662 2,818 1,384 136,956 Subordinated liabilities 3,192 377 21 1,074 783 3,475 4,842 22 13,786 Total financial liabilities 524,966 23,482 14,055 11,822 5,690 11,492 23,178 212,571 124,355 951,611 Non-financial liabilities 17,78617,786 Total liabilities 524,966 23,482 14,055 11,822 5,690 11,492 23, 178 212,571 142,141 969,397 Interest rate repricing gap 90,115 400 17,648 18,957 14,269 5,687 4,790 Cumulative gap 90,115 89,715 72,067 53,110 38,841 33,154 28,364 Not more than three months includes instruments at floating interest rates.
Expected repricing and maturity dates do not differ significantly from the contract dates, except for: Trading Portfolio Assets and Liabilities, which may not be held to maturity as part of the Groups trading strategies.
For these instruments, which are mostly held by Barclays Capital, liquidity and repricing risk is managed through the Daily Value at Risk DVaR methodology, see Note 52 for more information.
Retail deposits, which are repayable on demand or at short notice.
These instruments form a stable base for the Groups operations and liquidity needs because of the broad base of customers numerically and by depositor type.
Barclays PLC 238 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 53 Interest rate risk continued As at 31st December 2005 Over Over Over three six Over three Over Not months months one year years five years more but not but not but not but not but not Trading than more more more more more Over portfolio Nonthree than six than one than three than five than ten ten and interest months months year years years years years derivatives bearing Total m m m m m m m m m m Assets Cash and balances at central banks 3,695 211 3,906 Items in course of collection from other banks 397 1,504 1,901 Trading portfolio assets 155,723 155,723 Financial assets designated at fair value: held on own account 2,750 1,968 336 612 590 806 4,611 1,231 12,904 held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts 1,936 76 458 1,834 930 3,252 12,852 61,855 83,193 Derivative financial instruments 136,823 136,823 Loans and advances to banks 27,454 589 11 18 6 14 1,206 1,807 31,105 Loans and advances to customers 175,632 26,086 12,255 22,248 10,874 5,574 6,657 9,570 268,896 Available for sale financial instruments 17,458 7,275 5,561 11,756 2,188 4,164 3,621 1,474 53,497 Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed 152,509 3,656 3,863 99 215 26 30 160,398 3 Total financial assets 381,831 39,650 22,484 36,567 14,803 13,836 28,977 292,546 77,652 908,346 Non-financial assets 16,011 16,011 Total assets 381,831 39,650 22,484 36,567 14,803 13,836 28,977 292,546 93,663 924,357 Not more than three months includes instruments at floating interest rates.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 239 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 53 Interest rate risk continued As at 31st December 2005 continued Over Over Over three six Over three Over Not months months one year years five years more but not but not but not but not but not Trading than more more more more more Over portfolio Nonthree than six than one than three than five than ten ten and interest months months year years years years years derivatives bearing Total m m m m m m m m m m Liabilities Deposits from other banks 69,837 2,418 1,000 243 264 9 165 1,191 75,127 Items in course of transmission due to other banks 117 16 2,208 2,341 Customer accounts 191,633 6,948 4,038 2,917 1,119 845 581 30,603 238,684 Trading portfolio liabilities 71,564 71,564 Financial liabilities designated at fair value: held on own account 8,127 3,497 7,243 3,016 3,308 5,629 2,557 8 33,385 liabilities to customers under investment contracts 85,201 85,201 Derivative financial instruments 137,971 137,971 Debt securities in issue 82,044 5,187 1,981 4,890 2,463 206 6,557 103,328 Repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent 106,389 7,186 2,994 431 4,170 8 121,178 Subordinated liabilities 3,909 459 97 955 500 2,688 3,738 117 12,463 Total financial liabilities 462,056 25,711 17,353 12,452 7,654 9,377 17,768 209,535 119,336 881,242 Non-financial liabilities 18,685 18,685 Total liabilities 462,056 25,711 17,353 12,452 7,654 9,377 17,768 209,535 138,021 899,927 Interest rate repricing gap 80,225 13,939 5,131 24,115 7,149 4,459 11,209 Cumulative gap 80,225 66,286 61,155 37,040 29,891 25,432 14,223 Not more than three months includes instruments at floating interest rates.
Retail deposits which are repayable on demand or at short notice form a stable base for the Groups operations and liquidity needs because of the broad base of customers numerically and by depositor type.
Effective interest rates Weighted average effective interest rates were as follows: 2006 2005 As at 31st December % % Assets Cash and balances at central banks 4.1 3.1 Loans and advances to banks 4.1 3.5 Loans and advances to customers 6.5 4.5 Available for sale financial instruments 4.6 4.2 Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed 4.2 3.4 Liabilities Deposits from other banks 4.3 3.6 Customer accounts 3.4 2.5 Debt securities in issue 5.0 4.5 Repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent 4.2 3.1 Subordinated liabilities 5.9 5.6 Barclays PLC 240 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 54 Credit risk The Groups objectives and policies in managing the credit risks that arise in connection with the use of financial instruments and other credit exposures are set out in Note 52 under the heading Credit Risk Management.
Concentrations of credit risk A concentration of credit risk exists when a number of counterparties are engaged in similar activities and have similar economic characteristics that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic or other conditions.
The concentrations of credit exposure described below are not proportionally related to credit loss.
Some segments of the Groups portfolio have and are expected to have proportionally higher credit charges in relation to the exposure than others.
Moreover, the volatility of credit loss is different in different parts of the portfolio.
Thus comparatively large credit charges could arise in parts of the portfolio not mentioned below.
The single biggest geographical concentration of credit risk is in the UK.
Gross credit exposure to borrowers in the UK based on the location of the customer was 170.5bn at 31st December 2006 2005: 163.8bn.
In the UK, the Groups collateral policy differs by line of business and product but is broadly consistent with UK market practice.
Netting agreements are made with wholesale counterparties whenever practical and to the extent that such agreements are legally enforceable.
Outside the UK, the Groups geographical spread ensures a wide variety of counterparties in the main areas of operation in Europe, the United States and other areas of the world.
Barclays also has significant concentrations of exposures to home loans and banks.
All these concentrations may spread across one or more of the line items described below.
Maximum exposure to credit risk The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk is the carrying amount of assets held on the balance sheet.
The actual exposure to credit risk is less than this in most cases.
Cash and demand balances at central banks By their nature, the Group expects that these balances will have close to nil credit risk attached to them.
Items in the course of collection from other banks loans and advances to banks The Group maintains relationships with a wide range of banking counterparties.
While banking counterparties are generally of high quality, the Group also monitors its exposure to individual banks to ensure that the credit risk is diversified.
The Group is also exposed to credit risk with banks on other financial assets including derivatives and also on letters of credit and guarantees.
The Group may require collateral before entering into a credit commitment with another bank, depending on the type of the financial product and the counterparty involved.
Netting agreements are secured whenever possible and to the extent that such agreements are legally enforceable.
Trading portfolio assets financial assets designated at fair value available for sale financial investments The Groups practice is to take into account credit risk when valuing these assets.
The Group therefore expects little additional credit risk on these instruments, other than the credit risk component of trading market risk on these instruments.
The trading market risk is monitored through the Daily Value at Risk DVaR methodology.
3 In addition, many of the trading portfolio and available for sale assets held are of very high quality, including treasury bills and government bonds.
An analysis of trading portfolio assets by instrument type is included in Note 12 and a similar analysis for available for sale assets is included in Note 18.
Derivative financial instruments In addition to including the credit risk on these instruments in the DVaR methodology, the Group also uses a number of other techniques to reduce its exposure to credit risk on these instruments.
These techniques include master netting agreements, which do not qualify for offset under IAS 32 but which give a legally enforceable right to net receivables and payables with the same counterparty, and the obtaining of cash collateral from counterparties who have a net exposure to the Group through Collateral Service Agreements.
Loans and advances to customers A significant portion of the Groups loans and advances to customers comprises lending in respect of home loans.
Home loan lending totalled 98.2bn at 31st December 2006 2005: 89.5bn, which represents 34% 2005: 33% of loans to customers.
As collateral, Barclays requires a first mortgage over the residential property for the acquisition of which the loan is made.
For other lending to customers, the Group may require various forms of credit protection, including the use of netting agreements and covenants and the obtaining of security such as mortgages or charges.
Finally, the Group actively seeks to manage credit risk by ensuring diversification of its lending across clients, regions and industries.
An analysis of loans to customers according to geographic region and industry sector is set out in Note 16.
Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed By their nature these balances have a low credit risk, as they are largely secured by obtaining collateral from counterparties.
The Groups policy is to seek collateral at the outset equal to 100% to 105% of the loan amount, with further collateral calls made as required.
Barclays manages its credit exposure by counterparty exposure which may be spread across one or more of the line items described above.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 241 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 55 Currency risk Foreign currency exposures comprise structural foreign currency exposures, which arise from investments in the Groups overseas operations and other investments: and those originating in trading activities.
The Group holds foreign currency net investments and is exposed to fluctuations in the Groups share of their net assets measured in their functional currencies caused by movements in exchange rates between these currencies and Sterling, the Groups reporting currency.
The carrying value of the Groups foreign currency net investments and the foreign currency borrowings and derivatives used to hedge them were as follows: 2006 2005 Foreign Borrowings Derivatives Remaining Foreign Borrowings Derivatives Remaining currency which hedge which hedge structural currency which hedge which hedge structural net the net the net currency net the net the net currency Functional currency of the investments investments investments exposures investments investments investments exposures operation involved m m m m m m m m United States Dollar 4,462 2,141 2,321 2,254 428 1,826 Euro 3,409 1,185 2,224 3,326 1,017 2,309 Rand 2,849 2,665 184 3,143 3,056 87 Japanese Yen 2,754 202 2,527 25 3,118 195 2,914 9 Swiss Franc 2,071 158 1,900 13 138 129 9 Other 2,069 205 410 1,454 1,736 222 228 1,286 Total 17,614 3,891 7,502 6,221 13,715 1,991 6,198 5,526 In addition to the above, the Group has US Dollar and Euro Preference Shares and reserve capital instruments in issue that are treated as equity under IFRS.
In accordance with Group policy, as at 31st December 2006 and 31st December 2005, there were no material net currency exposures in the nontrading book relating to transactional or non-structural positions that would give rise to net currency gains and losses recognised in the profit and loss account.
The Daily Value at Risk DVaR methodology is used by the Group to estimate potential losses arising from exposure to market risk, including currency risk, on trading positions.
The tables shown on page 235 show an analysis of DVaR for the market risk exposures in Barclays Capital.
Barclays PLC 242 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 56 Liquidity risk The Groups objectives and policies in managing the liquidity risks that arise in connection with the use of financial instruments are set out in Note 52 under the heading Liquidity Risk Management.
For these instruments, which are mostly held by Barclays Capital, liquidity and repricing risk is managed through the Daily Value at Risk DVaR methodology.
Retail deposits which are repayable on demand or at short notice.
These instruments form a stable base for the Groups operations and liquidity needs because of the broad base of customers both numerically and by depositor type.
Financial assets designated at fair value held in respect of linked liabilities, which are managed with the associated liabilities.
Barclays PLC 244 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 57 Insurance risk The Groups objectives and policies in managing the insurance risks that arise in connection with the use of financial instruments are set out in Note 52 under the heading Insurance Risk Management.
Concentration of insurance risk The Group considers that the concentration of insurance risk that is most relevant to the Group financial statements is according to the type of cover offered and the location of insured risk.
The following table shows the maximum amounts payable under all of the Groups insurance products.
It ignores the probability of insured events occurring and the contribution from investments backing the insurance policies.
The table shows the broad product types and the location of the insured risk, before and after the impact of reinsurance that represents the risk that is passed to other insurers.
2006 2005 Before After Before After Reinsurance Reinsurance Reinsurance Reinsurance Reinsurance Reinsurance m m m m m m Total benefits insured by product type Long-term insurance contracts 24,934 9,445 15,489 28,877 12,128 16,749 Short-term insurance contracts 39,870 901 38,969 57,049 753 56,296 Total benefits insured 64,804 10,346 54,458 85,926 12,881 73,045 2006 2005 Before After Before After Reinsurance Reinsurance Reinsurance Reinsurance Reinsurance Reinsurance m m m m m m Total benefits insured by geographic location United Kingdom 25,403 8,010 17,393 28,687 8,697 19,990 Other European Union 3,317 1,802 1,515 5,418 2,981 2,437 Africa 36,084 534 35,550 51,821 1,203 50,618 Total benefits insured 64,804 10,346 54,458 85,926 12,881 73,045 Reinsurer credit risk For the long-term business, reinsurance programmes are in place to restrict the amount of cover to any single life.
The reinsurance cover is spread across highly rated companies to diversify the risk of reinsurer solvency.
Net insurance reserves include a margin to reflect reinsurer credit risk.
3 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 245 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 58 Fair value of financial instruments The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount for which an asset could be exchanged, or a liability settled, in an arms-length transaction between knowledgeable willing parties.
The following table summarises the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities presented on the Groups balance sheet, and their fair values: 2006 2005 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair amount value amount value Notes m m m m Financial assets: Cash and balances at central banks a 7,345 7,345 3,906 3,906 Items in the course of collection from other banks a 2,408 2,408 1,901 1,901 Trading portfolio assets b 177,867 177,867 155,723 155,723 Financial assets designated at fair value: held on own account b 31,799 31,799 12,904 12,904 held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts b 82,798 82,798 83,193 83,193 Derivative financial instruments b 138,353 138,353 136,823 136,823 Loans and advances to banks c 30,926 30,895 31,105 31,094 Loans and advances to customers c 282,300 282,061 268,896 268,786 Available for sale financial investments b 51,703 51,703 53,497 53,497 Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed c 174,090 174,090 160,398 160,398 Financial liabilities: Deposits from banks d 79,562 79,436 75,127 75,145 Items in the course of collection due to other banks a 2,221 2,221 2,341 2,341 Customer accounts d 256,754 256,661 238,684 238,608 Trading portfolio liabilities b 71,874 71,874 71,564 71,564 Financial liabilities designated at fair value: held on own account b 53,987 53,987 33,385 33,385 Liabilities to customers under investment contracts g 84,637 84,637 85,201 85,201 Derivative financial instruments b 140,697 140,697 137,971 137,971 Debt securities in issue e 111,137 111,131 103,328 103,294 Repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent d 136,956 136,956 121,178 121,178 Subordinated liabilities f 13,786 13,976 12,463 13,610 Notes a Fair value approximates carrying value due to the minimal credit losses and short-term nature of the financial assets and liabilities.
b Financial instruments at fair value including those held for trading, designated at fair value, derivatives and available for sale are either priced with reference to a quoted market price for that instrument or by using a valuation model.
Where the fair value is calculated using a valuation model, the methodology is to calculate the expected cash flows under the terms of each specific contract and then discount these values back to a present value.
The expected cash flows for each contract are determined either directly by reference to actual cash flows implicit in observable market prices or through modelling cash flows using appropriate financial markets pricing models.
Wherever possible these models use as their basis observable market prices and rates including, for example, interest rate yield curves, equities and commodities prices, option volatilities and currency rates.
The process of calculating fair value on illiquid instruments or from a valuation model may require estimation of certain pricing parameters, assumptions or model characteristics.
These estimates are calibrated against industry standards, economic models and observed transaction prices.
Changes to assumptions or estimated levels can potentially impact the fair value of an instrument as reported.
The effect of changing these assumptions, for those financial instruments for which the fair values were measured using valuation techniques that are determined in full or in part on assumptions that are not supported by observable market prices, to a range of reasonably possible alternative assumptions, would be to increase the fair value by up to 139m 2005: 121m or to decrease the fair value by up to 123m 2005: 87m.
The decrease in fair value was arrived at by imposing more conservative assumptions in the estimation of valuation model inputs.
The increase in fair value was arrived at by taking less conservative assumptions in the estimation of valuation model inputs and less conservative assumptions over the uncertainty of valuation models.
These variations in the assumptions have been estimated on a product by product basis and form part of the Banks internal control processes over the determination of fair value.
The valuation model used for a particular instrument, the quality and liquidity of market data used for pricing, other fair value adjustments not specifically captured by the model, market data and assumptions or estimates in these are all subject to internal review and approval procedures and consistent application between accounting periods.
The net asset fair value position of those financial instruments where the fair values were estimated using valuation techniques which are based in full or in part on assumptions that are not supported by observable market prices decreased to 2,814m for the year ended 31st December 2006 31st December 2005: 2,877m.
In many cases these changes in fair values were offset by changes in fair values of other financial instruments, which were priced in active markets or valued by using a valuation technique which is supported by observable market prices or rates, or by transactions which have been realised.
Barclays PLC 246 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 58 Fair value of financial instruments continued c The fair value for loans and advances, and other lending including reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed is estimated using discounted cash flows, applying either market rates where practicable or, where the counterparty is a bank, rates currently offered by other financial institutions for placings with similar characteristics.
In many cases the fair value approximates carrying value because the instruments are short term in nature or have interest rates that reprice frequently.
d Fair values of deposit liabilities payable on demand interest free, interest bearing and savings deposits approximate to their carrying value.
The fair value of all other deposits and other borrowings including repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent is estimated using discounted cash flows, applying either market rates, where practicable, or rates currently offered by the Group for deposits of similar remaining maturities.
e Fair values of short-term debt securities in issue are approximately equal to their carrying amount.
Fair values of other debt securities in issue are based on quoted prices where available, or where these are unavailable, are estimated using other valuation techniques.
f The estimated fair values for dated and undated convertible and non-convertible loan capital were based upon quoted market rates for the issue concerned or equivalent issues with similar terms and conditions.
g The fair value of liabilities to customers under investment contracts approximates carrying value.
The Group considers that, given the lack of an established market, the diversity of fee structures and the difficulty of separating the value of the instruments from the value of the overall transaction, it is not meaningful to provide an estimate of the fair value of financial commitments and contingent liabilities.
3 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 247 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 59 Segmental reporting Business segments The Group reports the results of its operations through eight business segments: UK Banking, Barclaycard, International Retail and Commercial Banking, Barclays Capital, Barclays Global Investors, Barclays Wealth, Barclays Wealth Closed Life Assurance Business and Head Office and other operations.
UK Banking provides banking solutions to Barclays UK retail and business banking customers.
Barclaycard provides credit card services across Europe and the United States.
International Retail and Commercial Banking provides banking services to personal and corporate customers in Europe, Africa and the Middle East.
Barclays Capital conducts the Groups investment banking business providing corporate, institutional and government clients with financing and risk management products.
Barclays Global Investors provides investment management products and services to international institutional clients.
Barclays Wealth provides banking and asset management services to affluent and high net worth clients.
Head Office functions and other operations comprise all the Groups central function costs and other central items including businesses in transition.
During 2006 Barclays realigned a number of reportable business segments to better reflect the type of client served, the nature of the products offered and the associated risks and rewards.
The changes have no impact on the Group Income Statement or Balance Sheet, and are summarised as follows: The majority of Absa Corporate and Merchant Banking, previously reported in International Retail and Commercial Banking, has been relaunched as Absa Capital and is being managed and reported in Barclays Capital.
A number of financial institution, large corporate and property clients previously reported within UK Banking are now managed by and reported in Barclays Capital.
Certain portfolios previously reported in UK Banking have been reclassified as businesses in transition and are now centrally managed and reported in Head Office functions and other operations.
The structure remains unchanged for Barclays Global Investors, Barclays Wealth, Barclays Wealth closed life assurance activities and Barclaycard.
All transactions between business segments are conducted on an arms length basis.
Internal charges and transfer pricing adjustments are reflected in the performance of each business.
Head office functions and other operations contains a centralised treasury function, which deals with the Groups funding requirements.
The funding requirements of each business segment reflects funding at market rates and not internally generated transfer prices and is therefore not separately disclosed within inter-segment net income.
Barclays International Wealth Head office Retail and Barclays closed life functions UK Commercial Barclays Global Barclaysassurance and other Banking Barclaycard Banking Capital Investors Wealth activities operations Total As at 31st December 2006 m m m m m m m m m Income from external customers, net of insurance claims 6,253 2,816 3,308 6,206 1,670 1,073 127 142 21,595 Inter-segment income 30 121 29 61 5 37 4 143 Total income net of insurance claims 6,223 2,937 3,337 6,267 1,665 1,036 131 1 21,595 Impairment charge and other credit provisions 461 1,493 167 42 2 11 2,154 Segment expenses external 2,439 805 2,170 3,988 940 759 87 1,486 12,674 Inter-segment expenses 826 249 26 21 11 62 22 1,217 Total expenses 3,265 1,054 2,196 4,009 951 821 109 269 12,674 Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 5 8 49 46 Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 76 247 323 Business segment performance before tax 2,578 382 1,270 2,216 714 213 22 259 7,136 Additional information Depreciation and amortisation 95 45 180 132 13 12 114 591 Impairment loss intangible assets 5 2 7 a Capital expenditure 217 99 193 246 406 44 166 1,371 Investments in associates and joint ventures 12 89 56 71 228 Total assets 139,902 27,628 68,848 657,922 80,515 7,285 7,605 7,082 996,787 Total liabilities 159,503 1,909 37,567 632,208 79,366 26,817 7,499 24,528 969,397 Note a Capital expenditure comprises purchased goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment acquired during the year.
Barclays PLC 248 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 59 Segmental reporting continued Barclays International Wealth Head office Retail and Barclays closed life functions UK Commercial Barclays Global Barclays assurance and other Banking Barclaycard Banking Capital Investors Wealth activities operations Total As at 31st December 2005 m m m m m m m m m Income from external customers, net of insurance claims 5,712 2,635 1,983 4,388 1,318 922 120 255 17,333 Inter-segment income 33 80 117 230 Total income net of insurance claims 5,745 2,715 1,983 4,505 1,318 922 120 25 17,333 Impairment charge and other credit provisions 327 1,098 32 111 2 1 1,571 Segment expenses external 2,545 816 1,343 2,952 769 676 105 1,321 10,527 Inter-segment expenses 670 162 21 11 10 78 22 974 Total expenses 3,215 978 1,364 2,963 779 754 127 347 10,527 Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 3 1 46 1 45 Business segment performance before tax 2,200 640 633 1,431 540 166 7 323 5,280 Additional information Depreciation and amortisation 53 41 111 99 10 10 117 441 Impairment loss intangible assets 6 3 9 a Capital expenditure 67 165 2,577 294 155 14 194 3,466 Investments in associates and joint ventures 31 80 415 20 546 Total assets 130,304 25,771 63,556 601,193 80,900 6,094 7,276 9,263 924,357 Total liabilities 143,100 1,559 34,787 576,350 80,115 24,775 7,181 32,060 899,927 3 Note a Capital expenditure comprises purchased goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment acquired during the year.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 249 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 59 Segmental reporting continued Barclays International Wealth Head office Retail and Barclays closed life functions UK Commercial Barclays Global Barclays assurance and other Banking Barclaycard Banking Capital Investors Wealth activities operations Total As at 31st December 2004 m m m m m m m m m Income from external customers, net of insurance claims 5,257 2,586 887 3,455 893 837 90 103 14,108 Inter-segment income 192 192 63 63 Total income net of insurance claims 5,449 2,394 887 3,518 893 837 90 40 14,108 Impairment charge and other credit provisions 188 761 31 106 1 8 1,093 Segment expenses external 2,483 668 585 2,267 556 619 143 1,215 8,536 Inter-segment expenses 739 139 32 3 111 1,024 Total expenses 3,222 807 617 2,270 556 730 143 191 8,536 Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 5 4 49 2 56 Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 42 1 2 45 Business segment performance before tax 2,086 830 288 1,142 336 108 53 157 4,580 Additional information Depreciation and amortisation 62 25 26 73 7 9 117 319 Impairment loss intangible assets 4 2 3 9 a Capital expenditure 137 207 33 146 51 24 230 828 Investments in associates and joint ventures 63 366 429 Total assets 114,934 23,367 28,505 353,246 968 5,616 6,425 5,120 538,181 Total liabilities 117,688 1,257 17,754 329,128 486 22,881 6,869 25,354 521,417 Geographic segments Other United European United Rest of Kingdom Union States Africa the World Total Year ended 31st December 2006 m m m m m m Total income net of insurance claims 12,154 2,882 2,840 2,791 928 21,595 Total assets by location of asset 406,328 203,929 229,779 44,696 112,055 996,787 a Capital expenditure by location of asset 569 62 565 136 39 1,371 Other United European United Rest of Kingdom Union States Africa the World Total Year ended 31st December 2005 m m m m m m Total income net of insurance claims 10,697 1,995 2,421 1,445 775 17,333 Total assets by location of asset 348,703 196,965 230,200 48,803 99,686 924,357 a Capital expenditure by location of asset 449 119 276 2,586 36 3,466 Other United European United Rest of Kingdom Union States Africa the World Total Year ended 31st December 2004 m m m m m m Total income net of insurance claims 9,830 1,793 1,551 348 586 14,108 Total assets by location of asset 215,451 115,258 142,655 4,690 60,127 538,181 a Capital expenditure by location of asset 505 6 259 32 26 828 Note a Capital expenditure comprises purchased goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment acquired during the year.
Barclays PLC 250 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 60 Differences between IFRS and US GAAP accounting principles The Group has applied IFRS from 1st January 2004, with the exception of the standards relating to financial instruments and insurance contracts which are applied only from 1st January 2005.
Therefore the impacts of adopting IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 are not included in the IFRS 2004 comparatives and financial instruments and insurance contracts are accounted for under UK GAAP.
Significant differences between IFRS and US GAAP that are applicable to Barclays are summarised below.
IFRS US GAAP Goodwill From 1st January 2004, goodwill recognised in the IFRS balance sheet is From 1st January 2002, US GAAP required goodwill not to be amortised not amortised but tested annually for impairment.
but tested annually for impairment.
Goodwill previously written off to reserves in accordance with UK GAAP Goodwill previously written off to reserves in accordance with UK GAAP has not been reinstated on the balance sheet.
is recorded on the balance sheet.
Intangible assets other than goodwill For acquisitions arising after 1st January 2004, intangible assets are From 1st January 2002, intangible assets are recognised as an asset recognised as an asset apart from goodwill in accordance with IFRS 3. apart from goodwill in accordance with SFAS 141.
As the amortisation of intangible assets is a deductible expense for income tax purposes, US GAAP requires the recognition of a tax amortisation benefit.
The tax amortisation benefit is taken to income over an appropriate life.
Pensions For defined benefit schemes, an actuarial measurement of the scheme For defined benefit schemes, the same actuarial approach used under obligation and the fair value of the plan assets is made at the end of each IFRS is used under SFAS 87.
Differences arise in certain assumptions and year and the difference between the fair value of the plan assets and in the measurement and adoption dates used for calculation purposes.
the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet Under SFAS 158 any unrecognised actuarial losses and past service date, together with adjustments for any unrecognised actuarial gains costs are recognised on the balance sheet through an adjustment to and losses and past service cost, is recognised as a liability in the other comprehensive income.
Pension assets and liabilities existing at 1st January 2004 were recognised in full.
3 Post-retirement benefits Post-retirement benefits are assessed actuarially on a similar basis to Under SFAS 106, there are certain differences in the assumptions, pension liabilities under IAS 19.
From 1st January 2004 these benefits measurement and the adoption dates used for calculation purposes.
are accrued as a liability in the financial statements over the period Under SFAS 158 any unrecognised actuarial losses and past service of employment.
costs are recognised on the balance sheet through an adjustment to other comprehensive income.
Leasing The Group has entered into leasing contracts whereby the unavoidable Under US GAAP a provision is only recognised at the time the leasehold costs in meeting the obligations under the lease exceed the economic property is actually vacated.
benefits expected to be received.
Under IFRS a provision for the costs Regardless of whether a finance or operating leaseback has occurred, is recognised when the leasehold property ceases to be used in the if the seller retains more than minor but less than substantially all of the business or a commitment is made to vacate the property.
use of the asset, profit in excess of the present value of minimum lease For a sale and operating leaseback transaction established at fair value, payments is recognised immediately.
The remainder is deferred and profit or loss is recognised immediately.
amortised in proportion to the related gross rentals over the lease term.
Other compensation arrangements Non-share-based compensation arrangements awarded to Non-share-based compensation arrangements awarded to employees employees where no performance criteria, other than continued where no performance criteria, other than continued service, are service, are required to be met are accrued fully on the date required to be met are accrued evenly over the period of the grant to of the grant.
Employer payroll taxes on employee stock-based compensation are Employer payroll taxes on employee stock-based compensation are recognised over the vesting period.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 251 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 60 Differences between IFRS and US GAAP accounting principles continued IFRS US GAAP Insurance Life assurance products that are not classified as insurance contracts are Under US GAAP, life assurance products are accounted for under SFAS accounted for under IAS 39.
Products with sufficient insurance risk to be 60, SFAS 97 and SOP 03-01, depending on the nature of the underlying classified as insurance contracts are accounted for under the Modified product and the level of insurance risk.
This gives rise to measurement Statutory Solvency Basis or similar bases.
Reinsurance contracts that transfer sufficient insurance risk are Similar to IFRS, reinsurance contracts that transfer sufficient insurance accounted for as insurance contracts, otherwise they are accounted risk are classified as insurance contracts.
Where reinsurance contacts for under IAS 39.
Gains and losses recognised on entering reinsurance are further classified as Prospective Reinsurance, any gains and losses contracts are recognised in income.
recognised from the transaction are deferred and amortised over the remaining contact period in proportion to the amount of insurance protection provided.
Revaluation of property The carrying amount of property, plant and equipment included in the Revaluations of property are not permitted under US GAAP.
UK GAAP balance at 31st December 2003 has been carried forward into the IFRS balance sheet at 1st January 2004 without adjustment as deemed cost.
This results in property being carried either at original cost or at a subsequent valuation less related depreciation, calculated on the revalued amount where applicable.
Hedging As at 1st January 2005, all derivatives were recognised at fair value and IFRS first-time adoption hedging derivatives adjustments made on the adjustments were made to hedged items where appropriate to comply transition to IFRS have been reversed.
with the IFRS First-time adoption rules for hedge accounting.
Where In certain instances, positions which achieve hedge accounting under hedges have been designated and documented in compliance with IFRS, IFRS do not meet hedge accounting conditions under US GAAP, and vice hedge accounting has been subsequently applied from that date.
In particular, qualifying IFRS hedge accounting relationships that do not meet the criteria under US GAAP include: IFRS hedge accounting relationships that are a fair value hedge of the interest rate risk exposure of a portfolio of loans for which the hedged item is designated in terms of an amount of currency rather than as individual loans.
US GAAP does not permit this hedge accounting methodology.
IFRS hedge accounting relationships for which no equivalent US GAAP hedge has been designated or that were designated at a later date for US GAAP purposes.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities may be designated at fair value US GAAP only permits the fair value option for financial assets and through profit or loss the fair value option where they contain liabilities that contain embedded derivatives that otherwise are required substantive embedded derivatives, where doing so significantly reduces to be separated from their host contract.
Financial instruments that measurement inconsistencies, or where they are managed and qualify for the fair value option under IFRS but which are not measured evaluated on a fair value basis with a documented risk management at fair value through profit or loss under US GAAP are as follows: or investment strategy and reported to Key Management Personnel In accordance with SOP 01-6, originated loans are reported at on that basis.
outstanding principal adjusted for any charge-offs, the allowance for loans losses and any deferred origination fees or costs.
Debt, including deposits, is recorded at face value less any discount or plus any premium.
Structured financial liabilities that are not required to be separated into a host contract and a derivative are measured on an amortised cost basis.
In accordance with SFAS 115, available for sale debt securities are measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in equity.
Mortgage loans held-for-sale are accounted for at the lower of cost or market value in accordance with SFAS 65.
Contracts that meet the definition of a financial guarantee in accordance with SFAS 133.10 d are initially measured at fair value and subsequently amortised over the life of the guarantee in accordance with the provisions of FIN 45.
Certain entities have been deemed to be investment companies or broker dealers in accordance with the specific industry guidance applicable to those entities under US GAAP.
The specific industry guidance requires certain financial instruments held within these entities to be measured at fair value through profit or loss.
Barclays PLC 252 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 60 Differences between IFRS and US GAAP accounting principles continued IFRS US GAAP Foreign exchange on available for sale securities Changes in the fair value of available for sale debt securities resulting Under EITF 96-15, as amended by SFAS 133, changes in the value of from movements in foreign currency exchange rates are reflected in the available for sale debt instruments due to changes in foreign currency income statement as exchange differences.
exchange rate are carried in shareholders equity and transferred to income on sale of the instrument.
Fee and cost recognition IAS 39 does not consider certain internal costs to be incremental costs SFAS 91 requires loan origination fees and direct costs including certain directly attributable to the origination of financial instruments and are internal costs to be deferred and amortised over the life of the loan as excluded from effective interest calculations and are taken as an expense an adjustment of yield.
Redemption fees are recorded in income as received.
Redemption fees are deferred and amortised on the balance sheet using Leveraged leases require income to be recognised only during the the effective yield method.
period that the net investment in the lease is positive.
Specific accounting guidance for leveraged leases does not exist under IFRS.
Income is recognised on an effective yield basis.
Consolidation Under SIC-12 an SPE is consolidated by the entity that is deemed to In accordance with FIN 46-R Variable Interest Entities VIEs are control it.
Indicators of control include the SPE conducting activities consolidated by the interest holder that remains exposed to the majority on behalf of the entity or the entity holding the majority of the risks and of the entitys expected losses or residual returns, that is, the primary rewards of the SPE.
Where an SPE is deemed a Qualifying Special Purpose Entity QSPE, it is not consolidated.
The disposal of shares from the Group to a minority shareholder is recorded in the income statement.
The disposal of shares from the Group to a minority shareholder is recorded directly in equity.
Securitisations Group undertakings have issued debt securities or have entered into Transfers of financial assets through securitisation are derecognised funding arrangements with lenders in order to finance specific loans and if the securitisation entitys activities comply with certain rigorous advances to customers.
All such loans and advances continue to be held accounting requirements to be considered a QSPE.
If the securitisation 3 on the Group balance sheet, and a liability recognised for the proceeds entitys activities are sufficiently restricted to be considered a QSPE, the of the funding transaction, unless certain conditions are met.
entity is not consolidated by the seller of the transferred assets.
IFRS allows for the partial derecognition of transferred financial assets Where appropriate, upon derecognition a servicing asset liability and where the Group has a continuing involvement in them.
retained interest in the transferred assets is recognised.
Any recognised servicing asset liability is amortised over the period in which the benefits are expected to be received.
US GAAP does not permit the application of continuing involvement principles to achieve partial derecognition of transferred financial assets.
Guarantees All financial guarantees other than credit derivatives are initially Under FIN 45, only guarantees issued or modified from 1st January 2003 recognised in the financial statements at fair value on the date that the are recognised at inception at fair value as a liability on the balance sheet.
Classification of debt and equity From 1st January 2005, certain subordinated instruments issued by the These instruments are treated as debt instruments under US GAAP and Group are treated as equity under IFRS where they contain no present are translated at the rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
obligation to deliver cash or another financial asset to a holder.
If these are held in foreign currency, the instrument is translated into the reporting currency at the exchange rate ruling on the date of issuance.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 253 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 60 Differences between IFRS and US GAAP accounting principles continued IFRS US GAAP Loans held for sale Financial instruments are measured as required by IAS 39 and are Under SOP 06-1 once a decision has been made to sell loans not outside the scope of the measurement provisions of IFRS 5. previously classified as held for sale, such loans are transferred into the held-for-sale classification and carried at the lower of cost or fair value.
At the time of the transfer into the held-for-sale classification, any amount by which cost exceeds fair value is accounted for as a valuation allowance.
Non-financial instruments Purchased financial guarantees may be carried at fair value with changes All purchased financial guarantees not meeting the definition of in fair value recognised in the income statement.
a derivative are measured on an accrual basis.
Disposal of foreign subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures Under IAS 21 the exchange differences arising on the translation of a The requirements outlined in SFAS 52 in relation to translation gains foreign operation are included in cumulative translation reserves within and losses of a foreign operation are the same as IAS 21.
However, the shareholders equity and recycled to the income statement on disposal requirements apply to all gains and losses arising from acquisition of or partial disposal of the operation.
Under the transition rules contained the foreign operation.
within IFRS 1 the requirement applies to translation currency gains and losses arising after 1st January 2004.
Taxation Profit before tax and the tax charge includes tax at the effective tax rate Income before tax and the tax charge do not include such tax on certain transactions.
Under IFRS the deferred tax asset on share-based compensation The deferred tax asset on share compensation schemes is calculated schemes is calculated using the intrinsic value of outstanding share on the fair value of share awards on the date of issue, with adjustments awards at the balance sheet date.
The associated income tax credit is made for the number of options expected to exercise.
Deferred tax capped by the fair value of the award multiplied by the statutory tax rate, excesses or shortfalls are only taken to reserves upon exercise of any excess is recorded in reserves.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share EPS is net income divided by the weighted The basic and diluted US GAAP EPS differs from IFRS EPS to the average shares in issue during the period.
Diluted EPS reflects the effect extent that net income under US GAAP differs and the windfall tax that potential ordinary shares in the form of existing options would have benefit deficiency to be recognised in additional paid in capital on the basic EPS if they were to be exercised, by increasing the number is included in the assumed proceeds used to determine the number of ordinary shares and adjusting income where appropriate.
Acceptances Acceptances are bills of exchange that the drawee has agreed Acceptances and the related customer liabilities are recognised on the responsibility for payment.
They are not recognised on the balance sheet.
Non-cash collateral Where a transferee sells collateral pledged to it, IFRS requires recognition Where a transferee receives collateral that it has a right to on sell of the proceeds from the sale and a liability measured at fair value for its or on pledge, a liability is recognised when the collateral is received.
obligation to return the collateral.
Netting Financial assets and liabilities are offset and reported net in the balance US GAAP permits netting in relation to long and short positions in sheet if, and only if, there is currently a legally enforceable right to set off securities and derivative assets and liabilities subject to a master the recognised amounts, and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, netting agreement between two counterparties.
or to realise an asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Barclays PLC 254 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 60 Differences between IFRS and US GAAP accounting principles continued For those standards that were not adopted until 1st January 2005, UK GAAP continued to be applied throughout 2004 in accordance with IFRS transition rules.
Therefore, for 31st December 2004, the differences relating to Derivatives, Fair value of securities, Loan origination and Extinguishment of liabilities are the same as those previously reported and have been provided on page 258.
IFRS 2004 only US GAAP 2004 only Derivatives SFAS 133 requires all derivatives to be recorded at fair value as adjusted Derivatives used for hedging purposes are measured on an accruals basis consistent with the assets, liabilities, positions or future cash flows by the requirements of EITF 02-03.
If certain conditions are met then the derivative may be designated as a fair value hedge, cash flow hedge or being hedged.
The gains and losses on these instruments arising from changes in fair value are not recognised in the profit and loss account hedge of the foreign currency exposure of a net investment in a foreign subsidiary.
The change in value of the fair value hedge is recorded in immediately as they arise.
Such gains are either not recognised in the balance sheet or are recognised and carried forward.
When the hedged income along with the change in fair value of the hedged asset or liability.
The change in value of a cash flow hedge is recorded in other transaction occurs, the gain or loss is recognised in the profit and loss account at the same time as the hedged item.
comprehensive income and reclassified to income as the hedged cash flows affect earnings.
The change in the value of a net investment hedge Derivatives entered into as trading transactions, together with any is recorded in the currency translation reserve and only released to associated hedging, are measured at fair value, and the resultant profits income when the underlying investment is sold.
With a limited number and losses are included in dealing profits.
of exceptions, Barclays has chosen not to update the documentation of derivative hedges to comply fully with the requirements of SFAS 133.
Products which contain embedded derivatives are valued with reference to the total product inclusive of the derivative element.
Certain terms and conditions of hybrid contracts which themselves would be standalone derivatives are bifurcated from the underlying hybrid contract and fair valued if they are not clearly and closely related to the contract in which they are contained.
These are referred to as embedded derivatives.
Fair value of securities Positions in investment debt securities and investment equity shares Under SFAS 115, debt and marketable equity securities are classified as one of three types.
Trading securities are carried at fair value with are stated at cost less any provision for impairment.
The cost of dated investment securities is adjusted for the amortisation of premiums changes in fair value taken through profit and loss: held to maturity debt securities are carried at amortised cost where there is the ability and or discount on purchase over the period to redemption.
Investment securities are those intended for use on a continuing basis by the Group.
intent to hold to maturity: available for sale securities that are held for continuing use in the business are carried at fair value with movements 3 in fair value recorded in shareholders equity.
Declines in fair value below cost that are deemed other-than-temporary impairment are recognised on the held to maturity and available for sale categories and are reflected in the profit and loss account.
Non-marketable securities held by investment companies are carried at fair value with movements in fair value recorded in net income.
Loan origination SFAS 91 requires loan origination fees and incremental direct costs of Fee income relating to the origination of loans is recognised in the profit and loss account to match the cost over the period in which the service loan origination to be deferred and amortised over the life of the loan as an adjustment to interest income.
is provided, together with a reasonable profit margin.
The cost of mortgage incentives, which comprise cashbacks and interest discounts, are charged to the profit and loss account as a reduction to interest receivable as incurred.
Extinguishment of liabilities Under FRS 5, a liability is extinguished if an entitys obligation to Under SFAS 140, a debtor may derecognise a liability if and only if transfer economic benefits is satisfied, removed or is no longer likely either a the debtor pays the creditor and is relieved of its obligation to occur.
Satisfaction would encompass an in-substance defeasance for the liability, or b the debtor is legally released from being the transaction where liabilities are satisfied from the cash flows arising from primary obligor under the liability either financially or by the creditor.
essentially risk free assets transferred by the debtor to an irrevocable SFAS 140 does not allow for the derecognition of a liability by means defeasance trust.
of an in-substance defeasance transaction or if it is no longer believed likely that the liability will be settled.
Any adjustments included in the reconciliations of IFRS to US GAAP provided on pages 258 to 274 and pages 288 and 289 that are not described above have arisen from refinements of methodology arising from the Groups conversion to IFRS.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 255 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 60 Differences between IFRS and US GAAP accounting principles continued Applicable developments in US GAAP SFAS 155: Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments In February 2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
155 SFAS 155, an amendment to SFAS 140 and SFAS 133.
SFAS 155 permits entities to elect to measure at fair value through earnings any hybrid financial instrument that contains an embedded derivative that would otherwise require bifurcation.
This fair value election is made on an  basis and is irreversible.
It is available for all hybrid instruments that exist as of the date of adoption of the standard as well as new instruments issued or acquired after the date of adoption.
SFAS 155 eliminates a prior restriction on certain passive types of derivatives that a qualifying special purpose entity is expected to hold.
As permitted by SFAS 155, the Group has adopted the fair value election from 1st January 2006.
The impact of the adoption of SFAS 155 is a credit to retained earnings of 251m 176m net of tax comprising gross losses of 267m and gross gains of 518m, determined on an instrument by instrument basis.
For additional information on SFAS 155, see Note k on page 268.
SFAS 123-R: Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
123 R SFAS 123-R was issued on 16th December 2004.
SFAS 123-R requires that entities recognise an expense for employee stock options and other forms of stock-based compensation based on the fair value of the options.
The statement applies as of the beginning of the interim or annual reporting period starting after 15th June 2005.
Barclays has adopted SFAS 123-R using Modified Prospective Application where SFAS 123-R applies to new awards and to awards modified, repurchased, or cancelled after 1st January 2006.
Adoption did not have a material impact on the Groups results of operations or financial condition as determined under US GAAP for the year ended 31st December 2006.
SFAS 154: Accounting Changes and Error Corrections Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
154 SFAS 154 issued in May 2005 replaces APB 20 and SFAS 3 and changes the requirements for the accounting and reporting of a change in accounting principle.
This statement applies to all voluntary changes in accounting principle, and requires the retrospective application to prior periods financial statements of such changes.
SFAS 154 also requires that a change in depreciation, amortisation or depletion method for long-lived non-financial assets be accounted for as a change in accounting estimate affected by a change in accounting principle.
SFAS 154 carries forward without change the guidance in Opinion 20 for reporting the correction of an error in previously issued financial statements.
The statement is effective for accounting changes and correction of errors made in fiscal years beginning after 15th December 2005, although it has not been applicable to Barclays.
SFAS 158: Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Post-retirement Plans The standard requires the recognition in the statement of financial performance of the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan measured as the difference between the fair value of plan assets and the benefit obligation.
Actuarial gains and losses and prior period service costs and credits are recognised as a component of other comprehensive income and taken to income under the recognition and amortisation provisions of SFAS 87 and SFAS 106.
Defined benefit plan assets and defined benefit plan obligations are required to be measured at the date of the statement of financial position.
Additional information is required to be disclosed on certain effects on net periodic benefit cost that arise from delayed recognition of the actuarial gains and losses and the prior service costs and credits.
The requirement to recognise the funded status of a defined benefit post-retirement plan and the related disclosure requirements is effective for fiscal years ending after 15th December 2006.
Retrospective application is not required.
The Group has adopted the recognition provisions of SFAS 158 as at 31st December 2006.
The impact of adoption for the Groups defined benefit pension schemes is an increase in other liabilities of 860m, a decrease in other assets of 25m and a decrease in other comprehensive income of 885m.
Associated deferred tax assets have increased by 258m and deferred tax liabilities have decreased by 8m.
The adoption of the recognition provisions for the Groups post-retirement benefit schemes has resulted in an increase in other liabilities of 66m and a decrease in other comprehensive income of 66m.
Associated deferred tax assets have increased by 20m.
For a public entity that measures plan assets and benefit obligations as of a date other than the date of its statement of position, the requirement to change that date to year-end reporting date is applied for fiscal years ending after 15th December 2008 and shall not be applied retrospectively.
Barclays is considering applying the change in measurement date from 30th September to 31st December for the UKRF and certain post-retirement benefit schemes in 2007.
The expected impact of adoption of the measurement provisions of SFAS 158 for the Groups pension schemes as at 1st January 2007 is a decrease in retained earnings of approximately 35m, a decrease in other liabilities of approximately 350m and an increase in other comprehensive income of approximately 390m as at 1st January 2007.
The impact of adoption of the measurement provisions of SFAS 158 on the Groups post retirement benefit schemes is not expected to be significant as at 1st January 2007.
For additional information on SFAS 158 see Note c on page 261.
Barclays PLC 256 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 60 Differences between IFRS and US GAAP accounting principles continued SFAS 156: Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
SFAS 156 amends SFAS 140 to require that all separately recognised servicing assets and servicing liabilities be initially measured at fair value, if practicable.
SFAS 156 permits an entity to choose the subsequent measurement of separately recognised servicing assets and servicing liabilities either using amortisation method or fair value method.
SFAS 156 also permits, at its initial adoption, a one-time reclassification of available for sale securities to trading securities by entities with recognised servicing rights, without impacting the treatment of other available for sale securities under SFAS 115, provided that the available for sale securities are identified in some manner as offsetting the entitys exposure to changes in fair value of servicing assets or servicing liabilities that a servicer elects to subsequently measure at fair value.
The statement is effective as of the beginning of its first fiscal year beginning after 15th September 2006.
The impact of SFAS 156 on the Groups US GAAP position is expected to be immaterial.
FIN 48: Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes FASB Interpretation No.
This Interpretation prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return.
In recognising a tax position, the enterprise determines whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon examination.
A tax position that is recognised is then measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realised upon ultimate settlement.
This Interpretation is effective for fiscal years beginning after 15th December 2006.
The impact of the interpretation on the Groups US GAAP position is expected to be immaterial.
SFAS 157: Fair Value Measurements Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
157 SFAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles US GAAP and expands disclosures about fair value measurements.
While this SFAS 157 does not require any new fair value measurements, it is possible that the application of SFAS 157 will change current practice and introduce new differences between IFRS and US GAAP.
SFAS 157 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after 15th November 2007.
Barclays is assessing the impact of the standard on the Groups US GAAP position.
SFAS 159: The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Liabilities Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
159 SFAS 159 was issued on 15th February 2006 and provides companies with an option to report selected financial assets and liabilities at fair value.
SFAS 159 establishes presentation and disclosure requirements designed to facilitate comparisons between companies that choose different measurement attributes for similar types of assets and liabilities.
The standard also requires entities to display the fair value of those assets and liabilities for which the company has chosen to use fair value on the face of the balance sheet.
The new statement does not eliminate disclosure 3 requirements included in other accounting standards, including requirements for disclosures about fair value measurements included in SFAS 157 and SFAS 107.
The statement is effective as of the beginning of an entitys first fiscal year beginning after 15th November 2007.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 257 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 60 Differences between IFRS and US GAAP accounting principles continued 2006 2005 2004 Notes m m m Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent IFRS 4,571 3,447 3,254 Goodwill a 8 2 Intangible assets b 127 121 137 Pensions c 106 202 14 Post-retirement benefits c 17 1 20 Leasing 342 136 n a Other compensation arrangements 66 44 54 Insurance 96 35 95 Revaluation of property 85 911 Hedging l 76 208 n a Derivatives n a n a 364 Financial instruments 52 417 n a Fair value of securities n a n a 80 Foreign exchange on available for sale securities j 349 185 428 Fee and cost recognition 31 58 180 Loan origination n a n a 66 Consolidation m 33 22 68 Securitisations n 48 204 21 Guarantees 9 25 10 Business combinations i 13 Software capitalisation 15 Extinguishment of liabilities n a n a 32 Classification of debt and equity 58 57 Impairment 24 Loans held for sale 11 Non-financial instruments 1 18 Disposal of foreign subsidiaries 34 Tax effect on IFRS US GAAP reconciling items 12 215 2 Net income US GAAP 4,318 2,932 3,032 Barclays PLC Group p pp Basic earnings per 25p ordinary share f 67.9 46.3 47.5 Diluted earnings per 25p ordinary share f 66.5 44.7 46.8 2006 2005 m m Shareholders equity excluding minority interests IFRS 19,799 17,426 Goodwill a 533 563 Intangible assets b 694 573 Pensions c 324 1,224 Post-retirement benefits c 32 51 Leasing 342 Other compensation arrangements 176 104 Insurance 33 62 Revaluation of property 136 221 Hedging l 295 254 Financial instruments 91 424 Fee and cost recognition 62 30 Consolidation m 9 51 Securitisations n 307 355 Guarantees 3 6 Classification of debt and equity 179 116 Loans held for sale 11 Non-financial instruments 3 4 Tax effect on IFRS US GAAP reconciling items 307 559 Shareholders equity US GAAP 20,032 18,461 For those standards that were not adopted until 1st January 2005, UK GAAP continued to be applied throughout 2004 in accordance with IFRS transition rules.
Therefore, for 31st December 2004, the differences relating to Derivatives, Fair value of securities, Loan origination and Extinguishment of liabilities are the same as those previously reported.
Barclays PLC 258 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 60 Differences between IFRS and US GAAP accounting principles continued The following table provides the Groups balance sheet on an IFRS presentation for 2006 and 2005, incorporating those adjustments required under US GAAP that are discussed on pages 251 to 255.
2006 2005 m m Assets Cash and balances at central banks 7,345 3,908 Items in the course of collection from other banks 2,408 2,017 Trading portfolio assets 278,941 243,000 Financial assets designated at fair value 10,935 Derivative financial instruments 41,506 40,306 Loans and advances to banks 30,927 31,105 Loans and advances to customers 301,453 288,963 Financial investments 63,189 55,403 Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed 174,090 160,398 Other assets 17,263 15,557 Total assets 928,057 840,657 Deposits from banks 75,455 69,389 Items in the course of collection due to other banks 2,221 2,341 Customer accounts 270,313 253,252 Trading portfolio liabilities 143,084 150,263 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 28,452 Derivative financial instruments 43,890 42,607 Debt securities in issue 136,548 125,600 Repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent 168,582 141,760 Other liabilities 18,677 18,099 Subordinated liabilities 13,957 12,753 Total liabilities 901,179 816,064 Shareholders equity excluding minority interest 20,032 18,461 Minority interests 6,846 6,132 3 Total shareholders equity 26,878 24,593 Total liabilities and shareholders equity 928,057 840,657 Segmental analysis of the Group is provided in Note 59, Segmental analysis.
The significant differences for each segment under US GAAP are in respect of netting adjustments as disclosed in Note 60 p, consolidation adjustments as disclosed in Note 60 m and the securitisation adjustment as disclosed in Note 60 n. The impact of these adjustments is to decrease the total assets of Barclays Capital by 86,558m 2005: decrease by 89,042m, increase the total assets of Barclays Global Investors by 13,448m 2005: increase by 9,669m, decrease the total assets of Barclaycard by 5,455m 2005: decrease by 6,390m.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 259 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 60 Differences between IFRS and US GAAP accounting principles continued a Goodwill The Group annually reviews the carrying value of its goodwill for impairment based on expected future earnings.
In 2006 and 2005, there was no impairment to goodwill under US GAAP.
In 2004, goodwill recorded by the Group under US GAAP included amounts related to interests acquired following the restructuring of businesses to which the Group had previously advanced funds.
The Group identified an excess in the carrying value of the reporting units over their implied fair value and recorded an impairment charge of 56m.
The impairment was based on revised cash flow projections which were lower than forecasted due to going concern issues within these businesses.
Further, a partial write-down of 12m was recorded in 2004 in relation to a Group entity acquired prior to 1st January 1998 in respect of which the goodwill had been previously written off to reserves under UK GAAP.
The impairment was due to achieved cash flows being lower than those required to support the carrying value of goodwill.
The current carrying value of goodwill for US GAAP purposes has been allocated to the reportable business clusters of the Group: Reallocation At beginning between Exchange of year clusters Additions Disposals and other 2006 2006 m m m m m m UKBanking 2,775 4 2 2,769 Barclays Wealth 548 548 International Retail and Commercial Banking 1,764 89 14 267 1,422 Barclaycard 372 15 357 Barclays Capital 26 89 55 17 153 Barclays Global Investors 258 376 10 10 614 Head office functions and other operations 18 6 12 Goodwill 5,761 445 14 317 5,875 Reallocation At beginning between Exchange of year clusters Additions and other 2005 2005 m m m m m UK Banking 2,760 14 1 2,775 Wealth Management 548 548 International Retail and Commercial Banking 448 1,253 63 1,764 Barclaycard 336 24 12 372 Barclays Capital 42 16 26 Barclays Global Investors 116 6 139 9 258 Head office functions and other operations 10 8 18 Goodwill 4,260 1,417 84 5,761 b Intangible assets Core Mortgage Licences deposit Customer servicing and other Other intangible Brand lists rights contracts software 2006 2006 m m m m m m m Cost or valuation At beginning of year 706 121 692 137 32 1,688 Acquisitions disposals as a result of business combinations 114 2 116 Additions 16 10 26 Fully amortised assets written off 52 52 Exchange other 38 19 27 8 6 1 99 Cost carried forward 668 102 613 122 143 31 1,679 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At beginning of year 359 9 192 17 10 587 Amortisation charge for year 95 13 90 11 2 6 217 Impairment charge Fully amortised assets written off 52 52 Exchange other 2 2 37 1 3 33 Amortisation carried forward 456 20 267 10 16 16 785 Net book value 2006 212 82 346 112 127 15 894 Weighted average amortisation period for additions months 48 20 Barclays PLC 260 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 60 Differences between IFRS and US GAAP accounting principles continued Core Licences deposit Customer and other Other intangible Brand lists contracts software 2005 2005 m m m m m m Cost or valuation At beginning of year 513 33 313 57 12 928 Acquisitions disposals as a result of business combinations 186 110 338 2 17 653 Additions 8 76 3 87 Fully amortised assets written off 25 25 Exchange other 7 3 33 2 45 Cost carried forward 706 121 692 137 32 1,688 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At beginning of year 284 29 129 6 4 452 Amortisation charge for year 80 7 58 9 6 160 Impairment charge 1 1 Fully amortised assets written off 25 25 Exchange other 5 2 5 1 1 Amortisation carried forward 359 9 192 17 10 587 Net book value 2005 347 112 500 120 22 1,101 Weighted average amortisation period for additions months 334 127 332 78 36 The amortisation expense for the net carrying amount of intangible assets is estimated to be 214m in 2007, 98m in 2008, 74m in 2009, 63m in 2010 and 49m in 2011. c Pensions and post-retirement benefits The US GAAP pension disclosures below reflect the following Group pension schemes: the UK Retirement Fund UKRF, Barclays Capital Staff Pension Plan and Barclays Capital Pension Restoration Plan Barclays Capital schemes.
Together these schemes make up approximately 93% of all the Groups schemes in terms of assets and actuarial liabilities.
The UKRF is composed of the 1964 Pension Scheme, Retirement Investment Scheme, Pension Investment Plan, afterwork and the Career Average Section.
The provisions of US GAAP have been applied to the UKRF and certain post-retirement benefit schemes based on a measurement date of 3 30th September, and to the remaining schemes based on a measurement date of 31st December.
The impact of the 350m contribution made to the UKRF in the fourth quarter of 2006 350m in the fourth quarter 2005 on the funded status of the Groups pension schemes is shown below.
The components of the pension and post-retirements expense where an actuarial basis is appropriate which arise under US GAAP are as follows: 2006 2005 2004  retirement retirement Pensions benefits Pensions benefits Pensions benefits m m m m m m Components of net periodic benefit cost defined benefit schemes Service cost 403 1 361 2 319 1 Interest cost 851 7 808 6 692 5 Expected return on plan assets 926 818 738 Amortisation of transition adjustment 1 1 a Termination benefits 21 51 Recognised net actuarial loss 24 4 40 2 27 2 Prior service cost 1 Net periodic benefit cost 374 13 442 11 300 8 Note a Termination benefits relate to costs incurred to the UKRF when members are made redundant and are permitted to take enhanced benefits in exchange for a reduced redundancy lump sum.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 261 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 60 Differences between IFRS and US GAAP accounting principles continued c Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued The following table presents the estimated funded status of the pension schemes and post-retirement benefits the latter are unfunded under US GAAP: 2006 2005 PostPostretirement retirement Pensions benefits Pensions benefits m m m m Change in benefit obligation Benefit obligation at beginning of year 17,483 131 14,992 100 Service cost 403 1 361 2 Interest cost 851 7 808 6 Plan participants contributions 32 26 Termination benefits 21 51 Prior period service cost 4 4 Actuarial gain loss 336 1,748 23 Benefits paid 520 5 470 4 Curtailments 53 57 Settlements 12 7 Exchange and other 33 6 27 4 Benefit obligation at end of year 17,840 128 17,483 131 Change in plan assets Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year 14,802 12,540 Actual return on plan assets 1,676 2,426 Employer contribution 370 5 266 4 Plan participants contributions 32 26 Benefits paid 520 5 470 4 Settlements 11 7 Exchange and other 27 21 Fair value of plan assets at end of year 16,322 14,802 Funded status deficit 1,518 128 2,681 131 Fourth quarter contribution to UKRF 350 350 Total deficit 1,168 128 2,331 131 a Unrecognised transition amount n a n a 5 a Unrecognised net actuarial loss n a n a 2,047 68 a Unrecognised prior service cost n a n a 7 Accrued benefit cost n a n a 277 58 The minimum liability, intangible asset and other comprehensive income as at the measurement date for the Groups pension schemes is shown in the table below: 2006 2005 Barclays Barclays Barclays Barclays Capital Capital Capital Capital Staff Pension Staff Pension Retirement Restoration Retirement Restoration Plan Plan UKRF Plan Plan UKRF m m m m m m Accumulated Benefit Obligation ABO 216 11 15,037 249 12 15,149 Scheme assets at market value 203 16,119 213 14,589 Minimum liablity excess of ABO over market value of assets 13 11 36 12 560 Net amount recognised 12 11 282 18 13 282 Minimum additional liability 25 54 278 Intangible asset Accumulated other comprehensive income before SFAS 158 25 54 278 Note a The adoption of SFAS 158 as at 31st December 2006 results in the funded status of the Groups pension and post-retirement benefit schemes being recognised on the balance sheet.
Barclays PLC 262 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 60 Differences between IFRS and US GAAP accounting principles continued c Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued 2006 Postretirement Pensions benefits m m The funded status consists of: Current liabilities 1 5 Non-current liabilities 1,167 123 1,168 128 Amounts recognised in accumulated other comprehensive income consist of: Net loss 876 62 Prior service cost 10 Net transition obligation 4 Accumulated other comprehensive income before deferred tax 886 66 Deferred tax 266 20 Accumulated other comprehensive income after deferred tax 620 46 The estimated Pension net gains and losses, prior service costs, and transition assets that are expected to be amortised from accumulated other comprehensive income into net periodic benefit cost for 2007 are: 2006 Postretirement Pensions benefits m m Net loss 3 Prior service cost 1 Net transition amount 3 Total estimated amortisation for 2007 from accumulated other comprehensive income 13 A one percentage point change in assumed health care trend rates would have the following effects for 2006: 2006 1% increase 1% decrease m m Effect on service and interest cost component 2 1 Effect on post-retirement benefit obligation 22 19 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 263 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 60 Differences between IFRS and US GAAP accounting principles continued c Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued For those pension schemes with an accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets: 2006 Postretirement Pensions benefits m m Projected benefit obligation 237 128 Accumulated benefit obligation 227 128 Fair value of plan assets 203 For those pension schemes with a projected benefit obligation in excess of plan assets: 2006 Postretirement Pensions benefits m m Projected benefit obligation 17,603 Accumulated benefit obligation 15,037 Fair value of plan assets 16,119 A long-term strategy has been set for the pension plan asset allocation which comprises a mixture of equities, bonds, property and other appropriate assets.
This recognises that different asset classes are likely to produce different long-term returns, and some asset classes will be more volatile than others.
One of the factors in the choice of a long-term strategy is to ensure that the investments are adequately diversified.
The managers are permitted some flexibility to vary the asset allocation from the long-term strategy within control ranges agreed with the Trustee from time to time.
The table below shows the percentage of the fair value of each major category as at the measurement date.
Barclays Capital Retirement Plan UKRF defined benefits only Target Target 2006 31 12 06 31 12 05 2006 30 09 06 30 09 05 %%%%%% Equity securities 50-70 60 61 45.75 44 50 Debt securities 30-50 38 39 42.25 39 35 Property 0-10 10.00 13 11 All other assets 0-10 2 2.00 4 4 Total 100 100 100 100 100 100 The expected return on assets is determined by calculating a total return estimate based on a weighted average of estimated returns for each asset class.
The Group is expected to make contributions of 351m to the UKRF scheme in 2007 and 20m to the Barclays Capital schemes in 2007.
Estimated future benefit payments The following benefit payments, which reflect future service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid: Postretirement Pensions benefits m m 2007 474 5 2008 491 5 2009 511 5 2010 531 6 2011 549 6 Years 2012 2016 3,168 31 Barclays PLC 264 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 60 Differences between IFRS and US GAAP accounting principles continued c Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued The weighted-average assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost for pensions are as follows: 2006 2005 Barclays Barclays Barclays Barclays Capital Capital Capital Capital Retirement Restoration Retirement Restoration Plan Plan UKRF Plan Plan UKRF %%% %%% Discount rate 5.50 5.50 5.08 5.75 5.75 5.60 Rate of compensation increase 4.50 4.50 4.30 4.50 4.50 4.30 Expected long-term return on plan assets 8.00 n a 6.45 8.50 n a 6.70 The weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations for pensions are as follows: 2006 2005 Barclays Barclays Barclays Barclays Capital Capital Capital Capital Retirement Restoration Retirement Restoration Plan Plan UKRF Plan Plan UKRF %%% %%% Discount rate 6.00 6.00 5.01 5.50 5.50 5.08 Rate of compensation increase 4.50 4.50 4.00 4.50 4.50 4.30 Inflation 2.80 2.80 3.00 2.70 2.70 2.75 A number of additional changes have been made to the assumptions used in valuing the liabilities of the UKRF, including a decrease in the assumed rate of real salary increases to 1% 30th September 2005: 1.55%, a change in the assumption regarding pension increases to recognise the caps and floors which apply to guaranteed pension increases, and the introduction of an explicit allowance for early retirement and commutation.
Mortality assumptions remain unchanged from those in force at 30th September 2005.
For measurement purposes, the calculations assume a 10% and 5% annual rate of increase in the per capita cost of covered medical benefits and dental benefits respectively for pensioners in the US at the end of the 2006 year 11% and 5% at the end of 2005.
The rate for 2007 is assumed to be 10% and to decrease to 5% over five years to 2012 and remain at that level thereafter.
For pensioners in the UK the calculation assumes a 9% increase in the per capita cost of covered medical benefits is adopted for the 2006 year end 10% annual rate as at the end of 2005.
The rate for 3 2007 is assumed to be 8% and to decrease to 5% by 2010 and remain at that level thereafter.
Details of the post-retirement health care expense under IFRS are given in Note 35 to the accounts.
The accounting for the post-retirement benefits charge assumed a discount rate of 5.5% 2005: 5.75% for US benefits and 5.1% 2005: 5.6% for UK benefits on a weighted average basis.
d Share-based payments The total equity settled share-based payment cost recognised for US GAAP for 2006 is 640m 2005: 338m, 2004: 204m.
The related tax benefit was 193m 2005: 80m, 2004: nil.
The tax benefit from share options exercised during the year was 161m 2005: 56m.
e Deferred tax In accordance with SFAS No.
109 Accounting for Income Taxes, the components of US GAAP deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows: 2006 2005 m m Deferred tax liabilities: Deferred tax liabilities under IFRS see Note 21 282 700 In respect of IFRS US GAAP reconciling items 175 116 Total deferred tax liabilities 457 816 Deferred tax assets: Deferred tax assets under IFRS see Note 21 764 686 Add: valuation allowance 294 252 In respect of IFRS US GAAP reconciling items 137 441 Total deferred tax assets before valuation allowance 921 497 Less: valuation allowance 294 252 Deferred tax assets less valuation allowance 627 245 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 265 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 60 Differences between IFRS and US GAAP accounting principles continued e Deferred tax continued The main components of the tax charge attributable to continuing operations are shown in Note 21 to the accounts on pages 184 and 185.
Included in the tax effect on net income of IFRS US GAAP reconciling items for 2006 is a credit amount of 12m relating to deferred tax 2005: credit of 215m.
The valuation allowance relates to the Groups capital losses and unrelieved overseas tax losses.
These assets will be recognised in the future when it becomes more likely than not that they will be utilised.
f Earnings per share 2006 2005 2004 Weighted Weighted Weighted average Per-share average Per-share average Per-share Income share no.
amount m in millions pence m in millions pence m in millions pence Basic earnings per share US GAAP net income attributable to equity holders of the parent 4,318 6,357 67.9 2,932 6,337 46.3 3,032 6,381 47.5 Dilutive impact of convertible options 21 32 Potential shares 106 149 99 Diluted earnings per share 4,297 6,463 66.5 2,900 6,486 44.7 3,032 6,480 46.8 Upon adoption of IFRS, the Group amended the methodology for the calculation of potential shares and the dilutive impact of convertible options.
Had this change been reflected in the US GAAP diluted earnings per share for 2004, the impact would have been a 0.4p decrease.
g Securities Unlisted investment equity securities are outside the scope of SFAS 115 Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities.
Where the securities are held by an investment company within the Group, the securities are carried at fair value.
All investment securities are classified as being available for sale unless the Group has a clear intention and ability to hold them to maturity.
Other securities are classified as trading securities.
The following table shows the gross unrealised losses and fair value for available for sale and held-to-maturity securities, aggregated by investment category and length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous unrealised loss position at 31st December 2006.
Less than 12 months 12 months or more Total Unrealised Unrealised Unrealised Fair value losses Fair value losses Fair value losses Description of securities m m m m m m United Kingdom government 714 3 714 3 Other government 5,156 54 4,632 127 9,788 181 Other public bodies 8 10 1 18 1 Mortgage-backed securities 138 37 3 175 3 Corporate issuers 3,728 10 604 1 4,332 11 Bank and building society certificates of deposits 6,824 26 6,824 26 Other issuers 28 26 1 54 1 Total 16,596 93 5,309 133 21,095 226 The Group performs a review of each individual available for sale and held-to-maturity security on a regular basis to determine whether any evidence of other-than-temporary impairment exists.
This review considers factors such as the duration and amount at which fair value is below cost, the credit standing and prospects of the issuer, and the intent and ability of the Group to hold the security for such sufficient time to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value.
Under US GAAP, 540 2005: 177 available for sale and held-to-maturity debt securities had unrealised losses as at 31st December 2006.
Based on a review performed at 31st December 2006, management believes that the unrealised losses are temporary in nature.
The unrealised losses are due to market movements in interest rates.
The credit quality of the bond issuers remains strong with 100% rated as investment grade or higher and the Group has the ability and intent to hold these positions until recovery.
Barclays PLC 266 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 60 Differences between IFRS and US GAAP accounting principles continued g Securities continued Held-to-maturity securities 2006 2005 Unrealised Unrealised Book value gain loss Fair value Book value gain loss Fair value Description of securities m m m m m m Mortgage-backed securities 1,082 1 1,083 2,099 2 2,101 Other issuers 1,867 3 1,864 3,488 1 3,489 Total 2,949 2 2,947 5,587 3 5,590 The gross unrealised losses on the held to maturity securities amounted to 5m at 31st December 2006 2005: 4m.
2006 2006 Book value Fair value Maturing Maturing Maturing Maturing Maturing after one after five Maturing Maturing after one after five Maturing within but within but within after within but within but within after one year five years ten years ten years one year five years ten years ten years Description of securities m m m m m m m m Mortgage-backed securities 324 585 14 159 324 586 14 159 Other issuers 925 747 99 96 922 746 100 97 Total 1,249 1,332 113 255 1,246 1,332 114 256 h Loan loss impairment SFAS 114 applies only to impaired loans, the measurement of which is based upon the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loans effective interest rate, the loans observable market value, or the fair value of the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent.
Smaller balance homogeneous consumer loans that are collectively evaluated for impairment are outside the scope of SFAS 114, as are debt securities and leases.
At 31st December 2006, the element of impaired loans outside the scope of SFAS 114 amounted to 3,583m 2005: 3,336m.
In accordance with SFAS 114, the Groups total impaired loans being non-performing, less impaired loans outside the scope of SFAS 114, amount to 1,459m at 31st December 2006 2005: 1,874m.
Credit risk provisions of 674m, estimated in accordance with SFAS 114, were held against these loans 2005: 935m.
The average level of such impaired lendings in 2006 was 1,706m 2005: 1,661m.
3 Where cash received represents the realisation of security, or there is doubt regarding the recovery of a loan, such receipts are treated as repayments of the loan principal.
Otherwise, cash received in respect of impaired loans is recognised as interest income.
Estimated interest income which was recognised in 2006 on impaired loans within the scope of SFAS 114 was 52m 2005: 13m, 2004: 24m.
SFAS 114 modifies the accounting for in-substance foreclosure, in that collateralised debts where the Group takes physical possession of the collateral, regardless of formal insolvency procedures, would be reclassified as if the collateral had been acquired for cash.
At 31st December 2006, under US GAAP, the amount of collateral recorded at the lower of the book value of the debt or the fair value of the collateral that would be reclassified as property, plant and equipment was 12m 2005: nil and as debt and equity instruments was nil 2005: 57m.
Mortgage loans of 10,856m 2005: nil are included within loans and advances to customers which are held with the intention of resale.
During the year 9,483m 2005: nil of loans were sold generating a net profit of 74m 2005: nil, 2004: 31m.
i Business combination In 2002, Barclays and Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce completed the combination of their retail, corporate and offshore banking operations and created FirstCaribbean International Bank.
Until disposal on 22nd December 2006, under both IFRS and US GAAP, Barclays accounted for the resulting interest as an associate.
At the time of the combination, a gain of 206m was generated under both UK and US GAAP, the gain being recorded in equity for UK GAAP but in the income statement under US GAAP APB 29 and EITF 01-02.
The net assets of the business transferred by Barclays to the new entity were not materially different under US GAAP.
In 2004, an adjustment of 13m was made to the gain of 206m, which was also recorded in the income statement under US GAAP.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 267 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 60 Differences between IFRS and US GAAP accounting principles continued j Foreign exchange differences on available for sale AFS debt securities Under IFRS the translation of foreign currency denominated AFS debt securities into the functional currency of the legal entity in which they are held is recognised directly in the income statement.
For US GAAP these movements are reported in shareholders equity.
The pre-tax credit of 349m 2005: 185m, 2004: 428m represents the reclassification of this amount from the income statement into shareholders equity for US GAAP.
k Hybrid Financial Instruments In 2006 a fair value loss of 953m is recorded in the income statement in regards to using the option in SFAS 155 to record hybrid financial instruments at fair value under US GAAP.
l Hedging The US GAAP hedging adjustment results in a decrease in income of 76m 2005: 208m, 2004: n a.
Of this, 85m 2005: 69m, 2004: n a relates to the reversal of IFRS transition adjustments and the inclusion of SFAS 133 transition adjustments and 9 m 2005: 139m, 2004: n a relates to ongoing hedging differences.
m Consolidation Differences in the consolidation criteria betwen US GAAP and IFRS result in an increase in total assets of 12,217m 2005: increase of 4,268m.
Under US GAAP, the Group consolidates entities in which it has a controlling financial interest.
This is determined by initially evaluating whether the entity is a voting interest entity, a VIE, or a QSPE.
Certain mortgage loan securitisation entities are consolidated under IFRS and US GAAP.
The financial assets of these entities are fully recognised under US GAAP whereas under IFRS they are only recognised to the extent of the Groups continuing involvement.
This derecognition difference results in greater total assets under US GAAP.
Entities that qualify as qualifying special purpose entities QSPEs under SFAS 140 and therefore are outside the scope of FIN 46 R are not consolidated.
This exemption from consolidation is not permitted under IFRS and as a consequence the entities are consolidated under IAS 27 and SIC-12.
Barclays consolidates certain investment entities under IFRS that are not consolidated under US GAAP.
Consolidation is appropriate under IFRS due to Barclays control over the operating and financial policies of the entity.
These entities are variable interest entities VIEs under FIN 46 R and are not consolidated as Barclays is not exposed to the majority of the entities expected losses and residual returns.
Voting interest entities Voting interest entities are entities in which the total equity investment at risk is sufficient to enable each entity to finance itself independently and provides the equity holders with the obligation to absorb losses, the rights to receive residual returns and the right to make decisions about the entitys activities.
Voting interest entities are consolidated in accordance with ARB 51 which states that the usual condition for a controlling financial interest in an entity is ownership of a majority voting interest.
Variable interest entities As defined in FIN 46-R, an entity is considered a VIE subject to consolidation if the equity investment at risk is not sufficient to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support or if the equity investors lack one of three characteristics of a controlling financial interest described above.
First, the equity investors lack the ability to make decisions about the entitys activities through voting rights or similar rights.
Second, they do not bear the obligation to absorb the expected losses of the entity if they occur.
Lastly, they do not claim the right to receive expected returns of the entity if they occur, which are the compensation for the risk of absorbing the expected losses.
VIEs are consolidated by the interest holder that remains exposed to the majority of the entitys expected losses or residual returns, that is, the primary beneficiary.
The business activities within the Barclays Group where VIEs are used include multi-seller conduit programmes, asset securitisations, client intermediation, credit structuring, asset realisations and fund management.
Multi-seller conduit programmes Barclays creates, administers and provides liquidity and credit enhancements to several commercial paper conduit programmes, primarily in the United States.
These conduits provide clients access to liquidity in the commercial paper markets by allowing them to sell consumer or trade receivables to the conduit, which then issues commercial paper to investors to fund the purchase.
The conduits have sufficient collateral, credit enhancements and liquidity support to maintain an investment grade rating for the commercial paper.
Asset securitisations The Group assists companies with the formation of asset securitisations.
These entities have minimal equity and rely upon funding in the form of notes to purchase the assets for securitisation.
The Group provides both senior and or junior lending and derivative contracts to the entities, where junior notes are provided and in certain circumstances where derivative contracts are provided, the Group may be the primary beneficiary of the entity.
Barclays PLC 268 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 60 Differences between IFRS and US GAAP accounting principles continued m Consolidation continued Client intermediation As a financial intermediary, the Group is involved in structuring transactions to meet investor and client needs.
These transactions may involve entities that fall within the scope of FIN 46-R structured by either Barclays or the client and that are used to modify cash flows of third-party assets to create investments with specific risk or return profiles, or to assist clients in the efficient management of other risks.
These transactions may include derivative instruments, and often contain contractual clauses to enable Barclays to terminate the transaction under certain circumstances, for example, if the legal or accounting basis on which the transaction was completed changes.
In addition, Barclays invests as a limited partner in lessor partnerships and as a parent in wholly owned subsidiaries specifically to acquire assets for leasing.
In a portion of these leasing transactions, there may be risk mitigants in place which result in a third-party consolidating the entities as the primary beneficiary.
Credit structuring The Group structures investments to provide specific risk profiles to investors.
This may involve the sale of credit exposures, often by way of credit derivatives, to an entity which subsequently funds the credit exposures by issuing securities.
These securities may initially be held by Barclays prior to sale outside of the Group.
Asset realisations The Group establishes SPEs to facilitate the recovery of loans in circumstances where the borrower has suffered financial loss.
Fund management The Group provides asset management services to a large number of investment entities on an arms-length basis and at market terms and prices.
The majority of these entities are investment funds that are owned by a large and diversified number of investors.
In addition, there are various partnerships, funds and open-ended investment companies that are used by a limited number of independent third parties to facilitate their tailored private debt, debt securities or hedge fund investment strategies.
The Group is the primary beneficiary in the following VIEs, classified by type of activity: 2006 2005 Total assets Total assets Activity m m Asset securitisations 15,614 13,750 Multi-seller conduit programmes 15,389 17,260 Client intermediation 8,655 4,451 Credit structuring 678 641 Asset realisations 51 49 3 The creditors of these entities do not have recourse to the general credit of the Group in respect of the variable interest entities consolidated by the Group.
The Group also has significant variable interests in the following VIEs, classified by type of activity, where the Group is not the primary beneficiary.
2006 2005 Total Maximum Total Maximum a a assets loss assets loss m m m m Asset securitisations 3,244 62 5,746 221 Client intermediation 12,622 1,999 11,298 3,284 Credit structuring 778 577 313 8 Fund management 6,158 3,222 Qualifying Special Purpose Entities QSPEs In accordance with SFAS 140 and FIN 46-R, the Group does not consolidate QSPEs.
QSPEs are passive entities used by the Group to hold financial assets transferred to them by the Group and are commonly used in mortgage and other securitisation transactions as described in Note 60 n below.
Note a The maximum exposure to loss represents a worst case scenario in the event that all such entities simultaneously fail.
It does not provide an indication of ongoing exposure which is managed within the Groups risk management framework.
Where a maximum exposure to loss is quoted, this represents the Groups total exposure and includes both drawn and undrawn lending facilities.
The Groups exposure is determined by changes in the value of the variable interests it holds within these entities, which primarily comprise liquidity, credit enhancements, derivative transactions and financing arrangements.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 269 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 60 Differences between IFRS and US GAAP accounting principles continued n Securitisations Credit card securitisations The Group transfers beneficial interests in portfolios of Barclaycard branded credit card receivable assets to Gracechurch Receivables Trustee Limited, which in turn issues investor certificates to Barclaycard Funding PLC, a subsidiary of Barclays Bank PLC.
By purchasing the investor certificates, Barclaycard Funding PLC obtains an equitable beneficial interest in the cash flows arising from the securitised assets and then issues Medium Term Loan Notes to the Gracechurch Card Funding vehicles which are Qualifying Special Purpose Entities QSPEs.
QSPEs sell Loan Notes to investors, who are then entitled to receive specified cash flows during the life of the security.
The QSPEs use the proceeds from the sale of the investor Loan Notes to purchase the Medium Term Loan Notes from Barclaycard Funding PLC.
The proceeds of the issuance of the investor certificates by Gracechurch Receivables Trustee Limited are then distributed to the Group as consideration for the beneficial interests in the credit card receivables transferred.
Following a securitisation, the Group receives fees for servicing the receivables and providing cash management services and payment of deferred consideration for the sale of the beneficial interest in the excess income over and above the interest paid and payable to the noteholder and other expenses.
The Group maintains an interest in the pool of receivables that are available for securitisation, referred to as the sellers interest.
Investors have no recourse against the Group if cash flows generated from the securitised assets are not sufficient to service the obligations of the QSPEs.
The Group has no right or obligation to repurchase the benefit of any securitised balance, except if certain representations and warranties given by the Group at the time of transfer are breached.
The Group has entered into interest rate currency swaps with the QSPEs.
These swaps convert a proportion of the Sterling variable interest flows arising from the Loan Note Certificates to US Dollar variable and fixed rate interest flows to match the interest payable on the Medium Term Notes issued.
The transfer of receivables is accounted for as a sale under US GAAP where control of the receivables has been relinquished.
A gain or loss is recognised on securitisation of the receivables which is calculated based on the previous carrying amount of the loans involved in the transfer allocated between the receivables sold and the sellers interest based on their relative fair values at the date of sale.
The Group estimates the fair value of the retained interests by determining the present value of future expected cash flows using valuation models that incorporate managements best estimates of key assumptions, which include: a the expected prepayment rate of the receivables each year: b the anticipated credit losses from the receivables: and c a discount rate to calculate future income flows.
The retained interests that are subject to prepayment risk such that the Group may not recover substantially all of its investment are recorded at fair value with subsequent adjustments reflected in net income.
The servicing liability represents the shortfall of future servicing income from the Groups obligation to service the transferred assets compared to the adequate compensation of servicing those assets.
The servicing liability is amortised over the expected life of the receivables.
Credit card securitisation activity during the year During 2006, the Group securitised credit card receivables with a book value of 112m 2005: 3,497m recognising a resultant pre-tax gain on sale under US GAAP of 7m 2005: 174m, 2004: 38m.
The Group has recognised an interest only strip asset and a servicing liability in connection with the transfer.
The derecognition of the securitised assets results in a reduction in net loans and advances to customers of 5,511m 2005: 6,648m.
Mortgage loans securitisation In 2004, Barclays acquired and then securitised 10 static pools of residential mortgage loans which were originated by unaffiliated mortgage companies.
Certain of these securitisations were affected through the sale of mortgage loans to QSPEs.
During 2005, Barclays acquired and then securitised an additional 10 pools of residential mortgage loans: however, these securitisations did not qualify for sale accounting and are treated as financing transactions.
To fund the acquisition of these mortgage loans, the trust issued Floating Rate Notes FRNs.
The FRNs were underwritten by Barclays and sold to third-party investors.
The offering circulars for the issues of FRNs stated that they are the obligations of the respective trust only and are not guaranteed by, or the responsibility of, any other party.
A call right is held by the originator with the right to liquidate the trust if the principal balance of the mortgage shares has fallen below 10% of their initial amount, provided all obligations under the bonds can be satisfied in full.
Mortgage loan securitisation activity during the year During 2006, 17 whole loans and 4 commercial mortgage loan pools were acquired and securitised.
Of these, 9 whole loans and 4 commercial mortgage loan transactions qualified for sale accounting, and therefore non-returnable proceeds of these securitisations totalled 7,887m 2005: nil.
There was a gain of 41m 2005: nil, 2004: 25m arising from the sale of 4 commercial mortgage loan pools.
The remaining eight securitisations did not qualify for sale accounting and are treated as financing transactions.
Barclays PLC 270 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 60 Differences between IFRS and US GAAP accounting principles continued n Securitisations continued Interest only strip The movement in fair value of retained interests during the year is as follows: 2006 2005 2006 2005 Mortgage Mortgage Credit card Credit card loans loans receivables receivables m m m m Value at 1st January 18 171 191 117 Value at inception of new securitisations 55 4 98 Transfer to net income 84 24 Cash flow from interests retained sold 17 173 Foreign exchange differences 3 20 Value at 31st December 53 18 111 191 Key economic assumptions used in measuring the interest only strip at the time of the securitisation were as follows: 2006 2005 2006 2005 Mortgage Mortgage Credit card Credit card loans loans receivables receivables Fair value of interest only strip at inception of new securitisations 55m 4m 98m Constant prepayment rate per annum 30% 100% 100% a Credit losses per annum 3% 8.5% 6.5% Discount rate 18% 5.5% 5.0% Servicing liabilities The following table shows the servicing liabilities recognised and amortised during the year: 2006 2005 Credit card Credit card receivables receivables m m Balance at 1st January 70 45 Additions 1 37 3 Amortisation for the year 41 12 Balance at 31st December 30 70 The fair value of the servicing liability for credit card receivables is 30m 2005: 70m.
Servicing assets The following table shows the servicing assets recognised during the year: 2006 2005 Mortgage Mortgage loans loans m m Balance at 1st January Additions 33 Amortisation for the year Balance at 31st December 33 The fair value of the servicing asset for mortgage loans is 33m 2005: nil.
The cash flows between the Group and the securitisation vehicles were as follows: 2006 2005 2006 2005 Mortgage Mortgage Credit card Credit card loans loans receivables receivables m m m m Proceeds from new securitisations 112 3,497 Proceeds from collection reinvested in receivables 15,709 11,151 Cash inflow from servicing fees 47 32 Cash inflow on interests retained sold 17 173 387 291 Cash outflow from redemptions 1,228 Cash inflow from loan repayments 5 Note a Annual percentage credit loss is based only on positions in which expected credit loss is a key assumption in the determination of fair values.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 271 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 60 Differences between IFRS and US GAAP accounting principles continued n Securitisations continued Interest only strip at year end At 31st December 2006, key economic assumptions and a sensitivity analysis showing the hypothetical effect on the fair value of those interests of two unfavourable variations from the expected levels for each key assumption are as follows: 2006 2006 Mortgage Credit card loans receivables m m Fair value of interest only strip 53 111 Constant prepayment rate per annum 30% 100% Impact of 33% adverse change 9 15 Impact of 50% adverse change 12 43 a Credit losses per annum 3% 9% Impact of 10% adverse change 7 33 Impact of 20% adverse change 10 67 Discount rate 18% 6% Impact of 10% adverse change 6 Impact of 20% adverse change 11 1 The sensitivity analysis illustrates the potential magnitude of significant adverse changes in key assumptions used in valuing the interest only strip.
However, changes in fair value based on a variation in assumptions generally cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of the change in assumption to the change in fair value may not be linear.
Furthermore, the sensitivities for each key variable are calculated independently of changes in the other key variables.
The following tables present information about principal balances of managed and securitised receivables: 2006 2005 Credit card receivables Credit card receivables TotalDelinquent Net Total Delinquent Net b c b c loans loans write-offs loans loans write-offs m m m m m m Total receivables managed 13,313 396 1,003 12,924 349 726 c Less: receivables securitised 5,700 131 239 6,815 149 184 Assets on US GAAP balance sheet 7,613 265 764 6,109 200 542 2006 2005 Mortgages Mortgages Total Delinquent Net Total Delinquent Net loans loans write-offs loans loans write-offs m m m m m m Total receivables managed 9,441 6,270 d Less: receivables securitised 2,101 563 Assets on US GAAP balance sheet 7,340 5,707 Notes a Annual percentage credit loss is based only on positions in which expected credit loss is a key determination of fair values.
b Delinquent loans are loans 90 days or more past due.
c Net of recoveries during the year.
d Securitised and derecognised from the balance sheet under US GAAP.
Barclays PLC 272 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 60 Differences between IFRS and US GAAP accounting principles continued o Guarantees An element of Barclays normal banking business is to issue guarantees on behalf of its customers.
In almost all cases, Barclays will hold collateral against the exposure, have a right of recourse to the customer or both.
In addition, Barclays issues guarantees on its own behalf.
The major categories of these guarantees are: Financial guarantees These are given to banks and financial institutions on behalf of customers to secure loans, overdrafts and other banking facilities.
These are commonly called facility guarantees.
Included within this category are stock borrowing indemnities.
These relate to funds managed by Barclays on behalf of clients, which participate in stock lending programmes.
Barclays indemnifies the clients against any losses incurred by the clients resulting from borrower default.
Collateral, principally cash, is maintained against all stock borrowing transactions ranging from 102% to 105% of the securities loaned with adjustments to collateral made daily.
It is possible that the exposure could exceed the collateral provided should the value of the security rise concurrently with the default of the borrowers.
Standby letters of credit These are irrevocable commitments to pay a third party, on behalf of our customers, the value of which on demand is subject to certain criteria being complied with.
Any amounts paid are debited to the customers accounts.
These contracts are used when required in substitution of guarantees due to a greater acceptability in the beneficiary country.
Other guarantees This category includes the following types of contracts: Performance guarantees a guarantee given by the Bank on behalf of a customer, undertaking to pay a certain sum if our customer has failed to carry out the terms or certain terms of the contract.
Advance payment guarantees enables the beneficiary to demand repayment of an advance in funds in certain circumstances.
Tender guarantees provided during a tender process to lend support to a customers commitment to a tender process.
Customs and Excise guarantees provided to HM Revenue and Customs to cover a customers liability, most commonly for import duties.
Retention guarantees similar to advance payments but are used to secure early release of retained contract payments.
The following table provides the maturity analysis of guarantees issued by the Group.
The amounts disclosed represent the maximum potential amount of future payments undiscounted the Group could be required to make under the guarantee, before any recovery through recourse or collaterisation provisions.
3 2006 2005 Over Over one year three years but not but not Less than more than more than Over one year three years five years five years Total Total m m m m m m Financial guarantees 19,241 900 332 806 21,279 27,049 Standby letters of credit 3,889 1,066 3,716 1,302 9,973 10,986 Other guarantees 5,364 1,016 498 1,002 7,880 8,825 Credit card guarantees Under the Consumer Credit Act of 1974, Barclays may be liable to customers to refund payments made for unsatisfactory goods or services or unfulfilled contracts where payment was made using a credit card.
The maximum liability that Barclays could have is the total credit limits marked to customers of 58,695m 2005: 54,479m.
Warranties and indemnities given as part of acquisition and disposal activity Warranties and indemnities are routinely provided to counterparties as part of the terms and conditions required in a business acquisition, disposal or investing in joint ventures.
Most commonly, these relate to indemnification against tax liabilities arising from pre-transaction activities.
Usually the total aggregate liability, in respect of warranties and indemnities for a transaction is capped and the maximum exposure under these is 1,368m 2005: 2,139m.
No collateral or recourse to third parties is generally available.
Certain derivative contracts In addition to the contracts described above, there are certain derivative contracts to which the Group is a counterparty that meet the characteristics of a guarantee under FIN 45.
These derivatives are recorded in the Groups balance sheet at fair value under US GAAP.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 273 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2006 60 Differences between IFRS and US GAAP accounting principles continued p Total assets Netting Differences between the netting requirements of IFRS and US GAAP FIN 39 result in a net reduction in total assets reported for US purposes of 70,755m 2005: 77,598m.
2006 2005 m m Derivatives 96,858 96,963 Securities 5,858 2,491 Receivables and payables in respect of unsettled trades 8,224 8,292 Loans and deposits 8,559 9,567 Non-cash collateral on stock lending 31,626 20,581 Total 70,755 77,598 The inclusion of acceptances resulted in an increase in total assets under US GAAP of 256m 2005: 253m.
The 2005 comparative amounts for derivatives reflect changes to the netting process made in 2006. q Segmental reporting Barclaycard management include the results of Absa Card within internally reported segment information.
On this basis, Absa Card would be reported within Barclaycard under SFAS 131.
Barclaycards profit before tax would increase by 68m 2005: 26m, 2004: nil on an IFRS basis with IRCB Absa profit before tax decreasing by the same amount.
r Income statement There are include differences in the presentation of the income statement between IFRS and US GAAP.
Under US GAAP, net interest expense 2006: 605m, 2005: 126m, 2004: 219m relating to trading activities would be shown within net interest income, rather than included in net trading income.
61 Regulatory capital requirements Capital adequacy and the use of regulatory capital are monitored by the Group, employing techniques based on the guidelines developed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision the Basel Committee and European Community directives, as implemented by the FSA for supervisory purposes.
The FSA regards the risk asset ratio calculation, originally developed by the Basel Committee, as a key supervisory tool and sets individual minimum ratio requirements for banks in the UK at or above the minimum of 8%.
The concept of risk weighting and the basis for calculating eligible capital resources are described under capital ratios on page 59.
The following tables summarises capital resources and capital ratios, as defined for supervisory purposes: Barclays PLC Group Amount Ratio m % As at 31st December 2006 Total net capital resources 34,711 11.7 Tier 1 capital resources 23,005 7.7 As at 31st December 2005 Total net capital resources 30,502 11.3 Tier 1 capital resources 18,895 7.0 In addition to the regulatory capital requirements arising from the Groups banking businesses, the Group has a capital resource requirement of 225m 2005: 189m arising from its life assurance businesses.
The equity of the life businesses on the same date was 726m 2005: 417m and the capital resources available to the Group as a whole amounted to 41,176m 2005: 36,893m.
For the months indicated, the high and low noon buying rates in New York City for cable transfers in Pounds Sterling, as certified for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York the noon buying rate, were: US Dollars per Pound Sterling 2007 2006 January December November October September High 1.98 1.98 1.97 1.91 1.91 Low 1.93 1.95 1.88 1.85 1.86 For the years indicated, the average of the noon buying rates on the last day of each month were: US Dollars per Pound Sterling 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Average 1.86 1.78 1.84 1.64 1.61 No representation is made that Pounds Sterling amounts have been, or could have been, or could be, converted into US Dollars at any of the above rates.
For the purpose of presenting financial information in this report, exchange rates other than those shown above may have been used.
Barclays PLC 276 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements Glossary Term used in Annual Report US equivalent or brief description Accounts Financial statements Allotted Issued Attributable profit Net income Called up share capital Ordinary shares, issued and fully paid Capital allowances Tax term equivalent to US tax depreciation allowances Cash at bank and in hand Cash Class of business Industry segment Finance lease Capital lease Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity Loans and advances Lendings Loan capital Long-term debt Net asset value Book value Profit Income Share capital Ordinary shares, capital stock or common stock issued and fully paid Share premium account Additional paid-up capital or paid-in surplus not distributable Shares in issue Shares outstanding Write-offs Charge-offs 3 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 277 Barclays Bank PLC data Consolidated income statement Consolidated income statement For the year ended 31st December a 2006 2005 2004 Notes m m m Continuing operations Interest income 2 21,805 17,232 13,880 Interest expense 2 12,662 9,157 7,047 Net interest income 9,143 8,075 6,833 Fee and commission income 3 8,005 6,430 5,509 Fee and commission expense 3 828 725 662 Net fee and commission income 7,177 5,705 4,847 Net trading income a 3,632 2,321 1,487 Net investment income a 962 858 1,027 Principal transactions 4,594 3,179 2,514 Net premiums from insurance contracts 5 1,060 872 1,042 Other income b 257 178 140 Total income 22,231 18,009 15,376 Net claims and benefits incurred on insurance contracts 5 575 645 1,259 Total income net of insurance claims 21,656 17,364 14,117 Impairment charges 7 2,154 1,571 1,093 Net income 19,502 15,793 13,024 Staff costs 8 8,169 6,318 5,227 Administration and general expenses 9 3,914 3,768 2,990 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 25 455 362 297 Amortisation of intangible assets 24 136 79 22 Operating expenses 12,674 10,527 8,536 Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 22 46 45 56 Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 323 45 Profit before tax 7,197 5,311 4,589 Tax 10 1,941 1,439 1,279 Profit after tax 5,256 3,872 3,310 Profit attributable to minority interests 342 177 47 Profit attributable to equity holders 4,914 3,695 3,263 5,256 3,872 3,310 The note numbers refer to the notes on pages 168 to 274, whereas the note letters refer to those on pages 282 to 289.
Barclays PLC 278 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements Barclays Bank PLC data Consolidated balance sheet Consolidated balance sheet As at 31st December 2006 2005 Notes m m Assets Cash and balances at central banks 6,795 3,506 Items in the course of collection from other banks 2,408 1,901 Trading portfolio assets c 177,884 155,730 Financial assets designated at fair value: held on own account 13 31,799 12,904 held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts 13 82,798 83,193 Derivative financial instruments 14 138,353 136,823 Loans and advances to banks 15 30,926 31,105 Loans and advances to customers 16 282,300 268,896 Available for sale financial investments d 51,952 53,703 Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed 19 174,090 160,398 Other assets 20 5,850 4,734 Current tax assets 21 557 Investments in associates and joint ventures 22 228 546 Goodwill 23 6,092 6,022 Intangible assets 24 1,215 1,269 Property, plant and equipment 25 2,492 2,754 Deferred tax assets 21 764 686 Total assets 996,503 924,170 Liabilities Deposits from banks 26 79,562 75,127 Items in the course of collection due to other banks 2,221 2,341 Customer accounts 27 256,754 238,684 Trading portfolio liabilities 12 71,874 71,564 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 28 53,987 33,385 Liabilities to customers under investment contracts 13 84,637 85,201 Derivative financial instruments 14 140,697 137,971 Debt securities in issue 29 111,137 103,328 3 Repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent 19 136,956 121,178 Other liabilities 30 10,337 11,131 Current tax liabilities 21 1,020 747 Insurance contract liabilities, including unit-linked liabilities 31 3,878 3,767 Subordinated liabilities 32 13,786 12,463 Deferred tax liabilities 21 282 700 Provisions 33 462 517 Retirement benefit liabilities 35 1,807 1,823 Total liabilities 969,397 899,927 Shareholders equity Called up share capital e 2,363 2,348 Share premium account e 9,452 8,882 Other reserves f 484 483 Other shareholders equity g 2,534 2,490 Retained earnings f 11,556 8,462 Shareholders equity excluding minority interests 25,421 22,665 Minority interests h 1,685 1,578 Total shareholders equity 27,106 24,243 Total liabilities and shareholders equity 996,503 924,170 The note numbers refer to the notes on pages 168 to 274, whereas the note letters refer to those on pages 282 to 289.
These financial statements have been approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 8th March 2007.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 279 Barclays Bank PLC data Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense For the year ended 31st December a 2006 2005 2004 m m m Available for sale reserve: Net gains losses from changes in fair value 107 217 n a Losses transferred to net profit due to impairment 86 n a Net gains transferred to net profit on disposal 327 120 n a Net losses transferred to net profit due to fair value hedging 14 260 n a Cash flow hedges: Net losses from changes in fair value 437 50 n a Net gains transferred to net profit 50 69 n a Currency translation differences arising during the year 781 300 58 Tax 253 50 Other 25 102 Amounts included directly in equity 1,110 52 58 Profit after tax 5,256 3,872 3,310 Total recognised income and expense for the year 4,146 3,924 3,252 Attributable to: Equity holders 4,132 3,659 3,205 Minority interests 14 265 47 4,146 3,924 3,252 Note a Does not reflect the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 which became effective from 1st January 2005.
Barclays PLC 280 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements Barclays Bank PLC data Consolidated cash flow statement Consolidated cash flow statement For the year ended 31st December 2006 2005 2004 m m m Reconciliation of profit before tax to net cash flows from operating activities: Profit before tax 7,197 5,311 4,589 Adjustment for non-cash items: Allowance for impairment 2,154 1,571 1,093 Depreciation and amortisation and impairment of intangibles 612 450 328 Other provisions, including pensions 558 654 703 Net profit from associates and joint ventures 46 45 56 Net profit on disposal of investments and property, plant and equipment 778 530 211 Net profit from disposal of associates and joint ventures 263 45 Net profit from disposal of subsidiaries 60 Other non-cash movements 1,661 1,505 1,194 Changes in operating assets and liabilities: Net increase in loans and advances to banks and customers 27,385 63,177 42,763 Net increase in deposits and debt securities in issue 46,944 67,012 71,711 Net decrease in derivative financial instruments 1,196 841 Net increase in trading portfolio assets 18,333 42,585 28,686 Net increase in trading liabilities 310 9,888 6,925 Net decrease in financial investments 1,538 27,129 Net increase in other assets 1,527 411 1,471 Net decrease in other liabilities 1,580 2,852 742 Tax paid 2,141 1,082 690 Net cash from operating activities 10,057 3,679 9,491 Purchase of available for sale investments 47,109 53,626 47,555 Proceeds from sale or redemption of available for sale investments 46,069 51,114 41,163 Purchase of intangible assets 212 91 64 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 654 588 532 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 786 98 125 Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 248 2,115 211 Disposal of subsidiaries, net of cash disposed 15 Increase in investment in subsidiaries 432 160 58 3 Decrease in investment in subsidiaries 44 49 70 Acquisition of associates and joint ventures 162 176 21 Disposal of associates and joint ventures 739 40 47 Other cash flows associated with investing activities 17 23 15 Net cash used in investing activities 1,177 5,432 7,021 Dividends paid 2,373 2,325 2,158 Proceeds from borrowings and issuance of debt securities 2,493 1,179 666 Repayments of borrowings and redemption of debt securities 366 464 611 Issue of shares and other equity instruments 585 2,383 749 Net issues of shares to minority interests 226 20 17 Net cash from financing activities 565 793 1,337 Exchange loss gain on foreign currency cash and cash equivalents 552 237 470 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 9,997 1,197 663 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 20,405 21,602 13,854 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 30,402 20,405 14,517 Cash and cash equivalents comprise: Cash in hand 6,795 3,506 1,753 Loans and advances to banks 30,926 31,105 80,632 Less: amounts with original maturity greater than three months 15,892 17,987 71,180 15,034 13,118 9,452 Available for sale financial investments 51,952 53,703 Less: non-cash and amounts with original maturity greater than three months 50,933 53,487 1,019 216 Trading portfolio assets 177,884 155,730 Less: non-cash and amounts with maturity greater than three months 170,346 152,190 7,538 3,540 Other 16 25 3,312 30,402 20,405 14,517 In 2005, the opening cash and cash equivalents balance has been adjusted to reflect the adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 281 Barclays Bank PLC data Notes to the accounts a Principal transactions 2006 2005 2004 m m m Rates related business 2,866 1,732 1,141 Credit related business 766 589 346 Net trading income 3,632 2,321 1,487 Gain from disposal of available for sale assets investment securities 307 120 45 Dividend income on equity investments 15 22 17 Net gain from financial instruments designated at fair value 447 389 n a Income from assets backing insurance policies n a n a 717 Other investment income 193 327 248 Net investment income 962 858 1,027 Principal transactions 4,594 3,179 2,154 Net trading income includes the profits and losses arising both on the purchase and sale of trading instruments and from the revaluation to market value, together with the interest income earned from these instruments and the related funding cost.
Rates related business includes fixed income, foreign exchange, commodities, emerging markets, money markets sales, trading and research, prime services and equity products: Credit related business includes primary and secondary activities for loans and bonds for investment grade, high yield and emerging market credits, as well as hybrid capital products, asset based finance, commercial mortgage backed securities, credit derivatives, structured capital markets and large asset leasing.
The net gain on financial assets designated as at fair value and included within principal transactions was 489m 2005: 391m, 2004: n a of which gains of 42m 2005: 2m gain, 2004: n a were included in net trading income and gains of 447m 2005: 389m, 2004: n a were included in net investment income.
The net loss on financial liabilities designated at fair value and included within principal transactions was 920m 2005: 666m, 2004: n a all of which was included within net trading income.
b Other income 2006 2005 2004 m m m Increase in fair value of assets held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts 7,417 9,234 n a Increase in liabilities to customers under investment contracts 7,417 9,234 n a Property rentals 55 54 46 Other income 202 124 94 Other income 257 178 140 c Trading portfolio assets 2006 2005 m m Trading portfolio assets Treasury and other eligible bills 2,960 6,081 Debt securities United Kingdom government bonds 4,986 4,786 Other government bonds 46,845 46,426 Other mortgage-backed securities 17,032 10,290 Bank and building society certificates of deposit 14,159 15,837 Other issuers 57,554 51,028 Debt securities 140,576 128,367 Equity securities 31,565 20,299 Traded loans 1,843 408 London Metal Exchange warrants and other metals trading positions 940 575 Trading portfolio assets 177,884 155,730 Barclays PLC 282 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements d Available for sale financial investments 2006 2005 m m Debt securities 47,912 50,024 Equity securities 1,620 1,456 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 2,420 2,223 Available for sale financial investments 51,952 53,703 2006 2005 Movement in available for sale financial investments m m At beginning of year 53,703 48,293 Exchange and other adjustments 3,999 1,791 Acquisitions and transfers 47,109 54,556 Disposals sale and redemption 44,959 50,609 Gains losses from changes in fair value recognised in equity 182 238 Impairment 86 4 Amortisation of discounts premium 2 86 At end of year 51,952 53,703 2006 2005 Book value Book value Available for sale securities m m Debt securities United Kingdom government 758 31 Other government 12,587 14,860 Other public bodies 280 216 Mortgage backed securities 1,706 3,062 Corporate issuers 27,089 25,590 Other issuers 5,492 6,265 Equity securities 1,620 1,456 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 2,420 2,223 3 Available for sale financial investments 51,952 53,703 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 283 Barclays Bank PLC data Notes to the accounts e Called up share capital Ordinary Shares The authorised ordinary share capital of the Bank, as at 31st December 2006, was 3,000 million 2005: 3,000 million ordinary shares of 1 each.
During the year, the Bank issued 11 million ordinary shares with an aggregate nominal value of 11m, for cash consideration of 179m.
Preference Shares The authorised preference share capital of Barclays Bank PLC, as at 31st December 2006, was 1,000 Preference Shares 2005: 1,000 of 1: 400,000 Preference Shares of 100 each 2005: 400,000 : 400,000 Preference Shares of 100 each 2005: 400,000 : 400,000 Preference Shares of US$100 each 2005: 400,000 : 80 million Preference Shares of US$0.25 each 2005: 80 million.
The issued preference share capital of Barclays Bank PLC, as at 31st December 2006, comprised 1,000 2005: 1,000 Sterling 1 Preference Shares of 1 each: 240,000 2005: 240,000 Euro Preference Shares of 100 each: 75,000 2005: 75,000 Sterling Preference Shares of 100 each: 100,000 2005: 100,000 US Dollar Preference Shares of US$100 each: 30 million 2005: nil US Dollar Preference Shares of US$0.25 each.
2006 2005 m m Called up share capital, allotted and fully paid At beginning of year 2,318 2,309 Issued for cash 11 9 At end of year 2,329 2,318 Called up preference share capital, allotted and fully paid At beginning of year 30 7 Issued for cash 4 23 At end of year 34 30 Called up share capital 2,363 2,348 Share premium 2006 2005 m m At beginning of year 8,882 6,531 Ordinary shares issued for cash 168 126 Preference shares issued for cash 402 2,225 At end of year 9,452 8,882 Sterling 1 Preference Shares 1,000 Sterling cumulative callable preference shares of 1 each the 1 Preference Shares were issued on 31st December 2004 at nil premium.
The 1 Preference Shares entitle the holders thereof to receive sterling cumulative cash dividends out of distributable profits of Barclays Bank PLC, semi-annually at a rate reset semi-annually equal to the sterling interbank offered rate for six-month sterling deposits.
Barclays Bank PLC shall be obliged to pay such dividends if 1 it has profits available for the purpose of distribution under the Companies Act 1985 as at each dividend payment date and 2 it is solvent on the relevant dividend payment date, provided that a capital regulations condition is satisfied on such dividend payment date.
The dividends shall not be due and payable on the relevant dividend payment date except to the extent that Barclays Bank PLC could make such payment and still be solvent immediately thereafter.
Barclays Bank PLC shall be considered solvent on any date if 1 it is able to pay its debts to senior creditors as they fall due and 2 its auditors have reported within the previous six months that its assets exceed its liabilities.
If Barclays Bank PLC shall not pay, or shall pay only in part, a dividend for a period of seven days or more after the due date for payment, the holders of the 1 Preference Shares may institute proceedings for the winding-up of Barclays Bank PLC.
No remedy against Barclays Bank PLC shall be available to the holder of any 1 Preference Shares for the recovery of amounts owing in respect of 1 Preference Shares other than the institution of proceedings for the winding-up of Barclays Bank PLC and or proving in such winding-up.
On a winding-up or other return of capital other than a redemption or purchase by Barclays Bank PLC of any of its issued shares, or a reduction of share capital, permitted by the Articles of Barclays Bank PLC and under applicable law, the assets of Barclays Bank PLC available to shareholders shall be applied in priority to any payment to the holders of ordinary shares and any other class of shares in the capital of Barclays Bank PLC then in issue ranking junior to the 1 Preference Shares on such a return of capital and pari passu on such a return of capital with the holders of any other class of shares in the capital of Barclays Bank PLC then in issue other than any class of shares in the capital of Barclays Bank PLC then in issue ranking in priority to the 1 Preference Shares on a winding-up or other such return of capital, in payment to the holders of the 1 Preference Shares of a sum equal to the aggregate of: 1 an amount equal to the dividends accrued thereon for the then current dividend period and any accumulated arrears thereof to the date of the commencement of the winding-up or other such return of capital: and 2 an amount equal to 1 per 1 Preference Share.
After payment of the full amount of the liquidating distributions to which they are entitled, the holders of the 1 Preference Shares will have no right or claim to any of the remaining assets of Barclays Bank PLC and will not be entitled to any further participation in such return of capital.
The 1 Preference Shares are redeemable at the option of Barclays Bank PLC, in whole but not in part only, subject to the Companies Act and its Articles.
Holders of the 1 Preference Shares are not entitled to receive notice of, or to attend, or vote at, any general meeting of Barclays Bank PLC.
Barclays PLC 284 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements e Called up share capital continued Euro Preference Shares 100,000 Euro 4.875% non-cumulative callable preference shares of 100 each the 4.875% Preference Shares were issued on 8th December 2004 for a consideration of 993.6m 688.4m, of which the nominal value was 10m and the balance was share premium.
The 4.875% Preference Shares entitle the holders thereof to receive Euro non-cumulative cash dividends out of distributable profits of Barclays Bank PLC, annually at a fixed rate of 4.875% per annum on the amount of 10,000 per preference share until 15th December 2014, and thereafter quarterly at a rate reset quarterly equal to 1.05% per annum above the Euro interbank offered rate for three-month Euro deposits.
The 4.875% Preference Shares are redeemable at the option of Barclays Bank PLC, in whole but not in part only, on 15th December 2014, and on each dividend payment date thereafter at 10,000 per share plus any dividends accrued for the then current dividend period to the date fixed for redemption.
140,000 Euro 4.75% non-cumulative callable preference shares of 100 each the 4.75% Preference Shares were issued on 15th March 2005 for a consideration of 1,383.3m 966.7m, of which the nominal value was 14m and the balance was share premium.
The 4.75% Preference Shares entitle the holders thereof to receive Euro non-cumulative cash dividends out of distributable profits of Barclays Bank PLC, annually at a fixed rate of 4.75% per annum on the amount of 10,000 per preference share until 15th March 2020, and thereafter quarterly at a rate reset quarterly equal to 0.71% per annum above the Euro interbank offered rate for three-month Euro deposits.
The 4.75% Preference Shares are redeemable at the option of Barclays Bank PLC, in whole but not in part only, on 15th March 2020, and on each dividend payment date thereafter at 10,000 per share plus any dividends accrued for the then current dividend period to the date fixed for redemption.
Sterling Preference Shares 75,000 Sterling 6.0% non-cumulative callable preference shares of 100 each the 6.0% Preference Shares were issued on 22nd June 2005 for a consideration of 732.6m, of which the nominal value was 7.5m and the balance was share premium.
The 6.0% Preference Shares entitle the holders thereof to receive Sterling non-cumulative cash dividends out of distributable profits of Barclays Bank PLC, annually at a fixed rate of 6.0% per annum on the amount of 10,000 per preference share until 15th December 2017, and thereafter quarterly at a rate reset quarterly equal to 1.42% per annum above the London interbank offered rate for three-month Sterling deposits.
The 6.0% Preference Shares are redeemable at the option of Barclays Bank PLC, in whole but not in part only, on 15th December 2017, and on each dividend payment date thereafter at 10,000 per share plus any dividends accrued for the then current dividend period to the date fixed for redemption.
US Dollar Preference Shares 100,000 US Dollar 6.278% non-cumulative callable preference shares of US$100 each the 6.278% Preference Shares, represented by 100,000 American Depositary Shares, Series 1, were issued on 8th June 2005 for a consideration of US$995.4m 548.1m, of which the nominal value was US$10m and the balance was share premium.
The 6.278% Preference Shares entitle the holders thereof to receive US Dollar non-cumulative cash 3 dividends out of distributable profits of Barclays Bank PLC, semi-annually at a fixed rate of 6.278% per annum on the amount of US$10,000 per preference share until 15th December 2034, and thereafter quarterly at a rate reset quarterly equal to 1.55% per annum above the London interbank offered rate for three-month US Dollar deposits.
The 6.278% Preference Shares are redeemable at the option of Barclays Bank PLC, in whole but not in part only, on 15th December 2034, and on each dividend payment date thereafter at US$10,000 per share plus any dividends accrued for the then current dividend period to the date fixed for redemption.
30 million US Dollar 6.625% non-cumulative callable preference shares of US$0.25 each the 6.625% Preference Shares, represented by 30 million American Depositary Shares, Series 2, were issued on 25th and 28th April 2006 for a consideration of US$727m 406m, of which the nominal value was US$7.5m and the balance was share premium.
The 6.625% Preference Shares entitle the holders thereof to receive US Dollar non-cumulative cash dividends out of distributable profits of Barclays Bank PLC, quarterly at a fixed rate of 6.625% per annum on the amount of US$25 per preference share.
The 6.625% Preference Shares are redeemable at the option of Barclays Bank PLC, in whole but not in part only, on 15th September 2011, and on each dividend payment date thereafter at US$25 per share plus any dividends accrued for the then current dividend period to the date fixed for redemption.
No redemption or purchase of any 4.875% Preference Shares, the 4.75% Preference Shares, the 6.0% Preference Shares, the 6.278% Preference Shares and the 6.625% Preference Shares together the Preference Shares may be made by Barclays Bank PLC without the prior consent of the UK FSA and any such redemption will be subject to the Companies Act and the Articles of Barclays Bank PLC.
On a winding-up of Barclays Bank PLC or other return of capital other than a redemption or purchase of shares of Barclays Bank PLC, or a reduction of share capital, a holder of preference shares will rank in the application of assets of Barclays Bank PLC available to shareholders 1 junior to the holder of any shares of Barclays Bank PLC in issue ranking in priority to the preference shares, 2 equally in all respects with holders of other preference shares and any other shares of Barclays Bank PLC in issue ranking pari passu with the preference shares and 3 in priority to the holders of ordinary shares and any other shares of Barclays Bank PLC in issue ranking junior to the preference shares.
The holders of the 400m 6% Callable Perpetual Core Tier One Notes and the US$1,000m 6.86% Callable Perpetual Core Tier One Notes of Barclays Bank PLC together, the TONs and the holders of the US$1,250m 8.55% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments, the US$750m 7.375% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments, the 850m 7.50% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments, the 500m 5.3304% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments and the US$1,350m 5.926% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments of Barclays Bank PLC together, the RCIs would, for the purposes only of calculating the amounts payable in respect of such securities on a winding-up of Barclays Bank PLC, subject to limited exceptions and to the extent that the TONs and the RCIs are then in issue, rank pari passu with the holders of the most senior class or classes of preference shares then in issue in the capital of Barclays Bank PLC.
Accordingly, the holders of Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 285 Barclays Bank PLC data Notes to the accounts e Called up share capital continued the preference shares would rank equally with the holders of such TONs and RCIs on such a winding-up of Barclays Bank PLC unless one or more classes of shares of Barclays Bank PLC ranking in priority to the preference shares are in issue at the time of such winding-up, in which event the holders of such TONs and RCIs would rank equally with the holders of such shares and in priority to the holders of the preference shares.
Subject to such ranking, in such event, holders of the preference shares will be entitled to receive out of assets of Barclays Bank PLC available for distributions to shareholders, liquidating distributions in the amount of 10,000 per 4.875% Preference Share, 10,000 per 4.75% Preference Share, 10,000 per 6.0% Preference Share, US$10,000 per 6.278% Preference Share and US$25 per 6.625% Preference Share plus, in each case, an amount equal to the accrued dividend for the then current dividend period to the date of the commencement of the winding-up or other such return of capital.
If a dividend is not paid in full on any preference shares on any dividend payment date, then a dividend restriction shall apply.
Holders of the preference shares are not entitled to receive notice of, or to attend, or vote at, any general meeting of Barclays Bank PLC.
Barclays Bank PLC is not permitted to create a class of shares ranking as regards participation in the profits or assets of Barclays Bank PLC in priority to the preference shares, save with the sanction of a special resolution of a separate general meeting of the holders of the preference shares requiring a majority of not less than three-fourths of the holders of the preference shares voting at the separate general meeting, or with the consent in writing of the holders of three-fourths of the preference shares.
Except as described above, the holders of the preference shares have no right to participate in the surplus assets of Barclays Bank PLC.
f Revaluation reserves, retained earnings and other reserves Revaluation reserves Available Cash flow for sale hedging Translation reserve reserve reserve Total m m m m At 1st January 2006 257 70 156 483 Net gains losses from changes in fair value 91 421 330 Net gains transferred to net profit 308 51 359 Currency translation differences arising during the year 464 464 Changes in insurance liabilities 23 23 Net losses transferred to net profit due to fair value hedging 13 13 Tax 22 172 130 64 Losses transferred to net profit due to impairment 86 86 At 31st December 2006 184 230 438 484 Retained earnings Retained earnings m At 1st January 2006 8,462 Profit attributable to equity holders 4,914 Equity-settled share schemes 663 Tax on equity-settled shares schemes 96 Vesting of Barclays PLC shares under share-based payment schemes 394 Dividends paid 1,964 Dividends on preference shares and other shareholders equity 329 Other movements 108 At 31st December 2006 11,556 At 1st January 2005 6,657 Profit attributable to equity holders 3,695 Equity-settled share schemes 346 Tax on equity-settled share schemes 101 Vesting of Barclays PLC shares under share-based payment schemes 78 Dividends paid 2,012 Dividends on preference shares and other shareholders equity 217 Other 30 At 31st December 2005 8,462 Barclays PLC 286 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements g Other shareholders equity 2006 2005 m m At 1st January 2,490 2,494 Appropriations 44 4 At 31st December 2,534 2,490 Included in other shareholders equity are: Issuances of reserve capital instruments which bear a fixed rate of interest ranging between 7.375%-8.55% until 2010 or 2011.
After these dates, in the event that the reserve capital instruments are not redeemed, they will bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance, based on London or European interbank rates.
These instruments are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole on any coupon payment date falling in or after June or December 2010 or 2011.
The Bank may elect to defer any payment of interest on the reserve capital instruments for any period of time.
Whilst such deferral is continuing, neither the Bank nor Barclays PLC may declare or pay a dividend, subject to certain exceptions, on any of its ordinary shares or preference shares.
Issuance of capital notes which bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance, based on London interbank rates.
These notes are repayable in each case, at the option of the Bank, in whole on any interest payment date.
The Bank is not obliged to make a payment of interest on its capital notes if, in the preceding six months, a dividend has not been declared or paid on any class of shares of Barclays PLC.
h Minority interests 2006 2005 m m At beginning of year 1,578 147 Share of profit after tax 342 177 Dividend and other payments 127 96 Equity issued by subsidiaries 233 26 Available for sale reserve: net loss gain from changes in fair value 2 1 Cash flow hedges: net loss gain from changes in fair value 9 1 Currency translation differences 316 85 Additions 20 1,281 Disposals 34 4 Other 48 3 At end of year 1,685 1,578 i Dividends 2006 2005 m m On ordinary shares Final dividend 730 1,017 Interim dividend 1,234 995 Dividends 1,964 2,012 The 2006 dividend disclosure of 730m relates to the cash payment of the 2005 final dividend made in April 2006.
The 2005 final dividend disclosure of 1,017m relates to the cash payment of the 2004 final dividend made in April 2005.
These dividends are paid to enable Barclays PLC to fund its dividends to its shareholders.
Dividends paid on preference shares amounted to 174m 2005: 74m.
Dividends paid on other equity instruments as detailed in Note g amounted to 151m 2005: 143m.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 287 Barclays Bank PLC data Notes to the accounts j Segmental analysis Other United European United Rest of Kingdom Union States Africa the World Total Year ended 31st December 2006 m m m m m m Total income 12,503 3,063 2,840 2,897 928 22,231 Insurance claims and benefits 288 181 106 575 Total income net of insurance claims 12,215 2,882 2,840 2,791 928 21,656 Percentage of total income net of insurance claims % 57% 13% 13% 13% 4% 100% Total assets by location of asset 406,044 203,929 229,779 44,696 112,055 996,503 Percentage of total assets % 41% 20% 23% 5% 11% 100% a Capital expenditure by location of asset 569 62 565 136 39 1,371 Other United European United Rest of Kingdom Union States Africa the World Total Year ended 31st December 2005 m m m m m m Total income 11,103 2,221 2,421 1,489 775 18,009 Insurance claims and benefits 375 226 44 645 Total income net of insurance claims 10,728 1,995 2,421 1,445 775 17,364 Percentage of total income net of insurance claims % 63% 11% 14% 8% 4% 100% Total assets by location of asset 348,516 196,965 230,200 48,803 99,686 924,170 Percentage of total assets % 38% 21% 25% 5% 11% 100% a Capital expenditure by location of asset 449 119 276 2,586 36 3,466 k Differences between IFRS and US accounting principles Barclays Bank PLC 2006 2005 2004 Note m m m Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent IFRS 4,914 3,695 3,263 Goodwill a 8 2 Intangible assets b 127 121 137 Pensions c 106 202 14 Post-retirement benefits c 17 1 20 Leasing 342 136 Other compensation arrangements 66 44 54 Insurance 96 35 95 Revaluation of property 85 911 Hedging l 76 208 n a Derivatives n a n a 364 Financial instruments 52 417 n a Fair value of securities n a n a 80 Foreign exchange on available for sale securities j 349 185 428 Fee and cost recognition 31 58 180 Loan origination n a n a 66 Consolidation m 33 22 68 Securitisations n 48 204 21 Guarantees 9 25 10 Business combinations i 13 Software capitalisation 15 Extinguishment of liabilities n a n a 32 Classification of debt and equity 35 73 96 Impairment 24 Loans held for sale 11 Non-financial instruments 1 18 Disposal of investment in foreign subsidiaries 34 n a n a Tax effect on IFRS US GAAP reconciling items 24 215 2 Net income US GAAP 4,650 3,164 3,137 The note letters refer to Note 60.
Note a Capital expenditure comprises purchased goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment acquired during the year.
Barclays PLC 288 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements k Differences between IFRS and US accounting principles Barclays Bank PLC continued 2006 2005 Note m m Shareholders equity excluding minority interests IFRS 25,421 22,665 Goodwill a 533 563 Intangible assets b 694 573 Pensions c 324 1,224 Post-retirement benefits c 32 51 Leasing 342 Other compensation arrangements 176 104 Insurance 33 62 Revaluation of property 136 221 Hedging l 295 254 Financial instruments 91 424 Fee and cost recognition 62 30 Consolidation m 9 51 Securitisations n 307 355 Guarantees 3 6 Classification of debt and equity 407 470 Loans held for sale 11 Non-financial instruments 3 4 Tax effect on IFRS US GAAP reconciling items 307 559 Shareholders equity US GAAP 25,068 23,114 For those standards that were not adopted until 1st January 2005, UK GAAP continued to be applied throughout 2004 in accordance with IFRS transition rules.
2006 2005 m m Total assets US GAAP of Barclays PLC Group Note 60 928,057 840,657 Shares in Barclays PLC held within Barclays Bank PLC Group 266 213 3 Cash and balances at central banks held by Barclays PLC 550 400 Total assets US GAAP of Barclays Bank PLC Group 927,773 840,470 The note letters refer to Note 60.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 289 Barclays Bank PLC Financial Data IFRS UK GAAP a 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Selected financial statistics % %%%% Attributable profit as a percentage of: average total assets 0.4 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.5 average shareholders equity 20.2 17.4 21.3 17.0 14.7 Average shareholders equity as a percentage of average total assets 2.2 2.2 2.4 3.3 3.5 Selected income statement data m m m m m Interest income 21,805 17,232 13,880 12,427 12,044 Interest expense 12,662 9,157 7,047 5,823 5,839 Non-interest income 13,088 9,934 8,543 5,807 5,122 Operating expenses 12,674 10,527 8,536 7,253 6,626 Provisions bad and doubtful debts n a n a n a 1,347 1,484 contingent liabilities and commitments n a n a n a 1 1 Impairment charges 2,154 1,571 1,093 n a n a Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 46 45 56 29 10 Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 323 45 n a n a Exceptional items n a n a n a 4 3 Profit before tax 7,197 5,311 4,589 3,845 3,203 Attributable profit 4,914 3,695 3,263 2,744 2,228 Selected balance sheet data m m m m m Total shareholders equity 27,106 24,243 16,849 16,485 15,205 Subordinated liabilities 13,786 12,463 12,277 12,339 11,537 Deposits from banks, customer accounts and debt securities in issue 447,453 417,139 412,358 329,815 304,817 Loans and advances to banks and customers 313,226 300,001 343,041 288,743 260,572 Total assets 996,503 924,170 538,300 443,373 403,066 Note a Does not reflect the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 which became effective from 1st January 2005.
Barclays PLC 290 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements US GAAP financial data US GAAP financial data The following information has been adjusted from data prepared under IFRS for 2005 and 2004, and UK GAAP for 2003 and 2002 to reflect significant differences from accounting principles generally accepted in the United States US GAAP.
See Note 60 for an explanation of these differences.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 291 US GAAP financial data Ratio of earnings to fixed charges Barclays Bank PLC a b b 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 in m except for ratios Ratio of earnings to fixed charges UK GAAP IFRS: Fixed charges Interest expense 30,385 20,965 14,464 10,754 10,153 Rental expense 137 126 93 85 87 Total fixed charges 30,522 21,091 14,557 10,839 10,240 Earnings Income before taxes and minority interests 7,197 5,311 4,589 3,845 3,203 Less: Unremitted pre-tax income loss of associated companies and joint ventures 41 28 51 21 11 7,156 5,283 4,538 3,824 3,214 Fixed charges 30,522 21,091 14,557 10,839 10,240 Total earnings including fixed charges 37,678 26,374 19,095 14,663 13,454 Ratio of earnings to fixed charges 1.23 1.25 1.31 1.35 1.31 US GAAP: Fixed charges d Interest expense 30,117 20,953 14,330 10,609 10,004 d Rental expense 137 126 93 85 87 Total fixed charges 30,254 21,079 14,423 10,694 10,091 Earnings c US GAAP Income before taxes and minority interests 6,909 4,565 4,465 2,588 3,609 d Less: Unremitted pre-tax income loss of associated companies and joint ventures 41 28 51 21 11 6,868 4,537 4,414 2,567 3,620 Fixed charges 30,254 21,079 14,423 10,694 10,091 Total earnings including fixed charges 37,122 25,616 18,837 13,261 13,711 Ratio of earnings to fixed charges 1.23 1.22 1.31 1.24 1.36 Notes a Does not reflect the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 which became effective from 1st January 2005. b UK GAAP.
c For a discussion of significant differences between IFRS and US GAAP and a reconciliation of net income between amounts calculated under IFRS and those calculated under US GAAP, see Note 60 of the accounts included herein.
d Interest expense, rental expense and unremitted pre-tax income of associated companies and joint venture under US GAAP for 2004 have been revised to take account of line item reclassifications arising from the Groups conversion to IFRS.
Barclays PLC 292 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements Ratio of earnings to fixed charges and preference shares Barclays Bank PLC continued a b b 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 in m except for ratios Combined fixed charges, preference share dividends and similar appropriations UK GAAP IFRS: Interest expense 30,385 20,965 14,464 10,754 10,153 Rental expense 137 126 93 85 87 Fixed charges 30,522 21,091 14,557 10,839 10,240 Preference share dividends and similar appropriations 395 304 3 Total fixed charges 30,917 21,395 14,560 10,839 10,240 Earnings Income before taxes and minority interests 7,197 5,311 4,589 3,845 3,203 Less: Unremitted pre-tax income loss of associated companies and joint ventures 41 28 51 21 11 7,156 5,283 4,538 3,824 3,214 Fixed charges 30,917 21,091 14,557 10,839 10,240 Total earnings including fixed charges 38,073 26,374 19,095 14,663 13,454 Ratio of earnings to combined fixed charges, preference share dividends and similar appropriations 1.23 1.23 1.31 1.35 1.31 US GAAP: d Interest expense 30,117 20,953 14,330 10,609 10,004 d Rental expense 137 126 93 85 87 Fixed charges 30,254 21,079 14,423 10,694 10,091 e Preference share dividends and similar appropriations 372 288 137 145 149 Total fixed charges 30,626 21,367 14,560 10,839 10,240 Earnings c US GAAP income before taxes and minority interests 6,909 4,565 4,465 2,588 3,609 d Less: Unremitted pre-tax income loss of associated companies and joint ventures 41 28 51 21 11 3 6,868 4,537 4,414 2,567 3,620 Fixed charges 30,626 21,079 14,423 10,694 10,091 Total earnings including fixed charges 37,494 25,616 18,837 13,261 13,711 Ratio of earnings to combined fixed charges, preference share dividends and similar appropriations 1.22 1.20 1.29 1.22 1.34 Notes a Does not reflect the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 which became effective from 1st January 2005. b UK GAAP.
e Dividends payable on preference shares and similar appropriations are computed as the amount divided by 1 minus the effective or actual tax rate as appropriate.
In reporting in previous years, the dividends payable on preference shares and similar appropriations were not grossed up to reflect the effective or actual tax rate.
Prior year ratios have been revised accordingly.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 293 Barclays PLC 294 Annual Report 2006
