Critical accounting estimates The Groups accounting policies are set out on pages 151 to 160.
Allowances for loan impairment Certain of these policies, as well as estimates made by management, are Allowances for loan impairment represent managements estimate considered to be important to an understanding of the Groups financial of the losses incurred in the loan portfolios as at the balance sheet condition since they require management to make difficult, complex or date.
Changes to the allowances for loan impairment and changes subjective judgements and estimates, some of which may relate to to the provisions for undrawn contractually committed facilities and matters that are inherently uncertain.
The following accounting policies guarantees provided are reported in the consolidated income statement include estimates which are particularly sensitive in terms of judgements as part of the impairment charge.
and the extent to which estimates are used.
Other accounting policies Within the retail and small businesses portfolios, which comprise large involve significant amounts of judgements and estimates, but the total numbers of small homogeneous assets with similar risk characteristics amounts involved are not significant to the financial statements.
where credit scoring techniques are generally used, statistical Management has discussed the accounting policies and critical techniques are used to calculate impairment allowances on a portfolio accounting estimates with the Board Accounts Committee.
basis, based on historical recovery rates and assumed emergence Fair value of financial instruments periods.
These statistical analyses use as primary inputs the extent to which accounts in the portfolio are in arrears and historical information Some of the Banks financial instruments are carried at fair value through profit or loss, including derivatives held for trading or risk on the eventual losses encountered from such delinquent portfolios.
There are many such models in use, each tailored to a product, line of management purposes.
The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current business or customer category.
The models are updated from time to time.
However, experience suggests that the models are reliable and transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
Financial instruments entered into as trading transactions, stable, stemming from the very large numbers of accounts from which the model building information is drawn.
Judgement and knowledge is together with any associated hedging, are measured at fair value and the resultant profits and losses are included in net trading income, along needed in selecting the statistical methods to use when the models are developed or revised.
The impairment allowance reflected in the with interest and dividends arising from long and short positions and funding costs relating to trading activities.
Assets and liabilities resulting financial statements for these portfolios is therefore considered to be reasonable and supportable.
The impairment charge reflected in the from gains and losses on financial instruments held for trading are reported gross in trading portfolio assets and liabilities or derivative income statement for these portfolios is 1,809m 2005: 1,254m and amounts to 87% 2005: 80% of the total impairment charge in 2006. financial instruments, reduced by the effects of netting agreements where there is an intention to settle net with counterparties.
For larger accounts, impairment allowances are calculated on an Financial instruments are either priced with reference to a quoted individual basis and all relevant considerations that have a bearing on market price for that instrument or by using a valuation model.
Where the expected future cash flows are taken into account, for example, the the fair value is calculated using financial markets pricing models, the business prospects for the customer, the realisable value of collateral, methodology is to calculate the expected cash flows under the terms of the Groups position relative to other claimants, the reliability of each specific contract and then discount these values back to a present customer information and the likely cost and duration of the work-out value.
These models use as their basis independently sourced market process.
The level of the impairment allowance is the difference parameters including, for example, interest rate yield curves, equities between the value of the discounted expected future cash flows and commodities prices, option volatilities and currency rates.
Most discounted at the loans original effective interest rate, and its carrying market parameters are either directly observable or are implied from amount.
Subjective judgements are made in this process.
However, profits or losses are recognised upon initial judgements change with time as new information becomes available or recognition only when such profits can be measured solely by reference as work-out strategies evolve, resulting in frequent revisions to the to observable current market transactions or valuation techniques impairment allowance as individual decisions are taken, case by case.
based solely on observable market inputs.
Changes in these estimates would result in a change in the allowances and have a direct impact on the impairment charge.
The impairment The calculation of fair value for any financial instrument may also charge reflected in the financial statements in relation to larger require adjustment of the quoted price or model value to reflect the cost accounts is 265m 2005: 320m or 13% 2005: 20% of the total of credit risk where not embedded in underlying models or prices impairment charge in 2006.
Further information on impairment used, or to reflect hedging costs not captured in pricing models to the allowances is set out on pages 83 to 85. extent they would be taken into account by a market participant in determining a price.
The process of calculating fair value on illiquid instruments or from a valuation model may require estimation of certain pricing parameters, assumptions or model characteristics.
These estimates are calibrated against industry standards, economic models and observed transaction prices.
The effect of changing these assumptions for those financial instruments for which the fair values were measured using valuation techniques that are determined in full or in part on assumptions that are not supported by observable market prices to a range of reasonably possible alternative assumptions, would be to provide a range of 123m 2005: 87m lower to 139m 2005: 121m higher than the fair values recognised in the financial statements.
The fair value of financial instruments is provided in Note 58 to the accounts.
Barclays PLC 108 Annual Report 2006 Operating review 1 Goodwill Retirement benefit obligations Management have to consider at least annually whether the current The Group provides pension plans for employees in most parts of the carrying value of goodwill is impaired.
The first step of the impairment world.
Arrangements for staff retirement benefits vary from country to review process requires the identification of independent operating units, country and are made in accordance with local regulations and by dividing the Group business into as many largely independent income customs.
For defined contribution schemes, the pension cost streams as is reasonably practicable.
The goodwill is then allocated to recognised in the profit and loss account represents the contributions these independent operating units.
The first element of this allocation is payable to the scheme.
For defined benefit schemes, actuarial valuation based on the areas of the business expected to benefit from the of each of the schemes obligations using the projected unit credit synergies derived from the acquisition.
The second element reflects the method and the fair valuation of each of the schemes assets are allocation of the net assets acquired and the difference between performed annually in accordance with the requirements of IAS 19. the consideration paid for those net assets and their fair value.
This The actuarial valuation is dependent upon a series of assumptions, the allocation is reviewed following business reorganisation.
The carrying key ones being interest rates, mortality, investment returns and expense value of the operating unit, including the allocated goodwill, is compared inflation.
Mortality estimates are based on standard industry and to its fair value to determine whether any impairment exists.
If the fair national mortality tables, adjusted where appropriate to reflect the value of an operating unit is less than its carrying value, goodwill will be Groups own experience.
The returns on fixed interest investments are impaired.
Detailed calculations may need to be carried out taking into set to market yields at the valuation date less an allowance for risk to consideration changes in the market in which a business operates e. g. ensure consistency with the asset valuation.
The returns on UK and competitive activity, regulatory change.
In the absence of readily overseas equities are set relative to fixed interest returns by considering available market price data this calculation is based upon discounting the long-term expected equity risk premium.
The expense inflation expected pre-tax cash flows at a risk adjusted interest rate appropriate assumption reflects long-term expectations of both earnings and retail to the operating unit, the determination of both of which requires the price inflation.
The estimation of pre-tax cash flows is sensitive to the periods for which detailed forecasts are available and to The difference between the fair value of the plan assets and the present assumptions regarding the long-term sustainable cash flows.
While value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date, forecasts are compared with actual performance and external economic adjusted for any historic unrecognised actuarial gains or losses and past data, expected cash flows naturally reflect managements view of future service cost, is recognised as a liability in the balance sheet.
The most significant amounts of goodwill relate to the arising, for example, as a result of past over-funding or the performance Absa and Woolwich acquisitions.
The goodwill impairment testing of the plan investments, is recognised to the extent that it does not performed in 2006 indicated that none of the goodwill was impaired.
exceed the present value of future contribution holidays or refunds of contributions.
To the extent that any unrecognised gains or losses at the Intangible assets start of the measurement year in relation to any individual defined Intangible assets that derive their value from contractual customer benefit scheme exceed 10% of the greater of the fair value of the relationships or that can be separated and sold and have a finite useful scheme assets and the defined benefit obligation for that scheme, a life are amortised over their estimated useful life.
Determining the proportion of the excess is recognised in the income statement.
estimated useful life of these finite life intangible assets requires an analysis of circumstances, and judgement by the Banks management.
The Groups IAS 19 pension deficit across all pension and postAt each balance sheet date, or more frequently when events or changes retirement schemes as at 31st December 2006 was 817m 2005: in circumstances dictate, intangible assets are assessed for indications 2,879m.
This comprises net recognised liabilities of 1,719m 2005: of impairment.
If indications are present, these assets are subject to an 1,737m and unrecognised actuarial gains of 902m 2005: losses of impairment review.
The impairment review comprises a comparison of 1,142m.
The net recognised liabilities comprises retirement benefit the carrying amount of the asset with its recoverable amount: the liabilities of 1,807m 2005: 1,823m relating to schemes that are in higher of the assets or the cash-generating units net selling price and deficit, and assets of 88m 2005: 86m relating to schemes that are in its value in use.
Net selling price is calculated by reference to the amount surplus.
The Groups IAS 19 pension deficit in respect of the main UK at which the asset could be disposed of in a binding sale agreement in scheme as at 31st December 2006 was 0.5bn 2005: 2.5bn.
The an arms-length transaction evidenced by an active market or recent estimated actuarial funding position of the main UK pension scheme as transactions for similar assets.
Value in use is calculated by discounting at 31st December 2006, estimated from the triennial valuation in 2004, the expected future cash flows obtainable as a result of the assets was a surplus of 1.3bn 2005: 0.9bn.
Cash contributions to the main continued use, including those resulting from its ultimate disposal, at UK scheme were 351m 2005: 354m.
a market-based discount rate on a pre-tax basis.
The most significant Further information on retirement benefit obligations, including amounts of intangible assets relate to the Absa acquisition.
assumptions is set out in Note 35 to the accounts.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 109 Barclays PLC 110 Annual Report 2006 Governance 2 Governance page Board and Executive Committee 112 Directors report 114 Corporate governance report 117 Remuneration report 125 Accountability and audit 141 Corporate responsibility 143 2 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 111
