Governance Corporate governance Accountability and audit Going concern in accordance with IFRSs and of reconciliations under US GAAP, and The Directors confirm they are satisfied that the Company and the that receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with Group have adequate resources to continue in business for the authorisations of management and the Directors of Barclays PLC: and foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection concern basis for preparing the accounts.
of unauthorised acquisition, use or disposition of Barclays PLCs assets that could have a material effect on Barclays PLCs financial statements.
Internal control The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that management Internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent maintain an effective system of internal control and for reviewing its limitations and may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can subject to the risk that internal controls may become inadequate only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance misstatement or loss.
Throughout the year ended 31st December 2006, with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
and to date, the Group has operated a system of internal control which Management has assessed the effectiveness of Barclays PLCs internal provides reasonable assurance of effective and efficient operations 2 control over financial reporting as of 31st December 2006.
In making covering all controls, including financial and operational controls and its assessment, management has utilised the criteria set forth by the compliance with laws and regulations.
Processes are in place for Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks facing the in Internal Control Integrated Framework.
Management concluded Group in accordance with the guidance Internal Control: Guidance for that based on its assessment, Barclays PLCs internal control over Directors on the Combined Code published by the Financial Reporting financial reporting was effective as of 31st December 2006.
The Board regularly reviews these processes through the Board Committees.
 LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm which has audited the consolidated financial The Directors review the effectiveness of the system of internal control statements of the Group for the fiscal year ended 31st December 2006, semi-annually.
An internal control compliance certification process is has also audited managements assessment of the effectiveness of conducted throughout the Group in support of this review.
The Barclays PLCs internal control over financial reporting and the effectiveness of controls is periodically reviewed within the business effectiveness of Barclays PLCs internal controls over financial reporting: areas.
Regular reports are made to the Board Audit Committee by their report is included herein on page 150. management, Internal Audit and the compliance and legal functions covering particularly financial controls, compliance and operational The system of internal financial and operational controls is also subject controls.
The Board Audit Committee monitors resolution of any to regulatory oversight in the United Kingdom and overseas.
Further identified control issues of Group level significance through to a information on supervision by the financial services regulators is satisfactory conclusion.
provided under Supervision and Regulation in the Risk Factors section on page 66.
The key document for the Groups internal control processes is the Group Internal Control and Assurance Framework GICAF which Statement of Directors responsibilities for accounts describes the Groups approach to internal control and details Group The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with policies and processes.
The GICAF is reviewed and approved on behalf the Auditors report set out on page 149, is made with a view to of the Group Chief Executive by the Group Governance and Control distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Committee.
Directors and of the auditors in relation to the accounts.
Quarterly risk reports are made to the Board covering risks of Group The Directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare significance including credit risk, market risk and operational risk, accounts for each financial year and, with regards to Group accounts, including legal and compliance risk.
Reports covering risk measurement in accordance with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Directors have standards and risk appetite are made to the Board Risk Committee.
prepared individual accounts in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the Further details of risk management procedures are given in the Risk European Union.
The accounts are required by law and IFRS to present management section on pages 68 to 107. fairly the financial position of the Company and the Group and the performance for that period: the Companies Act 1985 provides, in Managements report on internal control over relation to such accounts, that references in the relevant part of the law financial reporting to accounts giving a true and fair view are references, to their achieving The management of Barclays PLC is responsible for establishing and fair presentation.
maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting.
Barclays PLCs internal control over financial reporting is a process designed The Directors consider that, in preparing the accounts on pages 151 under the supervision of Barclays PLCs principal executive and principal to 274, and the additional information contained on pages 275 to 301, financial officers to provide reasonable assurance regarding the the Group has used appropriate accounting policies, supported by reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial reasonable judgements and estimates, and that all accounting statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with standards which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company and European Union and for the purposes of preparation of reconciliations the Group keep accounting records which disclose with reasonable to Generally Accepted Accounting Practices in the United States accuracy the financial position of the Company and the Group and US GAAP.
which enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Barclays PLCs internal control over financial reporting includes policies Companies Act 1985. and procedures that pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of assets: provide reasonable assurances that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 141 Corporate governance Accountability and audit The Directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Disclosure controls and procedures The Group Chief Executive, John Varley, and the Group Finance Director, Naguib Kheraj, conducted with Group Management an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures as at 31st December 2006, which are defined as those controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports filed or submitted under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarised and reported within the time periods specified in the US Securities and Exchange Commissions rules and forms.
As of the date of the evaluation, the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director concluded that the design and operation of these disclosure controls and procedures were effective.
The Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director also concluded that no significant changes were made in our internal controls or in other factors that could significantly affect these controls subsequent to their evaluation.
Signed on behalf of the Board Marcus Agius Chairman 8th March 2007 Barclays PLC 142 Annual Report 2006
