Board of directors Executive directors Andrew Beazley Andrew Horton Nicholas Furlonge Jonathan Gray Neil Maidment Johnny Rowell Clive Washbourn aged 53 is the chief aged 44 is the group aged 56 is aged 53 is head of aged 44 is head aged 45 is head of aged 46 is the head executive of the finance director and responsible for the the groups property of the groups the groups specialty of the groups marine company.
Andrew is a joined the board in risk management of division.
Clive has 24 co-founder of Beazley June 2003.
has 33 years of Neil has 22 years of has 22 years years experience in Furlonge and the active was previously UK Nicholas is a coexperience at Lloyds, Lloyds experience.
experience, joining the the marine insurance underwriter for the chief financial officer founder of Beazley joining Beazley in He joined Beazley in market as a broker.
industry and actively managed syndicates at ING and, prior to Furlonge, and has 1992.
He is an active 1990 and remains an He joined Beazley in underwrites marine 2623 and 623.
He has January 2001, was 35 years experience underwriter in his area active underwriter on 1992 and continues hull, marine liability 31 years experience at deputy global chief at Lloyds.
He is also of expertise, open the account.
as an active and marine war risks.
Lloyds and is chairman financial officer and chairman of the market commercial underwriter with a He is a member of of Lloyds of Japan.
global head of finance Lloyds Community property risks.
principal focus on the LMA Marine for the equity markets Programme professional liability.
Committee, the LMA division of ING Management Board Underwriting and the Barings, having held and a director of Claims Committee and various financial the LMA.
He is also is the chairman of the positions with ING responsible for brand Joint War Committee.
Barings since January and communications 1997.
He qualified and the ceded as a chartered reinsurance accountant with department.
32 3 32 2 Beazley Annual Report 2006 Beazley Annual Report 2006 Beazley Annual Report 2006 Non-executive directors Jonathan Agnew Dudley Fishburn Andy Pomfret Marty Becker Gordon Hamilton Dan Jones aged 65 is the aged 60 is chairman aged 46 was aged 54 is currently aged 61 recently aged 55 retired chairman of the of HFC Bank Limited appointed chief chairman and CEO of retired as a senior in 2003 as vicecompany.
Jonathan and a non-executive executive of Rathbone Max Re Capital, Ltd. audit partner in chairman for Marsh, was formerly a director of HSBC Bank Brothers Plc in 2004 Nasdaq - MXRE and Deloitte & Touche LLP Inc. responsible for managing director of plc.
He is a nonhaving held the LaSalle Re, Ltd.
He after more than 30 non-North American Morgan Stanley and executive director of position of finance was formerly chairman years, principally operations, strategic subsequently chief Altria Inc. in the US.
director since 1999. and CEO of Orion involved with listed planning, and executive of Kleinwort Prior to that, he held Capital Corporation, multi-national mergers acquisitions, Benson now Dresdner positions at Peat, president and CEO of company audits and based in London.
He has Marwick, Mitchell & McDonough Caperton major forensic 2006 he re-entered been chairman of Co now KPMG and Insurance Group, and assignments.
He is the broking business Limit plc and Gerrard Kleinwort Benson interim chairman and currently the director as chief executive for Group plc.
He is now Dresdner CEO of Trenwick of the listed South the broking operations currently chairman of Kleinwort.
He is African group, of Fred A. Moreton Nationwide Building currently a director of Barloworld Ltd. & Co. a Salt Lake Society, The Cayenne Selective Insurance City-based regional Trust plc, LMS Capital Group, Inc. Nasdaq - financial services plc and senior SIGI.
concern focusing independent director on the western of Rightmove plc.
was a member of the Council of Lloyds from 1995 to 1998.
Beazley Annual Report 2006 B Beazley Annual Report 2006 eazley Annual Report 2006 33 33 33
