Property The financial security provided by insurance underpins the success of commerce in the modern world.
Our property underwriters provide the leadership, expertise and capacity for the insurance programmes of some of the worlds most advanced and complex commercial developments.
Fig 15: Property portfolio Fig 16: Gross premiums written and rate change 200 30 25 150 20 10 % 100 10 5 50 0 Covers 8% -5 Engineering 12% 0 -10 Open market 51% 2004 2005 2006 Jewellery & homeowners 29% GWP Rate Change Property Profile Current performance Outlook Led by Jonathan Gray since 1992, the The amount of business led by the property The US continues to present great opportunity specialist underwriting teams in the property group increased during 2006 from 66% of for our business in London though we group lead the programmes of Fortune 1000 the business written in 2005 to 70% in 2006 anticipate that non-US risks will be more of clients and insure some of the worlds largest with the biggest increase being in the open a challenge.
Our high-value homeowner construction projects.
The division insures market account, where we now lead 53% of operation in Florida will build on its increasing large corporate clients, engineering and the business written.
reputation to grow its portfolio and the launch construction projects, high-value of our admitted market products will provide homeowners, jewellers risks and smaller Rate increases averaged 13% across all lines access to medium-sized commercial property property clients, representing almost a in the property group during 2006 compared clients thus enhancing the long-term balance quarter of the groups gross premiums with 2005, with open market experiencing of our portfolio.
We believe that high rating levels for With expansion in the US, we will also be catastrophe business will be maintained in Our MGA in Florida had a successful year with able to provide medium-sized US clients the coming year, providing our group with premium written increasing from US$6.2m in with property coverage through our admitted strong business opportunities for US-based 2005 to US$10.3m in 2006. insurance company.
The diverse nature of risks.
Non-catastrophe rates will experience our clients and class types and increasingly further pressure.
The engineering team had another excellent diverse distribution platform enable us to year in 2006, growing its business profitably provide the group with a well-balanced and consolidating its lead market position in portfolio.
To widen the distribution network and access business directly from Market overview Asia, we set up an office in Singapore Rates in catastrophe-exposed areas in the US attracting employees already well known continued to harden during the course of to the London team.
2006 with hurricane prices reaching an alltime peak during the hurricane season.
The UK homeowner market is experiencing Earthquake rates in California also increased increasing competition.
To improve our during the latter part of the year as increased results, we have completely reviewed and reinsurance costs filtered down to the primary updated our UK homeowners rating tables market.
However, non-US rating levels were using the latest peril modelling techniques disappointing with competitive conditions a and postcode data available, which will consistent theme throughout the year.
enhance our risk selection criteria.
There was little or no pricing reaction in the non-US markets to the hurricane losses of Our reputation as property insurance 2004 and 2005. specialists, combined with a claims performance acknowledged by the market as 2006 saw a benign hurricane season and the superior, gave us access to significant absence of major catastrophes in comparison reinsurance capacity.
However, the cost of with recent years.
In addition, the underlying this reinsurance was higher than previous trend of claims incidences also showed a years and retention levels increased.
Beazley Annual Report 2006 Beazley Annual Report 2006 15 15 m
