Reinsurance The calculation and trading of risk is a highly complex process fundamental to the insurance and reinsurance business.
Experience and innovation, combined with a focus on long term relationships, have enabled our reinsurance team to work successfully with some of the worlds most sophisticated insurance businesses for over 20 years.
Fig 17: Portfolio mix Fig 18: Gross premiums written and rate change 70 30 25 60 20 50 10 40 % 10 30 5 20 0 Property catastrophe 65% 10 -5 Casualty clash 2% Property risk excess pro rata 25% 0 -10 Misc 8% 2004 2005 2006 GWP Rate change Reinsurance Profile Current performance Outlook Led by Neil Maidment since 1996, the The impact of predicted increases in near Experts continue to predict Atlantic hurricane reinsurance division is a recognised leader term frequency and severity of future losses, activity above the long-term average and providing capacity to a significant proportion and the consequent increase in capital because of the trend for the US population of the worlds leading general insurers, some required to manage these exposures, has to move towards the coast, we expect to of which have been clients for over 20 years.
been felt by both buyers and sellers of see an increase in the cost to the insurance Specialising in property catastrophe, property reinsurance.
The cost of hedging these risks and reinsurance industry.
risk excess, casualty catastrophe, aggregate increased to uncommercial levels in the Following from last years significant price excess of loss and pro-rata business, the retrocessional market.
Therefore, we reduced increases in the US, we expect that rates teams main exposures outside the US are our gross exposures to fit within our risk in key catastrophe exposed areas will be in the UK, Europe, Japan, Canada and appetite which remained unchanged.
maintained at or around their current levels.
Results from the reinsurance The recent changes in Florida legislation division represent 8% of the groups 2006 We successfully adjusted the portfolio to designed to relieve pressure on buyers in that gross premiums written.
manage these challenges while improving the state are not expected to have a significant risk-reward balance.
In addition, we retained Market overview direct effect on our portfolio.
our commitment to our long-term clients, Following the losses incurred in the 2005 while continuing to diversify our portfolio in Outside the US, we anticipate some pressure hurricane season, the reinsurance market target markets, such as western Europe.
on rates, particularly in smaller markets, hardened considerably in 2006 with rates in however they will remain at levels that are the property treaty market increasing 47% on We benefited directly from the quiet hurricane capable of substantial profits.
It is anticipated average in the US.
Outside the US, the effect season, seeing very low claims activity and that the impact of windstorm Kyrill will was less dramatic but nevertheless rates consequently a greatly reduced loss ratio.
encourage greater discipline in the UK and increased 7% on average.
Our estimate for losses incurred as a result of Despite predictions of another catastrophic the 2005 hurricane season were well within Our team will continue to advance its longhurricane season in the North Atlantic, 2006 our reserve limits, hence we are able to term objective of developing a well diversified proved to be a particularly benign year for release some of the reserves earlier than and efficient portfolio focusing on larger nonhurricane activity.
Experts cite two possible expected.
exceptional meteorological reasons for this: dust particles blown from the Sahara to the area where hurricanes normally develop, and the El Nio phenomenon in the Pacific.
While the insurance market benefited overall, demand also increased at a faster rate than supply in peak zones of exposure.
Prices increased and reinsurance capacity decreased.
Beazley Annual Report 2006 Beazley Annual Report 2006 17 17 m Marine As the worldwide usage of energy continues to grow, environmental responsibility is increasingly a key issue.
Governments are focusing on clean alternatives, particularly forms of renewable energy.
We are one of the leading insurers for oil and gas operations worldwide and at the forefront of insuring these developing areas of risk.
Fig 19: Portfolio mix Fig 20: Gross premiums written and rate change 70 30 25 60 20 50 10 40 % 10 30 5 20 0 Cargo 13% Hull & misc 33% 10 -5 Energy 36% Satellite 3% Liability 7% War 8% 0 -10 2004 2005 2006 GWP Rate change Marine Profile Although there is some indication of Outlook Led by Clive Washbourn since 1998, 2006 competitors expanding their capacity as We look forward to 2007 as a period in was a rewarding year for our marine division confidence returns to the sector, we expect which we can further consolidate our with record levels of gross premiums at rating conditions to be stable.
We are pleased with the quality of 137.9m.
We are established market our account and anticipate relatively stable Our hull account has benefited from a period leaders in all the major classes we write, underwriting conditions in the majority of our of relatively benign loss frequency coupled which include marine hull, cargo and war.
We fully expect to meet our target with robust trading conditions for our Our energy portfolio has also been expanded profitability and to continue to grow income insureds.
In areas such as marine builders to benefit from optimum underwriting where opportunity allows.
risks, the hull account was able to optimise conditions in that sector.
capacity in a tight market for risks that have We are delighted that we have reached a We are able to attract the highest quality natural peril exposure.
We continue to be the long-term agreement to be sole underwriters business through our market leadership leader in London for voyage and tow of the renewal rights for the Charterers Club, position and in-depth knowledge of the insurances and this class has performed which significantly enhances our marine segment.
As our portfolio has grown, we extremely well during the last 12 months.
The marine liability class have continued to strengthen our has historically enjoyed good profitability and Our war account, which covers insurance underwriting and claims team.
since this class typically does not correlate against terrorism and war-like acts on ships with our other marine classes, it further Market overview and aeroplanes, continues to perform well.
Underwriting conditions were favourable for Competition for this portfolio has increased most of our classes during 2006, with although our position as a lead market within We will continue to focus upon those risks healthy premium rates, appropriate levels of London will allow us to respond quickly if which are well known to the underwriting deductible and coverage.
We saw strong, rates rise at any stage.
The relationships with profitable premium growth, with our marine the insured often set us apart from our Our cargo portfolio has enjoyed a consistent hull and energy accounts performing competitors and this, we believe, will help level of gross premium.
insulate the division from the effects of reduced during the last 12 months, which increased competition in the worldwide Our 2005 hurricane losses have developed has benefited profitability.
We continue to market that we believe are likely to develop in line with projections and compare develop our modest UK cargo agency in future years.
favourably with our market peers.
Profitability to date confident that the majority of our gross loss has been excellent, premium levels are will be collectable from reinsurers.
projected to double during the next 12 months and there is good long-term Current performance opportunity to develop a valuable portfolio In the wake of a record 2005 hurricane and diversify our account.
season, underwriting conditions in our energy account were excellent, with rating The group purchased a whole account excess conditions for Gulf of Mexico risks at the of loss reinsurance programme in 2006, as highest levels for many decades.
During in previous years, but opted to purchase less 2006 the energy class achieved the highest low-level specific protection and run this risk composite rate change of all Beazley against our capital.
This decision to purchase classes, which supported the near doubling less reinsurance proved particularly judicious of gross premium income year on year.
in the light of the low claims frequency across classes during 2006.
Beazley Annual Report 2006 Beazley Annual Report 2006 19 19 m
