Directors report B17234 R&A 2006 FRONT 23 2 07 17:40 Page 22 22 Bradford & Bingley Annual report & accounts 2006 Directors report Our Board Our Board brings a wide range of banking and commercial experience to the Group.
Biographical details 12 3 4 5 67 8 9 10 Group committees The Board Directors serve on a number of committees and information about the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees is included on page 19.
In addition, Bradford & Bingley has other management committees that focus on day-to-day matters, including the Executive Committee.
This Committee generally meets on a weekly basis and is the key collective decision making body with regard to the operational issues within the Group.
The members of this Committee are the Executive Directors, Steven Crawshaw, Robert Dickie, Chris Gillespie and Chris Willford together with Roger Hattam Managing Director Group Product and Marketing and Mark Stevens Managing Director, Strategy, Communications and HR.
Information about the committees focused on the compliance and risk areas of our business is included on page 19.
Directors report B17234 R&A 2006 FRONT 23 2 07 17:40 Page 23 Bradford & Bingley Annual report & accounts 2006 23 1 Rod Kent 5 Chris Gillespie 8 Stephen Webster Chairman Group Sales Director Non-executive Director Rod age 59 joined the Board in September Chris age 43 joined Bradford & Bingley in Stephen age 54 joined the Board in May 2002 and became Chairman in November March 2005 and was appointed to the Board in 2003.
He is Group Finance Director of Wolseley 2002.
He was Managing Director of Close September 2005 as Group Lending Director to plc, the building materials distribution Brothers for 28 years, during which time he take responsibility for the lending activities in company.
He is a chartered accountant and led the management buy-out in 1979 and the residential and commercial property was formerly a Partner at Price Waterhouse.
took the company public in 1984: he has been sectors and the treasury function.
He previously He is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a a Non-executive Director of Close Brothers held senior positions at Barclays Bank and HFC.
member of the Nominations Committee.
Group plc for four years and was appointed From January 2007, as part of a larger change Chairman in November 2006.
He is also to operating responsibilities, he became Group 9 Ian Cheshire Chairman of Grosvenor Limited, a NonSales Director and all the distribution channels Non-executive Director executive Director of Grosvenor Group Limited, including branches, branch agencies, Ian age 47 joined the Board in August 2003.
Whitbread Group plc and a Trustee of The intermediaries, telephony and online were He is Chief Executive of B&Q, part of the Esmee Fairbairn Foundation.
He is Chairman added to his portfolio.
Responsibility for Kingfisher plc group.
He has been an Executive of the Nominations Committee and a treasury functions passed to Chris Willford.
Director of Kingfisher plc since June 2000 and member of the Remuneration Committee.
prior to his appointment at B&Q was Chief 6 Nicholas Cosh Executive, International and Development.
2 Steven Crawshaw Non-executive Director Since joining Kingfisher in 1998, he has been Group Chief Executive Nicholas age 60 joined the Board of Bradford Group Director of Strategy & Development and Steven age 45 joined Bradford & Bingley & Bingley Building Society in July 1999 and the from May 2000 Chief Executive of e-Kingfisher.
Building Society from Lloyds TSB in 1999 as plc Board in April 2000.
He is a chartered Before joining Kingfisher he worked for Boston Flotation Director before he was appointed to accountant and was formerly Group Finance Consulting Group, Guinness plc and a number the Board in January 2002 taking responsibility Director of a number of companies including of retail businesses including Sears.
He was for Group Strategy, HR & IT.
He became JIB Group plc, MAI plc and Charterhouse previously a Non-executive Director of Hit Managing Director, Lending in January 2003.
He is Chairman of Kiln plc and a Entertainment.
He is a member of the Audit was appointed Group Chief Executive in March Non-executive Director of ICAP plc and Committee, the Remuneration Committee and 2004.
He is Deputy Chairman of the Council of Hornby plc.
He is a member of the Audit the Nominations Committee.
He is a member of the Committee and the Nominations Committee.
10 Louise Patten 7 George Cox Non-executive Director 3 Chris Willford Non-executive Director Louise age 53 joined the Board in December Group Finance Director George age 66 joined the Board of Bradford & 2003.
She is currently Non-executive Chairman Chris age 44 was appointed to the Board as Bingley Building Society in March 2000 and the of Brixton plc and a Non-executive Director of Group Finance Director in October 2005.
He is Chairman of the Marks and Spencer Group plc as well as previously held senior finance roles at Abbey, Design Council, a member of the Supervisory senior adviser to Bain & Co. She began her Barclays Bank and British Airways.
He is Board of Euronext NV and a Director of Short career at Citibank and remained in financial responsible for the finance, compliance, risk, Brothers plc.
Former appointments include services until 1993, when she joined the audit, legal and company secretarial Director General of the Institute of Directors, management consultancy, Bain & Co, as a functions.
From January 2007 as part of a Chairman and Managing Director of Unisys Ltd, Partner.
Her previous experience as a Nonlarger change to operating responsibilities, he Chief Executive of P-E International plc, Nonexecutive Director includes the Hilton Group, assumed responsibility for treasury and executive Director of the London International Great Universal Stores and Somerfield.
Financial Futures Exchange LIFFE and a member of the Remuneration Committee Managing Director of Butler Cox plc.
4 Robert Dickie received a knighthood in the Queens birthday Group Operations Director honours list in June 2005.
He is Chairman of Robert age 47 joined Bradford & Bingley in the Remuneration Committee, a member of January 2003 and was appointed to the Board in the Nominations Committee and the August 2003.
He joined from Zurich Financial recognised Senior Independent Director.
Services Group UK Ltd where he was Managing Director, UK Enterprise.
Prior to this, Robert held a variety of senior positions at National Australia Bank which he joined from Clydesdale Bank.
He is responsible for the information technology, property and procurement, lending operations, savings operations, collections and recoveries and customer relations functions.
