Overview B17234 R&A 2006 FRONT 23 2 07 17:40 Page 2 02 Bradford & Bingley Annual report & accounts 2006 Overview What we do Bradford & Bingley is a UK based financial services business, focused on providing specialist mortgages and savings products.
Our residential lending activity focuses on a range of niche areas providing mortgages for individuals who need a more specialist product than those available in the mainstream market.
Our two main products are: Buy-to-let Self-cert Providing loans to landlords and property Loans for individuals who have more investors, generating investment income complex income streams, including and supporting a good supply of high the self-employed, those with more quality rental accommodation for those than one job and those with significant wanting to rent, rather than buy.
Overview B17234 R&A 2006 FRONT 23 2 07 17:40 Page 3 Bradford & Bingley Annual report & accounts 2006 03 1851 1964 1997 2000 Bradford Equitable Building Society Formed Acquired Floated Bradford & Bingley Mortgage Express Bradford & Bingley plc Building Society Bingley Building Society Our specialist mortgage products are sold through mortgage intermediaries under the Mortgage Express brand.
Additionally a range of Bradford & Bingley branded mortgage products are available through our 205 branches and through our telephony and online distribution channels.
Bradford & Bingley provides a competitive range of savings products, through our branches and network of 138 third-party agents, by phone, post and online.
In addition, we offer a wide choice of financial services from a range of providers, including general insurance, wealth, protection and personal loan products.
We are also active in commercial property lending and lending to housing associations.
Commercial property lending provides corporate customers with loans secured on income-producing property or pre-let development schemes.
Housing association lending provides funding to these not-for-profit making organisations throughout the UK that provide affordable rented homes for people unable to satisfy their housing needs in the open market.
All our customer lending is secured on property.
