Board of Directors William Thomson ` Dr Christopher Masters ` Chairman age 59, was appointed in age 66, was appointed a 1990 and was, until April Director in 1974 and 2002, executive chairman of Chairman in 1995.
He is currently also chairman of chairman of SMG plc and E. G. Thomson Holdings the Festival City Theatres Ltd, John Menzies plc and Fidelity Japanese Values Trust.
He is also a non-executive director of John plc, and a director of Dobbies Garden Centres plc.
Wood Group plc, The Alliance Trust plc, The Generics Group AG and the Crown Agents.
James Long ` Lynn Ruddick ` age 54, was appointed in age 51, was appointed on 2004.
He is Director Managing Director of Merrill of Risk and Compliance for Lynch Investment Managers AstraZeneca Europe and where she headed the was formerly Corporate companys investment trust Finance Director of Inchcape business unit.
She is a non-executive director of plc and Managing Director, Asia and Emerging Fidelity Special Values plc, a member of the Markets, for the ESAB Group.
He is chairman of Investment Committees of The Pearson Group JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Pension Plan and Western Provident Association, chairman of the WPA Pension Scheme Board and a trustee of the Scottish & Newcastle Pension Scheme.
James West ` James MacLeod ` Senior Independent Director Chairman of the Audit age 59, was appointed in Committee 1995 and was formerly age 65, was appointed managing director of Lazard in 1998 and was a partner of Brothers and Co Ltd and Ernst & Young and its chief executive of Lazard predecessor firms for Asset Management Ltd.
He is chairman of Gartmore 25 years until his retirement in 1998.
He is a director Fledgling Trust plc, New City High Yield Trust plc, of Scottish Investment Trust plc and Invesco Jupiter Second Enhanced Income Trust plc and Perpetual AIM VCT plc.
He is a Chartered Rurelec plc.
He is also a director of Candover Accountant.
Investments plc, JPMorgan Income & Capital Investment Trust plc, Shires Smaller Companies plc, UK Select Trust plc, Global Natural Energy plc and IPSA Group plc.
Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Management Engagement and Remuneration Committee ` Member of the Nomination Committee 18 British Assets Trust plc
