Report of the Directors Results and Dividends Objectives and Strategy The Directors submit the Annual Report and The Companys investment objective is to achieve a Accounts of the Company for the year ended total return in excess of a composite index, weighted as to 75 per cent FTSE All-Share Index and 25 per 30 September 2006. cent FTSE World ex UK Index, by investing The results for the year are set out in the attached principally in an international portfolio of equities and accounts.
Within this overall objective, the Company aims to maintain a progressive A first interim dividend of 1.304p per Ordinary Share dividend policy which will be dependent upon, inter was paid on 7 April 2006, and second and third alia, the rate of revenue growth within the investment interim dividends of 1.33p per Ordinary Share each portfolio, and the level of dividend cover.
were paid on 7 July and 6 October 2006 respectively.
The Board recommends a final dividend As part of its strategy, the Board has contractually for the year of 1.522p per Ordinary Share payable delegated the management of the investment on 5 January 2007 to shareholders on the register at portfolio, and other services, to F&C Asset close of business on 8 December 2006.
The investment strategy employed by the Managers in meeting the investment objective focuses on Principal Activity and Status regional asset allocation, with reference to the The Company is registered as a public limited Companys investment objective, coupled with active company in terms of the Companies Act 1985 and stock selection in the regional sub-portfolios.
As part is an investment company as defined by of this process the Managers are cognisant of the Section 266 of that Act.
Its shares are quoted on Companys requirement for an above average level the London Stock Exchange.
of investment income, which is generated principally The Company has been approved by HM Revenue from UK equities and corporate bonds.
& Customs as an investment trust under The Companys performance in meeting its Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes objectives is measured against key performance Act 1988 for the year ended 30 September 2005. indicators as set out below.
A review of the As a result, it is not liable to corporation tax on Companys returns during the financial year, the capital gains.
In the opinion of the Directors, the position of the Company at the year end, and the Company has subsequently conducted its affairs so outlook for the coming year is contained in the as to enable it to continue to obtain approval as an Chairmans Statement on pages 2 to 4 and in the investment trust.
Managers Review on pages 6 to 13.
The Company is required to comply with company Principal Risks and Risk Management law, the rules of the UK Listing Authority, UK The Companys assets consist mainly of listed Financial Reporting Standards, and its Articles of securities and its principal risks are therefore marketAssociation.
The Company is also exposed to currency The Company is a member of the Association of risk in respect of overseas markets in which it Investment Companies AIC.
More detailed explanations of these risks and the way which they are managed are contained in notes 18 to 21 to the accounts.
Business Review Other risks faced by the Company include the The Board of Directors is responsible for the overall following: stewardship of the Company, including investment and dividend policies, corporate strategy, corporate External events such as terrorism, disease, governance, and risk management.
Biographical protectionism, inflation or deflation, economic details of the Directors, all of whom are nonrecessions and movements in interest rates could executive, can be found on page 18. affect share prices.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 19 Report of the Directors continued Investment and strategic incorrect strategy The Board measures the overall relative success of including use of gearing, asset allocation, and the Company against the benchmark index and stock selection could all lead to poor returns for against revenue growth.
Investment risks are spread through holding a wide Regulatory breach of regulatory rules could lead range of securities in different countries and to suspension of the Companys Stock Exchange industrial sectors.
As at 30 September 2006, the listing, financial penalties or a qualified audit portfolio was made up of 383 investments report.
Breach of Section 842 of the Income and in 25 different countries.
The Managers make use of Corporation Taxes Act 1988 could lead to the third party risk systems to monitor investment risk Company being subject to tax on capital gains.
and the Board receives quarterly risk reports.
At each Board meeting, the Board receives a Operational failure of the Managers accounting presentation from the lead fund manager and at systems or disruption to the Managers business, least once a year receives presentations from the or that of third party service providers, could lead regional and bond sub-portfolio managers who to an inability to provide accurate reporting and outline strategy, recent portfolio activity and market monitoring, leading to a loss of shareholders outlooks.
The Companys borrowings are represented by two Financial inadequate controls by the Managers 60 million Bonds, which are described in more or third party service providers could lead to detail in note 12 to the accounts.
The Board misappropriation of assets.
Inappropriate receives recommendations on gearing levels from accounting policies or failure to comply with the Managers and it is responsible for setting the accounting standards could lead to misreporting gearing range within which the Managers may or breaches of regulations.
The Companys potential gearing level as at 30 September 2006 was 25.4 per cent, and the The Board seeks to mitigate and manage these risks through continual review, policy setting, shareholder gearing level net of cash was 20.3 per cent represented by 13.6 per cent in equities and 6.7 communication and enforcement of contractual obligations.
It also regularly monitors the investment per cent in corporate bonds.
environment and the management of the The Board and the Managers recognise the Companys investment portfolio, and applies the importance of managing the discount of share price principles detailed in the guidance provided by the to net asset value in enhancing shareholder value.
Details of the Companys One aspect of this involves marketing, and to this internal controls are described in more detail on end the Managers meet with current and potential pages 24 and 25. new shareholders, and with stockbroking analysts who cover the investment trust sector, on a regular Management of Assets and Shareholder Value basis.
In addition, F&C Asset Management plc offers As stated above, the Board has contractually a range of private investor savings schemes which delegated the management of the investment have been successful in increasing the number of portfolio to F&C Asset Management plc.
shareholders in the Company in recent years.
The Company invests worldwide in companies Further information about savings schemes can be which the Managers believe will generate a found on page 50.
Communication of up-to date combination of long-term growth in capital and portfolio information is provided through the income for shareholders.
The selection of Companys website.
investments is based on analysis of, amongst other Key Performance Indicators things, market positioning and competitive The Board uses a number of performance measures advantage, financial strength and cashflow to assess the Companys success in meeting its characteristics.
20 British Assets Trust plc 2006 2005 objectives.
The key performance indicators are as Ordinary Ordinary follows: Shares Shares Net asset value total return against the benchmark index and comparable investment W R E Thomson Beneficial 9,600 9,600 trusts.
J M Long Beneficial 4,871 3,309 Discount of share price to net asset value.
J S MacLeod Beneficial 35,000 35,000 Earnings and dividend per share, and dividend yield relative to the peer group.
Non-Beneficial 9,500 9,500 Total expenses as a ratio of shareholders funds.
Dr C Masters Beneficial 19,373 18,511 A historical record of these indicators is contained in L C Ruddick Beneficial 33,343 27,896 the Financial Highlights for the Year on page 1 and J G West Beneficial 12,000 12,000 in the Ten Year Record on page 17.
Additional comments are provided in the Chairmans or subsequent date of appointment Statement on pages 2 to 4.
There have been no changes in the interests of the Charitable Donations Directors in the Ordinary Shares of the Company During the year the Company made donations to between 30 September 2006 and 17 November various local charities totalling 10,000 2005 2006 other than as a result of the quarterly 8,500. reinvestment of dividends.
Directors In addition to the above interests, Mr J S MacLeod On 1 May 2006 Mr J M Long, whose biographical had a beneficial interest in 50,000 units of the 6.625 details are shown on page 18, was appointed a per cent Bonds 2008 as at 30 September 2006 Director.
His business experience is directly relevant 2005: 50,000 units.
No other Director had an to the Companys circumstances.
In accordance interest in the Companys Bonds as at with the Companys Articles of Association he will 30 September 2006 or 30 September 2005. retire at the Annual General Meeting, being the first such meeting following his appointment and, being No Director has a contract of service with the eligible, offers himself for re-appointment.
Company or any material interest in any contract to which the Company is a party.
As explained in more detail under Corporate Governance on page 22, the Board has agreed that Directors who have served on the Board for more Directors Deeds of Indemnity than nine years will retire annually.
Accordingly, Following recent changes to the Companies Act Mr W R E Thomson, Dr C Masters and Mr J G West will retire at the Annual General Meeting and, being 1985 as a result of the Companies Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise Act 2004, eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
the Company is required to disclose that it has The Board confirms that, following formal entered into deeds of indemnity in favour of each of performance evaluations, the performance of each the Directors.
The deeds give each Director the of the Directors seeking re-election continues to benefit of an indemnity to the extent permitted by be effective and demonstrates commitment to the the act against liabilities incurred by him in the role.
The Board believes, therefore, that it is in the execution of his duties and the exercise of his interests of shareholders that these Directors are powers.
A copy of each deed of indemnity is re-elected.
available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and will be The Directors who held office at the end of the year available for inspection at the Annual General and their interests in the shares of the Company Meeting.
were: Annual Report and Accounts 2006 21 Report of the Directors continued Substantial Interests in Share Capital Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all At 17 November 2006 the following holdings the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined representing more than 3 per cent of the Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 the Companys issued share capital had been notified to the Company in accordance with Sections 198 to Combined Code, as well as setting out additional 208 of the Companies Act 1985: principles and recommendations on issues which are of specific relevance to the Company.
Number of Ordinary Shares Percentage Held Held The Board considers that it is appropriate to report against the principles and recommendations of the AXA Investment Managers 40,174,757 13.0 AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which Friends Provident Group 27,676,491 9.0 incorporates the Combined Code.
Legal & General Group 12,731,350 4.1 Except as disclosed below, the Company complied Includes discretionary retail products.
throughout the year with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of Management and Management Fees Section 1 of the Combined Code.
Since all the F&C Asset Management plc provides management Directors are non-executive the provisions of the and secretarial services to the Company.
A Combined Code in respect of the role of the chief summary of the contract between the Company and executive are not relevant to the Company and, F&C Asset Management plc in respect of those likewise, the provisions of the Combined Code services is given in note 3 to the accounts.
relating to Directors remuneration are not relevant except in so far as they relate specifically to nonSince the end of the year, the Management executive Directors.
For the reasons set out in the Engagement and Remuneration Committee has AIC Guide, and in the preamble to the Combined reviewed the appropriateness of the Managers Code, the Board considers that these provisions are appointment.
In carrying out its review the Committee considered the past investment not relevant to the Company, being an externally managed investment trust.
The Company has performance of the Company and the capability and resources of the Managers to deliver satisfactory therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
income growth and investment performance.
It also considered the length of the notice period of the In view of the requirement in the Articles of investment management contract and the fees Association that all Directors retire by rotation, the payable to the Managers, together with the standard Board considers that it is not appropriate for the of other services provided which include company Directors to be appointed for a specified term as secretarial, accounting and marketing.
7.2 of the Combined Code and principle 3 of the AIC Code.
Following this review, it is the Directors opinion that However, the Board has agreed that each the continuing appointment of the Managers on the Director will retire and, if appropriate, seek terms agreed is in the interests of shareholders.
re-election after each three years service, and annually after serving on the Board for more than Corporate Governance nine years.
Arrangements in respect of corporate governance, appropriate to an investment trust, have been made The Companys full portfolio list will be made by the Board.
The Board has considered the available on its website following publication of principles and recommendations of the Association the Annual and Interim Reports.
The Company of Investment Companies Code of Corporate does not, however, publish the full portfolio list in Governance issued in February 2006 AIC Code by the Annual Report as recommended by principle reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide 21 of the AIC Code.
The portfolio comprised for Investment Companies AIC Guide.
The AIC 383 investments as at 30 September 2006 and it 22 British Assets Trust plc is not considered practicable to publish this The Company has no executive Directors or information.
The 50 largest investments, which employees.
A management agreement between the represented 63.0 per cent of the Companys total Company and its Managers, F&C Asset assets as at 30 September 2006, are disclosed Management plc, sets out the matters over which on pages 14 and 15 and the largest investments the Managers have authority and the limits beyond in each of the regional sub-portfolios are which Board approval must be sought.
All other disclosed on pages 9 to 12. matters, including strategy, investment and dividend policies, gearing, and corporate governance The Board consists solely of non-executive procedures, are reserved for the approval of the Board of Directors.
The Board meets seven times a Directors.
Mr W R E Thomson is Chairman and Mr J G West is the Senior Independent Director.
All year and receives full information on the Companys investment performance, assets, liabilities and other Directors are considered by the Board to be relevant information in advance of Board meetings.
independent of the Companys Managers.
During the year the Board reviewed its composition taking The Managers, in the absence of explicit instructions from the Board, are empowered to exercise into account not only the need for refreshment over time but also the balance of skills, experience and discretion in the use of the Companys voting rights.
All shareholdings are voted at all meetings tenure.
It subsequently employed the services of an external search consultant to assist with the worldwide where practicable in accordance with the Managers own corporate governance policy, which recruitment of a new Director and Mr J M Long, who is considered by the Board to be independent is to seek to maximise shareholder value by constructive use of votes at company meetings and of the Companys Managers, was appointed as a Director on 1 May 2006. by endeavouring to use its influence as an investor.
New Directors receive an induction from the Throughout the year, the Audit Committee, the Management Engagement and Remuneration Managers on joining the Board, and all Directors receive other relevant training as necessary.
Committee, and the Nomination Committee met as required.
Mr W R E Thomson, Dr C Masters and Mr J G West have served on the Board for more than nine years The Audit Committee, chaired by Mr J S MacLeod, operates within clearly defined written terms of and, as recommended by the Combined Code and the AIC Code, will seek re-election annually.
The reference and comprises all of the Directors except Board subscribes to the view expressed in the AIC for Mr W R E Thomson.
The duties of the Audit Committee in discharging its responsibilities include Code that long-serving Directors should not be prevented from forming part of an independent reviewing the Annual and Interim Accounts, the system of internal controls, and the terms of majority.
It does not consider that a Directors tenure necessarily reduces his or her ability to act appointment of the auditors together with their remuneration.
It is also the forum through which the independently and, following formal performance evaluations, believes that each Director is auditors report to the Board of Directors.
It meets at least twice yearly.
The objectivity of the auditors is independent in character and judgement and that there are no relationships or circumstances which reviewed by the Audit Committee which also reviews the terms under which the external auditors are are likely to affect the judgement of any Director.
The Boards policy on tenure is that continuity and appointed to perform non-audit services.
The experience are considered to add significantly to the Committee reviews the scope and results of the audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence strength of the Board and, as such, no limit on the overall length of services of any of the Companys and objectivity of the auditors, with particular regard to non-audit fees.
Such fees amounted to 11,000 Directors, including the Chairman, has been imposed.
for the year ended 30 September 2006 2005: Annual Report and Accounts 2006 23 Report of the Directors continued 5,000 and related principally to the provision of a account the ongoing requirements of the Company review of the interim accounts and taxation services.
and the need to have a balance of skills and Notwithstanding such services the Audit Committee experience within the Board.
considers Ernst & Young LLP to be independent of During the year the performance of the Board, the Company.
committees and individual Directors was evaluated The Management Engagement and Remuneration through a formal assessment process, led by the Committee, chaired by Mr W R E Thomson, Chairman.
This involved the completion of comprises the full Board and reviews the questionnaires tailored to suit the nature of the appropriateness of the Managers continuing Company, and follow-up discussions between the appointment together with the terms and conditions Chairman and each of the Directors.
The thereof on a regular basis.
performance of the Chairman was evaluated by the other Directors under the leadership of the Senior The Nomination Committee, chaired by Mr W R E Independent Director.
Thomson, comprises the full Board and is convened for the purpose of considering the appointment of The following table sets out the number of Board additional Directors as and when considered and Committee meetings held during the year ended appropriate.
In considering appointments to the 30 September 2006 and the number of meetings Board, the Nomination Committee takes into attended by each Director.
Management Engagement and Remuneration Board of Directors Audit Committee Committee Nomination Committee Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended W R E Thomson Chairman 7 7 n a n a 1 1 1 1 J M Long appointed 1 May 2006 7 2 2 1 1 1 J S MacLeod 7 7 2 2 1 1 1 1 C Masters 7 7 2 2 1 1 1 1 L C Ruddick 7 7 2 2 1 1 1 1 J G West 7 6 2 2 1 1 1 1 Individual Directors may, at the expense of the Internal Control Company, seek independent professional advice on The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
any matter that concerns them in the furtherance of The Board has therefore established an ongoing their duties.
The Company maintains appropriate process designed to meet the particular needs of Directors and Officers liability insurance.
the Company in managing the risks to which it is Going Concern exposed, consistent with the guidance provided by Aftermakingenquiries,  the Turnbull Committee.
The process is based of the Companys business and assets, the Directors principally on the Managers existing risk-based consider that the Company has adequate resources approach to internal control whereby a test matrix is  created that identifies the key functions carried out future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the by the Managers and other service providers, the .
individual activities undertaken within those functions, the risks associated with each activity and 24 British Assets Trust plc the controls employed to minimise those risks.
A Meeting of the Company provides a forum, both residual risk rating is then applied.
The test matrix is formal and informal, for shareholders to meet and regularly updated and the Board is provided with discuss issues with the Directors and Managers of regular reports highlighting all material changes to the Company.
The Notice for the forthcoming the risk ratings and confirming the action which has Annual General Meeting, to be held on been, or is being, taken.
A formal annual review of 20 December 2006, is set out on pages 51 and these procedures is carried out by the Audit 52.
The Annual Report and Notice of Annual Committee and includes consideration of internal General Meeting is, where practicable, sent to control reports issued by the Managers and other shareholders at least 20 working days before the service providers.
Such review procedures have been in place throughout the financial year and up to the date of Financial Instruments approval of the Annual Report, and the Board is The Companys financial instruments comprise its satisfied with their effectiveness.
By their nature investment portfolio, bonds, cash balances, these procedures can provide reasonable, but not overdrafts, debtors and creditors that arise directly absolute, assurance against material misstatement from its operations such as sales and purchases or loss.
At each Board meeting the Board monitors awaiting settlement and accrued income.
The the investment performance of the Company in financial risk management objective and policies comparison to its stated objective, the benchmark arising from its financial instruments and the index, and against comparable investment trusts.
exposure of the Company to risk are disclosed in The Board also reviews the Companys activities notes 1, 18, 19, 20 and 21 of the accounts.
since the last Board meeting to ensure that the Managers adhere to the agreed investment policy Directors Authority to Allot Shares and approved investment guidelines and, if The Directors are seeking authority to allot shares.
necessary, approves changes to such policy and Resolution 9 will, if passed, authorise the Directors guidelines.
to allot new shares up to an aggregate nominal The Board has reviewed the need for an internal amount of 7,712,807, being 10 per cent of the audit function.
The Board has decided that the total issued shares as at 17 November 2006. systems and procedures employed by the Resolution 10 will, if passed, authorise the Directors Managers, including their internal audit function and to allot new shares up to an aggregate nominal the work carried out by the Companys external amount of 3,856,403, being 5 per cent of the auditors, provide sufficient assurance that a sound total issued shares as at 17 November 2006, for system of internal control, which safeguards the cash without first offering such shares to existing Companys assets, is maintained.
An internal audit shareholders pro rata to their existing holdings.
function, specific to the Company, is therefore These authorities will continue until the conclusion considered unnecessary.
of the Annual General Meeting in 2007.
The Directors will only allot new shares pursuant to Relations with Shareholders these authorities if they believe it is advantageous The Company welcomes the views of shareholders to the Companys shareholders to do so and will and places great importance on communication not result in a dilution of net asset value per share.
The Managers hold meetings with the The Directors consider that the authorities Companys largest shareholders and report back to proposed in resolutions 9 and 10 are necessary to the Board on these meetings.
The Chairman and retain flexibility, although they do not have any other Directors are available to, and do, meet intention of exercising such authorisation at the shareholders if required.
The Annual General present time.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 25 Report of the Directors continued Directors Authority to Buy Back Shares Auditors During the year the Company purchased for Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness cancellation 14,800,000 Ordinary Shares with an to continue in office as auditors and a resolution aggregate nominal value of 3,700,000 for a total proposing their re-appointment will be submitted at consideration of 19,395,000 representing 4.6 per the Annual General Meeting.
cent of the Ordinary Shares in issue at the previous Individual Savings Accounts and Personal year end.
Equity Plans The current authority of the Company to make The Companys shares are qualifying investments as market purchases of up to 14.99 per cent of the defined by HM Revenue & Customs regulations for issued Ordinary Shares expires at the end of the Individual Savings Accounts and Personal Equity Annual General Meeting and Resolution 11, as set Plans.
It is the current intention of the Directors that out in the notice of the Annual General Meeting, the Company will continue to conduct its affairs to seeks renewal of such authority.
The renewed satisfy this requirement.
authority to make market purchases will be in respect of a maximum of 14.99 per cent of the Creditor Payment Policy issued Ordinary Shares of the Company as at the The Companys payment policy is to settle date of the passing of the resolution approximately investment transactions in accordance with market 46 million Ordinary Shares.
The price paid for practice and to ensure settlement of supplier shares will not be less than the nominal value of 25p invoices in accordance with stated terms.
The per share nor more than 5 per cent above the Company did not have any trade creditors at the average of the middle market values of those shares year end.
for the five business days before the shares are purchased.
This power will only be exercised if, in Environment the opinion of the Directors, a purchase will result in The Companys Managers, F&C Asset Management an increase in net asset value per share and is in plc, are leaders in the field of socially responsible the interests of the shareholders.
Any shares investment and, with the support of the Board, purchased under this authority will be cancelled.
actively engage with investee companies.
This authority will expire on the later of 19 June Environmental factors are, therefore, where 2008 and the conclusion of the next Annual General appropriate, taken into consideration with regard to Meeting of the Company.
investment decisions on behalf of the Company.
Disclosure of Information to Auditors The Directors confirm that, so far as each of the By order of the Board Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit G R Hay Smith information of which the Companys auditors are unaware and the Directors have taken all the steps Secretary that they ought to have taken as Directors in order 80 George Street to make themselves aware of any relevant audit Edinburgh EH2 3BU information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
17 November 2006 26 British Assets Trust plc
