Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Investment Managers Review During the year, British Empires NAV rose 14.3% and the share price also rose 14.3% on a total return basis.
This compares with a return of 12.1% on the Datastream Global Growth Investment Trust Index and 8.7% on the MSCI World Index on a total return basis.
The returns on the portfolio were in solid positive territory this year and ahead of our benchmark index, a good result following three years of exceptionally strong performance.
We wrote in last years report that valuations in the markets were beginning to get stretched and we raised some liquidity as a hedge against market weakness.
As it has turned out, markets continued to rise and at the date of this report many equity markets are approaching all-time highs.
Our concerns on valuations have, therefore, not eased and we find ourselves finishing the year with an increased liquidity position of 160m or 21.8% of gross assets.
The weighted average discount on your portfolio now stands at 13%.
This is at the narrower end of a range of 10% to 26% observed over the past 5 years.
All things being equal, the state of discounts in the market implies to us that there is less margin of Forth Ports safety available from holding such investments and that there is also less scope for adding operates ports on the Leith estuary as well as value through the elimination or narrowing of discounts.
Improved corporate Dundee and Tilbury.
governance and increasing shareholder activism are plausible reasons to believe that It also has large land holdings in Leith which some narrowing of discounts over the past few years is justified.
However, we prefer to it is planning to be somewhat cautious and assume that most markets revert to the mean over time and redevelop for residential that discounts may widen should the investment environment become more challenging.
and commercial use 9 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Investment Managers Review continued EMI Group is the world's largest independent music recording and publishing company.
It owns the rights to over one million songs, the largest catalogue in the world.
EMI's record labels include Blue Note, EMI, Parlophone, Virgin, and Capitol Records Reasonable price earnings ratios PERs are cited by bullish observers as being supportive of equity markets.
In order to form an opinion on whether PERs are low or high one has to understand where we are in the economic cycle.
We have had several very strong years of economic growth driven by abnormally low interest rates.
Consumers have been encouraged to take on high debt burdens, in effect borrowing growth from the future.
Meanwhile globalisation has kept wage growth in check and corporate profit margins, as a result, are at historically high levels.
Furthermore, cyclical stocks now make up a large percentage of the indices and are trading at low multiples, making the markets as a whole look cheaper.
An economic slowdown, if it comes, could severely undermine the earnings of many cyclical stocks and make the markets much more expensive than they appear today.
So, PER based valuations may not be much help if economies slow next year.
10 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 We have profited very much over the past 4 years from being invested in the type of stock that has benefited from the reflationary stimulus provided by central banks.
Mining and energy stocks, emerging markets, property-related shares and small capitalisation stocks have all performed well in recent years.
Low interest rates have also encouraged corporate activity and leveraged buyouts.
We are now taking some of these cyclical bets off the table in anticipation of slower economic growth on the horizon.
Where we can find solid defensive stocks at reasonable valuations, we may buy them.
If we cannot, we are prepared to hold liquidity for some period of time.
The markets seem to be pricing in a continuation of a Goldilocks scenario, in which economic activity is neither too hot nor too cold but just right to keep profits growing while allowing inflation and interest rates to remain under control.
While this outcome is possible, it is also unusual and should not be assumed as a base case.
We have always sought to preserve capital and consider the downside as well as the upside in any investment opportunity.
Our impression of the investment environment currently leads us to take a cautious stance, including a good measure of liquidity.
So, we are pleased to have more than kept pace with the markets this year but are perhaps most satisfied about having done so while taking less risk than the markets.
Portfolio Review The largest contributors to our 14.3% NAV total return performance during the Deutsche Wohnen year were Mitsubishi Estates 1.3%, Paladin Resources 1.0%, PD Ports 0.8%, owns over 20,000 Forth Ports 0.7%, Deutsche Wohnen 0.7%, Investor AB A 0.7%, Kinross Gold residential units 0.6%, Vietnam Enterprise 0.6%, Birch Mountain 0.6% and Boskalis in Germany Westminster 0.5%.
The largest detractor from performance was Fording Canadian Coal -0.7%.
Investment Holding Companies 28.8% The weighted average discount to NAV on our investment holding companies was 23.6%.
This is wider than last year as we have rotated the portfolio towards companies offering wider discount opportunities.
Sofina Sofina is a Belgian holding company and is the investment vehicle of the Bol family.
The family control the company via two listed companies and a web of private companies, giving them a stake in Sofina of around 50%.
Sofinas investment portfolio is approximately 3.5bn EUR in size and is invested primarily in large listed companies in Belgium and France including Richemont, Suez, Danone, Colruyt and Total.
The company trades at a wide discount to NAV of approximately 27%.
We believe there 11 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Investment Managers Review continued is potential for the discount to narrow if the company were to consider share buybacks and a simplification of the ownership structure.
Hutchison Whampoa Hutchison is Hong Kongs largest conglomerate and forms part of the Cheung Kong Group Li Ka Shings business empire.
It is engaged in 5 core business divisions: property, ports, retail and manufacturing, energy and infrastructure, and telecoms.
Trading on a Jardine Strategic discount to NAV of approximately 26%, the market is not attributing any value to its 3G Holdings telecom business.
The reason for this is that this business continues to invest in its Jardine Motors Group infrastructure and is cash flow negative.
The delay of the sale of the 3G business in Italy above is engaged in the distribution, sales also damaged sentiment towards the stock.
In the meantime however, the other divisions and servicing of motor continue to progress.
Hutchison is a global leader in ports, it has a high quality property vehicles in Hong Kong, Macau, Southern China portfolio in Hong Kong and the performance of Husky Energy continues to be strong.
In Hong Kong, the Paris Orlans Groups Mercedes-Benz franchise, Zung Fu, has The holding company of the French branch of the Rothschild family has had a good achieved the highest year as the investment bank has benefited from a very strong M&A environment.
The market penetration in the world for the brand.
bank is currently experiencing high levels of demand for its advisory services and this is reflected in higher revenues and profits for the group.
At the same time, the direct Jardine also holds shares in Mandarin Oriental investment division of the holding company has made some disposals and continues to opposite page, a advance its property development projects, most notably in Lodz, Poland.
listed international hotel investment and management group with Investor AB A a portfolio of 31 deluxe The holding company of the Swedish Wallenberg family has seen its discount to NAV and first class hotels worldwide, including ten narrow from approximately 27% a year ago to 21% currently.
The wider than average under development discount 12 months ago was probably caused by concern over its 3G investment in Scandinavia.
Sentiment towards the company has improved with greater disclosure from management about this business and its other private equity investments, as well as a greater level of corporate activity within the group.
The company was involved in the acquisition of Gambro and also has a large stake in Scania which has been the subject of bid activity from MAN.
Investment Trusts and Funds 27.2% Discounts on our investment trust holdings average 8.3%.
From these levels our focus is on accessing desired asset classes and good managers at a discount rather than seeking to gain from discount narrowing in poorly performing trusts.
Edinburgh Dragon We bought into this trust to access the expertise of Aberdeens respected Asian team on a discount wider than was available on Aberdeen New Dawn.
The discount on Dragon is currently 7.5% vs. 1.5% for New Dawn, despite better liquidity and slightly better performance for Dragon over the past year.
12 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Electra Private Equity A relatively defensive investment in a company with 42% of assets currently in cash.
The invested portion of the portfolio is invested directly in private equity.
We judge the portfolio to be conservatively valued relative to its peers and, based upon the past record, some uplifts may be anticipated upon disposal of investments.
Law Debenture Law Debenture is a global growth trust that appears to trade on a premium of 6%.
This is before accounting for the value of its trustee business which is not credited with any value in the balance sheet.
The trustee business has been valued by a leading broker recently at 73.2m which, if accurate, would place the shares on a wider than average 12.4% discount.
The Alliance Trust The Alliance Trust completed the merger with its sister company Second Alliance during the year.
As part of the transaction, the company took buyback powers for the first time.
As yet, no shares have been bought back despite a wide 12.9% discount to NAV at the date of this report.
Property-related 12.9% A savings glut globally has led to a search for steady yields and property has been amongst the main beneficiaries.
Many listed property companies have been driven to premiums to NAV and are no longer attractive to us.
Hidden property plays, such as Forth Ports, or laggard markets, such as Germany and Japan, may still offer some value.
Forth Ports Forth is now the last remaining UK listed ports company following the acquisitions of Mersey Docks, PD Ports, AB Ports and Simon Group.
The group owns a large land bank in the Leith area of Edinburgh and is working on a master plan for its regeneration and development over the next 20 years or so.
Financial investors have been attracted to ports businesses by the relatively secure cash flows they provide while at the same time the redevelopment of redundant port land into more valuable real estate assets can provide upside.
The demand from these buyers for ports companies has pushed up valuations in the sector and Forth trades at a discount to the value implied by recent corporate activity in the sector.
Deutsche Wohnen This residential property investor has a portfolio of approximately 22,000 units in Germany and was paying a dividend of around 6% when we started investing in it.
A weak economic environment in the country has meant that property values had not increased to the same extent as other European markets and absolute values were consequently low.
International investors were attracted to the sector for this reason 13 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Investment Managers Review continued and there has been a lot of activity as large portfolios are sold by local authorities and industrial owners.
Prices have recently risen and yields have fallen.
Nippon Residential Nippon Residential is a Japanese Real Estate Investment Trust JREIT specialising in residential property.
It has a portfolio of 106 buildings, the vast majority of which are in the Greater Tokyo area.
The company currently yields approx 4.5% and we believe it trades at a small discount to its NAV.
NTT Urban NTT Urban is a Japanese property investor and developer with a focus on Grade A commercial buildings in Central Tokyo and residential condominium development.
The company currently trades at a discount of c30% to our estimate of its NAV, in contrast to some of its peers which trade on a premium to NAV.
Commodity Resources 5.4% Our weighting in this area has reduced from 10.8% last year to 5.4%.
Although in the long term the growth rates of China and India and the rising cost of production are supportive of most commodity prices, we should not forget that these are highly cyclical markets.
The fact that we have just witnessed one of the great commodity rallies and are heading into a period of slower economic growth should prompt some caution.
Tokyu Corporation owns and operates Addax Petroleum a passenger rail An international oil E&P company with a focus on offshore West Africa.
The company service in Tokyo.
In addition, the has strong growth in its production and reserves at a time when oil majors are company owns real struggling to maintain their position.
The company has recently acquired Pan-Ocean estate assets including department stores, which expands its reach into Gabon.
offices and hotels Liquidity 21.8% Liquidity stood at 21.8% of gross assets at the end of the year.
Other 3.9% Net Asset Value Total Returns: % Change Since 30 06 85 10 years 5 years 3years 1 year British Empire 1648.6 280.9 142.8 103.7 14.3 AIC Global Growth 808.0 125.6 66.5 68.9 13.5 MSCI World 615.2 75.8 29.8 43.5 8.7 Source: AIC, Fundamental Data and Datastream 14 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Paris Orlans The planned redevelopment of the Beaugrenelle Shopping Centre in Paris 15th arrondissement is an example of Paris Orlans joint venture real estate activities Geographical Profile Total assets less current liabilities of 733m were distributed on a look-through basis as follows: Continental Europe 19.9%, UK 24.2%, Asia Pacific 12.9%, Japan 14.5%, Canada 4.6%, EMEA 2.1% and Liquidity of 21.8%.
Outlook The economy in the US appears to be headed for a slowdown next year.
This will affect the rest of the world as the US consumer has driven demand growth in the last few years.
So far, equity markets have hailed the impending slowdown as a positive development with the prospect of higher interest rates receding and commodity prices beginning to weaken.
It is thought that PER multiples could expand if a soft-landing is achieved.
Slowing growth, however, may also fide-rail earnings which are historically high as a percentage of GDP.
With markets near all-time highs and earnings vulnerable, we are concerned that the negatives from slowing economic growth may outweigh the positives of lower commodity prices and interest rates.
We have chosen to take a more defensive stance towards the markets but we continue to watch for opportunities to make new investments at attractive levels.
John Pennink Asset Value Investors Limited 13 November 2006 15
