20 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2006 Business review continued Proposal to return capital to shareholders To elect to receive the special dividend As indicated in the Chairmans statement, on such number of ordinary shares it is intended that around 128m will be as to maintain, after taking into account returned to shareholders through an other shareholders elections, their elective special dividend and associated proportionate interests in Caledonia capital reduction.
at the same level as prior to the special Under the proposal, Caledonia dividend the pro rata option.
shareholders will be offered the opportunity to receive a special dividend on one All ordinary shares on which ordinary out of every ten shares held.
Shares on shareholders validly elect to receive the which a shareholder elects to receive the special dividend will be cancelled for special dividend will be cancelled for no no further consideration pursuant to consideration, pursuant to a Court approved a reduction of capital.
The total number of ordinary shares on which the special Cash flows dividend will be paid is limited to 6,410,579 The key cash flows during the year were ordinary shares, based on the 64,105,796 the aggregate proceeds of 314.0m ordinary shares in issue excluding ordinary 2005 218.5m from the realisation shares held in treasury as at 26 May 2006. of investments and outflow of 160.2m The special dividend payable in relation to 2005 127.4m for the purchase of each share to be cancelled will be an investments.
In addition, in the prior year, amount equal to the net asset value per there was a cash outflow of 88.0m in share at a specified date, expected to be respect of the elective special dividend 7 July 2006, discounted by 3%.
Actual paid on 2 July 2004. payment of the dividend is expected to be on or around 13 July 2006.
Liquidity Under the terms of the special dividend With cash equivalents and money market offer, all shareholders have the following funds totalling 179.6m, Caledonia has a choices: high level of liquidity.
Successful completion of the bid for Kerzner International would To do nothing and therefore continue to yield around a further 131m in cash hold all of their ordinary shares.
To elect to receive the special dividend in respect of one out of ten shares held the basic entitlement.
To elect to receive the special dividend on a number of ordinary shares less than their basic entitlement the under election option.
To elect to receive the special dividend on a number of shares greater than their basic entitlement, with such elections only being accepted to the extent that other ordinary shareholders elect to receive the under election option or do not elect to receive the special dividend at all the over election option.
