City of London report 13 9 06 09:22 Page 8 8 The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2006 Portfolio Managers Report Investment Background UK Equity Market Performance FTSE All-Share Index - 4% Capped from 30.06.05 to 30.06.06 rebased to 100 During the year under review, the UK stockmarket rose by 18% excluding income, as measured by the FTSE All- 130 Share 4% Capped Index.
Although there was some slow 125 down in domestic growth, this was offset by a pick-up in 120 overseas markets, such as Europe.
In addition, emerging markets, such as China, continued to grow strongly.
A 115 feature of the period was a large number of takeover bids 110 for UK companies both from overseas companies and from 105 private equity firms.
In the second quarter of 2006, UK 100 equities, along with equities in overseas markets, underwent a sharp correction as investors became more 95 J AS O N D J FM A M J risk averse in the light of rising interest rates across the FTSE All-Share Index 4% Capped Price Index Source: Thomson Financial, Datastream world and high commodity prices.
Over the twelve months, we maintained a relatively cautious stance to gearing given concerns about the duration of the Base Rates, 10 Year UK Government & FTSE All-Share Index stockmarket and economic upswings.
Gearing started the 4% Capped Yields from 30.06.05 to 30.06.06 period at 6.6% and stayed within a range of 6.6% to 5.0 9.1% before ending the year at 6.2%.
This compares with gearing of 12.3% on 30 June 2003 when the equity 4.5 market was at a lower level.
4.0 Interest Rate, Fixed Interest and Equity Yields 3.5 UK base rates were cut from 4.75% to 4.5% in August 2005 in response to the slowdown in the domestic 3.0 economy.
Although they remained unchanged for the 2.5 remaining ten months of the period under review, market JF AS ONM D J MA J expectations grew that the next move would be upwards UK Base Rate 10 Year Gilt FTSE All-Share Index - 4% Capped Yield Source: Thomson Financial, Datastream given the pressure on UK inflation from the rises in the price of oil, other commodities and utility bills.
The rise in ten year British Government bond yields to 4.73% at the Commodity Prices US$ from 30.06.05 to 30.06.06 rebased to 100 end of June 2006 was a reflection of the change in market expectations.
The dividend yield of the equity market 350 fluctuated around 3% over the year.
The average increase 300 in the dividend rate of companies held by City of London 250 was around 10.5% excluding special dividends over the twelve months.
200 150 Oil, Commodity and Precious Metal Prices As illustrated in the chart opposite, there was a remarkable 100 rise in the prices of oil, commodities and precious metals.
50 Over the twelve months, the price of crude oil rose by J AS O N D J FM A M J Oil Copper Zinc Gold 28%, copper by 109%, zinc by 167% and gold by 40%.
Source: Thomson Financial, Datastream City of London report 13 9 06 09:22 Page 9 The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2006 9 Portfolio Managers Report continued These sharp rises were partly the result of the growth in Portfolio Activity demand from rapidly growing emerging countries, such as The change in City of Londons benchmark has the greatest China, being met with a limited increase in supply from oil impact on the Oil sector holdings because BP and Royal and mining companies due to the difficulty of discovering Dutch Shell are both capped at 4% each in the new and extracting these commodities quickly.
In addition, there benchmark whilst they were 7.3% and 7.1% respectively in was also significant investment demand for these the old benchmark at 30 June 2006.
The increase in the commodities from funds.
The effect of these rises was to price of oil had a disappointingly muted effect on the share increase the cost for consumers of these commodities price performance of the two leading UK oil companies.
whether they be companies or individuals.
Rising taxes and costs offset some of the improvement in their profitability from the high value of their oil production and booming conditions in the refining of oil.
The Performance of Higher Yielding Compared with replacement of oil reserves continued to be a struggle due to Lower Yielding Shares intense competition from private and state owned The chart below compares the return of the FTSE 350 companies.
City of Londons holdings of the two companies Higher Yield Index the higher dividend yielding half of the were reduced during the year with BP falling from 6.9% to largest 350 shares in the UK with the FTSE 350 Lower 4.7% and Royal Dutch Shell from 4.5% to 2.9%.
Some of Yield Index the lower dividend yielding half of the largest the proceeds were reinvested in the Italian international oil 350 shares in the UK.
As can be seen, lower yielding company, ENI, which has, in our view, particularly good shares significantly outperformed higher yielding shares medium-term oil production growth prospects.
Overall, the over the year, which led to the relative underperformance portfolios exposure to the Oil sector fell over the twelve for this year of City of London whose portfolio has a bias months from 12.5% to 9.8%.
Some of the higher yielding shares, such as those in the Banks sector, were adversely Mining shares performed spectacularly well with the affected by the rise in British Government bond yields.
On companies delivering dramatic increases in profits.
Over the other hand, the lower yielding mining sector produced the year, the share prices of City of Londons holdings in dramatic outperformance, rising by 70%.
In contrast, over Rio Tinto rose by 67%, Anglo American by 69% and the last five years to 30 June 2006 the return on the FTSE BHP Billiton by 47%.
In addition, a holding in 350 Higher Yield Index exceeded that of the FTSE 350 Kazakhmys, a Kazakhstan copper company, was Lower Yield Index by some twenty-nine percentage points.
purchased when it floated on the London Stock Exchange in October 2005 and it had more than doubled by 30 June Return on FTSE 350 Higher Yield and Lower Yield Indices 2006.
Although the portfolios exposure to the Mining rebased to 100 sector rose from 3.0% to 5.1%, this exposure was less 140 than the average for the benchmark partly because of the low dividend yields in the sector and partly because of our 130 doubts about the medium-term sustainability of the current level of metal prices.
The relatively cautious stance 120 on mining shares was a significant factor that reduced performance compared with the benchmark.
110 Three industrial companies that have been in the portfolio 100 for many years were taken over by foreign companies: in the Chemical sector, BOC, the industrial gases group, and 90 J AS O N D J FM A M J in the Construction and Materials sector, BPB, the FTSE 350 Higher Yield FTSE 350 Lower Yield Source: Thomson Financial, Datastream plasterboard group and Pilkington, the glass maker.
The takeover prices for BOC, BPB and Pilkington were City of London report 13 9 06 09:22 Page 10 10 The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2006 Portfolio Managers Report continued significantly above where their shares had previously been compared with the other banks which was not justified on trading in the market.
In the Construction and Materials fundamentals.
Significant additional purchases were made sector, two new holdings were purchased on attractive in Lloyds TSB which offered a highly attractive dividend dividend yields: Marshalls, the UK manufacturer of patio yield, scope to improve profits from additional corporate and driveway paving stones, and Prosperity Minerals, an banking services, and turnaround potential for its life AIM listed company, which owns a large and rapidly assurance company, Scottish Widows.
growing cement plant in China.
In the Pharmaceutical sector, the holding in AstraZeneca The other area for takeovers that affected City of London was sold given its weak pipeline of new medicines in was ports sea and air.
The holdings in BAA, P & O and research and development.
This proved to be a mistake as PD Ports were all taken over by a mixture of foreign AstraZeneca was a strong share price performer although companies and private equity infrastructure funds.
The it offered a below average dividend yield.
A new holding high prices paid for these companies indicated a strong was purchased in Roche, the Swiss pharmaceutical demand for other assets which had stable cash flows, such company, which has a rapidly growing portfolio of recently as Utilities.
Significant additions in the Utilities sector were launched medicines, especially in the cancer area.
made to the holdings of National Grid and Scottish In the Beverages sector, significant additions were made to Power where the outlook of steady growth seemed to be the holding in Diageo, the worlds largest producer of undervalued.
In addition, two new holdings were alcoholic beverages.
In our view, Diageos growth purchased in the Electricity sector: ENEL, the leading prospects in the US and some emerging markets and the Italian electricity company, on a high dividend yield, and strength of its brands were overlooked by the market.
The Drax, the owner in North Yorkshire of the large coal-fired shares have performed well since the purchases were electricity power station which is currently experiencing made.
New holdings were also purchased in a number of In Telecommunications, significant additions were made to medium-sized companies: Britvic, the soft drinks company the holding in BT where the share price valuation did not and Pepsi bottler for the UK: Dairy Crest, the seem to be reflecting its scope for cost reduction in its manufacturer and distributor of dairy products: Davis traditional telecoms business and the growth of its global Service, the linen hire and laundry service company: 888, information technology services division.
The holding in the online casino and poker business: RHM, the food and Vodafone was reduced given the continuing competitive cake manufacturer: Topps Tiles, the tile retailer: and and regulatory pressure in mobile telecommunications.
A Premier Farnell, the UK and US distributor of electronic holding was retained in Vodafone given its attractive yield components and equipment.
In addition, a convertible of after the doubling of its dividend.
A new holding was Punch Taverns, the pub group, was bought.
Other sales purchased in France Telecom, the fixed line network in across the portfolio included: Smith & Nephew Health France and owner of the mobile operator Orange.
France Care sector, Resolution Life Insurance sector and Telecom produced a good dividend income but was a poor Reuters and GCAP Media Media sector.
share price performer due to disappointments with its fixed line business in France.
Outlook The portfolios two investments in the Real Estate sector in The Banks sector is the biggest sector in the portfolio at France, Silic and Unibail, were both sold after strong 15.9% of the total with three banks HSBC, Lloyds TSB performance because their valuation seemed to fully reflect and Barclays amongst the largest ten investments.
In the UK Real Estate sector, large holdings were sector has for some time seemed to be modestly rated maintained and the progress towards a tax transparent with attractive dividend growth and yields.
There is no REIT status for UK property companies was encouraging.
doubt that the banks are to some extent a victim of their size with investors reluctant to have too great an exposure In the Banks sector, the holding in Alliance & Leicester to any one sector in their portfolios.
In addition, there is was sold because it was on a significant premium rating 4.6% City of London report 13 9 06 09:22 Page 11 The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2006 11 Portfolio Managers Report continued genuine concern about the impact an economic recession levels given their profitability at the current level of the oil could have on banking profits given the high level of price.
In our view, such concerns are In the Consumer Goods area, the biggest two holdings are more than reflected in the valuation of the banks which British American Tobacco third largest investment in the takes no account of their diversification.
HSBC is a portfolio and Diageo fourth largest.
Both these genuinely global bank with less than 25% of profits companies should continue to produce steady growth in deriving from the UK and with significant businesses in the profits given the strength of their brands in many different US, the Far East and Latin America.
about the prospects for Lloyds TSB as discussed in the Portfolio Activity section above.
Barclays has a major Real Estate is the third biggest sector in the portfolio with international capital markets division as well as banking 6.4% of the total.
The governments legislation to effect the businesses in countries such as South Africa.
The catalyst tax transparent REIT status should give the leading UK for share price outperformance from the banks is likely to companies a further boost and investors will receive a be a market perception that interest rates have peaked significant uplift in dividends.
Land Securities, the because that would signify expectations of a subsequent portfolios tenth largest investment, is particularly well improvement in economic growth.
In our view, the Banks placed in this regard.
sector has significant upside from current levels once this Finally, further takeovers across the portfolio are likely over the turning point is reached.
next twelve months given the UKs open system for corporate The second biggest sector in the portfolio is the Oil sector control and the current low level of bond yields.
At the same 9.8% of the total with BP and Royal Dutch Shell time, Londons position as a leading stockmarket and pool of among the ten largest investments.
For the reasons capital leads to a continuing pipeline of companies being discussed in the Portfolio Activity section above, BP and floated.
Royal Dutch Shell were disappointing performers last year.
In our view, both companies offer good value at current Job Curtis Distribution of the Portfolio Estimated Performance Attribution Analysis at 30 June 2006 for the year to 30 June 2006 total returns relative to the FTSE All-Share Index 4% Capped for 2006 and the FTSE AllLarge companies constituents of the FTSE 100 Index Share Index for 2005 Medium-sized companies constituents of the FTSE 250 Index European Equities 2006 2005 Convertibles Stock Selection including 0.4% income -3.42% 2.84% Gearing 0.42% 0.80% Expenses -0.44% -0.74% 16.6% Share Issues Buy Backs n a 0.09% Total -3.44% 2.99% Source: Henderson Global Investors Limited 78.4%
