City of London report 13 9 06 17:26 Page 14 14 The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2006 Directors Simon fide Zoete, Chairman Mark Nicholls Angus Russell Sir Keith Stuart age Anita Frew age 49 age 65 is a non-executive age 57 was Head of age 50 is the Chief 66 is a Member of The will be appointed to the Director of Mallett plc and was Corporate Finance at SG Financial Officer of Shire Gas & Electricity Markets Board on 1 October Deputy Chairman of Credit Warburg and Chief plc.
He is a chartered Authority and a non- 2006.
She is a nonSuisse First Boston Europe Executive of Royal Bank accountant, having executive Director of executive Director of Limited until June 2001.
He is of Scotland Private qualified with Coopers & Mallett plc.
He was Aberdeen Asset currently a senior adviser to Equity Group.
He is Lybrand and is a Fellow Chairman of Associated Management plc, IMI Credit Suisse First Boston and Deputy Chairman of of The Association of British Ports Holdings plc plc, Securities Trust of an adviser to BAE Systems 2000 Venture Production Plc Corporate Treasurers.
He from 1983 to 2002 and Scotland plc, Victrex plc Pension Plan.
He is an and a non-executive joined the Board he has also served as and Northumbrian Water investment banker specialising Director of Bovis Homes in 2003. non-executive Chairman Ltd.
Prior to this, she was in the equity market and was Group Plc, the Portman of SEEBOARD plc and as an executive Director of Vice Chairman of Barclays fide Building Society and a non-executive Director Abbot Mead Vickers, Zoete Wedd prior to its sale to Alexander Forbes Ltd.
He of BAA plc and RMC Director of Corporate Credit Suisse First Boston in is also Protector of the Group plc.
He joined the Development at WPP 1998.
He joined the Board in National Lottery Fair Board in 1999.
He joined UK Equities at Scottish the Board in 1997.
All directors are independent of the Investment Manager and are members of the Nominations Committee, which is chaired by Simon fide Zoete.
The Audit Committee consists of Sir Keith Stuart Chairman, Mark Nicholls and Angus Russell.
Management Job Curtis age 45 has been the Portfolio Manager since 1 July 1991.
He is an executive of Henderson Global Investors Limited.
Job is assisted in the management of the portfolio by Alex Crooke and James Henderson.
Krista Burwood acts as Company Secretary on behalf of Henderson Secretarial Services Limited.
From left to right: Job Curtis, Alex Crooke, James Henderson and Krista Burwood.
