Board of Directors Terry Smith Diana Dyer Bartlett Development Aims Chairman Finance Director Terry 53 is Chairman of the Company and is Diana 45 qualified as a chartered International Growth also Chief Executive of Tullett Pre on plc.
He accountant with Deloitte Haskins & Sells worked for Barclays Bank from 974 to 983 after which she worked for five years and ecame an Associate of the Chartered in the corporate finance division of Hill Institute of Bankers in 976.
He o tained an Samuel Bank.
Having spent two years as the Extension of Product MBA at The Management College, Henley company secretary of Coal Investments plc, in 979.
He ecame a stock roker with W she went on to do a management uyCapabilities Greenwell & Co in 984 and was the topout, acked y Candover, of two collieries rated ank analyst in London from 984 to from that company and spent the next 989, during which period he also worked at three years as finance director of Midlands BZW and James Capel.
In 990, he ecame Mining Limited.
She was appointed company Enhanced Advisory Capability head of UK Company Research at UBS secretary of Collins Stewart Tullett plc in Phillips & Drew, a position he left in 992 2000 after its flotation on the main market following the pu lication of his est selling of the London Stock Exchange.
She was ook Accounting for Growth.
He joined appointed Finance Director of Collins Stewart Collins Stewart shortly after and ecame a in May 2006. director in 996.
He is qualified as a Series 7 Registered Representative and a Series 24 Paul Baines General Securities Principal with the NASD.
Executive Director He is also a non-executive director of William Cook Holdings Limited.
Paul 5 was appointed Executive director of the Company on 22 Decem er 2006.
Paul Joel Plasco is Chief Executive and Managing Partner of Chief Executive Hawkpoint.
After qualifying as a solicitor with Freshfields, he then joined Antony Joel 36 qualified as a solicitor with Gi s & Sons Limited, a UK merchant ank.
Gouldens now Jones Day after which he In 984 he joined Charterhouse Bank, where joined Collins Stewarts nascent Corporate he ecame a director in 988.
He left Collins ecame a mem er of the management Stewart in 999 to found NewMedia committee of its corporate finance usiness, SPARK plc, a technology investment latterly ecoming its Chief Executive.
He company, where he served as a director joined Hawkpoint in 2000 and was appointed for 5 years.
He rejoined Collins Stewart Chief Executive and Managing Partner in Tullett plc in 2004 where he was appointed Octo er 2003.
Chief Operating Officer of the inter-dealer roking usiness following the acquisition of Pre on.
He was appointed Chief Executive of Collins Stewart in May 2006.
8 Collins Stewart plc Keith Hamill Patrick OSullivan Iain Napier Non-Executive Independent Independent Deputy Chairman Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Keith 54 was appointed Deputy Chairman Patrick 57 was appointed non-executive Iain 57 was appointed non-executive of the Company upon Admission on 9 director of the Company on 20 Decem er director of the Company on 2 Fe ruary Decem er 2006.
He has een Group Finance Director 2007.
Iain is also non-executive chairman Tullett Pre on plc, Travelodge and Heath of Zurich Financial Services Zurich since of Imperial To acco Group plc and has een Lam ert Group Holdings Limited, a nonDecem er 2002.
He joined Zurichs UKISA a non-executive director there since 2000. executive director of Electrocomponents Business Division in conjunction with the He was previously Group Chief Executive of plc and Pro-Chancellor of Nottingham merger of the financial services arm of B.
As a former main oard University.
He is a chartered accountant Industries and the Zurich Group in 998 Director of Bass PLC, he was Chief Executive and worked for Price Waterhouse from as CEO, General Insurance and Banking.
of Bass Leisure and then Chief Executive 975 to 988, ecoming partner in 987.
After qualifying with Arthur Andersen as of Bass Brewers and Bass International Su sequently he was director of financial a chartered accountant, he joined Bank Brewers.
Following the sale of the Bass control at Guinness, finance director of of America working in London, Miami, Los eer usiness in 2000, he ecame Vice United Distillers, Forte plc and WH Smith.
In 988 he joined President UK and Ireland for Inter rew SA He was also previously a mem er of the the US investment ank Goldman Sachs until August 200.
He is also a former nonUrgent Issues Task Force of the Accounting as financial controller for Europe.
He executive director of BOC Group plc.
Prior to Standards Board and Chairman of the CBI was appointed to the oard of Financial Bass he was with the Ford Motor Company Financial Reporting Panel.
He is Chairman of Guaranty Insurance Company, a wholly in a career spanning some 2 years and 9 the Nominations Committee, and mem er of owned su sidiary of GE Capital in 993 positions, mainly in sales, marketing and the Remuneration and Audit Committees.
efore leaving a year later to join BZW, the general management.
In his early career he former investment anking arm of Barclays spent five years with Whit read PLC split Bank plc, as Head of International Banking etween their company in Scotland and Richard Kilsby & Structured Finance.
In Septem er 996 he Whit read Flowers in Cheltenham.
Most of Independent ecame BZWs Chief Operating Officer and his time in Whit read was spent on finance, one year later he joined Eagle Star Insurance retail development and acquisitions.
Iain is Non-Executive Director Company as Chief Executive.
He was appointed from Trinity College, Du lin, with a degree a mem er of the Audit, Remuneration Richard 54 was appointed non-executive in usiness studies and is a fellow of the Committee since the year-end.
director of the Company upon Admission Institute of Chartered Accountants in Ireland.
He is also a nonFurthermore, he holds a Master of Science executive director of Tullett Pre on plc.
He degree in accounting and finance from the is chairman of 888 Holdings plc and holds a London School of Economics.
He is chairman num er of oard positions in privately held of the Audit Committee and a mem er of the financial sector companies.
He formerly held Remuneration and Nominations Committee.
a num er of positions in finance and the City including those of, inter alia, Vice Chairman of the virt-x stock exchange created y the merger of the Swiss Exchange with Tradepoint, Chief Executive of Tradepoint an AIM quoted electronic exchange, an executive director of the London Stock Exchange responsi le for listing, secondary regulation and the introduction of the SETs trading system and audit partner at Price Waterhouse.
He is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a mem er of the Audit and Nominations Committees.
Annual Report & Accounts 2006 9 20 Collins Stewart plc Contents Report of the Directors 22 Corporate Governance Report 28 Report on Directors Remuneration 34 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 39 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Collins Stewart plc 40 Consolidated Income Statement 43 Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense 44 Consolidated Balance Sheet 45 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 46 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 47 Independent Auditors Report on the UK GAAP Company Financial Statements 87 Company Balance Sheet 89 Notes to the Company Financial Statements 90 Appendix 94 Shareholder Information 96 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 21
