Group Overview 1991 Partnership formed with Singer & Friedlander Collins Stewart is the UKs leading independent stockbroking, corporate advisory TM 1995 Quest project started and wealth management group.
Founded in 1991, it has grown steadily and now has some 1996 Channel Islands business purchased from Greig Middleton 600 staff and a presence in 12 jurisdictions.
1999 Broker Dealer formed in New York In this first year of reporting as a newly independent company, changes have been made to our divisional 21% 2000 MBO backed by CVC and Bank of Scotland: IPO structure and our business areas have been renamed.
30% The Securities division includes the former Larger 2001 NatWest Stockbrokers purchased 24% Companies, US Equities and Trading activities as well 25% as secondary trading and market making in Smaller 2006 Transfer of US equities business from Tullett Prebon: Companies and Investment Funds.
Capital Markets Acquisition of Hawkpoint: Collins Stewart re-listing comprises all of the Companys primary distribution and corporate finance activities which formerly comprised Securities parts of Smaller Companies and Investment Funds.
Capital Markets Wealth Management is the former Private Clients Wealth Management division.
Following the acquisition of Hawkpoint in Hawkpoint December, Hawkpoint becomes the fourth division.
All of these divisions are served by the unique quantitative research tool, Quest.
Annual Report & Accounts 2006 5 Group Overview continued The following is a brief summary of the activities and services of each of our specialist divisions Securities Capital Markets Wealth Management The Securities division offers a full research, sales Collins Stewarts Capital Markets division is, by a Collins Stewarts Wealth Management and execution service to over 300 institutional considerable margin, the leading stockbroker for division manages over 3bn and has offices clients across the three key regions: Europe, small mid-cap equity fundraising in London.
in London, Jersey, Guernsey and the Isle North America and Asia Pacific.
The division has distri ution capa ility Collins Stewarts research model utilises a in the UK, Europe and the USA as well as The division provides stock roking and com ination of fundamental sector analysis advisory capa ility.
This capa ility is currently investment management services to private and the proprietary online, interactive cash eing widened to reflect the international clients, trusts, charities, pension funds and flowased valuation model, Quest development of the AIM market.
private companies in the UK and overseas.
com, which covers 2,450 It provides three different types of service: companies in 27 countries across the UK, With a reputation for success, Collins discretionary, advisory and a pure execution Europe, the USA and Asia Pacific, including Stewarts offering is in large part defined y service.
The Companys sector analysts cover its highly innovative approach to helping 250 stocks across Europe and seek to focus clients achieve their am itions.
Two examples As well as offering segregated, structured on ideas that challenge conventional thinking of new products which we have rought portfolios, the division also offers a fundrather than providing waterfront coverage.
to the UK market are the Accelerated ased asset management service designed TM Through superior fundamental analysis, IPO AIPO and the Special Purpose for clients who wish to invest in collective supported y the principles of Quest, Acquisition Corporation SPAC.
investment schemes unit trusts, investment Collins Stewart has developed a reputation trusts, open-ended investment companies for high-quality and differentiated research.
In 2005, Collins Stewart worked on award and alternative investment strategies.
Further The product is distri uted y sales teams in enefits of the discretionary services for UK winning transactions for Foseco Shares London, Du lin, Paris, Milan, Geneva and New tax payers include a capital gains tax service, Magazines IPO of the Year and Media York.
The Companys office in Japan provides encompassing oth indexation and taper Square AIM Awards Best Use of AIM.
In coverage at the centre of Asia Pacific and 2006, client companies won awards for est relief, which greatly assists the Companys dealing in Australian stocks is from a Londonshare price performance: Griffin Mining AIM clients in managing their tax affairs.
Awards Best Share Performer over 5 years and Manganese Bronze Share Magazines In addition to the larger companies, Collins Best Main Market Achievement.
Stewart offers a full research, market making and execution service in smaller companies, The divisions Corporate Broking team including all the stocks to which the provides advice on proactive communication Company is appointed roker.
and investor relationship management, including the planning and co-ordination A full service investment trust and funds of investor marketing programmes.
Clients team, and converti le and preference trading are provided with in-depth riefing notes desks are an important section of our and investor feed ack, as well as regular Londonased operation.
marketplace reporting, shareholder analysis and trade reporting.
6 Collins Stewart plc Quest provides the essential analytics for any company in any sector in any geography Shares Awards 2005 IPO of the Year Foseco TM Hawkpoint Quest TM Hawkpoint is a leading independent Quest is a database and modelling AIM Awards 2005 corporate finance advisory business, system.
It provides a method for analysing Media Square whose clients include companies, financial corporate value creation and valuation institutions, private equity houses and encompassing a global database of 2,450 Best Use of AIM governmental bodies.
companies from 27 countries, interactive online models, analytical tools and ideasdriven research publications.
Hawkpoint provides a road range of advisory services to clients in the areas of TM mergers & acquisitions, capital markets, fide t, Quest provides the essential analytics for restructuring and strategic advice.
Hawkpoint any company in any sector in any geography.
caters to a glo al client ase from offices in It allows users to take a clear-sighted view AIM Awards 2006 London and Paris advising on transactions of corporate performance in a marketplace Griffin Mining predominantly in Europe, particularly in the where conflicts of interest are endemic.
TM Best Performing AIM UK, France and Germany.
Quest is fully integrated across Collins Stewart, serving the Companys usinesses.
Share Over 5 Years Hawkpoint provides clients with original, well TM considered ideas and innovative solutions Quest is also well known for its pu lications TM TM TM for their usiness strategies free from the citn triAngle and Quest Newsletter.
conflicts that can arise in a multi-product, integrated environment.
Best Portfolio Manager Best Advisory Stockbroker for Customer Service Best Advisory Stockbroker for Security & Admin Best Advisory Stockbroker for Customer Service Best Portfolio Manager Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 7 7
