More Channels Our e-commerce channel has outperformed expectations, more than doubling sales last year We are working hard to put the customer first in everything we do.
Enhancing the e-commerce website As well as offering the customer the right product at the right price, After the launch of the US e-commerce website, we listened to we want customers to be able to shop with us whenever, wherever customer feedback and tracked customer behaviour to help us and however they wish.
Our e-commerce channel, together with our to enhance our online service.
These enhancements include: stores and The Body Shop At Home, offers customers that choice introducing an online version of our Love Your Body and convenience.
loyalty programme upgrading the on-site search tool The multi-channel model is not only good for customers, it makes improving the email marketing programme.
Research carried out in the USA suggests that customers who use multiple channels spend more and show Online Love Your Body programme greater loyalty than customers of a single channel business.
We now offer customers a seamless ofine-online loyalty programme, which means they enjoy the benets of the programme however they Our e-commerce channel has performed well above expectations shop.
By tracking behaviour both before and after the scheme was since its launch in the USA in September 2004, more than doubling introduced online, we have established that customers who take part sales last year and making a contribution to profit in its first full year in the programme have become more loyal.
Modelled on the success of the US operation, we plan to launch an e-commerce operation in the UK before Christmas 2006.
On-site search tool Approximately 10% of online customers use on-site search tools to help them with their shopping.
We introduced an improved search engine in October 2005, since when we have achieved a significant increase in sales.
Email marketing programme We have improved the technology behind our email marketing programme, which has allowed us to improve customer segmentation and therefore the targeting of our email marketing.
We have also improved the content and design of the emails.
Following these changes, we have seen a significant increase in our weekly email revenue.
08 The Body Shop International PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 The Body Shop International PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 09 08 The Body Shop International PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 The Body Shop International PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 09
