Board of Directors Adrian D P Bellamy Howard Mann OBE Executive Chairman, Age 64 Non-Executive Director, Age 59 Appointed 18 November 2005 Adrian Bellamy was appointed as Executive Chairman in February 2002, having been appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in January 1997.
Adrian Howard Mann was appointed to the Board in November 2005.
He is a member of was closely involved in running the US business from June 1998 and, along with the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nominations Committee.
Peter Saunders, was instrumental in its successful turnaround.
Howard has significant international experience in the food and retail industries.
Adrian is a non-executive director of Reckitt Benckiser PLC Chairman, The Gap Between 1995 and 2004, Howard was President and Chief Executive of McCain Inc and Williams-Sonoma Inc.
Previously, he was Chairman and CEO of DFS Group Foods Limited in Canada, a global leader in frozen foods with manufacturing Limited for 12 years.
facilities in 13 countries and sales functions in over 80 other countries worldwide.
Howard is a non-executive director on the board of Dairy Crest PLC.
In addition, he Peter Saunders serves on the board of Endurance Specialty Holdings Ltd, a specialty insurance firm.
Chief Executive Officer, Age 58 Irene Miller Peter Saunders was appointed as a Director and CEO of the Company in February Non-Executive Director, Age 54 2002.
Peter joined The Body Shop as Chief Operating Officer and President of the US business in 1998, being promoted to Chief Executive Officer in 2000.
Peter Irene Miller was appointed to the Board in August 2000.
She chairs the Audit led the successful turnaround of the US business, with improvements in sales, Committee and serves as a member of the Remuneration Committee and the profitability and market share having been achieved.
Peter has proven experience Nominations Committee.
Irene is Chief Executive Officer of Akim Inc, an investment in merchandising, marketing, strategic planning, systems implementation, new management and consulting firm.
She also serves as a director on the boards of product development and new store design.
Barnes & Noble, Inc. Inditex, S. A. and Coach, Inc. Until June 1997, Irene was Vice Previously, Peter was Chief Operating Officer and Chief Merchant at the T Eaton Chairman and Chief Financial Officer of Barnes & Noble, Inc.
Previous to this, Irene Company Limited, a Canadian department store chain.
Peters responsibilities was an investment banker specialising in emerging growth retail and consumer included store operations, merchandise, logistics, human resources and marketing.
companies at Morgan Stanley & Co. Peggy Bruzelius Dame Anita L Roddick Non-Executive Director, Age 56 Non-Executive Director, Age 63 Appointed 18 November 2005 Dame Anita Roddick, founder of The Body Shop, is a Non-Executive Director Peggy Bruzelius was appointed to the Board in November 2005.
She is member of of the Company and was Co-Chair with Gordon Roddick until February 2002. the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nominations Committee.
The Company has a consultancy agreement with Anita Roddick Publications Ltd Peggy is a non-executive director on the boards of a number of companies, through which Anita provides expertise and creativity to the central and regional including Axfood AB, AB Electrolux, Ratos AB, Scania AB and Syngenta AG.
Peggy has a long career in the financial services industry, having spent 17 years Anita opened the first branch of The Body Shop in Brighton in 1976.
She was in a variety of roles with ASEA AB and later ABB Financial Services.
Since 1997, the creative inspiration behind the Companys original style and image.
Anita was Peggy has served on the boards of a number of substantial companies, both listed awarded an OBE in 1988 and a DBE in June 2003. and unlisted.
T Gordon Roddick Jack Keenan Non-Executive Director, Age 64 Non-Executive Director, Age 69 Gordon Roddick is a Non-Executive Director of the Company.
Gordon was Co-Chair Jack Keenan was appointed to the Board in September 1999 and was appointed as with Anita Roddick from 1997 to February 2002.
As Executive Chair from 1977, Senior Independent Director in February 2004.
Jack chairs the Remuneration Gordon was responsible for the formative years of growth and the global expansion Committee and serves as a member of the Audit Committee and the Nominations of the Company through franchising into more than 50 countries.
executive director of Respect Ltd Chair, a Swedish consultancy on corporate Jack is a non-executive director of Amphora Fine Wine Fund PLC, Marks & sustainability, Freeplay Limited and Day Chocolate Company Limited.
Spencer PLC, National Angels Limited and Tomkins PLC.
Jack is also the Patron of Ronald fide Waal the Centre for International Business and Management at Cambridge University.
Non-Executive Director, Age 53 Previously, Jack was a Director of Diageo plc and Deputy Chief Executive of Guinness UDV, Diageos beer, wine and spirits division, until his retirement in October Resigned 18 November 2005 2001.
He joined International Distillers & Vintners and was appointed to the Board of Ronald fide Waal was appointed to the Board in March 2000 and served as a GrandMet in March 1996.
Director until his resignation on 18 November 2005.
He was a member of the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nominations Committee.
Ronald is Chairman of WE International, a Dutch speciality clothing chain which operates 340 stores in Holland, Belgium, Luxembourg, Germany, France and Switzerland.
He is also Vice-Chairman of Saks Inc and a director of Post Properties Inc in the USA.
Ronald is a member of several private boards in Europe and the USA and also sits on the board of the Dutch National Retailers Association.
All the directors shown above served throughout the year with the exception of Peggy Bruzelius and Howard Mann, who were both appointed to the Board on 18 November 2005, and Ronald fide Waal who resigned on 18 November 2005.
24 The Body Shop International PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006
