More Innovation Our product offer has been expanded with fresh avours, seasonal specials and innovative formulations Ever since The Body Shop started out 30 years ago with a selection Product innovation of some 25 hand-mixed products, we have been committed to We have positioned The Body Shop as a masstige brand, offering providing our customers with high-performance naturally-inspired our customers a great shopping experience that combines excellent personal care products.
service with a range of high-performance products at competitive prices.
To deliver on this brand promise we continue to focus on Today we offer our customers a comprehensive range of more than product innovation, creating new ways for our customers to indulge 1,200 products.
From exotic Body Butter ranges containing natural themselves.
ingredients such as mango, papaya, blueberry, olive and coconut to innovative high-performance skin care ranges such as Skin Focus As a global business we are conscious that our products need to and a comprehensive make-up range, The Body Shop has meet a variety of local needs in the 54 countries in which we operate.
For example, our Moisture White range was launched in Asia Pacic, where many women want their skin to have an even tone and luminosity.
The range includes two active ingredients: vitamin C and liquorice.
Liquorice helps to brighten and soothe the skin while Vitamin C promotes skin clarity by helping to counteract skin discoloration and balancing uneven skin tone.
Moisture White has proved so successful we are now introducing it into other markets around the world.
Eye & Face Pearls From our Spring 2005 Colour Collection, these two palettes of creamy, iridescent colour proved a real winner with our customers.
White Musk Gift Bag The Body Shop offers a range of on-trend and stylish gifts to appeal to all tastes.
This mock suede White Musk Handle Bag contains products from our very popular White Musk range.
12 The Body Shop International PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Spa Wisdom These indulgent spa products provide a luxurious, sensory experience in the sanctuary of customers own homes.
Cassis Rose Radiant rose is combined with a hint of vibrant berries to create this playful oral fragrance.
The range of products encourages regime usage, allowing customers to layer the Eau fide Toilette, Body Mist, Shower Gel and Body Lotion.
The Body Shop International PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 13 More Community Trade Our deep-rooted commitment to making a difference is now more visible in our stores Community Trade is our own fair trade programme, through which Communicating Community Trade we purchase natural ingredients and accessories from disadvantaged We buy from 30 Community Trade suppliers in 23 countries around communities around the world.
Among these suppliers, there are great stories of surviving against the odds, of improving life for thousands of people and of We source good quality products at a fair price that covers production building a better future for the next generation.
In the past year, and producer wages, whilst also enabling communities to invest in we have increased our in-store communications on Community their future.
We are committed to building and sustaining relationships Trade so that our customers can read some of these powerful with these communities.
We see Community Trade as a powerful and stories for themselves.
practical expression of our commitment to social change, supporting long-term, sustainable trading relationships with communities in need.
We have focused on the communities and families who benefit from our trade in babassu oil.
Babassu oil is a wonderful natural moisturiser found in babassu nuts, which grow in the Maranho state in north-eastern Brazil.
It takes roughly one litre of Community Trade organic babassu oil to send a child to school for a month.
Our trade is making a real difference to the education and life chances of these disadvantaged children.
More than half of the products sold in The Body Shop either contain a Community Trade ingredient or, in the case of accessories, are made by a Community Trade supplier.
Purchasing Community Trade products has helped children in remote north-eastern Brazil, such as Ronilda, to receive an education.
14 The Body Shop International PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 The Body Shop International PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 15
