qxp 27 3 07 15:33 Page 11 CORPORATE ETHOS KEY AREAS OF FOCUS The success of Bodycotes processes In achieving Bodycotes aim to be globally Training and Education in addressing these issues is key to our recognised as the leading provider of Thermal The Group sponsors The Bodycote Educational environmental credentials.
We do not simply Processing and Testing services, the Board has, Foundation, a registered charity, whose aim aim to minimise our own energy consumption, over time, developed several principles which is to fund relevant educational and training but also to effect substantial reductions in will apply in its dealings with stakeholders opportunities.
These aims are fullled by our customers energy use.
supporting short term student placements at Bodycote operates modern, efficient Bodycote facilities to work on specic projects Safety, health and the environment heat treatment furnaces around the clock.
Since 1996, the Bodycote has a proactive approach to Safety, We aggregate demand from a wide range Foundation has sponsored over 250 students Health and the Environment and is committed of customers to maximise efficiency and from 10 countries.
The Foundation also to the highest practicable standards of safety minimise energy costs.
By replacing undersupports the annual Prize Paper Competition.
and health management and to the minimisation utilised, in-house thermal processing In its eleventh year, the competition has of adverse environmental impacts.
operations with Bodycotes state of the become one of the most highly regarded in art equipment, the overall amount of Human Resources its eld.
Numerous entries from universities energy used can be dramatically reduced.
Bodycotes employment policies are nonand materials science institutes worldwide discriminatory, complying with all current follow a rigorous selection process, with five The range of services offered across the legislation to engender equal opportunity, entrants reaching the final presentation judged Group is designed to enhance the operational irrespective of race, gender, religion, disability, by management and engineering academics.
lifetime of components whilst maintaining sexual orientation or nationality.
Harassment Winners receive a cash prize, publication in their suitability for re-cycling at the end is not tolerated.
a peer reviewed journal and potential for of their working lives.
This increase in the career development within the Group.
working life of components has a major effect Ethical standards on the amount of raw materials that are Safety & Health All Bodycote personnel are expected to apply processed.
Modern treatments also allow new Appropriate safety and health policies and a high ethical standard, consistent with an technologies, such as common rail diesel procedures are in force in both Strategic international UK-listed company.
systems, to be introduced within acceptable Business Units.
In 2004 the Group commenced Compliance with laws financial constraints.
This, in turn, reduces reporting its performance internally in terms of Bodycote has systems in place designed to the environmental impact of motor vehicles lost time, frequency and severity of accidents ensure compliance with all applicable laws and by improving fuel consumption and reducing in a uniform manner.
As a result, each Strategic regulations and conformity with all relevant emissions.
So, at every stage where Bodycote Business Unit is now able to benchmark its codes of business practice.
is involved in the manufacturing cycle, our safety and health performance and formulate operations aim to lessen the overall impact criteria for improvements.
Bonus payments Competition on the environment.
to Directors and senior executives are in part Bodycote aims to win business in a dependent on achievement of these targets.
differentiated high value manner, does not CURRENT TRADING AND PROSPECTS employ unfair trading methods and competes The forecasts we have seen for the aerospace, Environment vigorously but fairly within the requirements of oil & gas, power generation, health sciences Bodycote has for many years contributed to the applicable laws.
Employees are prohibited and environmental sectors are all positive in the reduction of the environmental impact of from either giving or receiving any inducements.
By adopting the latest technologies over-capacity in North America and Western as they have become available, Bodycote has Conicts of interest Europe, however, demand is increasing in Asia provided its customers with environmentally Employees are expected to ensure that and other emerging economies.
Our sales friendly solutions to their heat treatment their personal interests do not at any time continue to grow as western manufacturers requirements.
The replacement, where conict with those of Bodycote.
Shareholder outsource their thermal processing and testing possible, of harmful materials has reduced employees are advised of and comply with requirements to Bodycote.
High efficiency, the need for disposal of waste products.
high equipment utilisation and adding support At the same time the adoption of high Politics and value beyond the basic service are the efficiency heating systems has reduced Bodycote does not make political donations.
tools by which we combat price competition.
energy consumption and reduced emissions.
As a result of these principles, some key areas of focus have emerged, namely in respect of people, safety, health and the environment.
Bodycote annual report 2006 11 ID3668 Bc AR 2006 Insides 80pp ARTWORK.
qxp 27 3 07 15:33 Page 12 2006 Group Business Review In addition, our growing presence in The Thermal Processing SBU acquired developing countries is providing us with the Techmeta SA in France at the beginning opportunities to assist western manufacturers of February.
Techmeta is an Electron Beam who are establishing new facilities in these EB service provider and a global supplier low cost countries.
of EB equipment which produced c. 6m of sales in 2006.
Two greeneld facilities are being built in Mexico.
A heat treatment facility in Silao This expands our current technical capabilities will initially be focused on supporting GM in servicing the aerospace, power generation with low pressure carburizing and a testing and nuclear industries.
We estimate about laboratory in Monterey will be supporting 70m will be invested in capital expenditure a major aerospace supplier.
We are also in which will be approximately 1.3 times the process of building a greeneld heat depreciation 2006: 1.2 times and reects treatment plant in Pune, India and anticipate the high level of investment in greeneld it will go into production in early 2008. facilities in emerging markets and the Camas A joint greeneld thermal spray and testing HIP facility in 2007.
About half of the capital facility in Singapore will commence production expenditure will be for additional capacity by mid-2007.
Other developments include to grow the business in new technologies plans for greeneld laboratories in Bahrain, e. g. low pressure carburizing or enter new Saudi Arabia, Kazakhstan and Croatia as well geographies and the remainder will be to as several transient laboratories in support replace equipment for cost saving projects of large scale infrastructure projects in the or infrastructure.
Middle East including the Dubai Light Since the start of the current financial year, Railway project.
trading has been above the levels in the same An additional mega HIP unit is scheduled period in 2006, with a strong performance in to be in production by the end of 2007 at our Europe and steady results in North America.
Camas, Washington facility and an additional Organic growth has been robust with 2006 Densal unit will go into production in acquisitions contributing as expected.
Notably, Haag, Germany in the first half of the year.
we entered 2007 with annualised revenue Our Surahammar, Sweden facility is being for the Testing SBU at approximately 170m.
expanded to improve efficiency of can We enter 2007 confident that we will deliver making powder lling which gives us another successful performance.
additional work for the HIP unit which will improve ROCE.
The International Thermo Nuclear Experimental Reactor ITER is continuing to move forward with funding now committed by an international consortium.
We expect high value HIP opportunities over the medium term as we saw from the CERN project on which we completed work in 2006.
J D Hubbard Chief Executive In line with our strategy, we will continue 27 February 2007 to seek bolt-on acquisitions which are either in Testing, developing markets or have technical niches which are value enhancing.
Strict investment criteria and disciplined operations will continue to aid our growth and performance improvement.
Overall, the Group anticipates about 60m will be spent on acquisitions in 2007, of which approximately D F Landless two thirds will be in Testing.
Finance Director 27 February 2007 12 Bodycote annual report 2006 ID3668 Bc AR 2006 Insides 80pp ARTWORK.
qxp 27 3 07 15:33 Page 13 Directors Report The Directors are pleased to submit their report and the audited financial DIRECTORS statements for the year ended 31 December 2006.
The Chairmans The current Directors are listed on page 24 and all served throughout Statement, the Group Business Review, the Audit Committee Report, the year.
Messrs R. T. Scholes and D. F. Landless are retiring by rotation the board report on remuneration and the details of the Board of Directors and, in accordance with the articles of association and each being and Advisers on pages 2 to 24 together comprise the Directors Report eligible, offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual for the year ended 31 December 2006.
The service agreement for Mr Landless is terminable by one years notice.
Mr Scholes does not have a service agreement PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES with the Company.
The Company is a holding company with subsidiaries carrying on business in the elds of materials technology and testing services.
DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN CONTRACTS & SHARES The activities and locations of the principal subsidiary undertakings Details of the Executive Directors service contracts and details of are set out on pages 77 to 79.
The Group Business Review contains the Directors interests in the Companys shares, share option schemes a survey of the Groups activities, significant acquisitions and disposals and plans are shown in the Board Report on Remuneration on pages during the year together with an outline of future developments.
No Director has had any dealings in any shares or options in the Company since 31 December 2006.
Qualifying third party indemnity GROUP BUSINESS REVIEW provision as dened by section 309C of the Companies Act 1985 The enhanced business review for the Group, entitled Group Business has remained in force for the Directors for the year ended 31 December Review, is provided on pages 3 to 12 of this annual report.
This is a 2006 and, as the date of the report, remains in force for the benefit review of the development of the businesses of the Group, including of the current Directors in relation to certain losses and liabilities which the financial performance during the year ended 31 December 2006, they may incur or have incurred to third parties in the course of their key performance indicators KPIs and a description of the principal duties.
Apart from these exceptions, none of the Directors had a risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
The Group Business Review material interest in any contract of signicance in relation to the has been prepared solely to assist the shareholders in assessing the Company and its subsidiaries at any time during the financial year.
Groups strategies and the potential of those strategies.
It should not be relied on by any other party for any other purpose.
Forward-looking CORPORATE GOVERNANCE statements have been made by the Directors in good faith using The Groups mission is: information available up to the date of this report and such statements To provide world class companies with metallurgical and testing should be regarded with caution because of the inherent uncertainties in services that make a positive contribution to the success of economic trends and business risks.
Since the end of the financial year their businesses.
no important events affecting the business of the Group have occurred.
To earn sustainable profits which attract shareholder interest.
TRADING RESULTS To engage, develop and retain competent people, harness their The profit of the Group before taxation was 46.6m 2005: 52.7m.
enthusiasm and inspire them to excel.
profit attributable to shareholders amounted to 43.1m 2005: 40.7 m To act as a good corporate citizen.
and, after providing for dividends of 21.0m 2005: 19.8m and other items of recognised income and expense, the balance of 20.0m The Groups aim in terms of corporate governance is, therefore, 2005: 17.4 million has been transferred to reserves.
to sustain and support these objectives over the longer term.
DIVIDENDS Compliance with 2003 FRC Combined Code The Board is recommending a final dividend of 4.5p per share making The Bodycote Board oversaw substantial changes in its board and a total for the year of 7.0p per share 2005: 6.4p.
The final dividend, committee membership in the years 2001-2004.
All these changes if approved, will be paid on 5 July 2007 to shareholders on the register were appropriate to the Company, in accordance with the principles at the close of business on 8 June 2007. of good corporate governance, and comply with the provisions of The Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the UK SHARE CAPITAL Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 the 2003 Code, save in two The Companys issued share capital as at 31 December 2006 was areas where the reasons for the variance throughout the year are: 32.2m and during the year was increased by the issue of 1,013,202 1 Performance evaluation code provision A.
6 shares of 10p each between 1 March and 6 December 2006 for a total consideration of 1,872,594 pursuant to options granted under The Board believes a rolling programme of assessments is the the Companys executive share option schemes.
The shareholders most practical and effective method of evaluating Bodycotes control have authorised the Company to purchase up to 32,115,486 of its structures.
Informal evaluation of Bodycotes actions, control structures own shares, although no purchases have been made.
This authority and personnel also takes place regularly as part of a continuous expires at the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting momentum for improvement.
Bodycote aims to carry out and report to be held on 23 May 2007, at which time a further authority will be on assessments of all relevant personnel, committees and the Board sought from shareholders.
itself within a three-year cycle, notwithstanding that the 2003 Code lays down an annual frequency for each.
Bodycote annual report 2006 13 ID3668 Bc AR 2006 Insides 80pp ARTWORK.
qxp 27 3 07 15:33 Page 14 Directors Report 2 Investor Relations code provision D. 1.1 In advance of board meetings Directors are supplied with up-to-date information about the trading performance of each operating location, Bodycote believes that generally it is the responsibility of the Chief the Groups overall financial position and its achievement against prior Executive and the Finance Director to manage relationships with year, budgets and forecasts.
They are also supplied with the latest institutional investors.
The Chairman is available to meet and has met available information on Safety, Health and Environmental and risk institutional investors to discuss overall strategy, governance and any management issues and details of the safety and health performance concerns that shareholders may have.
Only where these more usual of the Group, and each strategic business unit in terms of severity and channels of communication have failed would the Company expect frequency rates for accidents at work.
Where required, a Director may the Senior Independent or other Non-Executive Directors to become seek independent professional advice at the expense of the Company, involved, notwithstanding that the 2003 Code species attendance all Directors have access to the Company Secretary and they may also of the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director at meetings with address specic issues to the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
Regular feedback by the Companys advisers on investor meetings and results presentations are circulated to all In accordance with the articles of association all newly appointed Directors.
Non-Executive Directors are also encouraged to attend Directors and any who have not stood for re-election at the two one of the results presentations each year.
On specic issues the previous Annual General Meetings, if eligible, must submit themselves Chairman will seek the views of Bodycotes leading investors.
Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, are appointed for xed terms not exceeding three years, after which the Apart from these distinct areas, Bodycote was in compliance with the appointment may be extended by mutual agreement.
A statement provisions of the 2003 Code throughout 2006. of the Directors responsibilities is set out on page 16.
The Board also Operation of the 2003 Code operates three committees.
These are the Nomination Committee, Taken together with the Audit Committee Report and the Board Report the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee.
on Remuneration presented on pages 17 to 23, this statement explains Independence of Non-Executive Directors how Bodycote has applied the principles of good corporate governance The Board considers that Messrs R. T. Scholes, J. Vogelsang and set out in the 2003 Code.
L. P. Bermejo are all independent for the purposes of the 2003 Code.
Leadership Commitment The Board of Directors comprises seven members, of whom three The Directors recorded 100% attendance at the ten regular scheduled are independent Non-Executive Directors and three are Executive Board meetings held in the year, including visits to facilities in England Directors led by the Companys part-time Non-Executive Chairman, and The Czech Republic.
Apart from the absence of Mr L. P. Bermejo Mr J.
A. S. Wallace, who also chairs the Nomination Committee.
from one audit committee planning meeting in November 2006 due The Chief Executive is Mr J. D. Hubbard and the Senior Independent to business commitments elsewhere, 100% attendance was also Non-Executive Director is Mr R. T. Scholes, who also chairs the recorded for all regular scheduled meetings of the Audit, Audit Committee.
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Brief biographical details of all Directors are given on page 24.
The Board meets at least nine times a year and visits Performance Evaluation are made to UK and overseas facilities.
Certain dened issues are All Executive Directors were appraised internally during 2006. reserved for the Board to decide, inter alia: In October 2006 the Board carried out its own evaluation of the Board as a whole.
The Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Approval of financial statements and circulars Committees reviewed their own performance in November 2006.
Capital projects, acquisitions and disposals The Chairman assessed the performance of Mr L. P. Bermejo in Annual budgets December 2006.
Strategy Nomination Committee Directors appointments, service agreements and remuneration Mr J.
A. S. Wallace chairs the Nomination Committee which also Policies for financial statements, treasury, safety, health and comprises Messrs R. T. Scholes, J. Vogelsang, L. P. Bermejo and environment, donations J. D. Hubbard.
All members attended the four committee meetings in 2006, when it proposed the nominations for re-election at the Committees terms of reference 2006 and 2007 Annual General Meetings, and discussed general Board and committee membership succession planning and specic positions.
Investments Proposals for Re-election Equity and bank nancing Mr Scholes has served as an independent non-executive director Internal control and risk management since 1998 and was last evaluated for the purposes of the Code Corporate governance in November 2003.
The board proposes his re-election as a Director Key external and internal appointments to cover the interim period until his successor as audit committee chairman can be appointed, and as explained by the Chairman on Pensions and employee incentives page 2 of this report.
Following a performance evaluation by the Chief Executive in February 2007, the Board also proposes the re-election of Mr D. F. Landless as a Director.
