209183 Absolute pp01-pp17 4 5 07 14:00 Page 11 Directors Report The Directors present their report and audited financial statements for the year to 31 December 2006.
Principal Activity Dexion Absolute Limited the Company is a Guernsey registered closed-ended investment company listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Trading in the Companys ordinary shares since reclassified as Shares commenced on 19 December 2002.
Investment Objective and Investment Policy The Companys investment objective is to generate consistent long-term capital appreciation with low volatility and little correlation with the general equity and bond markets through a portfolio having a diversified risk profile.
The Company seeks to achieve its investment objective through investment in an actively managed portfolio of hedge funds, diversified by investment strategy, style and manager, in order to achieve attractive risk-adjusted returns, with little correlation to equity and fixed interest benchmarks.
Shareholder Information The Company announces its net asset value on a monthly basis together with commentary on investment performance.
Estimated net asset values are normally provided weekly.
Share price, net asset value and performance information can also be found by shareholders on the Companys website www.
However information on that website does not form part of, nor is it incorporated by reference into this document and that information is not available to certain overseas shareholders.
Results The results for the year are set out in the statement of total return.
The Directors do not propose a dividend for the year 2005: Nil.
Significant Events On 10 February 2006, each C Share from the December 2005 issue converted into new Ordinary Shares at a conversion ratio of 0.7514 Shares for every one C Share, 0.5116 Shares for every one C Share and 0.4201 US$ Shares for every one C US$ Share.
A total of 48,277,450 new Shares, 26,347,400 new Shares and 24,785,900 new US$ Shares were issued.
On 30 September 2006, the Company raised net proceeds of approximately 226.4 million through the issue of 153,766,190 C Shares, 31,778,211 C Shares, 50,353,672 C US$ Shares and 70,672,500 C AUS$ Shares.
On 14 November 2006 each issued C share converted into ordinary shares at a rate of 0.7235 Shares for every one C Share, 0.4998 Shares for every one C Share, 0.4026 US$ Shares for every one C US$ Share and 0.2885 AUS$ Shares for every one C AUS$ Share.
Management Arrangements The Company has an agreement with Dexion Capital Guernsey Limited for the provision of investment management services.
Management fees as disclosed in note 3 are based on an annual amount of 1.5 per cent of the total assets of the Company plus a performance fee as outlined in note 3.
The Management Engagement Committee have reviewed the performance of the investment manager in managing the portfolio.
The Committee has also reviewed the appropriateness of the terms of the investment management agreement, in particular, the length of the notice period and the fees payable to the investment manager.
Following their review, it is in the opinion of the Directors that the continuing appointment of the investment manager on the terms agreed is in the interest of shareholders as a whole.
11 209183 Absolute pp01-pp17 4 5 07 14:00 Page 12 Directors Report continued Directors The Directors, as stated on pages 10 and 30, all served throughout the year under review, unless as otherwise noted on page 10.
The Directors had no beneficial interest in the Company other than shown below: 31 December 2006 shares P P Walsh 25,000 R M J Bowie 56,624 J E Hallam 22,906 Substantial Interests The Transparency Directive came into force on 20 January 2007.
This Directive requires substantial shareholders to make relevant holding notifications to the Company and the UK Financial Services Authority.
The Company must then disseminate this information to the wider market.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are required to prepare the Directors Report and the financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss for that year.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with The Companies Guernsey Law, 1994.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Corporate Governance Introduction As a closed-ended investment company registered in Guernsey, the Company is eligible for exemption from the requirements of the Combined Code the Code issued by the UK Listing Authority.
The Board has however put in place a framework for corporate governance which it believes is suitable for an investment company and which enables the Company to voluntarily comply with the main requirements of the Code, which sets out principles of good governance and a code of best practice.
The Board considers that the Company has complied with the provisions contained in Section 1 of the Code throughout this accounting period except where indicated below.
The following statement describes how the relevant principles of governance are applied to the Company.
The Board The Board currently consists of four non-executive Directors, all of whom are independent of the Investment Adviser and, with the exception of Mr Bowie, are independent of the Manager and the Investment Consultant.
The Board accepts collective responsibility and does not consider it necessary to appoint a senior independent director.
12 209183 Absolute pp01-pp17 4 5 07 14:00 Page 13 Directors Report continued The Articles of Association provide that one third of the Directors retire by rotation at each annual general meeting, if their number is not three or a multiple of three, the number nearest to but not exceeding one third, shall retire from office.
A Director who retires at an annual general meeting may, if willing to act, be re-appointed.
The Directors are not subject to automatic re-appointment.
The Board meets at least four times a year and between these formal meetings there is regular contact with the Manager and the Secretary.
The Directors are kept fully informed of investment and financial controls, and other matters that are relevant to the business of the Company and should be brought to the attention of the Directors.
The Directors also have access to the Secretary and, where necessary in the furtherance of their duties, to independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
The attendance record of Directors is set out below: Quarterly Ad hoc Management board board Audit Engagement meetings meetings Committee Committee Number of meetings 4 10 3 1 Meetings attended: PP Walsh 4931 TC Ash 4931 RMJ Bowie 4 1 N a N a JE Hallam 4 10 3 1 RDN Hotchkis 2 of 3 2 of 9 3 N a P Sharman 1 of 1 0 of 1 N a N a The Board has a breadth of experience relevant to the Company, and the Directors believe that any changes to the Boards composition can be managed without undue disruption.
With any new Director appointment to the Board, consideration will be given as to whether an induction process is appropriate.
The Board considers agenda items laid out in the Notice and Agenda which are formally circulated to the Board in advance of the Meeting as part of the Board Papers and therefore Directors may request any Agenda Items to be added that they consider appropriate for Board discussion.
Additionally, each Director is required to inform the Board of any potential or actual conflicts of interest prior to Board discussion.
The Board has not currently considered it necessary to have formal strategy sessions, as the investment strategy, which is set out in the Companys prospectus, is reviewed regularly and the Investment Advisor consulted and advised on the adoption of appropriate strategies to employ under prevailing market conditions at any particular time within the overall investment restrictions of the Company.
The primary focus at Board Meetings is a review of investment performance and associated matters such as gearing, asset allocation, as well as marketing investor relations, risk management, general administration and compliance, peer group information and industry issues.
The Board evaluates its performance and considers the tenure of each Director on an annual basis, and believes that the mix of skills, experience, ages and length of service are appropriate to the requirements of the Company.
13 209183 Absolute pp01-pp17 4 5 07 14:00 Page 14 Directors Report continued Directors Duties and Responsibilities The Directors have adopted a set of Reserved Powers, which establish the key purpose of the Board and detail its major duties.
These duties cover the following areas of responsibility: Statutory obligations and public disclosure Strategic matters and financial reporting Oversight of management and personnel matters Risk assessment and management, including reporting, monitoring, governance and control Other matters having material effects on the Company These Reserved Powers of the Board have been adopted by the Directors to clearly demonstrate the seriousness with which the Board takes its fiduciary responsibilities and as an ongoing means of measuring and monitoring the effectiveness of its actions.
Committees of the Board The Board has not deemed it necessary to appoint a nomination or remuneration committee as, being comprised wholly of non-executive Directors, the whole Board considers these matters.
The Board seeks external professional advice with regard to remuneration of the Directors.
Management Engagement Committee A Management Engagement Committee, with defined terms of reference and duties, has been established to review annually the terms of the management agreement between the Company and the Manager, the investment advisory agreement between the Company and the Investment Adviser and the investment consultancy agreement between the Company and the Investment Consultant.
The Management Engagement Committee consists of Mr Ash Chairman, Mr Walsh and Mr Hallam.
Audit Committee An Audit Committee has been established consisting of Mr Hallam Chairman, Mr Ash, Mr Hotchkis and Mr Walsh: upon his resignation Mr Hotchkis was replaced by Mr Sharman.
The Audit Committee examines the effectiveness of the Companys internal control systems, the annual report and accounts and interim report, the auditors remuneration and engagement, as well as the auditors independence and any nonaudit services provided by them.
The Audit Committee receives information from the Secretarys compliance department and the external auditors.
The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year to review the annual accounts, interim accounts and audit timetable and other risk management and governance matters.
Internal Controls The Board is ultimately responsible for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
This process has been in place for the period under review and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts, and is reviewed by the Board and accords with appropriate corporate governance codes.
The Directors conduct at least annually a review of the Companys system of internal control, covering all controls, including financial, operational, compliance and risk management.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
In particular, it has reviewed and updated the process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the Company and the policies by which these risks are managed.
As there is delegation of daily operational activity, described below, there is no direct internal audit function in being.
The internal control systems are designed to meet the Companys particular needs and the risks 14 209183 Absolute pp01-pp17 4 5 07 14:00 Page 15 Directors Report continued to which it is exposed.
Accordingly, the internal control systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and by their nature can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against misstatement and loss.
The Board has delegated the responsibility for the management of the Companys investment portfolio, the provision of custody services and the administration, registrar and corporate secretarial functions including the independent calculation of the Companys Net Asset Value and the production of the Annual Report and Financial Statements which are independently audited.
Whilst the Board delegates responsibility, it retains accountability for the functions it delegates and is responsible for the systems of internal control.
Formal contractual agreements have been put in place between the Company and providers of these services.
On an ongoing basis compliance reports are provided at each quarterly board meeting from the Administrator.
Corporate Responsibility The Companys business is concerned with investment.
It considers the ongoing concerns of investors by open and regular dialogue with and through the appointed Investment Manager and Broker.
The Company keeps abreast of regulatory and statutory changes and takes appropriate action.
On an annual basis the Chairman assesses the performance of each Director that includes a review of Board and Committee meeting attendance.
The Company does not have any employees.
Going Concern After making enquiries and given the nature of the Company and its investments, the Directors are satisfied that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements, and, after due consideration, the Directors consider that the Company is able to continue in the foreseeable future.
Relations with shareholders The Investment Manager and the Companys broker maintain a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, the feedback from which is reported to the Board.
In addition, Board members will be available to respond to shareholders questions at the Annual General Meeting.
The Board monitors the trading activity and shareholder profile on a regular basis and maintains contact with the Companys principal market makers to ascertain the views of shareholders.
Shareholder sentiment is also ascertained by the careful monitoring of the discount premium that the shares are traded in the market against the NAV per share when compared to the discounts premiums experienced by the Companys peer group.
Major shareholders are contacted directly on a regular basis.
The Company reports formally to Shareholders twice a year and a proxy voting card is sent to shareholders with the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Additionally, current information is provided to shareholders on an ongoing basis through the Company website and newsletter.
The Registrar monitors the voting of the shareholders and proxy voting is taken into consideration when votes are cast at the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders may contact the Directors via the Company Secretary.
15 209183 Absolute pp01-pp17 4 5 07 14:00 Page 16 Directors Report continued Change of Administrator and Secretary In December 2006, HSBC Securities Services Guernsey Limited gave six months notice of their resignation as the Companys Administrator and Secretary.
Following consideration of various options the Company appointed Northern Trust International Fund Administration Services Guernsey Limited as Administrator and Company Secretary.
This new arrangement comes into effect on 1 June 2007 and from this date the registered office will be situate at Trafalgar Court, Les Banques, St. Peter Port, Guernsey, GY1 3DA.
Auditors A resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Channel Islands Limited will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board Peter P Walsh John E Hallam Director Director 20 April 2007 16
