Summary directors report The directors of Boots Group PLC present their summary financial statement to Directors shareholders for the year ended 31st March 2006.
It is a summary of the information Mr H Dodd resigned from the board on 18th May 2005, Mr J Bennink retired from the contained in the annual report and accounts.
board at the annual general meeting on 21st July 2005 and Mr J R Smart was appointed to the board on 3rd October 2005.
Principal activities, business review and future developments Sir Nigel Rudd retires by rotation at the AGM in accordance with article 87 of the companys The groups principal activities during the year were: articles of association and offers himself for reappointment.
Dr Martin Read also retires retailing of chemists merchandise: under article 87 but is not offering himself for reappointment.
the provision of opticians and other healthcare services: Mr J R Smart, who was appointed as a director on 3rd October 2005, retires at the AGM the development, manufacture and marketing of healthcare and consumer products.
in accordance with article 86 and offers himself for reappointment.
Further information on the groups continuing activities, and a review of group activities The performance of each director standing for reappointment has been formally evaluated: during the year, research and development, and likely future developments are dealt with regard being had to length of service on the board of each such director and whether they in the Chairmans statement, the chief executives review and OFR on pages 2 to 38. be executive or non-executive.
The OFR also contains a description of the key risks and uncertainties that face the The board believes that each director standing for reappointment continues to demonstrate business.
In addition, it contains details of the financial risk management objectives and commitment, to be an effective member of the board, and to contribute to the balance of policies of the group and details of the exposure of the group to financial risks.
skills and knowledge and experience identified by the board in the course of its review.
On 7th April 2005, Boots announced its intention to sell Boots Healthcare International The board is satisfied that the Chairman is not precluded from devoting sufficient time to and return a significant proportion of the proceeds to shareholders.
The sale was his duties to the company by reason of his other commitments.
The board recommends completed on 31st January 2006 and a special dividend of 200p per share was paid reappointment of the directors standing for reappointment.
Details of directors, their roles, responsibilities, achievements and significant external On 7th April 2005, Boots also announced the proposed sale and leaseback of 312 of its commitments are set out on page 30 and, for those seeking reappointment, in the AGM small stores which was completed on 29th July 2005.
Proceeds from the transaction were notice, which is sent to shareholders with this report.
used to pay down short term borrowings.
Auditors On 3rd October 2005, Boots announced its intention to merge with Alliance UniChem plc.
Resolutions to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors and to authorise the directors The merger, if approved, is currently expected to become effective at the end of July 2006. to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
Appropriations Corporate governance The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 21p per share 2005, 21p per The requirements of corporate governance are set out in the Financial Services Authority share which, if approved by shareholders, will be paid on 4th August 2006 to shareholders FSA Listing Rules together with the related Principles of Good Governance and Code of registered on 2nd June 2006.
On 24th February 2006 a special dividend of 200p per share Best Practice the Combined Code, adopted by the FSA.
An interim dividend of 9.1p per share was paid on 20th January 2006 2005, 9.1p.
Directors are assisted in complying with the internal control requirements of the Combined Code by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales publication Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull guidance.
The board considers that good corporate governance is an essential element of achieving its overall objectives.
It has reviewed the groups corporate governance policies and practices, and has determined that during the period 1st April 2005 to 31st March 2006 the company complied with the provisions of the Combined Code.
40 Annual review 2006 AR6934 Boots Annual Review 2006 02 06 2006 Final sign off 2
