OFR SECTION 3 THE FUTURE FOR BOOTS Managing our risks Like every business, we face challenges and potential difficulties, as well as opportunities.
And among the demands of the new Operating and Financial Review form of reporting is that companies should be open about their assessment of the risks that could affect their business 36 Annual report 2006 AR6934 Boots Annual Report 2006 31 05 2006 Final sign off Risks to be managed: 3.
Increasing competition Our approach to risk management: Although regulated in part, our industry is already highly 1.
Regulation and changes in regulation Every business faces a variety of risks which may competitive, and it is always a possibility that existing Boots operates in regulated markets and is subject to compromise its performance and its ability to meet rivals will attempt to increase the pressure on Boots, significant governmental regulation.
As a major retailer, its strategic objectives.
or that new ones will enter our market.
especially one in the field of healthcare, Boots is subject to complex regulations both in the UK and elsewhere.
Our executive team plays the leading role, monitoring 4.
Increase in operating costs This relates not only to the products we manufacture our overall risk profile and regularly reporting to the Owing to the nature of our business, increases in and sell, but to virtually every area of our business, from board through the audit committee.
In addition, the oil, gas, electricity, labour, rents and other costs may the packaging and labels we use, to how we dispense, executive team is responsible for providing clear increase our operating costs and many of these cost process and are reimbursed for NHS prescriptions.
guidelines on what Boots considers to be acceptable increases will be outside our control.
Regulatory changes may occur at any time, which may levels of risk.
have cost implications for Boots or may otherwise 5.
Operational problems adversely affect our business.
These guidelines seek to enable people throughout our Boots sales are dependent on the efficient functioning business to use their expertise both to identify risks that of our manufacturing, distribution and, in particular, In addition to the regulations mentioned above, our could undermine our performance and to devise ways IT infrastructure.
If major disruption occurred for business is subject to increasingly stringent laws relating of bringing them within acceptable levels.
Where we example, a serious interruption to the supply of raw to pollution, health and safety, packaging, labelling, identify risks that are not acceptable, we develop and materials or extreme equipment failure our results product safety and protection of the public and the agree action plans with clear allocation of responsibilities and cash flow could be adversely affected.
Failure to comply with relevant laws could and timescales for completion.
We try to ensure that have damaging consequences for our business, the progress of our action plans is monitored and 6.
Pension scheme shortfalls including fines and harm to our reputation.
Whilst we believe The Boots Pension Scheme is currently strong, and its investment strategy is 2.
Trends in consumer spending and damage to our calculated to reduce the impact of market movements, reputation or brand so as to try to ensure the scheme can continue to meet As a Health and Beauty retailer, Boots will be subject its liabilities, if the value of the scheme was to decline to changes and trends in retail and consumer spending in relation to its liabilities, Boots might need to make and preferences in that market.
We may be particularly an additional contribution to cover any shortfall.
This affected during recessionary periods or periods of low could have an adverse impact on results and cash flow, consumer confidence.
In addition, our continued success particularly given the relative sizes of the Boots Pension depends on our reputation and the strength of the Scheme and Boots Group PLC.
Boots brand and our principal trading brands such as o N 7.
If anything should damage that reputation for 7.
Possible product liability claims example, a decline in product quality or a failure on our Any manufacturer or retailer is potentially vulnerable part to respond to changing customer demand and to product liability claims.
Boots could also face liability preferences our business would inevitably suffer.
and or reputational damage relating to counterfeit products, re-labelling of products, contamination or mishandling issues or in respect of its discontinued business activities.
Any such claim could arise which could have an adverse impact on results and cash flow.
Annual report 2006 37 AR6934 Boots Annual Report 2006 31 05 2006 Final sign off OFR SECTION 3 THE FUTURE FOR BOOTS Chief executives sign-off Im proud of what we have achieved since we started the process of building a better Boots nearly three years ago.
And Im particularly encouraged by our performance over the last 12 months.
But believe me, theres not the slightest danger of complacency setting in: we couldnt be more acutely aware of the challenges ahead.
And thats one reason why we were keen to adopt the new Operating and Financial Review OFR approach to reporting on our business.
Because one of the most important ways in which an OFR differs from a conventional annual review is in providing a robust framework for ongoing reporting.
As you can see, we have set ourselves clear targets for the future.
And a year from now, we will publish an account of how weve performed in relation to these as well as setting new targets for the year to come.
In short, this first OFR is a firm commitment to a more open and accountable future.
And that, Im certain, can only be good for Boots.
Richard Baker Chief Executive Trust 38 Annual report 2006 AR6934 Boots Annual Report 2006 31 05 2006 Final sign off Financial contents 40 Corporate governance 46 Directors remuneration report 56 Directors responsibilities statement 57 Independent auditors report to the members of Boots Group PLC 58 Directors report 61 Group income statement Statements of recognised income and expense 62 Balance sheets 63 Cash flow statements 64 Significant accounting policies 69 Notes relating to the financial statements 100 Significant investments in subsidiaries 100 Group financial record IFRS 101 Segmental financial record IFRS 102 Group financial record UK GAAP 103 Segmental financial record UK GAAP 104 Shareholder information 105 Index Annual report 2006 39 AR6934 Boots Annual Report 2006 31 05 2006 Final sign off
