Managers Review Edinburgh US Tracker Trust is the only UK investment trust by Symantec, and Constellation Brands replaced Great to track the performance of the S&P 500 Composite Index Lakes Chemical which was acquired by Crompton.
In July, and provides shareholders with a diversified portfolio which Weatherford International replaced Toys R Us which was is invested in the leading 500 companies across the main acquired by a group of private equity investors.
industries within the US economy.
The method employed by the Company to track the index involves full replication of In August, Vornado Realty Trust replaced SunGard Data the index constituents.
This means that the Companys Systems, which was bought out by a private equity portfolio holds every stock making up the index in an consortium, Murphy Oil replaced Nextel amount that equals the stocks proportionate weight in the Communications, which was acquired by Sprint, Tyson index.
The index is calculated on the basis of the market Foods replaced Unocal, which was acquired by Chevron, capitalisation of its 500 constituents which are drawn from Public Storage replaced Delta Air Lines, on the grounds of companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange, the low market capitalisation, and Coventry Health Care American Stock Exchange and NASDAQ and is widely replaced May Department Stores which was acquired by regarded as the best single gauge of the US equity market.
The level of activity within the portfolio was once again In September, Ameriprise Financial replaced Providian slightly higher than in previous years and this was Financial, which was acquired by Washington Mutual, attributable to the rebalancing of the portfolio to reflect the and Lennar replaced Gillette which was acquired by weights of the index constituents being amended to reflect Procter & Gamble.
In October, Patterson Companies the free float of shares to investors.
This change was replaced Delphi which was removed from the index on implemented by the Standard & Poors Index Committee in grounds of low market capitalisation and, in November, two stages in March and September.
The costs of the Amazon replaced AT&T which was acquired by SBC rebalancing of the portfolio were kept to a minimum and Communications.
had no impact on the net asset value of the Company.
Activity within the portfolio was also generated by raising In December, Genworth Financial replaced Calpine, which funds to finance the purchase of the Companys own shares.
was removed from the index on grounds of low market capitalisation, and E W Scripps replaced Georgia-Pacific Additional activity within the portfolio reflected the changes which was acquired by privately-held Koch Industries.
In made to the constituents of the index.
The constituents of January 2006, Viacom separated into new Viacom and the S&P 500 Composite Index are controlled by the CBS Corporation and Visteon was removed from the Standard & Poors Index Committee and the Company index.
Whole Food markets replaced MBNA, which was bought and sold shares during the year to reflect any acquired by Bank of America, Estee Lauder replaced changes initiated by the Committee.
Most of the changes to Mercury Interactive, which was delisted, VeriSign the constituents in the past year were the result of replaced Reebok International, which was acquired by takeover activity.
Adidas-Salomon of Germany, and Harman International replaced Siebel Systems which was acquired by Oracle.
In February 2005, Molson of Canada merged with Adolph Coors and the enlarged entity, Molson Coors Brewing, was The total value of purchases in the year amounted to added to the index.
In March, National Oilwell Varco was 17.7 million while sales totalled 23.3 million.
added to the index following its acquisition of Varco International and Power-One was removed while Sears Roebuck merged with Kmart to form Sears Holdings.
In June, D R Horton replaced Veritas Software, which was acquired 16 March 2006 Edinburgh Fund Managers plc 10 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc
