Directors Report Review of the Business A review of the Companys activities is given in the Corporate Summary on page 1 and the Chairmans Statement and Managers Review on pages 8 to 10.
Results and Dividends An interim dividend of 2.3p was paid on 21 October 2005.
The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 3.70p be paid on 22 May 2006 to shareholders on the register on 18 April 2006, making a total of 6.00p 2005 5.05p per share for the year ended 31 January 2006.
The ex-dividend date is 12 April 2006.
Principal Activity The business of the Company is that of an investment trust and the Directors do not envisage any change in this activity in the foreseeable future.
Status The Company is registered as a public limited company and is an investment company as defined by Section 266 of the Companies Act 1985.
The Company has been approved by the Inland Revenue as an investment trust for the purposes of Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for the year ended 31 January 2005.
The Directors are of the opinion, under advice, that the Company has conducted its affairs for the year ended 31 January 2006 so as to be able to continue to obtain approval as an investment trust under Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for that year, although approval for the year would be subject to review were there to be any enquiry under the Corporate Tax Self Assessment regime.
The affairs of the Company were conducted in such a way as to comply with the qualifying equity rule as defined in the Personal Equity Plan Regulations.
The Company has also conducted its affairs so as to satisfy the requirements as a qualifying security for Individual Savings Accounts.
The Directors intend that the Company will continue to conduct its affairs in this manner in the future.
Share Capital During the year ended 31 January 2006 the Company purchased for cancellation 1,242,000 Ordinary shares at prices ranging from 465p to 557p at a discount to the prevailing net asset value per share.
The total consideration for these purchases was 6.4 million inclusive of stamp duty.
Since the year end the Company has purchased for cancellation 936,500 Ordinary shares at prices ranging from 563.58p to 572.0p.
Directors Details of the current Directors of the Company are shown on pages 3 and 4.
In accordance with the articles of association, Guy Crawford will retire from the Board by rotation and, being eligible, will offer himself for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
In accordance with the terms of the Combined Code and the corporate governance procedures established by the Board, non executive Directors may serve longer than nine years subject to annual re-election.
Accordingly, Sir Angus Grossart will retire from the Board and, being eligible, will offer himself for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
The Board has reviewed the skills and experience of Guy Crawford and Sir Angus Grossart and has no hesitation in recommending to shareholders their re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
The Directors interests in the share capital of the Company, all of which are beneficial interests, are shown below in the share capital of the Company.
The Company has not been notified of any changes in Directors interests.
None of the Directors had any non-beneficial interests in the share capital of the Company.
31 January 2006 31 January 2005 Sir Angus Grossart 1,000 1,000 Guy Crawford 1,000 1,000 James Ferguson 1,000 1,000 Archie Hunter 1,000 1,000 16 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc The above interests were unchanged as at the date of this report.
No contract or arrangement subsisted during the period in which any of the Directors was materially interested.
No Director had a service contract with the Company.
Directors & Officers Liability Insurance The Company maintains insurance in respect of Directors and Officers liabilities in relation to their acts on behalf of the Company.
Corporate Governance Compliance The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The Board is responsible for good governance and this statement describes how the Company applies the principles identified in the Combined Code appended to the Financial Services Authority Listing Rules throughout the financial year.
The Board confirms that the Company has complied throughout the accounting period to 31 January 2006 with the relevant provisions contained within the Combined Code unless otherwise indicated below.
The Board The Board consists of four non-executive Directors, of whom Sir Angus Grossart is the Chairman.
Mr Ferguson is the senior independent Director.
All Directors are considered by the Board to be independent of the Company and the Manager, Edinburgh Fund Managers plc, and free of any material relationship with the Manager which could interfere with the exercise of their independent judgment.
The Board takes the view that independence is not compromised by length of tenure on the Board and that experience can add significantly to the Boards strength.
The Board considers that the post of chief executive officer is not relevant for an investment trust company as this role has effectively been delegated to Edinburgh Fund Managers plc under the terms of the Investment Management Agreement.
Biographies of the Board members, including their relevant experience, appear on pages 3 and 4 which demonstrate that each Director has the requisite high level and range of business, investment and financial experience and enables the Board to provide clear and effective leadership and proper stewardship of the Company.
During the year the Board met four times, the Audit Committee met twice and the Management Engagement Committee met once.
Each Director attended all Board and Committee meetings.
The Board has a schedule of matters reserved to it for decision and the requirement for Board approval on these matters is communicated directly to the senior staff of the Manager.
Such matters include strategy, borrowings, treasury, dividend and corporate governance policy.
Full and timely information is provided to the Board to enable the Board to function effectively and to allow Directors to discharge their responsibilities.
The Board also reviews the financial statements, performance and revenue budgets.
Following an appraisal of each Director, by the Chairman, and of the Chairman by the other Directors, the Board confirms that all Directors contribute to the effective running of the Company.
The Board has also reviewed the Chairmans and Directors other commitments and is satisfied that the Chairman and Directors are capable of devoting sufficient time to the Company.
In addition the Directors assessed the collective performance of the Board as a whole against the requirements of the Companys business and the need to have a balanced Board.
The Board is conscious of the need to achieve the right balance of relevant abilities and experience within the Board as a whole.
In order to achieve that objective, three Board appointments were made during the period 2002-2004.
The Board believes that this provides the aggregate balance of abilities, perspective and experience which is appropriate for a tracker fund and secures the right measure of continuity for the Board as a whole.
The Board as a whole acts as the Nominations Committee.
New appointments to the Board of Directors are considered by the Board.
A description of the required role for a new appointment is prepared and nominations of Directors are initially sought in the financial and investment sectors.
External search consultants may be used to ensure that a wide range of candidates can be considered.
New Directors appointed will be given appropriate induction from the Manager.
All Directors are entitled to receive appropriate training as deemed necessary.
A Director appointed during the year is required, under the provisions of the Companys articles, to retire and seek re-election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
The articles also require that one third of the Directors retire by rotation each year and seek re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
In addition, all Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at least every three years.
Directors with more than nine years service are required to submit themselves for annual re-election.
As intimated in last years annual report, Sir Angus Grossart intends to retire as a Director of the Company at the Annual General Meeting in 2007.
The Board Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc 17 Directors Report continued supports the re-election of Guy Crawford and Sir Angus Grossart, who are due to retire at this years Annual General Meeting.
Guy Crawford has been involved in the investment management industry for over 30 years and Sir Angus Grossart has considerable experience of the investment trust industry.
Their contributions to the Board are greatly valued.
The tenure of Directors corresponds with the formal provisions of the Companys articles of association.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice if necessary and at the Companys expense.
This is in addition to the access which every Director has to the advice and services of the company secretary, Edinburgh Fund Managers plc, which is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
There is no separate remuneration committee and the Board as a whole fulfills the function of such.
Details of remuneration are contained within the Directors remuneration report.
Relations with shareholders The Directors believe in good communication with shareholders.
The report and accounts are widely distributed to other parties who have an interest in the Companys performance.
Shareholders and investors may obtain up to date information on the Company through the Managers freephone information service.
The Board welcomes correspondence from shareholders addressed to the Companys registered office and responds to letters from shareholders on a wide range of issues.
The Manager maintains contact with institutional shareholders and feeds back shareholder views to the Board.
The Companys annual and interim reports and other publications can be downloaded from the Companys website, www.
The notice of the Annual General Meeting included within the annual report and accounts is sent out at least 20 working days in advance of the meeting.
Investors in the Managers savings plans are encouraged to vote by means of a letter of direction enclosed with the annual report.
All shareholders have the opportunity to put questions at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
Proxy voting as an institutional shareholder Responsibility for monitoring the activities of investee companies has been delegated by the Board to the Manager.
The Manager will exercise proxy votes on behalf of the Company if they believe it is appropriate.
Internal control The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Following publication of Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull guidance, the Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
This process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of this annual report and accounts, and is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the guidance.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
In particular, it has reviewed and updated the process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the Company and policies by which these risks are managed.
The significant risks faced by the Company are as follows: x financial: x operational x compliance: and x risk management The key components designed to provide effective internal control are outlined below: x the Manager prepares forecasts and management accounts which allow the Board to assess the Companys activities and review its performance: the emphasis is on obtaining the relevant degree of assurance and not merely reporting by exception: x the Board and Manager have agreed clearly defined investment criteria, specified levels of authority and exposure limits.
Reports on these issues, including performance statistics and investment valuations, are regularly submitted to the Board and there are meetings with the Manager as appropriate: x as a matter of course the Managers compliance department continually reviews the Managers operations: x written agreements are in place which specifically define the roles and responsibilities of the Manager and other third party service providers: x the Board has considered the need for an internal audit function but, because of the compliance and internal control systems in place within the Manager, has decided to place reliance on the Managers systems and internal audit procedures: and 18 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc x at its March 2006 meeting, the Audit Committee carried out an annual assessment of internal controls for the year ended 31 January 2006 by considering documentation from the Manager, including the internal audit and compliance functions and taking account of events since 31 January 2006.
The results of the assessment were reported to the Board.
Internal control systems are designed to meet the Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
Accordingly, the internal control systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and by their nature can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Accountability and audit The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the Auditors in connection with the financial statements appear on pages 21 and 24.
The Audit Committee comprises all of the Directors and is chaired by Mr Hunter.
The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year and considers reports from the external Auditors and the Manager.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available on request.
The main responsibilities of the Audit Committee are: x to review and monitor the internal control systems and risk management systems on which the Company is reliant: x to consider annually whether there is a need for the Company to have its own internal audit function: x to monitor the integrity of the interim and annual financial statements of the Company by reviewing, and challenging where necessary, the actions and judgements of the Manager: x to meet, if required, with the external Auditors to review their proposed audit programme of work and the findings of the Auditors.
The Committee shall also use this as an opportunity to assess the effectiveness of the audit process: x to develop and implement policy on the engagement of the external Auditor to supply non-audit services the non-audit fees for the year to 31 January 2006 were 5,000 the Board will review any future fees in the light of the requirement to maintain the Auditors independence : x to review the arrangements in place within the Manager whereby staff may, in confidence, escalate concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters: x to make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of the external Auditor and to approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external Auditor: and x to monitor and review annually the external Auditors independence, objectivity, effectiveness, resources and qualification.
Management Engagement Committee The Management Engagement Committee comprises all of the Directors and is chaired by Mr Ferguson.
The Committee reviews the performance of the Manager and their compliance with the terms of the management and secretarial agreement.
The terms and conditions of the Managers appointment, including an evaluation of performance and fees, are reviewed by the Committee on an annual basis.
The management agreement is terminable on not less than three months notice.
The Committee considers that the Manager, whose team is well qualified and experienced, has fully met the terms of its agreement with the Company.
The Company has continued to meet its objective of tracking closely the S&P 500 Composite Index.
Following a review of the management fees and total expense ratio the Committee believe these are reasonable and competitive.
Taking these factors into account, the Committee and the Board believe that the continuing appointment of the Manager is in the interests of shareholders.
Going Concern In accordance with the Companys articles of association, shareholders have the right to vote annually at the Annual General Meeting on whether to continue the Company.
After enquiry, the Directors believe that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts and are of the opinion that the Company will continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Auditors The Companys auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, are willing to continue in office and resolutions will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to reappoint them and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
Non-audit fees of 5,000 were paid to the auditors, during the year, in respect of their interim review including the restatement of the 31 January 2005 figures under revised UK GAAP.
Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc 19 Directors Report continued Creditor Payment Policy It is the policy of the Company to settle all investment transactions in accordance with the terms and conditions of the relevant market in which it operates.
All other expenses are paid on a timely basis in the ordinary course of business.
In certain circumstances, settlement terms are agreed prior to business taking place.
Substantial Interests At 16 March 2006, being the nearest practicable date to the signing of this Report, the following were registered or had notified the Company as being interested in 3% or more of the Company's Ordinary share capital: Name of Shareholder Number of Ordinary shares held % of Ordinary Shares held Barclays PLC 8,986,143 11.1 Lehman Brothers International Europe 4,098,467 5.1 Legal & General Investment Management 2,735,353 3.4 Annual General Meeting Special Business Resolutions relating to the following items of special business will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting: i An ordinary resolution will be proposed to release the Directors from the obligation to convene an Extraordinary General Meeting in 2006 at which a resolution will be proposed to wind up the Company.
ii Section 80 authority to allot shares Resolution 9, which is an ordinary resolution, will, if approved, give the Directors a general authority to allot new securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 6,729,389 representing approximately 33.33 per cent.
of the total ordinary share capital of the Company in issue as at the date of this Directors report, such authority to expire on 17 August 2007 or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2007 unless previously revoked, varied or extended by the Company in general meeting.
iii Limited disapplication of pre-emption provisions As noted above, resolution 9 will, if approved give the Directors a general authority to allot securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 6,729,389.
Resolution 10, which is a special resolution, will, if approved give the Directors power to allot unissued Ordinary share capital up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 2,018,817, being 10% of the current issued share capital of the Company for cash other than to existing shareholders pro rata to their holdings.
Under this power, Ordinary shares would only be issued for cash at a price not less than the net asset value per share.
A maximum of 6,729,389 of unissued ordinary share capital may also be allotted for cash pursuant to a rights issue made pro rata to shareholders in the future.
Ordinary shares would only be issued for cash pursuant to a rights issue at a price not less than the net asset value per share.
This power will continue in effect until 17 August 2007 or, if earlier, the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2007 unless previously revoked, varied or extended by the Company in general meeting.
The Directors consider that the powers proposed to be granted by the above resolutions are necessary to retain flexibility and would be used to meet investor demand.
20 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc
