Overview Board of Directors Sir Brian Williamson CBE Lord King of Bridgwater Chairman Aged 73, was appointed a Director Aged 61, was appointed a Director in 1992. in 1994.
A Member of Parliament from 1970 until A Director of Resolution plc and a member of 2001, he held a variety of senior Cabinet the Supervisory Board of Euronext NV, Sir posts and was Secretary of State for Brian was previously Chairman of the Defence from 1989 to 1992.
He has been a London Financial Futures & Options member of the Nolan Committee and Exchange.
He is a non-executive Director of Chairman of the Intelligence and Security HSBC Holdings and a senior adviser to Committee.
In the USA he was Governor of the National Association of Before entering Parliament he was a senior Securities Dealers and Chairman of manager in DRG, the printing and packaging Nasdaqs International Markets Advisory group, and subsequently Chairman of Sale Board.
He is currently non-executive Chairman of London International Exhibition He was formerly a board member of the Centre Holdings.
Financial Services Authority, Chairman of Gerrard Group, and a Member of the Court Michael Walton of the Bank of Ireland.
Aged 63, was appointed a Director in July 2000.
Ronald Armstrong Aged 62, was appointed a Director He was previously on the Board of the in 1994.
He was Managing Director of Gartmore Private Most of his career has been spent in Capital until 1996 and has subsequently companies in which the application of been a Director of NatWest Equity Partners.
technology is critical to success and he has He has served on the Council of the British considerable experience of this process Venture Capital Association.
across a wide range of industries and countries.
He is a Director of Bridgepoint Capital and a number of private companies.
He is a Founder Director of E-Synergy, which specialises in venture funding for early-stage Peter Williams technology companies.
He is Chairman of Aged 64, was appointed a Director Infection Control Enterprise and a Director of in 1994. other private companies.
Previously he was a Director of JP Morgan Fleming Worldwide He is Chairman of RPC Group, one of Income Investment Trust and several other Europes largest producers of plastic Fleming investment trusts between 1991 and packaging and of Eposs, a specialist 2005. deliverer of electronic products to the mobile phone industry.
He is a Director of Xenos Professor Sir George Bain Group, a software company listed on the Aged 67, was appointed a Director Toronto Stock Exchange and several private in 1998. companies.
He was formerly a Director of Reed International and Chief A former President and Vice-Chancellor Executive of David S. Smith Holdings.
of The Queens University of Belfast, he has also held senior academic posts at the London Business School and the University of Warwick.
He has also been Chairman of the Low Pay Commission and is on the Boards of Bombardier Member of the Remuneration Committee.
Aerospace Short Brothers and the Canada All Directors, other than the Chairman, are Life Group UK.
members of the Audit Committee.
6 Electra Private Equity PLC Overview Board of Directors Sir Brian Williamson CBE Left to right Ronald Armstrong Professor Sir George Bain Lord King of Bridgwater Michael Walton Peter Williams Electra Private Equity PLC 7
