The Groups operating margin, before the one-off Secondly, succeeding Mr Ritchie as Group Finance Looking ahead, it is anticipated that the pension credit, remained strong, at 23.1%, versus Director, Mr Neil Cooper has been appointed undersupply of new housing relative to new 24.0% in 2005.
For the ninth consecutive year, to the Board as an executive director on household generation will continue.
It is generally the Group has generated a return on capital 2 January 2007.
Mr Cooper previously worked accepted that the constraints of the planning employed of at least 20%.
in senior finance roles in Reckitt & Colman Plc system remain firmly in place on the supply side: and Whitbread Plc.
constraints that both restrict supply of land for Dividend housebuilding, and increase the time taken to Together with the 10.0p per share 2006 interim Thirdly, Mr Colin Holmes was appointed as a bring strategic land opportunities into the dividend declared and paid, the proposed final non-executive director, with effect from consented land bank.
When this is allied to dividend for the year ended 31 December 2006, 1 December 2006.
Mr Holmes is currently the household growth, driven by demographic and of 20.0p per share, demonstrates the Boards Chief Executive of Tescos UK convenience store societal changes, that is in excess of supply, then commitment to its earlier statement in respect of business, and has been with Tesco since 1988. robust market fundamentals remain in place.
dividends, which is that conditional on any The Board currently comprises five non-executive necessary approvals required at future general This said, inflationary pressures in the economy as directors, including myself, and three executive meetings, and subject to a stable business a whole have become more acute through 2006, directors.
environment dividends will be doubled from and in response, the Bank of England Monetary their 20.0p per share base in 2004 to 40.0p per Policy Committee raised rates by 0.25% twice The Board would like to pay tribute to Mr Mark share in 2008, including a 5.0p per share increase during 2006: in August, and in November, Nicholls, who steps down from the Board at in both 2007 and 2008. together with a third 0.25% rise in January 2007. the upcoming AGM.
Mr Nicholls has been a non-executive director of the Company since The 2006 dividend, taking the interim and final The impact of these on consumer confidence will before flotation in 1997, and his contribution to dividend in total, at 30.0p per share, is a 20% become clear in due course, but the Group the development of the Group has been significant.
increase on the 2005 dividend of 25.0p per share, believes that it is well placed to operate and is covered 2.6 times by the basic earnings per successfully in its marketplace during 2007.
Employees share of 77.8p per share, excluding one-off Bovis Homes believes that the success of the The Group has migrated its sales mix towards pension credit.
Group is down to the hard work, talent and good quality mid-market private homes over a expertise of its employees.
Their commitment is The proposed final dividend of 20.0p per share for period of time, and this taken together with its fundamental to achieving this success.
2006 will be paid on 25 May 2007 to shareholders ability to procure land through its long term on the register at the close of business on investment strategy: the integration and In making this happen, we strive to maintain a 30 March 2007.
The Board intends to offer a scrip efficiency of its design, build and marketing diverse workforce, reflecting the range of talents dividend alternative, pursuant to which the processes: the growth opportunities afforded by in the communities we work and operate in.
shareholders may elect to receive the whole or part steady regional expansion and the further We are also committed to the health, safety and of their final 2006 dividend in new ordinary shares, development of the urban regeneration business welfare of all of our employees, whether on credited as fully paid, as an alternative to cash.
will enable the Group to continue to offer good building sites, or in the office: conducting prospects and to enhance shareholder value.
business in the right way.
The Board There have been a number of Board changes I would like to thank all of our employees for Tim Melville-Ross to communicate.
Firstly, after four and a half years their efforts towards making 2006 a successful Chairman as the Group Finance Director, Mr David Ritchie has year for Bovis Homes.
been appointed, effective from 2 January 2007, to Market conditions and prospects the role of Group Managing Director.
The housing market during 2006 was generally Mr Ritchies appointment reflects both the stronger than in 2005, helped by a broadly additional demands created by the growth of the positive economic backdrop for much of Group, and the value that Mr Ritchie has added the year.
Average national earnings growth at to date as an executive director.
Mr Ritchie will be 3.7% for the year to December 2006, and record responsible to the Chief Executive for the day to high employment levels, have had a positive day running of the regional operations.
effect on the housing market in terms of both pricing, and volume trends.
