Bovis Homes Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Directors and officers Timothy David Melville-Ross 62 Mark Patrick Nicholls 57 Lesley Anne MacDonagh 54 CBE Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Chairman non-executive Appointed an independent non-executive Appointed an independent non-executive director in 1997 and Senior Independent director in 2003.
Lesley is a director of Appointed an independent non-executive Director in 2005.
He is chairman of Lovells, the international law firm, and was director in 1997 and Chairman in 2005.
EcoSecurities Group plc, deputy chairman Managing Partner for 10 years until 2005.
He is the chairman of DTZ Holdings plc, of Venture Production plc and a nonShe is a non-executive director of Slough Manganese Bronze Holdings p. l. c. and executive director of Alexander Forbes Estates plc and a supervisory board Royal London Mutual Insurance.
Limited, Evolution Group plc, Northern member of the Citizenship Foundation.
He is president of the Chartered Investors Company PLC and the Portman She was previously a Governor of the Management Institute.
He was Director Building Society.
He was previously Head London School of Economics, a member of General of the Institute of Directors 1994 of Private Equity at the Royal Bank of the Court of the Solicitors Company, a - 1999 and was previously chief executive Scotland and prior to that Head of member of the Government's Property of the Nationwide Building Society.
Advisory Group and the Law Society Council Member for the City of London.
John Anthony Warren 53 Colin Peter Holmes 41 Malcolm Robert Harris 58 Non-executive Director Non-executive Director FCMA Chief Executive Appointed an independent non-executive Appointed an independent non-executive director in 2006.
He is a non-executive Director in December 2006.
Colin is the Commenced employment with Bovis Homes director of Arla Foods UK plc, BPP Chief Executive of Tescos UK Convenience in 1974.
He was appointed to the Bovis Holdings plc, Rank Group plc, Spectris plc business, which operates over 700 Tesco Homes board in 1978 and became Chief and Uniq plc.
He was previously group Express and 500 One Stop stores.
He is a non-executive finance director of WH Smith PLC and Colin joined Tesco in 1988, and his director of the Home Builders Federation United Biscuits plc and a non-executive previous roles include UK Finance Director Limited and the NHBC.
director of RAC plc and Rexam plc.
David James Ritchie 37 Neil Cooper 39 Martin Trevor Digby Palmer 48 BSc Hons ACMA BA Hons ACA FCIS Group Finance Director Group Managing Director Group Company Secretary Joined Bovis Homes in January 2007 as Joined Bovis Homes in 1998 as the Groups Joined Bovis Homes in 2001, having been Group Finance Director.
Previously, he was Financial Controller and was appointed group company secretary of London employed by Whitbread plc in both group Finance Director in 2002 and Group Forfaiting Company PLC from 1997 to finance and divisional roles and held Managing Director in January 2007.
2001 and of London & Edinburgh Trust positions with Reckitt and Colman plc and Previously, he was employed by KPMG PLC from 1994 to 1997.
involved in advising clients on acquisitions, disposals and flotations as well as audits.
20 Corporate governance policy guidelines Introduction These guidelines have been adopted by the Board.
They provide guidance on how the principles of good corporate governance are applied to the Company.
The Report on corporate governance is set out on pages 24 to 26.
The Board represents the interests of shareholders and other stakeholders through directing the business of the Group successfully: setting and achieving short, medium and long term objectives.
The Board is responsible for monitoring and ensuring that senior management, organised in an established regional management structure, operate in accordance with the Groups policies and procedures and implement and execute the determined business strategies to achieve these objectives.
Guidelines on important corporate governance issues 1 Board membership and balance The composition of the Board is reviewed on a regular basis to ensure that it remains appropriate for successfully directing the business activities of the Group.
Consideration is given to the breadth of knowledge, diversity of skills and experience of executive and non-executive directors by the Nomination Committee.
The Nomination Committee and the Board give adequate consideration to planning for succession to Board and senior management positions, ensuring that appropriate management development measures are in place.
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director, three further independent non-executive directors and three executive directors.
2 Board selection The Board receives recommendations on the appointment of directors from a Board committee, the Nomination Committee, following an evaluation of the balance of knowledge, skills and experience available on the Board.
This Board committee comprises the independent non-executive directors, the Chairman and the Chief Executive and meets as required to consider proposed changes to Board membership.
3 Non-executive director independence The non-executive directors are independent in character and judgement and free from any business or other relationship which could affect or appear to affect the exercise of their independent judgement on matters under consideration by the Board.
The receipt of fair remuneration and being a shareholder is not considered to prejudice independence or prevent a non-executive director from acting independently.
4 Chairman and Chief Executive The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and there is a clear division of responsibilities between the two roles which has been set out in writing and approved by the Board.
It is normal practice for the role of Chairman to be a non-executive position.
5 Number of directors An appropriate balance between executive and non-executive directors is maintained and the size of the Board is set as necessary to achieve this.
The number of non-executive directors is decided so as to provide the diversity of knowledge, skills and experience necessary for a sound independent contribution to the Board and the successful management of the Groups business.
By way of guidance, at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise independent non-executive directors.
6 Length of appointment Executive directors are employed on service contracts with notice periods which do not exceed one year.
Non-executive directors service agreements establish the length of their appointments at periods of up to three years and their notice periods up to twelve months.
All directors are subject to retirement by rotation at least once in every three years at the Annual General Meeting.
New directors appointed by the Board must be re-appointed by shareholders at the following Annual General Meeting.
7 Director training On appointment, new directors are given a comprehensive induction to the Groups business activities, its policies and procedures and its management structure.
As necessary, directors receive training to complement their roles on the Board and Board Committees.
8 Director remuneration The Remuneration Committee in accordance with its terms of reference determines on behalf of the Board the broad policy for executive remuneration and the entire remuneration package for each of the executive directors and senior management.
The Remuneration Committee comprises the independent non-executive directors.
The Remuneration Committee meets as required.
External advice is sought where appropriate, including to benchmark remuneration levels against comparable companies.
Non-executive director remuneration, excluding that of the Chairman, is determined by the Board.
9 Financial information and internal control The review of submissions for Board approval in respect of the Groups annual report and accounts, interim report, preliminary statement and other public financial information is the responsibility of a Board committee, the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee reviews the Groups system of internal control and oversees compliance therewith.
The Audit Committee comprises the independent non-executive directors.
10 Supply of information Senior management are responsible for providing the Board with appropriate, complete and timely information relevant to the Boards discharge of its responsibilities, the monitoring of the performance of business activities, including significant variances, and progress with the implementation of strategies.
Directors have reasonable access to senior management to enable them to make further enquiries as they consider in their judgement appropriate.
11 Board procedures and authorities The Chairman and Chief Executive determine the agenda for each Board meeting and the necessary papers are distributed in advance so that the matters contained can be properly considered by the directors.
There is in place a schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision, and detailed authorities, together with associated procedures, have been established for individual directors in the performance of their duties.
The Board undertakes formal annual performance evaluations.
12 Relations with shareholders The Board as a whole accepts responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue is maintained with shareholders.
The aim is to ensure that this dialogue is based on a mutual understanding of objectives.
Investors are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting and to vote and participate.
13 Corporate policies The Board ensures that corporate policies and procedures on ethical and corporate social responsibility matters, including sustainability, health and safety and the environment are maintained, monitored and reviewed on a regular basis.
