Additional information for shareholders statements Note44onpage163 and the granting of share options as Share ownership elements of remuneration for executive directors and senior employees.
Directors and senior management Savings and matching plans As at 20 February 2007, the following directors of BP p. l. c. held interests BP ShareSave Plan in BP ordinary shares of 25 cents each or their calculated equivalent as A savings-related share option plan, under which employees save on a set out below: monthly basis over a three-or five-year period towards the purchase of shares at xed price determined when the option is granted.
The a The  2,749,907 3,768,016 option must be exercised within six months of maturity of the savings a I C Conn 241,797 799,032 contract: otherwise it lapses.
The plan is run in the UK and options are a Dr B E Grote 1,181,113 972,212 granted annually, usually in June.
Until 2003, a three-year savings plan a Dr A B Hayward 477,092 819,823 was also run in a small number of other countries.
Options will remain A G Inglis 223,112 outstanding in respect of these countries until the end of June 2007. a JAManzoni 442,982 819,823 Participants leaving for a qualifying reason will have six months in which J H Bryan 158,760 to use their savings to exercise their options on a pro-rated basis.
ABurgmans 10,000 Sir William Castell BP ShareMatch Plans EBDavis, Jr 68,992 Matching share plans, under which BP matches employees own D J Flint 15,000 contributions of shares up to a predetermined limit.
The plans are run in Dr D S Julius 15,000 the UK and in over 70 other countries.
The UK plan is run on a monthly Dr W E Massey 49,722 basis with shares being held in trust for five years before they can be Sir Tom McKillop 20,000 released free of any income tax and national insurance liability.
In other Sir Ian Prosser 16,301 countries, the plan is run on an annual basis, with shares being held in P D Sutherland 30,079 trust for three years.
The plan is operated on a cash basis in those countries where there are regulatory restrictions preventing the holding As at 20 February 2007, the following directors of BP p. l. c. held options of BP shares.
When the employee leaves BP, all shares must be under the BP group share option schemes for ordinary shares or their removed from trust and units under the plan operated on a cash basis calculated equivalent as set out below: must be encashed.
b Dr B E Grote 1,427,190 Dr A B Hayward 769,620 The above share plans are indicated as being equity-settled.
However in A G Inglis 415,300 certain countries it is not possible to award shares to employees owing to JAManzoni 780,523 local legislation.
In these instances the award will be settled in cash, calculated as the cash equivalent of the value to the employee of an a Performance shares awarded under the BP Executive Directors Incentive Plan.
These represent the maximum possible vesting levels.
The actual number of shares ADSs that vest will depend on the extent to which performance conditions have been satisfied over a three-year period.
Cash plans b In addition to the above, Dr Grote holds 40,000 Stock Appreciation Rights Cash Options Stock Appreciation Rights SARs equivalent to 240,000 ordinary shares.
These are cash-settled share-based payments available to certain There are no directors or members of senior management who own employees that require the group to pay the intrinsic value of the more than 1% of the ordinary shares outstanding.
At 20 February 2007, cash option SAR to the employee at the date of exercise.
There are all directors and senior management as a group held interests in no performance conditions: however, participants must continue in 15,488,669 ordinary shares or their calculated equivalent and 8,584,526 employment with BP for the first three calendar years of the plan for options for ordinary shares or their calculated equivalent under the BP the options SARs to vest.
Special arrangements may apply for qualifying group share options schemes.
The options SARs are exercisable between the third and 10th Additional details regarding the options granted, including exercise anniversaries of the grant date.
price and expiry dates, are found in the directors remuneration report on page 75.
Employee Share Ownership Plans ESOPs ESOPs have been established to acquire BP shares to satisfy any awards Employee share plans made to participants under the Executive Directors Incentive Plan, the The following table shows employee share options granted.
Medium Term Performance Plan, the Long Term Performance Plan, the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan and the BP ShareMatch Plans.
Until such time as the companys own shares Employee share options held by the ESOP trusts vest unconditionally in employees, the amount a granted during the year 53,978 54,482 80,395 paid for those shares is deducted in arriving at shareholders equity.
See a Financial statements Note 43 on page 160.
Assets and liabilities of the For the options outstanding at 31 December 2006, the exercise price ranges and weighted average remaining contractual lives are shown in Financial statements ESOPs are recognized as assets and liabilities of the group.
At 31 December 2006, the ESOPs held 12,795,887 shares 2005 14,560,003 shares and 2004 8,621,219 shares for potential future BP offers most of its employees the opportunity to acquire a shareholding awards, which had a market value of $142 million 2005 $156 million and in the company through savings-related and or matching share plan 2004 $84 million.
BP also uses long-term performance plans see Financial BP Annual Report and Accounts 2006 83 Pursuant to the various BP group share option schemes, the following Services Authority, there has been a change in the basis on which we options for ordinary shares of the company were outstanding at disclose certain major interests in the share capital of the company.
Options outstanding shares Expiry dates of options Exercise price per share -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 422,119,465 2007-2016 $5.0967-$11.921 Related party transactions The group had no material transactions with jointly controlled entities and associates during the period commencing 1 January 2006 to the date of Major shareholders and this report.
Transactions between the group and its significant jointly controlled entities and associates are summarized in Financial statements related party transactions Note29onpage136and Financial statements Note30onpage137.
In the ordinary course of its business, the group has transactions with Register of members holding BP ordinary shares various organizations with which certain of its directors are associated as at 31 December 2006 but, except as described in this report, no material transactions -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- responsive to this item have been entered into in the period commencing Number of Percentage of total Percentage of total Range of holdings shareholders shareholders share capital 1 January 2006 to 20 February 2007.
Until their Totals 330,241 100.00 100.00 shares have been exchanged for BP ADSs, Amoco and Atlantic Richeld a Includes JP Morgan Chase Bank, holding 26.46% of the total share capital as the shareholders do not have the right to receive dividends.
approved depositary for ADSs, a breakdown of which is shown in the table below.
BP currently announces dividends for ordinary shares in US dollars and states an equivalent pounds sterling dividend.
Dividends on BP ordinary Register of holders of American depositary shares as at a shares will be paid in pounds sterling and on BP ADSs in US dollars.
The directors may choose to 1-200 37,265 24.99 0.05 declare dividends in any currency provided that a sterling equivalent is 201-1,000 36,140 24.24 0.34 announced, but it is not the companys intention to change its current 1,001-10,000 58,388 39.16 3.63 policy of announcing dividends on ordinary shares in US dollars.
Totals 149,113 100.00 100.00 Refund means an amount equal to the tax credit available to individual a One ADS represents six 25 cent ordinary shares.
shareholders resident in the UK in respect of such dividend, less a b One of the holders of ADSs represents some 751,000 underlying shareholders.
withholding tax equal to 15% but limited to the amount of the tax credit of the aggregate of such tax credit and such dividend.
As at 31 December 2006, there were also 1,534 preference shareholders.
For dividends paid after 30 April 2004, there is no refund available Substantial shareholdings to shareholders resident in the US.
See Taxation on page 88 for Following implementation of the EU Transparency Directive effected by more information.
cents 64.5 64.1 67.4 66.5 262.5 A dividend reinvestment plan is in place whereby holders of BP ordinary shares can elect to reinvest the net cash dividend in shares purchased on the London Stock Exchange.
This plan is not available to any person resident in the US or Canada or in any jurisdiction outside the UK where such an offer requires compliance by the company with any governmental or regulatory procedures or any similar formalities.
A dividend reinvestment plan is, however, available for holders of ADSs through JPMorgan Chase Bank.
Future dividends will be dependent on future earnings, the financial condition of the group, the Risk factors set out on pages 12-13 and other matters that may affect the business of the group set out in Financial and operating performance on page 47.
84 22 September 2005, paying a $21.4 million penalty and undertaking a Legal proceedings number of corrective actions designed to make the renery safer.
OSHA referred the matter to the US Department of Justice for criminal Save as disclosed in the following paragraphs, no member of the group investigation, and the Department of Justice has opened an investigation.
is a party to, and no property of a member of the group is subject to, At the recommendation of the CSB, BP appointed an independent safety any pending legal proceedings that are significant to the group.
panel, the BP US Reneries Independent Safety Review Panel, under On 28 June 2006, the US Commodity Futures Trading Commission the chairmanship of former US Secretary of State James A Baker, III.
CFTC led a civil enforcement action in the US District Court for the See Report of the BP US Reneries Safety Review Panel on page 29 Northern District of Illinois against BP Products North America Inc. BP for a discussion of the Baker Panels report, which was published on Products, a wholly owned subsidiary of BP, alleging that BP Products 16 January 2007.
Other government legal actions related to this matter manipulated the price of February 2004 TET physical propane.
also charged BP Products with attempting to manipulate the price of Shareholder derivative lawsuits have been led in US federal and state February 2004 and April 2003 TET physical propane.
The CFTC is seeking courts against the directors of the company and others, nominally the permanent injunctive relief, disgorgement, restitution and payment of company and certain US subsidiaries following the events relating to, civil monetary penalties.
On 28 June 2006, the US Department of Justice inter alia, Prudhoe Bay, Texas City and the trading cases, alleging breach led a criminal charge against a former BP Products propane trader, who of duciary duty.
Proceedings in the CFTCs civil enforcement action Approximately 200 lawsuits were led in State and Federal Courts in have been stayed by the District Court pending the further investigation of Alaska seeking compensatory and punitive damages arising out of the these matters by the Department of Justice.
BP Products believes that it Exxon Valdez oil spill in Prince William Sound in March 1989.
Most of has co-operated fully with the CFTC in its investigation of this matter and those suits named Exxon now ExxonMobil, Alyeska Pipeline Service is assisting the Department of Justice in its ongoing investigation.
Private Company Alyeska, which operates the oil terminal at Valdez, and the class action complaints have also been led against BP Products that other oil companies that own Alyeska.
Alyeska initially responded to the have been consolidated in the US District Court for the Northern District spill until the response was taken over by Exxon.
BP owns a 47% interest of Illinois.
The complaints contain allegations similar to those in the CFTC reduced during 2001 from 50% by a sale of 3% to Phillips in Alyeska action as well as of violations of federal and state antitrust and unfair through a subsidiary of BP America Inc. and briey indirectly owned a competition laws and state consumer protection statutes and unjust further 20% interest in Alyeska following BPs combination with Atlantic enrichment.
The complaints seek actual and punitive damages and Richeld.
Alyeska and its owners have settled all the claims against them injunctive relief.
Exxon has indicated that it may le a claim for The CFTC is currently investigating various aspects of BP Products contribution against Alyeska for a portion of the costs and damages which crude oil trading and storage activities in the US since 2003 and has made it has incurred.
If any claims are asserted by Exxon that affect Alyeska and various formal and informal requests for information.
BP has provided, its owners, BP will defend the claims vigorously.
and continues to provide, responsive data and other information to these Since 1987, Atlantic Richeld Company, a subsidiary of BP, has been requests.
The CFTC is also conducting an investigation into BP Products named as a co-defendant in numerous lawsuits brought in the US alleging trading of unleaded gasoline futures contracts on 31 October 2002. injury to persons and property caused by lead pigment in paint.
The The CFTC staff notied BP on 21 November 2006 that they intend to majority of the lawsuits have been abandoned or dismissed as against recommend to the CFTC that a civil enforcement action be brought Atlantic Richeld.
Atlantic Richeld is named in these lawsuits as alleged against BP Corporation North America Inc. alleging violations of Sections successor to International Smelting and Rening which, along with a 6 c, 6 d and 9 a 2 of the Commodity Exchange Act in connection with predecessor company, manufactured lead pigment during the period its trading of unleaded gasoline futures contracts on 31 October 2002.
Plaintiffs include individuals and governmental entities.
BP has provided, and continues to provide, responsive documents and Several of the lawsuits purport to be class actions.
The lawsuits seek witness testimony.
The US Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois is various remedies including: compensation to lead-poisoned children: cost also conducting an investigation into BP Products trading of unleaded to nd and remove lead paint from buildings: medical monitoring and gasoline futures contracts on 31 October 2002. screening programmes: public warning and education of lead hazards: On 23 March 2005, an explosion and re occurred in the isomerization reimbursement of government healthcare costs and special education for unit of BP Products Texas City renery as the unit was coming out lead-poisoned citizens: and punitive damages.
No lawsuit against Atlantic of planned maintenance.
Fifteen workers died in the incident and Richeld has been settled nor has Atlantic Richeld been subject to a final many others were injured.
BP Products has reached more than 1,000 adverse judgment in any proceeding.
The amounts claimed and, if such settlements in respect of all the fatalities and many of the personal injury suits were successful, the costs of implementing the remedies sought in claims arising from the incident.
Trials have been scheduled for a number the various cases could be substantial.
While it is not possible to predict of unresolved claims in mid-2007, although to date all claims scheduled the outcome of these legal actions, Atlantic Richeld believes that it has for trial have been resolved in advance of trial.
The US Occupational valid defences and it intends to defend such actions vigorously and that Safety and Health Administration OSHA, the US Chemical Safety and the incurrence of liability is remote.
Consequently, BP believes that the Hazard Investigation Board CSB, the US Environmental Protection impact of these lawsuits on the groups results of operations, financial Agency and the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality, among position or liquidity will not be material.
other agencies, have conducted or are conducting investigations.
At the For certain information regarding environmental proceedings, see conclusion of their investigation, OSHA issued citations that BP Products Environmental protection US regional review on page 45. agreed not to contest.
BP Products settled that matter with OSHA on BP Annual Report and Accounts 2006 85 the LSE may impose a temporary halt in the trading of that companys The offer and listing shares in the order book to allow the market to re-establish equilibrium.
Dealings in ordinary shares may also take place between an investor and Markets and market prices a market-maker, via a member rm, outside the electronic order book.
The primary market for BPs ordinary shares is the London Stock In the US and Canada, the companys securities are traded in the Exchange LSE.
BPs ordinary shares are a constituent element of the form of ADSs, for which JPMorgan Chase Bank is the depositary the Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 Index.
BPs ordinary shares are also Depositary and transfer agent.
The Depositarys principal ofce is 4 New traded on stock exchanges in France, Germany, Japan and Switzerland.
York Plaza, Floor 13, New York, NY 10004, US.
Each ADS represents six Trading of BPs shares on the LSE is primarily through the use of the ordinary shares.
ADSs are listed on the New York Stock Exchange and are Stock Exchange Electronic Trading Service SETS, introduced in 1997 for also traded on the Chicago, Pacic and Toronto Stock Exchanges.
ADSs the largest companies in terms of market capitalization whose primary are evidenced by American depositary receipts, or ADRs, which may be listing is the LSE.
Under SETS, buy and sell orders at specic prices may issued in either certicated or book entry form.
be sent to the exchange electronically by any rm that is a member of the The following table sets forth for the periods indicated the highest and LSE, on behalf of a client or on behalf of itself acting as a principal.
The lowest middle market quotations for BPs ordinary shares for the periods orders are then anonymously displayed in the order book.
These are derived from the Daily Ofcial List of the LSE and the match on a buy and a sell order, the trade is executed and automatically highest and lowest sales prices of ADSs as reported on the New York reported to the LSE.
Trading is continuous from 8.00 a. m. to 4.30 p. m. UK Stock Exchange composite tape.
86 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Market prices for the ordinary shares on the LSE and in after-hours trading Proposals concerning the modication of certain retirement benets off the LSE, in each case while the New York Stock Exchange is open, schemes under which he may benefit and which have been approved and the market prices for ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange and by either the UK Board of Inland Revenue or by the shareholders.
other North American stock exchanges are closely related due to arbitrage Any proposal concerning the purchase or maintenance of any among the various markets, although differences may exist from time to insurance policy under which he may benefit.
time due to various factors, including UK stamp duty reserve tax.
Trading The UK Companies Act requires a director of a company who is in any in ADSs began on the LSE on 3 August 1987. way interested in a contract or proposed contract with the company to On 20 February 2007, 945,592,180 ADSs equivalent to 5,673,553,084 declare the nature of his interest at a meeting of the directors of the ordinary shares or some 29.08% of the total were outstanding and were company.
The denition of interest now includes the interests of held by approximately 148,268 ADR holders.
Of these, about 146,556 had spouses, children, companies and trusts.
The directors may exercise all registered addresses in the US at that date.
One of the registered holders the powers of the company to borrow money, except that the amount of ADSs represents some 759,659 underlying holders.
remaining undischarged of all moneys borrowed by the company shall On 20 February 2007, there were approximately 332,034 holders of not, without approval of the shareholders, exceed the amount paid up on record of ordinary shares.
Of these holders, around 1,471 had registered the share capital plus the aggregate of the amount of the capital and addresses in the US and held a total of some 4,201,229 ordinary shares.
revenue reserves of the company.
Variation of the borrowing power of Since certain of the ordinary shares and ADSs were held by brokers the board may only be effected by amending the Articles of Association.
and other nominees, the number of holders of record in the US may not Remuneration of non-executive directors shall be determined in the be representative of the number of beneficial holders or of their country of aggregate by resolution of the shareholders.
directors is determined by the remuneration committee.
This committee is made up of non-executive directors only.
Any director attaining the age of 70 shall retire at the next AGM.
There is no requirement of share Memorandum and articles of association ownership for a directors qualication.
The following summarizes certain provisions of BPs Memorandum and Dividend rights: other rights to share in company profits: Articles of Association and applicable English law.
This summary is capital calls qualied in its entirety by reference to the UK Companies Act and BPs If recommended by the directors of BP, BP shareholders may, by Memorandum and Articles of Association.
Information on where investors resolution, declare dividends but no such dividend may be declared in can obtain copies of the Memorandum and Articles of Association is excess of the amount recommended by the directors.
The directors may described under the heading Documents on Display on page 90. also pay interim dividends without obtaining shareholder approval.
No On 24 April 2003, the shareholders of BP voted at the AGM to adopt dividend may be paid other than out of profits available for distribution, as new Articles of Association to consolidate amendments which had been determined under IFRS and the UK Companies Act.
Dividends on ordinary necessary to implement legislative changes since the previous Articles of shares are payable only after payment of dividends on BP preference Association were adopted in 1983. shares.
Any dividend unclaimed after a period of 12 years from the date At the AGM held on 15 April 2004, shareholders approved an of declaration of such dividend shall be forfeited and reverts to BP.
amendment to the Articles of Association such that, at each AGM held The directors have the power to declare and pay dividends in any after 31 December 2004, all directors shall retire from ofce and may currency provided that a sterling equivalent is announced.
It is not the offer themselves for re-election.
There have been no further amendments companys intention to change its current policy of paying dividends in to the Articles of Association.
Apart from shareholders rights to share in BPs profits by dividend Objects and purposes if any is declared, the Articles of Association provide that the directors BP is incorporated under the name BP p. l. c. and is registered in may set aside: England and Wales with registered number 102498.
Clause 4 of BPs A special reserve fund out of the balance of profits each year to make Memorandum of Association provides that its objects include the up any deficit of cumulative dividend on the BP preference shares.
acquisition of petroleum-bearing lands: the carrying on of rening and A general reserve out of the balance of profits each year, which shall dealing businesses in the petroleum, manufacturing, metallurgical or be applicable for any purpose to which the profits of the company may chemicals businesses: the purchase and operation of ships and all other properly be applied.
This may include capitalization of such sum, vehicles and other conveyances: and the carrying on of any other pursuant to an ordinary shareholders resolution, and distribution to businesses calculated to benefit BP.
The memorandum grants BP a shareholders as if it were distributed by way of a dividend on the range of corporate capabilities to effect these objects.
ordinary shares or in paying up in full unissued ordinary shares for allotment and distribution as bonus shares.
Directors Any such sums so deposited may be distributed in accordance with the The business and affairs of BP shall be managed by the directors.
manner of distribution of dividends as described above.
The Articles of Association place a general prohibition on a director Holders of shares are not subject to calls on capital by the company, voting in respect of any contract or arrangement in which he has a provided that the amounts required to be paid on issue have been paid material interest other than by virtue of his interest in shares in the off.
All shares are fully paid.
However, in the absence of some other material interest not indicated below, a director is entitled to vote and to be counted in a Voting rights quorum for the purpose of any vote relating to a resolution concerning The Articles of Association of BP provide that voting on resolutions at a the following matters: shareholders meeting will be decided on a poll other than resolutions of a The giving of security or indemnity with respect to any money procedural nature, which may be decided on a show of hands.
If voting is lent or obligation taken by the director at the request or benefit of on a poll, every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy has one the company.
vote for every ordinary share held and two votes for every 5 in nominal Any proposal in which he is interested concerning the underwriting of amount of BP preference shares held.
If voting is on a show of hands, company securities or debentures.
each shareholder who is present at the meeting in person or whose duly Any proposal concerning any other company in which he is interested, appointed proxy is present in person will have one vote, regardless of the directly or indirectly whether as an officer or shareholder or otherwise number of shares held, unless a poll is requested.
Shareholders do not provided that he and persons connected with him are not the holder have cumulative voting rights.
or holders of 1% or more of the voting interest in the shares of Holders of record of ordinary shares may appoint a proxy, including such company.
a beneficial owner of those shares, to attend, speak and vote on their behalf at any shareholders meeting.
BP Annual Report and Accounts 2006 87 Record holders of BP ADSs also are entitled to attend, speak and vote either before or at the meeting by authorized ofcers to ensure its orderly at any shareholders meeting of BP by the appointment by the approved conduct and safety of those attending.
depositary, JPMorgan Chase Bank, of them as proxies in respect of the ordinary shares represented by their ADSs.
Each such proxy may also Limitations on voting and shareholding appoint a proxy.
Alternatively, holders of ADSs are entitled to vote There are no limitations imposed by English law or BPs Memorandum or by supplying their voting instructions to the depositary, who will vote Articles of Association on the right of non-residents or foreign persons to the ordinary shares represented by their ADSs in accordance with hold or vote the companys ordinary shares or ADSs, other than their instructions.
limitations that would generally apply to all of the shareholders.
Proxies may be delivered electronically.
Matters are transacted at shareholders meetings by the proposing Disclosure of interests in shares and passing of resolutions, of which there are three types: ordinary, The UK Companies Act permits a public company, on written notice, to special or extraordinary.
require any person whom the company believes to be or, at any time An ordinary resolution requires the afrmative vote of a majority of the during the previous three years prior to the issue of the notice, to have votes of those persons voting at a meeting at which there is a quorum.
been interested in its voting shares, to disclose certain information with Special and extraordinary resolutions require the afrmative vote of not respect to those interests.
Failure to supply the information required may less than three-fourths of the persons voting at a meeting at which there lead to disenfranchisement of the relevant shares and a prohibition on is a quorum.
Any AGM at which it is proposed to put a special or ordinary their transfer and receipt of dividends and other payments in respect of resolution requires 21 days notice.
An extraordinary resolution put to the those shares.
In this context the term interest is widely dened and will AGM requires no notice period.
Any extraordinary general meeting at generally include an interest of any kind whatsoever in voting shares, which it is proposed to put a special resolution requires 21 days notice: including any interest of a holder of BP ADSs.
otherwise, the notice period for an extraordinary general meeting is 14 days.
Exchange controls Liquidation rights: redemption provisions In the event of a liquidation of BP, after payment of all liabilities and There are currently no UK foreign exchange controls or restrictions on applicable deductions under UK laws and subject to the payment of remittances of dividends on the ordinary shares or on the conduct of the secured creditors, the holders of BP preference shares would be entitled companys operations.
to the sum of i the capital paid up on such shares plus, ii accrued and There are no limitations, either under the laws of the UK or under BPs unpaid dividends and iii a premium equal to the higher of a 10% of the Articles of Association, restricting the right of non-resident or foreign capital paid up on the BP preference shares and b the excess of the owners to hold or vote BP ordinary or preference shares in the company.
average market price over par value of such shares on the LSE during the previous six months.
The remaining assets if any would be divided pro rata among the holders of ordinary shares.
Taxation Without prejudice to any special rights previously conferred on the holders of any class of shares, BP may issue any share with such This section describes the material US federal income tax and UK taxation preferred, deferred or other special rights, or subject to such restrictions consequences of owning ordinary shares or ADSs to a US holder who as the shareholders by resolution determine or, in the absence of any holds the ordinary shares or ADSs as capital assets for tax purposes.
such resolutions, by determination of the directors, and may issue shares It does not apply, however, to members of special classes of holders that are to be or may be redeemed.
subject to special rules and holders that, directly or indirectly, hold 10% or more of the companys voting stock.
A US holder is any beneficial owner of ordinary shares or ADSs that Variation of rights is for US federal income tax purposes i a citizen or resident of the US, The rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with the consent in writing of holders of 75% of the shares of that class or upon the ii a US domestic corporation, iii an estate whose income is subject to adoption of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate meeting of US federal income taxation regardless of its source, or iv a trust if a the holders of the shares of that class.
At every such separate meeting, US court can exercise primary supervision over the trusts administration all of the provisions of the Articles of Association relating to proceedings and one or more US persons are authorized to control all substantial at a general meeting apply, except that the quorum with respect to a decisions of the trust.
meeting to change the rights attached to the preference shares is 10% This section is based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as or more of the shares of that class, and the quorum to change the rights amended, its legislative history, existing and proposed regulations attached to the ordinary shares is one third or more of the shares of thereunder, published rulings and court decisions, and the taxation laws that class.
of the UK, all as currently in effect, as well as the income tax convention between the US and the UK that entered into force on 31 March 2003 Shareholders meetings and notices the Treaty.
These laws are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive Shareholders must provide BP with a postal or electronic address in the basis.
UK in order to be entitled to receive notice of shareholders meetings.
For purposes of the Treaty and the estate and gift tax Convention the In certain circumstances, BP may give notices to shareholders by Estate Tax Convention, and for US federal income tax and UK taxation advertisement in UK newspapers.
Holders of BP ADSs are entitled to purposes, a holder of ADRs evidencing ADSs will be treated as the owner receive notices under the terms of the deposit agreement relating to BP of the companys ordinary shares represented by those ADRs.
The substance and timing of notices is described above under the of ordinary shares for ADRs and ADRs for ordinary shares generally will heading Voting Rights.
not be subject to US federal income tax or to UK taxation other than Under the Articles of Association, the AGM of shareholders will be held stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax, as described below.
within 15 months after the preceding AGM.
All other general meetings of This section is further based in part upon the representations of the shareholders shall be called extraordinary general meetings and all general Depositary and assumes that each obligation in the Deposit Agreement meetings shall be held at a time and place determined by the directors and any related agreement will be performed in accordance with its terms.
If any shareholders meeting is adjourned for lack of Investors should consult their own tax adviser regarding the US federal, quorum, notice of the time and place of the meeting may be given in any state and local, the UK and other tax consequences of owning and lawful manner, including electronically.
Powers exist for action to be taken disposing of ordinary shares and ADSs in their particular circumstances, and in particular whether they are eligible for the benets of the Treaty.
88 Taxation of dividends gains tax or UK corporation tax on chargeable gains as the case may be UK taxation which is paid in respect of such gain.
Under current UK taxation law, no withholding tax will be deducted from Under the Treaty, capital gains on dispositions of ordinary shares or dividends paid by the company, including dividends paid to US holders.
ADSs generally will be subject to tax only in the jurisdiction of residence A shareholder that is a company resident for tax purposes in the United of the relevant holder as determined under both the laws of the UK and Kingdom generally will not be taxable on a dividend it receives from the the US and as required by the terms of the Treaty.
A shareholder who is an individual resident for tax purposes Under the Treaty, individuals who are residents of either the UK or the in the United Kingdom is entitled to a tax credit on cash dividends paid US and who have been residents of the other jurisdiction the US or the on ordinary shares or ADSs of the company equal to one-ninth of the UK, as the case may be at any time during the six years immediately cash dividend.
preceding the relevant disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs may be subject to tax with respect to capital gains arising from a disposition of US federal income taxation ordinary shares or ADSs of the company not only in the jurisdiction of A US holder is subject to US federal income taxation on the gross amount which the holder is resident at the time of the disposition but also in the of any dividend paid by the company out of its current or accumulated other jurisdiction.
earnings and profits as determined for US federal income tax purposes.
Dividends paid to a non-corporate US holder in taxable years beginning US federal income taxation before 1 January 2011 that constitute qualied dividend income will be A US holder that sells or otherwise disposes of ordinary shares or ADSs taxable to the holder at a maximum tax rate of 15%, provided that the will recognize a capital gain or loss for US federal income tax purposes holder has a holding period in the ordinary shares or ADSs of more than equal to the difference between the US dollar value of the amount 60 days during the 121-day period beginning 60 days before the exrealized and the holders tax basis, determined in US dollars, in the dividend date and meets other holding period requirements.
Dividends ordinary shares or ADSs.
Capital gain of a non-corporate US holder paid by the company with respect to the shares or ADSs will generally that is recognized in taxable years beginning before 1 January 2011 is be qualied dividend income.
generally taxed at a maximum rate of 15% if the holders holding period As noted above in UK taxation, a US holder will not be subject to UK for such ordinary shares or ADSs exceeds one year.
The gain or loss withholding tax.
A US holder will include in gross income for US federal will generally be income or loss from sources within the US for foreign income tax purposes the amount of the dividend actually received from tax credit limitation purposes.
The deductibility of capital losses is the company and the receipt of a dividend will not entitle the US holder subject to limitations.
For US federal income tax purposes, a dividend must be included in Additional tax considerations income when the US holder, in the case of ordinary shares, or the UK inheritance tax Depositary, in the case of ADSs, actually or constructively receives the The Estate Tax Convention applies to inheritance tax.
ADSs held by an dividend, and will not be eligible for the dividends-received deduction individual who is domiciled for the purposes of the Estate Tax Convention generally allowed to US corporations in respect of dividends received in the US and is not for the purposes of the Estate Tax Convention a from other US corporations.
Dividends will be income from sources national of the UK will not be subject to UK inheritance tax on the outside the US, and generally will be passive income or, in the case of individuals death or on transfer during the individuals lifetime unless, certain US holders, financial services income or, for tax years beginning among other things, the ADSs are part of the business property of a after 31 December 2006, general category income, which is treated permanent establishment situated in the UK used for the performance of separately from other types of income for purposes of computing the independent personal services.
In the exceptional case where ADSs are allowable foreign tax credit.
subject both to inheritance tax and to US federal gift or estate tax, the The amount of the dividend distribution on the ordinary shares or ADSs Estate Tax Convention generally provides for tax payable in the US to that is paid in pounds sterling will be the US dollar value of the pounds be credited against tax payable in the UK or for tax paid in the UK to be sterling payments made, determined at the spot pounds sterling US credited against tax payable in the US, based on priority rules set forth dollar rate on the date the dividend distribution is includible in income, in the Estate Tax Convention.
regardless of whether the payment is in fact converted into US dollars.
Generally, any gain or loss resulting from currency exchange uctuations UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax during the period from the date the pounds sterling dividend payment is The statements below relate to what is understood to be the current includible in income to the date the payment is converted into US practice of the UK Inland Revenue under existing law.
dollars will be treated as ordinary income or loss.
The gain or loss Provided that the instrument of transfer is not executed in the UK and generally will be income or loss from sources within the US for foreign tax remains at all times outside the UK and the transfer does not relate to any credit limitation purposes.
matter or thing done or to be done in the UK, no UK stamp duty is Distributions in excess of the companys earnings and profits, as payable on the acquisition or transfer of ADSs.
Neither will an agreement determined for US federal income tax purposes, will be treated as a to transfer ADSs in the form of ADRs give rise to a liability to stamp duty return of capital to the extent of the US holders basis in the ordinary reserve tax.
shares or ADSs and thereafter as capital gain, subject to taxation as Purchases of ordinary shares, as opposed to ADSs, through the CREST described in Taxation of capital gains US federal income taxation.
system of paperless share transfers will be subject to stamp duty reserve tax at 0.5%.
The charge will arise as soon as there is an agreement for Taxation of capital gains the transfer of the shares or, in the case of a conditional agreement, UK taxation when the condition is fullled.
The stamp duty reserve tax will apply to A US holder may be liable for both UK and US tax in respect of a gain on agreements to transfer ordinary shares even if the agreement is made the disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs if the US holder is i a citizen of outside the UK between two non-residents.
Purchases of ordinary shares the US resident or ordinarily resident in the UK, ii a US domestic outside the CREST system are subject either to stamp duty at a rate of corporation resident in the UK by reason of its business being managed or 50 pence per 100 or part, or stamp duty reserve tax at 0.5%.
Stamp controlled in the UK or iii a citizen of the US or a corporation that carries duty and stamp duty reserve tax are generally the liability of the on a trade or profession or vocation in the UK through a branch or agency purchaser.
A subsequent transfer of ordinary shares to the Depositarys or, in respect of corporations for accounting periods beginning on or after nominee will give rise to further stamp duty at the rate of 1.50 per 100 1 January 2003, through a permanent establishment, and that have used, or part or stamp duty reserve tax at the rate of 1.5% of the value of the held, or acquired the ordinary shares or ADSs for the purposes of such ordinary shares at the time of the transfer.
trade, profession or vocation of such branch, agency or permanent A transfer of the underlying ordinary shares to an ADR holder on establishment.
However, such persons may be entitled to a tax credit cancellation of the ADSs without transfer of beneficial ownership will give against their US federal income tax liability for the amount of UK capital rise to UK stamp duty at the rate of 5 per transfer.
BP Annual Report and Accounts 2006 89 An ADR holder electing to receive ADSs instead of a cash dividend will Services at 44 0 870 241 3269 or through an e-mail request addressed be responsible for the stamp duty reserve tax due on issue of shares to to @bp.
com, or BPs US Shareholder Services ofce the Depositarys nominee and calculated at the rate of 1.5% on the issue in Warrenville, Illinois at 1 800 638 5672 or through an e-mail request price of the shares.
Current UK Inland Revenue practice is to calculate the addressed to shareholderus@bp.
issue price by reference to the total cash receipt i. e. cash dividend plus The company is subject to the information requirements of the US the Refund if any to which a US holder would have been entitled had the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 applicable to foreign private issuers.
election to receive ADSs instead of a cash dividend not been made.
ADR In accordance with these requirements, the company les its Annual holders electing to receive ADSs instead of the cash dividend authorize Report on Form 20-F and other related documents with the SEC.
It is the Depositary to sell sufficient shares to cover this liability.
possible to read and copy documents that have been led with the SEC at the SECs public reference room located at 100 F Street NE, Washington, DC 20549, US.
Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 or log on to Documents on display www.
In addition, BPs SEC lings are available to the public at the SECs web site at www.
BPs Annual Report and Accounts is available online at www.
Details of some of BPs other publications are listed on the inside back Shareholders have the ability to receive a hard copy of BPs complete cover.
audited financial statements, free of charge, by contacting BP Distribution Purchases of equity securities by the issuer and afliated purchasers The following table provides details of ordinary shares repurchased.
b At the AGM on 20 April 2006, authorization was given to repurchase up to 2 billion ordinary shares in the period to the next AGM or 19 July 2007, the latest date by which an AGM must be held.
This authorization is renewed annually at the AGM.
c Made up of 493,533,135 shares repurchased for cancellation and 975,988,750 shares held in treasury.
The following table provides details of share purchases made by ESOP trusts.
Transactions represent the purchase of ordinary shares by ESOP trusts to satisfy future requirements of employee share schemes.
90 Annual general meeting Administration The 2007 annual general meeting will be held on Thursday 12 April 2007 If you have any queries about the administration of shareholdings, such as at 11.30 a. m. at ExCeL London, One Western Gateway, Royal Victoria change of address, change of ownership, dividend payments, the dividend Dock, London E16 1XL.
A separate notice convening the meeting is sent reinvestment plan or the ADS direct access plan, please contact the to shareholders with this Report, together with an explanation of the Registrar or ADS Depositary.
items of special business to be considered at the meeting.
To elect to receive the Directors Report and Annual Accounts in place All resolutions of which notice has been given will be decided on of summary financial statements for all future financial years, please write apoll.
Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in To elect to receive your company documents such as the Annual ofce as auditors and a resolution for their reappointment is included in Report and Accounts, Annual Review and Notice of Meeting Notice of BP Annual General Meeting 2007. electronically, please register at www.
By order of the board UK Registrars Ofce David J Jackson The BP Registrar, Lloyds TSB Registrars Secretary The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA 23 February 2007 Telephone: 44 0 121 415 7005: Freephone in UK: 0800 701107 Textphone: 0870 600 3950: Fax: 44 0 1903 833371 US ADS Administration JPMorgan Chase Bank PO Box 3408, South Hackensack, NJ 07606-3408 Telephone: 1 201 680 6630 Toll-free in US and Canada: 1 877 638 5672 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2006 91 This page is intentionally left blank.
