Managers Review Fidelity Investments International Tim McCarron age 44 The Company is managed by Fidelity Investments International is a portfolio manager with Fidelity Investment Services Limited which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services based in London.
He has been with Fidelity since 1993, when he Authority.
Fidelity Investments International is part of the Fidelity joined as a research analyst.
He spent a year in Fidelitys Boston International Limited group which, as at 31 December 2006, office as a research analyst, before returning to the UK in 1995. had total assets under management exceeding 140 billion.
In addition to Fidelity European Values PLC, he manages the Fidelity European Fund and a number of institutional portfolios.
PERFORMANCE REVIEW The European Central Bank ECB increased interest As shown in the Financial Summary on page 2, theNAV rates five times during the year, each time by a quarter of Fidelity European Values PLC returned 17.5% in the of a percentage point, to end the year at 3.50%.
year to 31 December 2006, underperforming the FTSE After maintaining rates at historically low levels for World Europe ex UK Index, which returned 19.5%.
an extended period, the ECB justified the rate rise as All performance figures are quoted on a total return necessary to ensure price stability across the region.
The euro strengthened relative to the US dollar, rising Although the absolute return of the portfolio during to $1.32 from $1.18 during the latter part of the year.
2006 has been strong, performance has been This was due to risks over a broad slowdown in the US, disappointing relative to the Index.
However, the long causing the dollar to weaken.
term performance remains very healthy primarily due to successful stock selection by the investment manager.
PORTFOLIO REVIEW The portfolios relative underperformance can be MARKET BACKGROUND attributed largely to holdings in the oil & gas producers The start of the year saw Continental European equities sector.
As a whole this sector has hurt performance, rally strongly buoyed by takeover activity, strong with holdings such as oil-refining stocks OMV, ERG corporate results and positive economic data.
Concerns and Polski Koncern Naftowy Central European refining about the direction of energy prices and interest rates companies being the major detractors from returns did little to halt the progression of market movements.
Falling oil prices and a decrease in However, equity markets experienced a correction in production targets by some companies have weighed May and June.
This was triggered by the release of on the sector.
However, during the period in which the higher than expected core inflation figures in the US.
portfolio has had a substantial weighting in the energy Fears over monetary tightening in the US and in other sector since mid-2003, the sector has been a major major markets, together with anxiety regarding oil prices contributor to performance.
Another area detrimental and the effect these factors would have on a global to relative performance was an underweight exposure scale, had a negative impact on markets in many regions.
to financials during the early part of 2006.
Specifically, there was little exposure to Swiss and German banks.
From their mid-June lows European equities rallied.
Despite concerns over the timing of weakening The level of M&A activity among stocks in the portfolio corporate profitability, European companies continued has also been significant.
During the first half of 2006, to deliver robust earnings results.
Furthermore, there was a number of companies were involved in M&A activity, a steady level of merger and acquisition M&A activity, including Eiffage a French construction company, share buybacks and dividend payouts due largely to Deutscher Industrie Service a German employment healthy levels of cash on well structured balance sheets.
company, VNU a Dutch publisher and information Page 6 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2006 Managers Review provider and Gambro a Swedish medical technology Relative % weighting to FTSE World Europe ex UK Index and healthcare company.
Exposure to these stocks in the portfolio boosted performance.
However, during the second half of the year, the portfolio held fewer stocks to benefit from corporate activity.
For example, a lack of exposure to Spanish utilities proved unfavourable as Western Europe these stocks have benefited from M&A speculation.
Non-Eurozone Conversely, holdings in the industrial engineering sector boosted performance, due largely to strong demand for Eastern Europe products and the positive pricing environment in the & Other sector.
Furthermore, stocks in the construction sector have added to performance.
A lack of exposure to telecommunication & technology companies has been United Kingdom beneficial: these companies have reported weak results, face pressure on their profit margins and are suffering from intense competition.
Peripheral Finally, in the context of a rising market, the portfolios Eurozone fixed gearing enhanced the total return of the NAV.
PORTFOLIO STRUCTURE Core Eurozone The general structure of the portfolio remains unchanged, with a focus on medium-sized and smaller -6 -5 -4 -3 -2 -1 0 1 2 3 4 companies combined with a bottom-up and value-driven approach to stock selection.
However, the Manager has continued to increase the weighting in larger-sized Sources: Fidelity and Datastream companies as valuations of large caps have become increasingly attractive.
Since the third quarter of 2006 the Manager has been reducing the portfolios exposure to the oil sector by cutting the weighting in oil majors and refining companies.
However, he remains positive towards oil services firms as these are positioned to benefit from In terms of country positioning, the weighting remains robust demand and short supply.
The exposure to balanced between the smaller European countries and financials has increased during 2006 and the sector core Europe.
now represents the largest overweight in the portfolio.
The emphasis is on investments in banking and insurance OUTLOOK companies that have reasonable growth prospects and Earnings have been a key support for the equity market attractive valuations.
Therefore the outlook for earnings has to be assessed based on the fact that profit The Manager has reduced the portfolios exposure margins are now at high levels.
As such profit growth to the exporters sector as, after strong performances may not be as high as previously experienced and is by many of these stocks over the last three years, their expected to grow only modestly.
However, overall, valuations now appear full.
Despite earlier substantial the Manager remains confident about finding strong exposure to the aerospace sector the Manager reduced stock-picking opportunities in Europe.
Valuations in the holding in European Aeronautic Defence & Space Europe are cheaper than those of the US and Europe during the latter part of 2005.
The overall position was is in a mid-cycle economic period with unemployment sold prior to the companys profit warning earlier in 2006. just beginning to fall in key countries such as Germany.
In terms of the portfolios defensive positioning, there are few holdings in the consumer goods industries Fidelity Investments International beverages, food and tobacco and holdings in the 1 March 2007 pharmaceutical sector have been reduced amid worries over the pricing outlook.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2006 Page 7
