R Re ep po orrt o t of t f th he D e Diirre ec ctto orrs s BUSINESS REVIEW range of 0 20% based on valuing the Companys This review provides shareholders with information debenture at market value.
Any change to this range primarily about the Companys business and will always be notified publicly.
results in 2006, including its objective and strategy, Board responsibilities and strategy implementation, The Board and strategy implementation principal risks, management arrangements and fees, The Companys Board of Directors is wholly nonperformance measurement, manager re-appointment executive and is responsible for corporate strategy, and priorities and prospects for 2007. corporate governance, risk and control assessment, the overall investment policy of the Company, setting Our objective and strategy limits on gearing and asset allocation, monitoring Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC the investment performance and for approving marketing Company or FCIT is an equity savings vehicle policy and budgets.
Further information in relation which is seen as a core holding for investors, to the Board can be found on pages 30 and 31. particularly for private investors who now account for Information in relation to the individual Directors, all approximately 81% of the share capital.
Its objective of whom are resident in the United Kingdom and is to secure long-term growth in capital and income held office throughout the year under review, can be through a policy of investing primarily in a diversified found on pages 23 and 26. international portfolio of equities, with use of gearing.
It The Board believes that the optimum basis for is a long-only equity vehicle, which means that it will implementing its strategy and achieving its stated tend to remain fully invested in equities at all times.
No objective is a strong working relationship with its material change will be made to either the investment investment manager, F&C Management Limited objective or policy without prior shareholder approval.
F&C or the Manager, the more detailed The Companys strategy in aiming to meet its arrangements for which are explained later in objective is to seek superior investment performance, this review.
F&C has overall responsibility for the within carefully set risk parameters, by optimising the management of the Companys assets, and for allocation of the Companys assets in international asset allocation, gearing, stock selection and risk.
equity markets and the application of high-quality Furthermore, F&Cs interests are closely aligned stock selection, together with a growing exposure to with those of shareholders under a performance fee private equity.
During the year the Board decided to arrangement that encourages the highest quality increase the target exposure to private equity from stock selection, either from F&C directly or by 5% to 10%.
Exposure to these markets is leveraged outsourcing to external third party sub-manager firms.
through the effective use of borrowings within a The objectives set for the Manager and measurement against the Companys key performance indicators can be found in the Performance Measurement Summary of results for 2006 section on pages 20 and 21.
Net asset value per share 10.5% to 315.6p Our regulatory and competitive environment Net asset value total return per share 12.2% The Company is subject primarily to the United Share price 10.1% to 284.5p Kingdom Listing Rules the Listing Rules, UK Share price total return 12.1% Company Law, Financial Reporting Standards, Annual dividend per share Taxation Law and its own Articles of Association.
11.6% to 5.30p The Company falls within the definition of an Total expense ratio# 0.53% investment company under the Companies Act Share capital repurchased 9.34% 1985, Section 266.
As such, it analyses its profits Discount From 9.5% to 9.8% between income profits available for distribution With debt at market value by way of dividends, and capital profits, which it is # includes performance fee accrual adding 3.1p to net asset value per share prohibited from distributing other than by way of 4 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC buy-backs.
The Financial Statements, starting on that have not themselves stated that policy.
As at page 37, comply with current UK Financial Reporting 31 December 2006 the Companys investments in Standards, supplemented by the Revised Statement companies that have not made such policy statements of Recommended Practice for Investment Trust represented 1.1% of its gross assets.
The principal accounting policies of the Company are set out in note 2 on the Our share capital structure and buy-back policy accounts, whilst the unqualified auditors opinion on The Companys share capital comprises ordinary the Financial Statements appears on page 35.
The shares with a nominal value of 25 pence each.
Directors believe that it is appropriate to continue Subject to annual shareholder approval, the Company to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the may buy back its own shares for cancellation at a accounts, as the assets of the Company consist discount to net asset value per share.
This forms part mainly of securities which are readily realisable.
of its wider strategy, under which the Board has the Shareholders will be asked to approve the adoption objective of maintaining a less volatile discount with of the Annual Report and Accounts at the Annual a ceiling, in normal market conditions, of 10% with General Meeting Resolution 1. debt at market value, as well as enhancing net asset The Company is liable to corporation tax on its net value per share for continuing shareholders.
As at revenue profits but is exempt from corporation tax on 31 December 2006 the discount stood at 9.8% with capital gains, subject to compliance at all times with debt at market value.
Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes At the Annual General Meeting held on 19 May Act 1988 ICTA.
Such compliance, which includes 2006, shareholders renewed the Boards authority investing no more than 15% of the total portfolio in any to buy back the Companys ordinary shares for one investment, deriving its income wholly or mainly cancellation.
During the year, the Company bought from shares and securities and retaining no more back and cancelled a total of 77,277,535 shares than 15% of such income, qualifies the Company representing 9.3% of the number of shares in issue as an investment trust and is granted annually in at 31 December 2005, enhancing the net asset retrospect by HM Revenue and Customs, subject to value per share by 3.1 pence.
The purchases were there being no subsequent enquiry under Corporation made at prices ranging between 238 pence and Tax Self Assessment.
The Company has qualified in 287 pence and the aggregate consideration paid for respect of all relevant years up to and including the the shares, excluding stamp duty and commissions, year ended 31 December 2005, and continues to was 205 million.
conduct its affairs in compliance with ICTA.
Whilst Between the year end and 8 March 2007, a further these tax rules are similar to regulations covering 9,983,703 shares have been purchased which competing Open-ended Investment Companies and represents approximately 1.3% of the issued share Units Trusts, the Companys closed-end structure capital at prices ranging between 275 pence and provides the flexibility to borrow money to invest and 292 pence, enhancing net asset value per share by take a longer-term view of markets, and running costs 0.5 pence.
As at 8 March 2007, the number of ordinary shares Under the Companys Articles of Association, with in issue stood at 739,992,912.
A resolution to renew limited exceptions which are no less onerous than the buy-back authority will be put to shareholders those required under ICTA, no investment can be made at the Annual General Meeting Resolution 11.
A by the Company which exceeds 10% of the value of its resolution to authorise the Directors to allot up to total portfolio at the time of investment.
Furthermore, 36,996,000 shares will also be proposed Resolution the Companys stated policy is to invest no more than 10.
Details relating to the capital structure can be 15% of its gross assets in other UK listed investment found in note 18 on the accounts.
However, the Company is restricted, under the Listing Rules, to investing no more than 10% in such companies Report and Accounts 2006 5 Report of the Directors continued Our borrowings Board meeting reviews investment policy The Company has a 110 million 11.25% debenture and investment performance with the Fund stock, which matures in December 2014, and Manager.
The ability of the Company to gear a 575,000 4.25% perpetual debenture stock.
up via long-term and short-term borrowings, in Information in relation to the debentures can be found currencies matching those to which the portfolio in note 17 on the accounts.
The Company also has is exposed, enables it to take a long-term view of short-term borrowings, the management of which is the countries, markets and currencies in which referred to on page 6 and in relation to which further it is invested, without having to be concerned reference is made in note 14 on the accounts.
Thus far, the Company has not hedged its foreign currency exposures Our principal risks and their control through derivatives.
The Board of Directors takes a vigilant approach to The Fund Manager works within asset safeguarding the assets of the Company and looking after allocation and gearing ranges, and other shareholders interests, with risk control and corporate investment limits that have been set, and are governance matters the subject of regular review.
The Companys assets consist mainly of listed equities The investment management process and its principal risks are therefore market-related.
includes the use of risk measurements aimed, The large number of listed investments held in the not only as a means of control, but also at Companys portfolio, together with the geographical and adding value with an acceptable level of risk.
sector diversity of the portfolio, enables the Company to iii Private equity the majority of the underlying spread its risks with regard to liquidity, market volatility, private equity investments are in unlisted currency movements and revenue streams.
companies, some of which will be in the early The specific key risks faced by the Company, stages of their development, may be loss making, together with our mitigation approach, are as follows: highly geared and with no certainty of survival.
i O bjective and strategy inappropriate objective and Unlisted investments may prove difficult or strategy in relation to investor demands in a rapidly impossible to realise.
The concept of fair value changing financial services and savings market.
of unlisted companies is an imprecise science The Board regularly reviews the Companys and the ultimate realisation of such investments position as a leading savings vehicle.
may be at a valuation significantly different from Certain strategic issues, including its role the valuation used in the accounts.
In addition, as a global growth investment trust, the timing of any such realisation is uncertain.
acquisition opportunities and the rationale Private equity risks are mitigated by investing for not introducing a continuation vote, are in a spread of venture capital, buy-out and considered at various meetings of the Board.
mezzanine fund of funds and by the wide ii Investment policy, gearing and currency spread of underlying private equity firms, inappropriate asset allocation, and sector and which in turn have diversified investment stock selection, leading to under-performance portfolios and vintage years.
relative to the Companys benchmark index and iv Discount volatility investment trust shares tend peer group.
Furthermore, borrowing money to to trade at discounts to their underlying net asset invest in markets has a negative impact on asset values, which can fluctuate considerably.
value if those markets subsequently fall.
Foreign The Company has a discount control currency exposures will impact on performance mechanism with the objective of maintaining when those currencies weaken against sterling.
a less volatile discount with a ceiling, in In the management and mitigation of these risks, normal market conditions, of 10% with debt the Board continues to maintain a diversified at market value.
spread of international equities and exposure v Operational and regulatory breach of Section to their underlying currencies, and at each 842 of ICTA could lead to the Company being 6 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC subject to capital gains tax on the sale of its at its market value, the net asset value per share investments, whilst a serious breach of other was 315.57 pence 2005: 285.69 pence.
regulatory rules may lead to its shares being Key features in 2006 were the combined suspended from the Stock Exchange or to a performance benefits from maintaining the overweight qualified audit report.
Other control failures, either position in Emerging Markets and being underweight in by the Manager or any of the service providers, the US.
The UK, Emerging Markets and Developed Asia may result in operational problems, incorrect portfolios performed well, and although the European disclosures or loss of assets through fraud, as well portfolio had a good increase, its performance relative as breaches of regulations.
to the local index was disappointing.
The North All investment movements and forecasts of America sub-managers performed disappointingly income and expenditure are reported to the alongside other US managers, whereas the Japan Board as part of the process of monitoring sub-manager performed well relative to the local index compliance within the Section 842 criteria.
A decision was taken, and an The Manager is a regulated entity subject to investment programme initiated, to increase the private regulatory duties and obligations with a full audit, equity target exposure to 10%, with the possibility of risk and compliance department, and company reaching that level in 2009.
Effective gearing increased secretarial and fund accounting infrastructure.
The Fund Managers Review on Full contractual obligations and indemnification pages 5 to 12 describes more fully how the Companys provisions have been put in place with each of assets were invested during the year and how they the third party service providers.
The Companys full list of its investments vi Reputational damage Any significant failing could can be viewed on the website.
The twenty largest damage seriously the reputation of the Company, holdings can be found on page 13, and the ten largest leading to further adverse consequences.
investments in each of the regional sub-portfolios are The actions and controls relating to each of disclosed in the Fund Managers Review.
the principal risks highlighted above serve to mitigate against the risk of reputational damage.
Revenue and dividends A full corporate governance statement is set out Our income was marginally higher with the Company on pages 30 to 34 and includes a summary of the benefiting from another year of very strong dividend risk management arrangements.
Management fees rose as a result of the full procedures set out in the summary, and in accordance year effect of the structural changes made in 2005, but with the Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the other costs declined largely as a result of non-recurring Combined Code the Turnbull Guidance, the Board professional fees and lower marketing expenditure.
has established an ongoing process for identifying, The total expense ratio, including the performance fee evaluating and managing the significant risks faced accrual, was maintained at 0.53% 0.46% excluding by the Company, and has regularly reviewed the the accrual.
Net revenue decreased slightly by 1.88%, effectiveness of the internal control systems for the period.
This process has been in place Attributable to equity shareholders throughout the year under review, and to the date hereof, and will continue to be regularly 000s reviewed by the Board on an ongoing basis.
Revenue return attributable to equity shareholders 48,197 Dividends paid on ordinary shares: Net assets Final of 2.55p paid on 24 May 2006 20,383 The net assets of the Company as at 31 December 2006 were 2.4 billion Interim of 2.45p paid on 11 September 2006 18,800 2005: 2.4 billion or 321.10 pence per Amount transferred to revenue reserve 9,014 share when deducting debt at its par value In respect of prior year profits In respect of current year profits 2005: 291.81 pence.
When deducting debt Source: F&C Management Limited Report and Accounts 2006 7 Report of the Directors continued while revenue earnings per share increased by 10.59%, length with no cross-directorships or common share enhanced by the reduction in the number of shares in interests.
Part of the legacy is that the names Foreign issue as a result of buy-backs.
& Colonial and F&C are often used synonymously in the public arena, although the companies each The interim dividend of 2.45 pence per share, own their respective names and are two distinct and together with the final dividend now recommended completely independent entities.
for payment on 9 May 2007 of 2.85 pence per share, Jeremy Tigue acts as Fund Manager the Fund will bring the total dividend for the year to 5.30 pence Manager, on behalf of F&C, and is now responsible per share.
This represents an increase of 11.6% over and accountable for the entire portfolio including private the 4.75 pence per share paid in the previous year.
equity, and other key areas such as marketing and Resolution 3 at the forthcoming Annual General investor relations.
The Fund Managers portfolio review Meeting relates to the approval of the final dividend.
His responsibilities extend to asset allocation, gearing and risk management Arrangements for the management of our assets within limits set and regularly monitored by the Board Most investment trusts, including your Company, have and, in place of the Board with effect from 1 January no employees and instead appoint fund management 2007, the private equity fund of funds investments companies to manage their investment portfolios and managed by Pantheon Ventures Limited Pantheon deliver investment performance, as well as to carry and HarbourVest Partners LLC HarbourVest.
out the ancillary functions of administration, secretarial, Recommendations for further private equity and accounting and marketing services.
The Company has unlisted investments remain subject to ultimate appointed F&C as manager, a company with which it approval by the Board.
In the case of the regional has a long association, having originally established equity portfolios, the Fund Manager has the flexibility and developed it for the purpose of managing its to recommend to the Board their delegation to external assets as far back as 1953.
It is now owned by F&C third party investment managers when this seems likely Asset Management plc, a leading European investment to result in better investment performance.
There are house with over 100 billion under management, currently three such managers for the North America which in turn is 51% owned by Friends Provident plc.
large and mid-cap equity portfolios and one manager The Companys relationship with F&C is fully armsfor the Japan portfolio.
An independent specialist multi-manager, Investment Management Selection Limited IMS, advises the Manager in relation to the Management Structure appointment of third party investment managers for the North America portfolios.
Strategy Board Monitoring Responsible ownership The Managers stated belief is that good governance Strategy creates value and therefore it takes a particular F&C Implementation interest in corporate governance and sustainable business practices.
This includes the integration of environmental, social and governance issues into its Regional Private investment decisions.
It votes all of its shares across Equity Equity Portfolios Funds all global markets whenever possible, and engages with companies on corporate governance matters to encourage good practice.
This includes engagement Notes: on significant social and environmental issues, where 1.
Regional portfolios all managed by F&C, except North America large and mid cap and Japan.
F&C is advised by Investment Management Selection these may impact shareholder value.
Limited on the appointment of North America sub-managers, currently Loomis Sayles, T Rowe Price and Barrow Hanley.
Japan is managed by The Managers current policy, which is available Goldman Sachs Asset Management.
Private Equity Funds principally HarbourVest and Pantheon on its website, has been reviewed and endorsed 8 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC by the Board, which encourages and supports the with the debentures at market value.
The condition Manager on its voting policy and its stance towards under which payment is deferred, if the share price environmental, social and governance issues.
has fallen over the period, will apply to the composite All contested takeovers affecting the Companys benchmark element of the arrangement only, as will investments are referred to the Board.
deduction for the effect of share buy-backs and the 0.5% hurdle.
There will be no deduction for private How our managers are paid equity in either calculation.
The Manager, which is the Companys principal Under further changes introduced with effect supplier, was paid a fixed fee of 5,650,000 for from 1 January 2007, the Fund Managers own investment management, secretarial, accounting and remuneration from the Manager will be aligned marketing-related services in 2006, less amounts equal more closely with the interests of shareholders.
to the fees already received in respect of holdings in The discretionary annual bonus payment to the the portfolio that it also manages.
The fee is subject to Fund Manager will be dependent on the Companys annual review and for 2007 increases to 6,390,000. performance, with a proportion of this bonus being The Manager is also entitled to an annual  by shares in the Company held on trust related fee, the first fee being payable in respect of by F&C Asset Management plc for three years, with the period from the commencement of revised fee vesting only at the end of such period.
arrangements on 1 August 2005 to 31 December The Manager incurs fees in respect of advice from 2006.
This is 10% of the out-performance of the net IMS in relation to its delegation of the management of asset value total return over the benchmark of 40% the North America portfolio, and also incurs investment FTSE-All Share and 60% FTSE WI World ex UK indices management fees from the sub-managers that it has the composite benchmark plus a 0.5% hurdle, appointed to manage both that portfolio and the Japan and is based on the adjusted net assets with the portfolio.
The Company reimburses the Manager for debentures at market value excluding private equity these fees, which in 2006 amounted to 2.5 million investments and the effect of share buy-backs.
This 2005: 1.0 million for a five month period.
performance-related fee amounted to 3.7m, for the The fees incurred by the Company in respect of the period from 1 August 2005 to 31 December 2006. private equity funds of funds managed by Pantheon and The basis of the performance fee arrangement HarbourVest amounted to 1.7 million for 2006 2005: has been modified, with effect from 1 January 2007, 1.1 million.
Some of the funds have arrangements to accommodate the Managers parallel objective of whereby Pantheon and HarbourVest share in the profits achieving net asset value returns for the Company once certain hurdle rates of return to investors have ahead of the weighted average net asset value been achieved.
These arrangements are varied and returns of its close peers within the Global Growth complex, but are on normal commercial terms within Investment Trust sector.
Therefore, for 2007 and the private equity funds of funds industry.
Fees payable future years, the Manager will be eligible for two by the underlying funds are negotiated by Pantheon and separate performance-related fees: HarbourVest.
These arrangements also vary from fund 5% of any net asset value total return per share to fund, but management fees of 2% per annum and a out-performance of the composite benchmark 20% carried interest, once an agreed hurdle rate of return plus 0.5%: and for investors has been achieved, would be quite normal.
5% of any net asset value total return per share Note 4 on the accounts provides detailed information out-performance of the weighted average of the in relation to the respective management fees incurred close peer group.
The performance-related fees will continue to be Other suppliers to the Company are paid in calculated on a cumulative basis, carrying forward accordance with individually agreed payment terms.
The any under-performance, or any over-performance Companys outstanding trade creditors were equivalent beyond a 3% cap, in any period.
The performanceto two days payments to suppliers as at 31 December related fees will be based on adjusted net assets 2006 2005: 29 days.
Report and Accounts 2006 9 Report of the Directors continued Performance measurement Key performance indicators The Board recognises that it is share price The Board assesses its performance in meeting performance that is most important to the the Companys objective against the following key Companys shareholders, coupled with a steadily performance indicators: rising dividend.
Underlying share price performance Net asset value total return is net asset value performance, for which the Share price total return Board looks to its Manager.
The Managers primary Performance attribution objective over 2006 has been the achievement of Annual dividend growth annual net asset value performance of at least 0.5% Discount to net asset value above the composite benchmark of 40% FTSE Total expense ratio All-Share and 60% FTSE WI World ex UK indices, Savings plans investment flows excluding private equity and the effect of share The Board also reviews statistical measurements buy-backs.
The performance of the Manager is of volatility and risk.
Absolute and relative also monitored in terms of the Companys net asset assessments are made to understand the risk return value returns relative to those of its five closest characteristics of the portfolio.
peers within the Global Growth Investment Trust sector Alliance Trust, The Bankers Investment Trust, Scottish Investment Trust, Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust and Witan Investment Trust.
Net asset value and share price total return performance 1 Year 3 Years 5 Years 10 Years % % % % FCIT net asset value with debt at market value 12.2 55.4 40.1 118.8 Benchmark 10.1 49.6 34.9 103.7 Close Peer Group weighted average net asset value 11.7 58.2 45.0 111.3 AIC Global Growth Sector weighted average net asset value 12.5 65.0 55.6 126.8 FTSE All-Share 16.8 60.8 50.2 114.0 FTSE WI World ex UK 5.6 42.2 24.7 96.9 FCIT share price 12.1 60.5 42.5 124.5 Close Peer Group weighted average share price 12.0 62.8 46.7 118.4 Retail Prices Index 4.4 10.5 16.9 31.3 Source: Fundamental Data Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust Alliance Trust, The Bankers Investment Trust, Scottish Investment Trust, Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust and Witan Investment Trust Total return.
20 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC Net asset value total return performance Asset allocation, stock selection ranking of FCIT vs Close Peer Group net gearing attribution 2006 5 6 Over 3 years 4 6 1 year 3 years 5 years % % % 2005 4 6 Over 5 years 4 6 1.97 4.35 10.11 Asset allocation 2004 5 6 Over 10 years 3 6 2003 2 6 Stock selection 1.25 3.05 4.54 200 4 6 Gearing 0.29 0.68 2.08 2000 3 6 Source: Fundamental Data Based on debt at par value Source: F&C Management Limited Regional portfolio attribution in sterling 1 year 3 years 5 years FCIT Index FCIT Index FCIT Index % % % % % % UK 17.27 16.75 61.42 60.78 56.59 50.26 North America 5.86 1.63 12.66 27.08 14.37 4.41 Europe ex UK 15.63 20.12 58.41 69.65 52.61 61.54 Japan 5.37 7.37 35.52 39.65 27.75 44.27 Emerging Markets Developed Asia n a n a 100.45 99.70 n a n a Emerging Markets 17.19 16.29 n a n a n a n a Developed Asia 22.49 19.18 n a n a n a n a Source: F&C Management and Fundamental Data.
The Emerging Markets and Developed Asia portfolios were managed as one combined portfolio for several years until 31 December 2005 since when they have been managed separately.
Discount Compound annual dividend growth Total expense ratio with debt at market value 3 December % 5 years 10 years % % % 2006 9.8 2006 0.53 FCIT 9.9 8.8 2005 9.5 2005 0.53 Close Peer Group ex FCIT 4.8 4.8 2004 14.8 2004 0.50 FTSE All-share 10.3 5.1 2003 10.3 2003 0.58 2002 5.9 Inflation RPI 3.2 2.8 2002 0.56 Source: F&C Management Limited Source: F&C Management Limited: Fundamental Data Includes performance fee Source: F&C Management Limited Further, detailed performance statistics can be found in the Ten Year Record on pages 59 and 60.
F&C Savings Plans investment flows in FCIT 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 m m m m m Purchases 48.1 36.7 54.6 55.6 71.6 Withdrawals 73.5 61.9 47.8 20.0 23.4 Net flow 25.4 25.2 6.8 35.6 48.2 The above figures cover all of the F&C Savings Plans in FCIT, including the Personal Pension Plan and Child Trust Fund.
Source: F&C Management Limited Report and Accounts 2006 2 Report of the Directors continued Manager evaluation and re-appointment benchmark by 2.1 percentage points excluding The process the 0.5% hurdle, thus exceeding its target.
The The review of the Managers performance is an onCompanys net asset value per share rose 10.5% going duty and responsibility of the Board, which is to 315.6 pence with debt at market value, and carried out at every Board meeting during the year, 10.0% to 321.1 pence with debt at par.
The with a formal annual evaluation being undertaken Company was fifth out of six in its close peer in January each year.
In order to carry this out, the group, but performed in line with the weighted Board receives monthly detailed reports and views average of the close peer groups net asset value from the Fund Manager on investment policy, asset total returns, whilst under-performing slightly allocation, gearing and risk, together with quarterly against that of the AIC Global Growth sector.
presentations from F&C in respect of the UK, Europe There was a marginal out-performance against ex UK, Emerging Markets, Developed Asia and US the weighted average share price total returns Small Cap portfolios.
These are mirrored in quarterly of both the close peer group and the AIC Global presentations from IMS in respect of the portfolios Growth sector.
The Company had comfortably managed by the US sub-managers and from outperformed the weighted averages of the close Goldman Sachs Asset Management in respect of peer group over 10 years, but still needed to the Japan portfolio.
At each meeting the Board also improve over three and five years.
receives comprehensive performance measurement ii Performance attribution, including asset schedules, provided by Fundamental Data Limited allocation, stock selection and gearing and F&C.
These enable it to assess the success or management Asset allocation was again failure of the management of the total portfolio against positive with the under-weighting in the US the performance objective set by the Board, to assess and over-weighting in the Emerging Markets, the sources of positive and negative contribution to while gearing management also added value.
the portfolio in terms of gearing, asset allocation and In respect of the regional portfolios managed stock selection and to assess the performance of directly by F&C, with the exception of Europe ex each region against its local index and the risk return UK and the US Smaller Companies portfolio, characteristics of the portfolio.
all performed well in terms of stock selection The annual review and evaluation of the Managers and beat their respective benchmarks.
The onperformance over the past year was carried out going good performance of the Emerging Markets at the Board meeting held in January 2007.
The portfolio was reassuring following individual process involved a formal presentation to the Board portfolio manager changes during the year.
The by F&Cs Head of Equities, the Fund Manager and Board will continue to monitor the performance the Head of Investment Trusts, which covered recent of the Europe ex UK portfolio which, following developments at F&C, ongoing investment process a promising year in 2005, disappointed in stock measures to achieve top quartile performance, the selection terms.
The sub-managed North America Companys investment performance in 2006, as well portfolio under-performed significantly throughout as the provision of resources and services during the 2006 and continues to be closely monitored by year.
This was followed by a closed session of the F&C during a period in which fewer than one in Board to assess the Managers overall performance five such managers succeeded in beating their and consider its re-appointment for the ensuing year.
The Fund Manager had been of the view that nothing had changed in the approach Matters considered taken by IMS that had enabled them to perform i O verall investment performance The Board well over time and that the necessary disciplines considered that the relative net asset value total and safeguards remained in place to question return performance of the Company in 2006 and change under-performing managers.
The was satisfactory against the objective set for outsourced Japan portfolio performed well relative the Manager.
The Manager beat the composite to the local index.
22 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC iii R esources, services and advice provided by accounting, marketing and shareholder interface, had F&C The Manager had significant resources, a been professionally and efficiently delivered.
wide product range and substantial assets under The success of F&Cs reinvestment programme management.
It had experienced a combination and its ability to achieve its stated ambition of of structural change and investment underreaching top quartile in all areas of its business will performance in some areas that had led to a be very important.
The Board will monitor progress, number of client losses during 2006, and the and F&Cs ability to attract and retain talented Board would continue to monitor how these managers and to achieve improved stock selection issues would be addressed, as well as its ongoing and overall investment performance from internal commitment to investment trust management.
The challenge for F&C In addition to its investment management will be to ensure that it brings about a sustainable capabilities, F&C had the necessary resources improvement in long-term investment performance.
and experienced people to provide the full range of investment trust services required by Directors the Company, including provision of secretarial, Kenneth Clarke and Sir Andrew Wood retire by rotation fund accounting, administration, stock lending, at the Annual General Meeting but will not be seeking performance and risk measurement, internal re-election.
The Directors standing for re-election are audit and risk control functions, as well as advice Mark Loveday, Ewen Macpherson, John Rennocks on buy-backs, discount control mechanisms, and Sir Michael Bunbury Resolutions numbered 4 corporate structuring and industry issues.
The Nomination Committee considered the reThe marketing of F&Cs savings schemes had election of these Directors at a meeting held in January been very successful over time.
Following an appraisal of their performance, a purchases were up 31%, but with sales up 19% review of their status as independent non-executive the net outflow was much the same as in 2005.
Directors, and a recommendation of the Nomination An ongoing review of marketing had confirmed Committee, the Board with each Director absenting that F&C continued to increase investment trust himself from that part of the meeting that dealt with savings plan market share albeit in a diminishing his own re-election has concurred that they each market, with its Child Trust Fund showing make a valuable and effective contribution.
The Board considerable long-term promise.
Investor believes that Mr Loveday, who will have served almost relations and press communication had also six years by the time of the Meeting, and the three been well conducted.
A summary of marketing other Directors standing for re-election who have each activities is set out in the Fund Managers Review served nine years, are committed to their roles and on page 11. that their re-elections will be in the interests of the Company.
Mr Macpherson and Mr Rennocks have Decision to re-appoint stated their intention to retire at the annual general Following this review and evaluation, it was the opinion meeting in 2008.
Information relating to the Directors of the Board that the continuing appointment of F&C can be found on pages 26, 30 and 31. as Manager on the terms agreed was in the interests The Directors Remuneration Report, which can of shareholders as a whole.
It was clear that F&Cs be found on pages 28 and 29, together with note 6 investment performance had again improved in 2006. on the accounts, provides detailed information on The Board acknowledged the ongoing commitment the remuneration arrangements for Directors of the that F&C had shown not only to the Company during Company.
Shareholders will be asked to approve a year of significant change, but also to its investment the Directors Remuneration Report at the Meeting trust business in general, and also the resources, people Resolution 2. and experience available and the quality of advice Each Director has signed a terms of appointment offered on a wide range of subjects.
Furthermore, all the letter with the Company, in each case including services provided to the Company, including secretarial, one months notice of termination by either party.
Report and Accounts 2006 23 Report of the Directors continued These are available for inspection at the Companys GENERAL INFORMATION registered office during normal business hours and Substantial share and voting rights are also available at annual general meetings.
On At 8 March 2007 the Company had received 26 July 2006, the Company entered into a deed notification of the following share interests in its poll providing the Directors with indemnities against ordinary share capital: liability to third parties arising in connection with % any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach Substantial share interests of trust by the Directors such indemnities being F&C Management Limited 36.3 qualifying third party indemnities, as permitted under Skandia Life Assurance Company Limited 5.5 the Companies Act 1985.
This deed poll is also Legal & General Group plc 3.8 available for inspection at the Companys registered The above percentages are calculated by applying the shareholdings as notified to the Company to the issued ordinary share capital as at 8 March 2007. office during normal business hours and at the This holding is made up of 1.2% held on behalf of discretionary clients of the Annual General Meeting.
The Company has in place Manager and 35.1% held on behalf of non-discretionary clients through its savings schemes.
The Manager is a subsidiary of F&C Asset Management plc, insurance which indemnifies the Directors against which in turn is a subsidiary of Friends Provident plc, by virtue of which the latter is deemed to have a share interest.
certain liabilities arising in carrying out their duties.
Details of Directors shareholdings in the Company On 20 January 2007 sections 198 to 208 of the are contained in note 6c on the accounts.
Companies Act 1985 in relation to substantial share interests were replaced by Chapter 5 of The Boards priorities for 2007 the Disclosure and Transparency Rules in relation The Board considers its priorities and sets its to voting rights.
Legal & General Group plc have objectives for the year ahead as part of its annual subsequently notified the Company that they hold appraisal process.
The overriding priority remains voting rights of 3.6%.
consistent achievement of relative out-performance, adding value for shareholders through a virtuous circle Charitable donations of net asset value and share price total return, discount It is the Boards policy not to make charitable donations, management, dividend growth, a low and competitive as the role of an investment trust is somewhat different total expense ratio and effective marketing.
Investment from most other types of companies and as taxation performance will continue to be monitored closely, incentives towards charitable donations are balanced particularly with regard to the performance of IMS and in favour of direct contributions by individuals rather the US sub-managers and stock selection generally.
Therefore, no such contributions The Board will continue to test the Managers marketing were made during the year.
strategy to ensure that the Company is receiving However, a sponsorship contribution of 60,000 value for money and is continuing to be promoted 2005: same was made to IfsProShares Student effectively in order to retain existing shareholders and Investor Challenge competition which is run for the generate demand by attracting new investors, as well purpose of helping school children develop financial as appealing to private client managers and brokers, capability.
The Board is also looking to make one or more new Director appointments.
Independent auditors  LLP the Auditors Prospects have indicated their willingness to continue in 2007 is showing signs of being a more volatile and office and resolutions will be proposed at the challenging year than 2006.
Advantage will be taken Meeting to re-appoint them and determine their of any resulting opportunities when they occur.
So far as each Board has every confidence that over the long term a of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit global portfolio is the most flexible and effective vehicle information of which the Auditors are unaware.
The for making shareholders capital and income grow.
Directors believe that they have taken all the steps 24 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC that they ought to have taken as Directors in order Annual general meeting to make themselves aware of any relevant audit Shareholders will have received a separate enclosure information and to establish that the auditors are containing explanatory information and the Notice of the aware of the information.
Annual General Meeting the Meeting to be held at Merchant Taylors Hall, 30 Threadneedle Street, London Electronic communication EC2 on 4 May 2007 at 12 noon.
In addition to the The Companies Act 2006 introduced new provisions ordinary business of the Meeting, resolutions numbered which came into effect on 20 January 2007 covering 10 to 13 will be proposed as special business.
company communications to shareholders and other provisions which facilitate communications in electronic form and by means of a website.
Implementation of these provisions by the Company would enable shareholders to receive notices, documents and other By order of the Board, information including the Annual Report and Accounts H. N. Potter, immediately they are published.
As a result, shareholders for and on behalf of F&C Management Limited, wishing to use these facilities would be able to access Secretary information much sooner than before and the costs to 8 March 2007 the Company in printing and posting these documents would be much reduced.
A resolution will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to enable the Company to implement this proposal Resolution 12.
If passed, we expect these new arrangements to commence in respect of the Companys results for the year ending 31 December 2007.
It is also proposed to amend the Articles of Association to accommodate other changes introduced by the new Companies Act 2006, including those relating to: the revised regime for company investigations in relation to interests in the Companys shares: the repeal of the current provisions relating to the retirement age of directors: and changes to allow the Company to offer electronic proxy voting as an option for shareholders Resolution 13.
Other new provisions in the Companies Act 2006 are expected to come into force later in the year, and it is anticipated that the Company will propose a resolution to adopt wholly new articles of association at the annual general meeting in 2008.
