Directors Mark Loveday Chairman Elected to the Board general management.
Prior to his retirement, his in May 2001, appointed Chairman in May 2002 and responsibilities at Standard Chartered included its is Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
He was businesses in Africa, the Middle East, South Asia, senior partner of the corporate advisory, stockbroking the UK and the Americas.
He is also a non-executive and investment management company, Cazenove director of Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc and & Co, for seven years, retiring in April 2001 after 36 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc.
He is a trustee of The Grosvenor Estate and a director of two of its related private Ewen Macpherson Senior Independent # companies, Deva Group Limited and Deva Holdings Director Joined the Board in February 1997.
He has no other directorships.
Age 63. chairman of Merrill Lynch New Energy Technology plc and a director of William Grant & Sons Limited.
# Sir Michael Bunbury Bt KCVO Appointed to the He retired in July 1997 as chief executive of Board in March 1998, is Chairman of the Private 3i Group plc, which is Europes leading venture Equity Committee and represents the Companys capital company, and was a non-executive director interests on the advisory committees of its private of Scottish Power plc until July 2003.
He was the equity managers.
He joined the stockbroking firm, chairman of the trustees of the GlaxoSmithKline Buckmaster & Moore, in 1968 and moved to Smith Pension Fund until May 2005.
& Williamson in 1974, where he was subsequently # chairman and to which he is now a consultant.
He John Rennocks Appointed a Director in August was also chairman of Smith & Williamson Investment 1997 and is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He is Management Ltd for seven years.
He has been a chartered accountant and was finance director at advising private clients and families on quoted and Smith and Nephew, Powergen and British Steel Corus unquoted investments and property portfolios for throughout the years 1981 to 2001.
He is chairman of JPMorgan Fleming of Nestor Healthcare Group plc, Diploma plc, and Claverhouse Investment Trust plc.
Intelligent Energy Holdings plc, Deputy Chairman of Inmarsat plc, and a non-executive director of Babcock The Rt Hon Kenneth Clarke QC, MP Appointed International Group plc, Gyrus Group plc, JP Morgan to the Board in August 1997.
He has been the Overseas Investment Trust plc and Wagon plc.
Member of Parliament for Rushcliffe since 1970 and # served as a minister throughout the Conservative Maxwell Ward Elected a Director in May governments of 1979 to 1997.
He was a partner in Baillie Gifford & Co, of the Exchequer between 1993 and 1997.
He is the Edinburgh firm of fund managers, for 25 deputy chairman of British American Tobacco plc years and was manager of Scottish Mortgage & and a non-executive director of Independent News Trust plc for 11 years.
He is chairman of Scottish and Media UK Limited.
Equitable Policyholders Trust, managing director of The Independent Investment Trust plc and a nonRonald Gould Appointed to the Board in May executive director of the life assurance company, 2005.
Formerly managing director of BZW Investment Aegon UK plc.
Management, vice chairman of BZW Barclays Asset Management and president of BZW Investment Sir Andrew Wood GCMG Appointed a Director Management Japan and managing director of Barclays in December 2000.
Having served as ambassador Trust and Banking Japan.
He was more recently senior in Moscow and Belgrade, he has acted for Ernst & executive vice president and managing director of AXA Young, Unilever, GlaxoSmithKline, Diageo, BP and Investment Managers and, subsequently, chief executive other companies interested in the Russian market.
officer of, and now a consultant to, ABG Sundal Collier He is a member of the advisory councils of the ASA.
He is an adviser to the Financial Services Authority leading investment bank in Russia, Renaissance and a non-executive director of JPMorgan Asian Capital, and the BCCB, which represents the Investment Trust plc.
Age 59. interests of British consultants and construction firms.
He is a director of the Russo-British Chamber Christopher Keljik OBE Appointed to the Board of Commerce and the PBN Company, a strategic in September 2005.
He retired as a director of communications firm with offices in the former Soviet Standard Chartered plc in May 2005 after 29 years, Union, London and Washington DC.
Members of the Audit Committee during which time he held a number of senior Members of the Nomination Committee positions working in London, Hong Kong, New York # Members of the Private Equity Committee Members of the Service Providers and Marketing Committee and Singapore in corporate finance, treasury and 26 Foreign & Colonial Investment T Foreign & Colonial Investment T Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC rust PLC rust PLC
