qxp 28 3 07 22:01 Page 8 ANNUAL REVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW ABOUT THE FRIENDS PROVIDENT GROUP UK LIFE & PENSIONS About the Friends Provident Group Our mission: Setting new standards To help customers accumulate, Friends Provident is one of todays leading financial services groups, operating manage and protect wealth through three distinct businesses UK Life & Pensions, International Life & Collect, manage and build assets Pensions and Asset Management.
Each business has a significant presence in Protect wealth against tax and their respective markets, with strategies and plans to grow each of them further.
inflation Protect against financial loss The strong ethical values that underpin our operations can be traced back to our through death and ill health Quaker origins in 1832 and continue to be a clear point of distinction for us Protect income today.
Our growing reputation for innovative systems supporting unrivalled service is evidenced by the many industry awards we received in 2006, and has led us to create a new Vision for the Group: To be the standard by which all other providers are judged Relentless focus on our customers Across the Group we are investing time, talent and energy into setting new standards for our customers.
Two wide-ranging programmes of change are running concurrently, both with ambitions of lifting service to levels that others will find increasingly hard to match.
In F&C Asset Management, our Performance First programme defines top quartile performance standards for every area of activity and sets a clear and measurable framework for progressing towards them.
In Life & Pensions, our 6 Star programme is focused on the Vision and is backed by stretching business development and cultural objectives.
We have also signed up to the Customer Impact Scheme, organised by the Customer Impact survey Association of British Insurers.
Companies that commit to this scheme are committing to: 2006 2005 Developing and promoting products and services that meet 70% 74% the needs of customers Providing customers with clear information and good service when they buy products Customers agreeing or strongly agreeing that Maintaining an appropriate and effective relationship with customers, Friends Provident really cares about customers providing them with good after sales service.
We wholeheartedly support these aims.
Several hundred of our customers were 2006 2005 interviewed for this scheme in November 2006 and, as in the previous year, 78% 88% eight out of ten of them rated our overall quality of products and services as good or better than good.
Customers agreeing or strongly agreeing that Our ratings for customer care, fairness, and how easy it is to do business with Friends Provident treats customers fairly us have also been consistently high over the past two years although the declines in 2006 are disappointing.
Our commitment to customers was further endorsed at the 2006 British Insurance Awards, at which we won the top award 2006 2005 83% 89% for Customer Care as well as being voted Life Insurer of the Year.
We are, however, not complacent.
We recognise there is more we can do to meet our commitments and have prepared a separate report explaining more fully our Customers agreeing or strongly agreeing that many customer-focused initiatives and the progress we are making, which is Friends Provident is easy to do business with available online at www.
com reports 8 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006
