qxp 30 3 07 00:08 Page 39 INTERNATIONAL LIFE & PENSIONS ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE CONCLUSIONS AND OUTLOOK Conclusions and Outlook The successful development of the Friends Provident Group has continued throughout 2006, driven both by sales growth and expense efficiencies.
Our growth is underpinned by a very strong capital base, and adequate cash flows have been generated to sustain our dividend policy.
We also continue to place high emphasis on effective risk management.
The structure of the Group remains organised around its three core business segments of UK Life & Pensions, International Life & Pensions and Asset Management.
The Group strategy that has been in place since before our 2001 stock exchange flotation continues to deliver value.
In UK Life & Pensions, record levels of new business have been achieved.
Sales were up by 30% whilst acquisition costs increased by 5%.
As a result, the contribution to profits generated by new business increased by more than two-thirds.
Our approach is to build on our already strong positions in the pensions and protection segments, and to renew our focus on investment business through entry into the wrap market by the end of this year.
In 2007, we expect the overall life and pensions market to grow by 5-10%, our share of the market to increase and overall product margins to continue to improve as a result of operational leverage.
However, recent market turbulence, if prolonged, may have a dampening effect.
We have continued to extend the diversity of our international businesses, which provide some 40% of our total sales and almost half of our total Life & Pensions new business profits, reflecting the generally more profitable nature of international territories.
Friends Provident International FPI achieved record sales, up 16% on 2005, successfully entered the German personal pensions market, and received licence approval to operate in Singapore.
These activities reflect FPIs approach, which is to look for growth opportunities in new markets.
FPIs trading prospects remain very good.
Lombard also achieved record sales growth, well above trend at 40%.
Lombards primary focus remains on further developing the already strong relationships secured with distributors.
The new Swiss office supports this approach, as does Lombards continued investment in quality people.
Lombard is particularly impacted by tax regime changes, which can present positive opportunities as in Italy, or negative as in Mexico in late 2006.
Whilst many of the situations that came together to drive the 2006 growth are unlikely to be repeated in 2007, we remain confident about the opportunities across the diverse and well-regulated markets in which Lombard operates.
Throughout 2006, our asset management company, F&C, has continued to put in place the significant building blocks required to turn the business around.
The management framework has been comprehensively restructured and the investment teams strengthened.
Significant progress has been made to introduce a culture focused on performance, and products have been developed for highermargin business, both of which are already having a positive impact.
F&C has announced an accelerated growth plan, which will encompass further new product and distribution initiatives, and which we believe will generate higher margins and new revenue streams well beyond 2007.
This plan requires increased investment in the business during 2007, to be financed through a rebasing of the F&C dividend.
The approach is to have products appropriate for the changing marketplace, and to attract and retain quality people with the capability to drive up investment performance.
In summary, we are announcing another year of strong results founded principally on profitable growth in our life and pensions businesses, both in the UK and abroad.
As to outlook, in UK life and pensions our goal for the next two years remains to build our market share significantly and profitably, for which we are investing accordingly.
Beyond that, we continue to expect the international life and pensions businesses to have greater potential for sustained growth at a higher margin than the UK and believe that we have the right business model in place to exploit that potential.
In asset management, F&C has the potential to grow and generate substantial earnings for the Group, as its growth plan progresses.
We therefore believe that Friends Provident has attractive growth credentials.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006 39
