qxp 28 3 07 22:02 Page 44 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT Board of directors Sir Adrian Montague Philip Moore Lady Judge CBE, MA, Solicitor, 59, Chairman TD, MA, FIA, 47, Group Chief Executive BA, JD, 60, Deputy Chairman, senior independent director Appointed Chairman in May 2005, having been Appointed Group Chief Executive on 1 January Appointed a director and Deputy Chairman in appointed an independent director in October 2007, having joined Friends Provident plc on June 2001 having been an independent director 2004.
Chairman of the Investment Committee 1 July 2003 as Group Finance Director and of Friends Provident Life Office from 1994 to and member of the Nomination Committee.
appointed an executive director in September 2001 and its Deputy Chairman from 1998 to Currently the non-executive Chairman of British 2003.
Member of the Investment Committee.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Energy Holdings plc, Michael Page International A non-executive director of F&C Asset Deputy Chairman of the Investment Committee plc and Infrastructure Investors Limited.
Trustee and a member of the Nomination Committee.
A Trustee of the Waterways Trust and a of Childhood Eye Cancer Trust.
Chairman of the UK Atomic Energy Authority, of director of London First.
the School of Oriental & African Studies, of LIFE Previously at AMP UK where he was Corporate IC Limited, of the Professional Standards Advisory Formerly Deputy Chairman of Network Rail and Director of Finance and Head of Mergers and Board of the Institute of Directors and Deputy Chairman of Cross-London Rail Links Limited Acquisitions, having been Finance Director and Chairman of the Financial Reporting Council.
Previously Chief Executive of the Actuary of NPI on its acquisition by AMP.
Prior director of Quintain Estates and Development plc, Treasury Taskforce and Deputy Chairman of to joining NPI in 1998 he spent nine years at Private Equity Investor plc, Portmeirion Group Partnerships UK plc.
In his early career, he was a , initially in London PLC, Hardy Underwriting Group plc, Planet Group partner of Linklaters & Paines, and subsequently and then based in Hong Kong as the partner Inc. Eaglet Investment Trust PLC and Nationwide the Global Head of Project Finance for Dresdner responsible for the firms East Asia insurance Accident Repair Services plc.
commissioner of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
Christopher Jemmett Ray King 70, independent director BSc, FCA, MCT, 53, independent director Appointed a director in June 2001, having been an Appointed a director in January 2004.
Member independent director of Friends Provident Life of the Audit and Compliance and Investment Office from 1997 to 2001.
Chairman of the Audit Committees.
Group Finance Director for BUPA and Compliance Committee and member of the since 2001.
Member of the Association of Investment and Remuneration Committees.
independent director of F&C Asset Management Formerly the Deputy Chief Executive of Parity plc called ISIS Asset Management plc until Group plc, Director of Group Finance and Control October 2004 since February 1998 when its at Diageo plc and Group Finance Director of name was Friends Ivory & Sime plc and its Southern Water plc.
Deputy Chairman and senior independent director since May 1998.
Chairman of F&Cs Audit and Compliance Committee.
Non-executive director and deputy chairman of Origo Sino-India plc.
Former director and member of the Executive Committee of Unilever PLC and Unilever NV and a former member of the Council of The Crown Agents Foundation.
Will retire from Friends Providents and F&Cs boards at the close of the respective AGM 2007.
44 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006 17447 Newfrontend Txt.
qxp 28 3 07 22:02 Page 45 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORTS Alison Carnwath Alain Grisay Ben Gunn BA Hons, ACA, 54, independent director LLM, MA, 53, Chief Executive, MA, FCII, 56, Chief Executive, Friends Provident F&C Asset Management plc Life and Pensions Limited Appointed a director in December 2002.
Member Appointed an executive director and member of Appointed an executive director in June 2001 of the Remuneration and Audit and Compliance the Investment Committee on 1 January 2006. having been appointed an executive director of Committees and, since April 2004, has chaired the Chief Executive of F&C Asset Management plc.
Friends Provident Life Office in 2000 and With-Profits Committees of Friends Providents Managing Director, Friends Provident Life and Joined the board of F&C Asset Management regulated wholly-owned life and pensions Pensions Limited in March 2001.
A non-executive plc in October 2004 on completion of the merger operating companies.
Non-executive Chairman of director of Lombard International Assurance S. A. of ISIS Asset Management plc and F&C Group ISIS Equity Partners LLP.
Non-executive director of Member of Life Insurance Committee of the Holdings Limited F&CGH where he was Gallaher Group plc, Glas Cymru Cyfyngedig Welsh Association of British Insurers.
previously Deputy Chief Executive of F&CGH Water, Land Securities plc and Man Group plc.
and Head of Institutional Business.
Previously at Joined the Friends Provident Group in September Chairman of Glas Cymrus Remuneration JP Morgan for 20 years, as a Managing Director 1998 following the acquisition of London and Committee and Man Groups Audit Committee.
responsible for the investment banks market Manchester Group plc where he was Managing Previously a Managing Director of the US client business in Europe.
Director of London and Manchester Assurance investment bank, Donaldson, Lufkin and Jenrette Limited and a Group Executive Director.
Joined International, before it merged with Credit Suisse London and Manchester in February 1996 from Group in 2000.
Formerly a director of J Henry Hambro Countrywide plc where he was an Schroder Wagg & Co Ltd, National Power plc, executive director.
Arcadia Group plc, QA Group plc, The Vitec Group plc and Nationwide Building Society.
The Rt Hon Lord MacGregor Sir Mervyn Pedelty Jim Smart of Pulham Market FCA, FCIB, FRSA, 58, independent director B. Com, CPFA, FCCA, MBA, 47, PC, OBE, MA, LLB, 70, independent director Group Finance Director Appointed a director in June 2001, having been Appointed a director in October 2006.
Member Appointed an executive director on 1 January an independent director of Friends Provident of the Investment Committee.
Also, senior 2007, having joined Friends Provident in Life Office from 1998 to 2001.
Chairman of the independent director of Hiscox Ltd incorporated November 2006.
Member of the Investment Nomination Committee and a member of the in Bermuda, a director of Hiscox plc, Hiscox Committee.
A non-executive director of F&C Audit and Compliance Committee.
Also a nonInsurance Company Ltd, Business in the Asset Management plc since January 2007. executive director of Associated British Foods plc, Community Ltd and Chairman of FTSE4Good Member of the Financial Regulation and Taxation a member of the Supervisory Board of DAF Policy Committee.
Chairman of Hiscox Committee of the Association of British Insurers.
Trucks NV of Eindhoven, the Netherlands and coRemuneration and Nomination Committees.
Previously, chief financial officer at Boots Group chairman of the UK Food and Agricultural Advisory Previously at The Co-operative Bank plc where plc.
Prior to joining Boots, he was at Abbey Board of Rabobank International.
Chairman of the he was Chief Executive from 1997 to 2004, and National plc for 15 years where he held a number Slough Estates Pension Fund Trustees.
also Chief Executive of Co-operative Financial of senior finance and operational positions and A Conservative Member of Parliament from 1974 Services Ltd and Co-operative Insurance Society was a director of the groups life assurance to 2001 and a member of the Government from Ltd from 2002 until his retirement in 2004. business, Scottish Mutual Assurance plc.
1979 to 1994 including five Cabinet posts.
Former member of the Department for Work and Pensions Employer Task Force on Pensions, a Deputy Chairman of Hill Samuel Bank Limited and director of the Association of British Insurers director of Hill Samuel & Co Limited, Uniq plc from 2002 to 2004 and previous member of the formerly Unigate plc and Slough Estates plc.
Council of the British Bankers Association and of Will retire from Friends Providents Board at the its Chief Executives and Audit and Remuneration close of the AGM 2007.
Prior to The Co-operative Bank, a partner of LEK Consulting, a senior executive of TSB Group plc and a director of TSB Bank plc.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006 45
