qxp 31 3 07 01:58 Page 10 ANNUAL REVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW ABOUT THE FRIENDS PROVIDENT GROUP UK LIFE & PENSIONS Our three business segments Recent history Staff and key locations UK Provident, 3,600 staff acquired 1986 Dorking NM Group, Exeter acquired 1993 London UK Life & Pensions One of the top ten companies for London & Manchester Manchester attracting new business, offering Group, acquired 1998 Salisbury a comprehensive range of 13 regional offices protection, pensions and investment products for individuals and corporate clients.
Recent history Staff and key locations Friends Provident FPI International FPI 360 staff Royal & SunAlliance Isle of Man International Life & Pensions A major offshore cross-border life International Financial Guernsey company focusing on Asia, the Services was acquired by Hong Kong Middle East, Continental Europe Friends Provident in 2002 Dubai and the UK.
and merged with our Singapore existing International Lombard division.
315 staff Lombard Luxembourg Founded in 1991 and Switzerland was acquired by Friends Provident in January 2005.
The largest pan-European life assurance company of its kind.
Recent history Staff and key locations F&C Asset Management 810 staff plc was formed through London the merger of ISIS Asset Dorking Management and F&C Amsterdam Asset Management One of the largest asset Holdings in 2004.
Dublin managers in Europe in terms Edinburgh of funds under management, Previous acquisitions Frankfurt offering a diverse range of were: Lisbon products across all the major Ivory & Sime, Paris asset types.
acquired 1998 Geneva Royal & SunAlliance Boston, USA F&C is a quoted company in its Investment own right and is 52% owned by Management, Friends Provident.
acquired 2002 10 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006 17447 Newfrontend Txt.
qxp 28 3 07 22:02 Page 11 INTERNATIONAL LIFE & PENSIONS ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE CONCLUSIONS AND OUTLOOK Market position 2006 new business Distribution Points of distinction by product type Selectively targeting the Through Independent One of the fastest growing UK life and pensions market segments most Financial Advisers IFAs, companies likely to sustain profitable banks, building societies Voted 2006 Life Insurer of the Year at the British growth.
Looking to build and other strategic Insurance Awards on our already strong partnerships.
Five Star ranking for service excellence achieved for positions in pensions and three consecutive years Financial Adviser Practiv Group pensions 55% protection, and to grow Service Awards Investments 17% our presence in Reputation for leading-edge technology evidenced Protection 10% investments.
Individual pensions 12% through numerous awards Annuities 6% Values-driven approach to business Market leader in retail ethical investments Market position 2006 new business Distribution Points of distinction by region FPI FPI FPI FPI and Lombard Already holds strong Primarily via specialist Strong reputation with intermediaries positions in savings and Independent Financial Commitment to the international market is a key strand investments.
of the Group strategy build our presence in Access to Friends Providents core single-platform Distribution agreements pensions and protection scalable system enabling superior customer service and strategic partnerships business.
likely to provide an Lombard Continental Europe 53% Lombard Asia 18% increasing proportion.
Superior levels of international fiscal and succession UK 12% Focusing on providing planning expertise and private banking service Lombard Middle East 4% estate and tax planning standards Partnership approach with: Rest of World 13% solutions for High Net Strong relationships with a select number of private Private Banks Worth Individuals HNWIs banks and specialist advisors, including leading global Family Offices and ultra-HNWIs.
institutions Specialist IFAs Detailed understanding of the fiscal, legal and cultural Independent Asset realities in each country of operation Managers Market position 2006 funds under Distribution Points of distinction management Focusing on the UK and UK institutional market: A major force in the UK investment trust industry Continental Europe, principally through A leading provider of fund services to the Portuguese targeting new business in investment consultants and German retail market higher margin areas.
UK retail market: The leading European socially responsible investor primarily through IFAs One of the leading distributors of Venture Capital Trusts Across Europe: A major manager of UK commercial property Insurance 57% F&C has developed Actively engages with companies in which we invest Institutional 27% wholesale and with the goal of enhancing and protecting long-term Retail 16% sub-advisory shareholder value relationships with local partners including Millennium BCP Portugal, Achmea The Netherlands, Friends First Ireland and MAAF Assurances France Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006 11
