qxp 28 3 07 22:02 Page 44 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT Board of directors Sir Adrian Montague Philip Moore Lady Judge CBE, MA, Solicitor, 59, Chairman TD, MA, FIA, 47, Group Chief Executive BA, JD, 60, Deputy Chairman, senior independent director Appointed Chairman in May 2005, having been Appointed Group Chief Executive on 1 January Appointed a director and Deputy Chairman in appointed an independent director in October 2007, having joined Friends Provident plc on June 2001 having been an independent director 2004.
Chairman of the Investment Committee 1 July 2003 as Group Finance Director and of Friends Provident Life Office from 1994 to and member of the Nomination Committee.
appointed an executive director in September 2001 and its Deputy Chairman from 1998 to Currently the non-executive Chairman of British 2003.
Member of the Investment Committee.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Energy Holdings plc, Michael Page International A non-executive director of F&C Asset Deputy Chairman of the Investment Committee plc and Infrastructure Investors Limited.
Trustee and a member of the Nomination Committee.
A Trustee of the Waterways Trust and a of Childhood Eye Cancer Trust.
Chairman of the UK Atomic Energy Authority, of director of London First.
the School of Oriental & African Studies, of LIFE Previously at AMP UK where he was Corporate IC Limited, of the Professional Standards Advisory Formerly Deputy Chairman of Network Rail and Director of Finance and Head of Mergers and Board of the Institute of Directors and Deputy Chairman of Cross-London Rail Links Limited Acquisitions, having been Finance Director and Chairman of the Financial Reporting Council.
Previously Chief Executive of the Actuary of NPI on its acquisition by AMP.
Prior director of Quintain Estates and Development plc, Treasury Taskforce and Deputy Chairman of to joining NPI in 1998 he spent nine years at Private Equity Investor plc, Portmeirion Group Partnerships UK plc.
In his early career, he was a , initially in London PLC, Hardy Underwriting Group plc, Planet Group partner of Linklaters & Paines, and subsequently and then based in Hong Kong as the partner Inc. Eaglet Investment Trust PLC and Nationwide the Global Head of Project Finance for Dresdner responsible for the firms East Asia insurance Accident Repair Services plc.
commissioner of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
Christopher Jemmett Ray King 70, independent director BSc, FCA, MCT, 53, independent director Appointed a director in June 2001, having been an Appointed a director in January 2004.
Member independent director of Friends Provident Life of the Audit and Compliance and Investment Office from 1997 to 2001.
Chairman of the Audit Committees.
Group Finance Director for BUPA and Compliance Committee and member of the since 2001.
Member of the Association of Investment and Remuneration Committees.
independent director of F&C Asset Management Formerly the Deputy Chief Executive of Parity plc called ISIS Asset Management plc until Group plc, Director of Group Finance and Control October 2004 since February 1998 when its at Diageo plc and Group Finance Director of name was Friends Ivory & Sime plc and its Southern Water plc.
Deputy Chairman and senior independent director since May 1998.
Chairman of F&Cs Audit and Compliance Committee.
Non-executive director and deputy chairman of Origo Sino-India plc.
Former director and member of the Executive Committee of Unilever PLC and Unilever NV and a former member of the Council of The Crown Agents Foundation.
Will retire from Friends Providents and F&Cs boards at the close of the respective AGM 2007.
44 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006
