qxp 28 3 07 22:02 Page 59 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORTS The With-Profits Committees WPCs of the Life and Pensions operating companies A number of special projects, which potentially affected the Purpose and terms of reference interests of both with-profits policyholders and shareholders, were The purpose of the WPCs is to bring independent judgment to undertaken during the year.
The most important of these projects i the assessment of compliance of each Life and Pensions were i the investigation into a smoothing methodology for FPLP operating company with its published Principles and Practices of with-profits funds to ensure that surrender values for policies in Financial Management PPFM, and ii how any competing or payment would not fall significantly on a change in basis and ii conflicting rights and interests of policyholders and, if applicable, development of the Closed Fund Run-off Plan for FPLA.
In neither case does this take away any responsibility or accountability from the boards of the Additionally, management also kept the WPCs informed, on a relevant companies.
This purpose is reflected in each WPCs timely basis, of the following reports and issues during the year: written terms of reference which are published on the Companys approach to alternative investments for the FPLP With-Profits website and are subject to annual review by the WPCs.
The last Fund: review was carried out in June 2006 when the WPCs concluded actuarial valuation reports and individual capital assessment that the existing terms of reference for the committees remained results of the Life and Pension subsidiaries: appropriate.
comparative analysis of the With-Profits Fund performance: and Membership and operations initiatives in promoting Treating Customers Fairly.
The WPCs are chaired by one of the Companys independent nonThe WPCs reviewed these and other proposals in accordance with executive directors, currently Alison Carnwath.
The other members their terms of reference, assessed and confirmed that the are Peter Nowell independent external member and Graham proposals were in compliance with the appropriate PPFM and, Aslet former director and Appointed Actuary.
All three served effectively, treated customers fairly.
Any issues arising from these throughout the year.
During the year, the WPCs reviewed their reviews were debated within the WPCs and, in some cases, the operations and level of activities against peer practice and were WPCs have made recommendations to the Life & Pensions satisfied with the current governance and the infrastructure that operating companies boards that resulted in changes being made were in place to ensure effective discharge of their role.
by the boards to the original proposals.
Activities and work of the WPCs The WPCs met four times during 2006, with all members present For the Board on every occasion.
During the year, the WPCs reviewed the changes made to the Life & Pensions operating companies published PPFMs and the consumer friendly With-Profits Summaries, and the main areas of discretion allowed by the PPFMs.
In particular, they reviewed the Alison Carnwath appropriateness of a change in the mix of assets backing the FPLP Chairman, With-Profits Committees With-Profits Fund, removal of Market Value Reduction factors, the 19 March 2007 basis used for determining surrender values, the principles underlying the bonus declarations for FPLP and FPLA made in January and July 2006 and January 2007 and the principles by which benefits are shared among policyholders within the Closed Fund of FPLA.
The WPCs also reviewed the content and quality of communications to policyholders, including the With-Profits Actuarys report on the use of discretion in the management of with-profits business and the board report to policyholders.
A process was in place to ensure that the WPCs saw any correspondence that had been sent by policyholders to the WPCs or any of its members and the responses.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006 59
