in the Annual Report and Accounts.
By made to allow the colleague to continue in Directors their nature, statements containing risks their existing role.
If, after making all possible and uncertainties facing the Group, and adjustments, a colleague is not able to Report any other forward-looking statements, continue in their current role, HBOS will look involve uncertainty, since future events at suitable alternative roles within the Group.
and circumstances can cause results and Training and career development opportunities The Directors have pleasure in presenting developments to differ materially from those are open to all colleagues including disabled the Report and Accounts to the members anticipated.
The forward-looking statements colleagues and Group policies are designed of HBOS plc in respect of the Group for the re ect the knowledge and information with inclusion of disabled colleagues in mind.
year ended 31 December 2006. available at the date of preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts and the Diversity and inclusion is an integral part Principal Activities Company undertakes no obligation to update of the business, with active commitment HBOS plc is the holding company of the these forward-looking statements.
Nothing from the very top of the organisation.
The principal activities of the in the Annual Report and Accounts shall be Hornby, the Chief Executive, chairs the Group are the provision of banking and other construed as a pro t forecast.
Membership of the financial services in the UK and overseas.
Steering Group is made up of a number of A list of the main subsidiary undertakings, and Results and Dividends senior leaders from across the HBOS Group.
the nature of each companys business, is The Group pro t attributable to shareholders for The key purpose is to provide strategic given in Note 18 to the Accounts on page 154. the year ended 31 December 2006, as shown direction, challenge the Groups businesses in the Consolidated Income Statement, was and remove barriers to progress in relation HBOS Group Reorganisation Act 2006 3,879m 2005 3,230m.
An interim dividend to the diversity strategy.
HBOS has a clear As part of an internal reorganisation affecting of 13.5 pence per ordinary share was paid on plan of activity for the coming years and has the wholly-owned UK banking subsidiaries 9 October 2006.
The Directors propose a final recently launched the Diversity Commitment of the Group, Royal Assent was received to dividend of 27.9 pence per ordinary share to be which clearly sets out what colleagues can the HBOS Group Reorganisation Act 2006 on paid on 14 May 2007 to shareholders on the expect from HBOS.
Under this Act it is expected register on 16 March 2007, subject to approval that, during the year ended 31 December at the 2007 Annual General Meeting AGM.
HBOS adopts a multi-media approach 2007, the businesses of Capital Bank plc, when communicating with its colleagues Halifax plc and HBOS Treasury Services plc Directors throughout the Group.
This principally including all their property and liabilities will Details of the present Directors are given on involves e-mail, electronic and printed transfer to The Governor and Company of page 92.
Peter Cummings and Karen Jones magazines, intranets, business television the Bank of Scotland, which will at that time were appointed Directors of the Company and face-to-face communication.
register under the Companies Act as Bank of on 1 January 2006 and 24 January 2006 Scotland plc.
This transfer will not have any respectively.
Jo Dawson and Benny Higgins Each day several topical news stories are impact upon HBOS plc.
were appointed Directors on 1 May 2006 and placed on the Companys award-winning Richard Cousins will become a Director on intranet site typically linked to other pages Business Review 1 March 2007: all three will retire at the 2007 or sites for further information.
The Companies Act 1985 requires the AGM and offer themselves for election.
Sir Directors Report to include a Business James Crosby stood down from the Board on Television programmes are used to Review of the HBOS Group giving a fair 31 July 2006. announce the Groups annual and halfreview of the business of the Group and year results to colleagues.
Others feature a description of the principal risks and Sir Brian Ivory and David Shearer, both of the Chief Executive being questioned by uncertainties facing the Group.
whom remain fully effective members of colleagues.
A special television programme the Board, will step down from the Board at in January 2007 featured the short-listed The Groups development and performance the 2007 AGM and will not seek re-election.
charities for HBOSs charity of the year, during the year, position at the year end Anthony Hobson and Kate Nealon will retire by for which HBOS colleagues then voted and likely future prospects are reviewed by rotation and resolutions for their re-election will electronically and by telephone.
the Chief Executive on pages 8 to 13 and be proposed at the 2007 AGM.
in the Divisional Reviews on pages 26 to A groupwide electronic magazine, entitled 74.
Financial aspects are covered in the The Chairman is pleased to con rm that the HBOS Today, is used to update colleagues Financial Review on pages 14 to 24, followed performance of all of the Directors seeking on key business news.
It is issued as required by Corporate Responsibility on pages 75 election or re-election continues to be effective rather than on a set publishing cycle.
to 80 and the Risk Management report on and that they demonstrate commitment in their In 2006, 37 issues were published.
The information in all of these respective roles.
sections, which ful ls the requirements of the As well as groupwide communication, Business Review, is incorporated into this Particulars of Directors remuneration and colleagues also receive more speci c Directors Report by reference.
interests in shares of the Company are given communication tailored at a divisional level.
in the Report of the Board in relation to As stated above, in this years Business remuneration policy and practice on pages In addition to the above, colleagues are also Review we are incorporating by reference 99 to 119. kept systematically informed of all matters of the section on Corporate Responsibility on concern to them as employees via their local pages 75 to 80.
This sets out the approach of The Company provides directors and Human Resource teams.
Details of Human the Group to our key stakeholders, including of cers liability insurance, giving appropriate Resource policies and joint agreements with our suppliers and business partners.
Further cover for legal action brought against its recognised trade unions, which impact upon provisions introduced into the Companies Act Directors, and has also agreed to indemnify colleagues, can be readily accessed via the 2006 shortly before its enactment will when Directors in circumstances where they are internal Intranet site.
they come into force require the Directors not considered to be culpable.
The indemnity, to consider whether information should be which is a qualifying third party indemnity The views of HBOS colleagues are included about persons with whom the Group provision for the purpose of the Companies sought on a regular basis, most notably has contractual or other arrangements which Act 1985, is for the bene t of all of the through consultation with the recognised are essential to the business of the Group.
trades unions, ACCORD and AMICUS.
Information of this nature will be included The Company continues to support the in future Business Reviews as the Directors Employees colleagues rights to join trades unions.
HBOS is a two-tick employer actively seeking Around half of the current UK workforce applications for employment from disabled are union members.
The Annual Report and Accounts, including people and guaranteeing an interview where this Directors Report, have been prepared disabled applicants meet the essential criteria Colleagues are given the opportunity to solely for the Companys members, as a for the role being applied for.
In the event of an contribute to the Companys strategy body.
To the extent permitted by law, the existing colleague becoming disabled, HBOS and delivery via ACCORD and AMICUS, Company, its Directors, employees, agents works with external specialists to ensure with whom the Company shares detailed and advisers disclaim liability to any other that all possible reasonable adjustments are information regarding the Groups current persons in respect of information contained 120 Movement through Treasury of ordinary shares of 25p each for the Directors year ended 31 December 2006 Report continued Number No.
as a % Aggregate Aggregate of shares of issued share nominal value cost m millions capital at m and planned strategy.
On a day-to-day 31.12.2006 basis, Union engagement at a local level is a common occurrence throughout all divisions.
Acquired by the Company and transferred into Treasury 97.5 2.59% 24.4 981.9 The incentive arrangements for colleagues Maximum held in Treasury at all levels are, to varying extents, based on at any time in the year 13.0 0.35% 3.3 -- personal performance, operating divisional performance and Group performance.
AllCancelled out of Treasury 100.0 2.66% 25.0 -- employee share plans form an integral part During the last financial year, three employees The Company has the authority to purchase of those incentive arrangements, supporting were seconded part-time normally for two up to 383,103,366 of its ordinary shares.
The the alignment of colleague and shareholder days each week by HBOS plc to the Cross authority remains valid until the 2007 AGM interests in a number of ways: Party Group on the Scottish Economy CPG or, if earlier, 25 July 2007.
A resolution to - Free shares - an award of shares, the in the Scottish Parliament.
The CPG is not a authorise the purchase of up to 376,115,726 value of which is determined by Group political party.
ordinary shares will be put to the 2007 AGM.
An award was made in August 2006 set at 5% of salary, subject PPERA contains a speci c exemption to During the year the Company continued to a maximum award of 3,000 and a the fide nition of EU Political Organisations to manage its capital position actively, minimum of 500 pro-rated for colleagues for all party groups composed of members which resulted in returning around 1bn working part-time with approximately 95% of the Westminster Houses of Parliament.
of capital to shareholders through a share of colleagues electing to participate: There is no such speci c exemption for all buyback programme.
- Sharekicker - in 2006 colleagues had the party groups of the Scottish Parliament.
opportunity to use their annual net cash The Company is therefore disclosing a total In 2007 there will be a further return of capital bonus, which was determined on personal, amount of the donations made to the CPG to shareholders through a share buyback divisional and or Group performance, to during the last financial year of 17,602, programme, initially set at up to 500m.
buy HBOS shares - and get 50% extra representing the proportion of the employees shares after 3 years: and Disclosable interests salary paid by the Company during their - Sharesave - where colleagues have the As at the date of this report there is a secondment, not a cash donation.
option to buy HBOS shares - granted at disclosable interest in the voting rights of a discount of up to 20% - after 3, 5 or the Company, as noti ed to the Company in Going Concern 7 years.
accordance with Chapter 5 of the UK Listing The Directors are satis ed that the Group has Authoritys Disclosure & Transparency Rules, adequate resources to continue in business Charitable and Political Donations as shown in the following table.
for the foreseeable future and consequently During the year the Group made charitable the going concern basis continues to be donations in the UK of 14.89m.
The Disclosable interests appropriate in preparing the accounts.
majority of donations were made to the HBOS Foundation, which provides grants to Number of Percentage Payment Policy charities to fund initiatives relating to financial shares of issued For the forthcoming period the Groups policy literacy and money advice.
In addition, all share capital for the payment of suppliers will be as follows: funds raised by colleagues for the Million - Payment terms will be agreed at the start Challenge were matched by the HBOS Legal & General Group plc of the relationship with the supplier and will Foundation and went to I Can, Leonard and or its subsidiaries 157,221,080 4.175% only be changed by agreement: Cheshire and Crisis.
1.76m in total has - Standard payment terms to suppliers of also been made available to charities as Properties goods and services will be 30 days from a result of their af nity to the Visa Charity The Directors are of the opinion that the the date of a correct invoice that has credit cards offered by Halifax plc and Bank current market value of the Groups properties been received for satisfactory goods or of Scotland.
The af nity cards are offered in is not signi cantly different from the amount at services which have been ordered and partnership with speci c charities such as which they are included in the balance sheet.
received unless other terms are agreed in a Cancer Research UK, Cancer Research UK contract: Scotland, the NSPCC and the SSPCA.
Auditors - Payment will be made in accordance with A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc the agreed terms or in accordance with the It is HBOS policy not to make donations as auditors will be put to shareholders at the law if no agreement has been made: and to political parties.
The directors who held of ce at - Suppliers will be advised without delay the date of approval of this Directors Report when an invoice is contested and disputes Under the terms of the Political Parties, con rm that, so far as they are each aware: will be settled as quickly as possible.
Elections and Referendums Act 2000 - there is no relevant audit information PPERA companies are required to obtain of which the Companys Auditors are HBOS plc complies with the Better Payment shareholder approval before they can make unaware: and Practice Code.
Information regarding this any political donations, and to disclose - each Director has taken all the steps that Code and its purpose can be obtained from any such payments in the Companys they ought to have taken as a Director to the Better Payment Practice Groups website Annual Report and Accounts.
The PPERA make themselves aware of any relevant at www.
is extremely wide in scope and many audit information and to establish that listed companies, including the Company, the Companys auditors are aware of The Companys main trading subsidiary have therefore obtained authority from that information.
undertakings, Halifax plc and Bank of shareholders to make such payments as a Scotland, had trade creditors outstanding at precautionary measure, to enable legitimate On behalf of the Board 31 December 2006 representing 18 days of business activities which would not be Harry F Baines purchases for each company.
The Company regarded as political donations in the ordinary Company Secretary & Group Counsel itself owed no amounts to trade creditors at sense to proceed.
At last years AGM, the Board accordingly Share Capital obtained shareholders approval for the Full details of the movements in the Company to make Donations to EU Political authorised and issued share capital of the Organisations and or to incur EU Political Company during the year are provided in Expenditure up to fide ned limits.
Note 35 to the Accounts on page 173.
