Andy Hornby Chief Executive Growing the UK franchise Targeted international growth Cost leadership Colleague development Capital discipline 8 The HBOS strategy has at its heart the Targeted international growth Our colleague strategy is very clear.
We aim satisfaction of our customers needs, wherever Internationally we are growing our to have the best leadership teams in the they are and whatever products and services businesses by taking the formula that has industry and we have clear and increasingly they use.
We strive to attract and retain proven to be successful in the UK to other high expectations of both what our leaders customers where we can develop long term markets that t with our growth model.
deliver and how they do this.
We offer all our relationships which drive value for our In Australia, where we have been operating colleagues the necessary training and personal shareholders.
The five key elements which drive for over 10 years, we are expanding on our development they need to do their job well that value are: growing the UK franchise, strong West Coast presence and taking our and we aim to create a positive working targeted international growth, cost leadership, Commercial and Retail banking capability environment that re ects colleague diversity.
colleague development and capital discipline.
In Ireland, having Our reward systems are strongly geared to been active in that economy for well over both individual and team performance and Growing the UK franchise a decade, we are now expanding into the widest possible share ownership by our Growing our UK businesses is our number one retail banking.
Through our Colleague Opinion priority.
In our Retail business we have around Survey we track our leadership and capability 23 million customers.
We operate with several In 2005 we bought around fty shops from indices as well as employer and product brands which allow us to segment and manage the Irish Electricity Board and will reopen the advocacy.
In addition, we keep a very close more effectively the risk reward potential of majority as new style Halifax branches by the eye on colleague turnover at all levels of individual customer groupings.
In Europe & North America, in the organisation.
our customers with a network of around 1,300 Corporate and Retail banking and in European branches and estate agents.
We handle over Financial Services we are expanding our Capital discipline 125 million calls and process around 140 million interests and seeking to capture the synergies We treat capital as a scarce resource at HBOS.
transactions and queries on the internet each year.
open to us by closer co-operation across Capital is owned by the shareholders and we geographical boundaries.
accept our task is to deploy it to achieve Given our customer base and distribution sustainable returns.
With the return on equity strength we aim for market shares within a Cost leadership just above 20%, we can fund approximately 15%-20% range.
Today we have just two As an ambition, cost leadership amongst the 13% annual asset growth from our internal products, mortgages and savings, within or major UK banks takes the clear sense of tight capital generation.
Organic growth is our first ahead of that range and therefore have huge cost control one step further.
Being low cost priority, but if we are not growing to our full opportunities elsewhere.
The potential is is about ensuring that more of the revenue capital capacity we will hand surplus capital illustrated by only 1.2 million customers out growth is converted to pro t. Cost leadership back.
We believe in strong capital ratios and of 23 million having three or more products.
provides the strategic exibility to deliver manage to a target 8% Tier 1 capital level and further revenue growth.
Our customers want a Tier 1 leverage of 25% 2%.
Likewise we In our Corporate business we concentrate on more value, not less, in our products and have strong dividend cover and target a cover markets where we have real expertise and can services.
Cost leadership at HBOS is not level of around 2.5 times with dividends generate superior returns.
We therefore cover about avoiding or reducing the investment growing in line with earnings.
corporate customers from FTSE 250 companies spend but rather it is ensuring an ability to small and medium sized companies with a to invest by taking out unproductive cost In 2006, as in 2005, we judged that the turnover in excess of 1m.
Additionally, we have in todays operations.
right level of asset growth relative to return growing businesses in asset finance, motor and prospects favoured another 1bn buyback real estate.
Our Integrated Finance business We have a number of opportunities to take programme.
We have achieved our plans to provides one stop shop funding solutions all out further cost across our businesses.
In buyback 1bn of shares in each year and the way from senior debt through mezzanine to 2006 we announced a programme that will have, as a consequence, cancelled 210 million equity, with a view to creating long term, value deliver at least 300m of annual savings, shares with a corresponding uplift in the creating partnerships with our customers.
around 12% of our UK processing and earnings per share.
support costs, by the end of 2009.
Allowing In Insurance & Investment we are uniquely for these savings, the costs of achieving Our logic on buybacks continues as before.
well placed to bene t from the opportunities them and planned revenue growth, our cost: If we see opportunities for more pro table that being the largest UK liquid saver provides.
income ratio is targeted to fall to the mid growth then we will deploy more of the This, together with increasingly supportive 30s by 2010. capital we generate in growing the business.
demographics and the recognition by For 2007 we do see an opportunity to deploy individuals that they will require to self-provide Colleague development more capital in support of growth than we did for retirement should drive growth in investment Our ability to execute our strategy and to in 2006 and this will therefore see us target sales.
In general insurance we intend to bene t deliver consistently high quality products and an initial buyback programme of up to from the opportunities that being the UKs services to our customers relies very clearly 500m.
As in previous years we will review number one mortgage lender gives us in on the capability, motivation and performance the growth, buyback balance at the half increasing household insurance sales.
of every one of our 74,000 colleagues.
