We report to you our opinion as to whether We planned and performed our audit so as Independent the financial statements give a true and fair to obtain all the information and explanations view and whether the financial statements which we considered necessary in order to auditors report to and the part of the Directors Remuneration provide us with sufficient evidence to give Report to be audited have been properly reasonable assurance that the financial the members of prepared in accordance with the Companies statements and the part of the Directors Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial Remuneration Report to be audited are free statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
from material misstatement, whether caused HBOS plc We also report to you if, in our opinion, the by fraud or other irregularity or error.
We have audited the Group and parent information given in the Directors Report Company financial statements the 'financial is consistent with the financial statements.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated statements' of HBOS plc for the year ended The information given in the Directors' the overall adequacy of the presentation 31 December 2006 which comprise the Report includes that specific information of information in the financial statements Group Income Statement, the Group and presented in the Annual Report that is and the part of the Directors Remuneration Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group cross referred from the Business Review Report to be audited.
and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements, section of the Directors' Report.
In addition the Group and Parent Company Statements we report to you if, in our opinion, the Opinion of Recognised Income and Expense, and Company has not kept proper accounting In our opinion: the related notes.
These financial statements records, if we have not received all the - the Group financial statements give a true have been prepared under the accounting information and explanations we require and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs policies set out therein.
We have also for our audit, or if information specified by as adopted by the EU, of the state of the audited the information in the Directors law regarding directors remuneration and Groups affairs as at 31 December 2006 Remuneration Report that is described as other transactions is not disclosed.
We and of its profit for the year then ended: having been audited.
review whether the Corporate Governance - the parent Company financial statements Statement reflects the Companys give a true and fair view, in accordance This report is made solely to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the with IFRSs as adopted by the EU as members, as a body, in accordance with 2003 Combined Code specified for our applied in accordance with the provisions section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. review by the Listing Rules of the Financial of the Companies Act 1985, of the state Our audit work has been undertaken so that Services Authority, and we report if it does of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 we might state to the Companys members not.
We are not required to consider whether December 2006: those matters we are required to state to the boards statements on internal control - the financial statements and the part of them in an auditors report and for no other cover all risks and controls, or to form an the Directors Remuneration Report to purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups be audited have been properly prepared by law, we do not accept or assume corporate governance procedures or its risk in accordance with the Companies responsibility to anyone other than the and control procedures.
Act 1985 and, as regards the Group Company and the Companys members as financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS a body, for our audit work, for this report, or We read the other information contained in Regulation: and for the opinions we have formed.
the Annual Report and consider whether - the information given in the Directors it is consistent with the audited financial Report is consistent with the financial Respective responsibilities of directors statements.
We consider the implications statements.
and auditors for our report if we become aware of The directors responsibilities for preparing any apparent misstatements or material KPMG Audit Plc the Annual Report, the Directors inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Chartered Accountants Remuneration Report and the financial Our responsibilities do not extend to any Registered Auditor statements in accordance with applicable other information.
Edinburgh law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU Basis of audit opinion 27 February 2007 are set out in the Statement of Directors We conducted our audit in accordance with Responsibilities on page 122. International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Our responsibility is to audit the financial Board.
An audit includes examination, on statements and the part of the Directors a test basis, of evidence relevant to the Remuneration Report to be audited in amounts and disclosures in the financial accordance with relevant legal and regulatory statements and the part of the Directors requirements and International Standards on Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also Auditing UK and Ireland.
includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
