Corporate Responsibility 75 What we do Our Corporate Responsibility approach focuses on best serving the diverse interests of our key stakeholders.
Our stakeholders HBOS has over 23 million customers.
We have 2.1 million shareholders, over 74,000 colleagues and many thousands of suppliers.
We are committed to these groups and to society in general.
A better return Our primary responsibility is to run our business successfully, on behalf of our owners.
That means increasing the value of our shares and paying higher dividends.
We aim to do so by consistently offering our customers - many of whom are our shareholders - a better deal.
Our approach We offer customers competitive and transparent products.
We seek to manage risk robustly: to recognise and proactively manage our environmental and social impacts: to take into account the needs of our shareholders, customers, colleagues, suppliers and society in general.
Commitments The Way We Do Business WWDB statement is our commitment to our stakeholders about the standards and values we aspire to deliver.
We are the only major bank to support our statement with Key Performance Indicators KPIs which both fide ne and measure progress towards goals that are critical to our success.
In 2006, we identi ed the 28 most critical indicators and will report on these in our Corporate Responsibility CR report.
Corporate Responsibility Growing the UK franchise Targeted international growth Cost leadership Colleague development Capital discipline 76 Our Key Performance Strategy Indicators Our Corporate Responsibility approach Our Key Performance Indicators help us to focuses on best serving the diverse interests measure our progress against each element of our key stakeholders.
Return on Equity Shareholders We will promote the interests of our shareholders by seeking to increase the value of their shares and dividends, and 2006 20.8% through sound corporate governance.
We will communicate with shareholders regularly and in doing so will seek to be 2005 19.6% clear, comprehensive and balanced.
Number of times an HBOS product was featured in best buy tables Customers We will be honest, fair and open in our dealings with our customers and endeavour to help them at all times.
We are 2006 3,317 committed to providing them with value for money products, designed and promoted in a simple and transparent way and 2005 2,671 made as widely available as possible.
When things go wrong, as they sometimes do, we will resolve problems as quickly and fairly as we can.
% of colleagues satis ed with opportunities to learn Colleagues We will create a safe working environment which encourages openness, honesty and mutual respect, and where colleagues 2006 65% x can constructively challenge and ask questions.
We will offer 2005 56% equal opportunities for all.
We will provide the opportunity for 2006 UK Financial Sector Average 49% all colleagues to develop their skills and knowledge and to enjoy ful lling careers.
We will offer competitive remuneration with the opportunity to participate in the success of HBOS.
Source: 2006 and 2005 HBOS colleague opinion survey conducted by MORI Environment Investment in the Community Society Our main contribution to society is the value we can add through our success in business.
We will seek to be a positive 2006 56,743 2006 44.2m in uence on those social and environmental issues which, having listened responsibly to our shareholders, customers, 2005 66,811 2005 43.1m colleagues and suppliers, we think are important, for example upholding human rights.
UK Co2 emissions Tonnes 77 Leadership indices and benchmarks meetings with consumer groups to swap box on Payment Protection Insurance Our strategy sets us apart from our agendas, share ideas and identify areas for literature so customers can easily see what competitors.
This has been recognised by cooperation and change.
Regular meetings the main bene ts and exclusions are.
From our inclusion in key leadership indices.
We were held with consumer groups in the UK early 2007 we became the first major UK are one of only two UK banks in the Global and in Brussels including Which?, Citizens estate agency to introduce summary boxes 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the Advice, National Consumer Council NCC, on agency agreements.
We are a member of the Dow Jones FIN-USE, and Citizens Advice Scotland.
Last year we increased Groups consumer engagement programme HBOS has been sharing full data on the vast our score from 94% to 97% in the Business culminated in a week of events to promote majority of Halifax and Bank of Scotland in the Community CR Index.
In the 2006 National Consumer Week November 20-25. products for some time and has campaigned Accountability Rating, we achieved a ranking for wider participation across the industry.
We were placed in In March 2006 we began work on a pilot the Carbon Disclosure Project Climate with other high street banks to improve Customer strategy Leadership Index.
We are one of only 2 UK further lenders knowledge of customers banks to receive the AAA highest rating in indebtedness.
Market leading products the Innovest global sustainability review of Our strategy of offering excellent value, banking.
Our environmental and social risk management clear products is delivering for customers extends to commercial lending.
Our High Interest Current Governance endorsed the revised 2006 Equator principles Accounts, offering an interest rate 60x that Our governance structure ensures that social, which require social and environmental risk of most high street banks: our Moneyback environmental and broader reputation issues assessments of large project finance deals.
Current Accounts, offering 1% moneyback are fully managed.
The Way We Do Business on the first 10,000 of debit card purchases WWDB is reviewed annually by the Board Financial inclusion per year: and our standard current accounts and speci c reviews take place on issues We opened almost 65,000 social banking have been very popular with our share of new such as environmental management and accounts during the year.
We have over 50% bank accounts increasing to 19% in 2006 community investment.
Finance Director of all the UKs social banking accounts - over from 16% in 2005.
Phil Hodkinson has Board responsibility.
three and a half times as many as our closest The WWDB Action Group, chaired by Phil competitor.
Many of our social banking Under the Governments Shared Ownership Hodkinson and with senior representation customers progress to full facility current Scheme, Halifax customers who are shared from all divisions, drives CR strategy accounts offering credit through an overdraft owners enjoy the same access to our throughout the business.
A framework of facility: since 2001, we have upgraded products and services as other customers.
steering groups also help achieve this, 191,000 social banking customers to full We are one of just four mortgage lenders including the: facility accounts.
partnering with the Government on its Open HBOS Communication Group, chaired by Market Homebuy scheme, a shared equity Group Chief Executive Andy Hornby: 31% of our social banking customers in scheme designed to help first time buyers, Diversity Committee, also chaired by Andy deprived areas also have a savings account key workers and social tenants get on the Hornby: with us.
HBOS is the only bank to pilot the ownership ladder.
The scheme is the first Financial Inclusion Committee, chaired by Governments Savings Gateway.
The pilot time both government and lenders are taking Retail Chief Executive Benny Higgins: and concluded at the end of 2006.
It has been responsibility for sharing equity in properties Climate Change Group, chaired by successful with over 22,000 new savings to allow people to enter the housing market.
Managing Director of Intermediary accounts opened: the independent report on Distribution and Specialist Banking, Philip the pilot, commissioned by the Treasury, is Responsible lending Grant.
due to be published in early 2007.
In March, we became the first issuer to feature a personal summary box on credit Stakeholder engagement In July we were one of the first major banks card cheques providing details about interest Consultation with a wide range of to commit to install new free ATMs in areas of rates, cheque fees, and legal safeguards.
We stakeholders is crucial to our continued need with up to 100 in our heartlands across were the first bank to introduce a summary success.
During 2006 we held a series of Scotland and the North of England.
All of our Corporate Responsibility continued Growing the UK franchise Targeted international growth Cost leadership Colleague development Capital discipline Customers We offer excellent value, clear products to our customers, such as our High Interest Current Account.
We were the first or arts experience, over 65% of whom were Society strategy UK ATM provider to feature green labels on from socially disadvantaged areas.
Bank of our ATMs advising customers they would not Scotland Midnight League programme, one Community be charged for withdrawing cash.
of our community football initiatives, reached HBOS is a signi cant generator of wealth over 3,500 young people in 18 leagues in across the UK and, in particular, around our Scotland and 3 leagues in Yorkshire.
During heartlands in Yorkshire and Scotland.
We are 2007, we plan to more than double these Colleague strategy one of the largest payers of corporation tax numbers to 10,000 young people.
in the UK, paying 1.3bn in tax and National Our continued success relies on high Insurance in 2006.
We employ 65,700 people Environment performance from our colleagues.
We in the UK and 74,000 worldwide.
Over We are very conscious of the commercial recognise that this high performance is 31,400 of our colleagues are in Yorkshire and advantage that can be achieved through sustainable only if we keep the commitment Scotland.
Our total community investment environmental management, as well as we have made to our 74,000 colleagues in gure for 2006 amounted to 44.2m.
regulatory trends that create a need for our statement of business principles, called companies to have well developed risk The Way We Do Business.
The HBOS Foundation, a registered charity strategies in place.
Our strategy looks well funded by HBOS, drives volunteering and beyond our direct impacts.
The HBOS People strategy is designed to charitable work.
In 2006, HBOSs contribution drive a high degree of engagement, exibility to the Foundation doubled from 4m to Climate change and motivation amongst our colleagues.
The main criteria for national projects In 2006 we signed a two year contract for Way We Do Business is integrated into our delivered by the Foundation are financial 100% renewable electricity, drastically Leadership Commitment and from 2006 25% literacy and money advice.
Financial literacy reducing our carbon footprint.
We ran an of senior managers bonus outcome will be projects are organised around the Financial awareness programme among our staff based on personal performance against Services Authoritys national strategy and in association with the Energy Saving the Commitment.
focus on seven priority areas: schools, Trust, leading to 20 staff having home young adults 16-25 : work: families: energy makeovers.
We presented at the The HBOS Total Reward strategy aligns borrowing: retirement: and advice.
In 2006 Association of British Insurers annual exceptional performance with exceptional the Foundation gave 2.07m in national and climate change insurance conference and rewards, and colleagues are encouraged to regional grants.
we sponsored a climate change lecture share the success of HBOS through share delivered by Al Gore, former US Vice schemes.
High employee share ownership In 2006, HBOS colleagues, supported by President focusing on the risks posed aligns colleagues aims with those of our matched funding from the HBOS Foundation, by climate change.
During 2006 we offered our raised over 2.5m for the three Million Climate Change Steering Group was set colleagues three share schemes, including Challenge charities I CAN, Crisis and up speci cally to look at the opportunities offering all colleagues free shares we are Leonard Cheshire.
Our matched funding and risks for our products and services.
one of a very small number of companies to scheme also raised a total of 2.08m to The Steering Group will report to the HBOS offer such a programme.
At the end of 2005 support over 500 charities.
The number of Board in 2007. we announced our plans to eliminate the colleagues helping their local communities fide cit in our final salary pension schemes through volunteering has continued to grow Sustainable housing over a ten year period.
As the UKs biggest mortgage lender, one had invested an extra 800m.
In total 15.4m has been raised via the of our largest impacts on the environment Foundation over the last four years.
relates to the homes our customers buy.
We proactively engage with colleagues on Halifax continues to stand out in our how we are delivering against the WWDB.
HBOS invests in sponsorship partnerships ooding policy in three key areas: we It is the starting point for people joining that make a tangible difference to the lives of are the first and so far only lender and HBOS.
The strategy is paying off, with 73% young people in our heartlands of Scotland home insurer to cover all of our 1.8 million of colleagues speaking highly of HBOS as an and Yorkshire.
Last year, over 70,000 young homeowner customers against ood employer compared with 56% industry-wide.
people were able to take part in a new sports risk until 2008: customers who invest Colleagues The HBOS People strategy is designed to provide opportunities for all colleagues to develop their skills and knowledge.
Society In 2006 we signed a two year contract for 100% renewable electricity.
79 in new ood skirt technology receive a 20% discount on their annual premium: Prospects and if the ood skirt is subsequently We are conscious of the developing used to prevent ooding, customers will regulatory landscape especially with regard be rewarded by the Halifax with a cash to financial inclusion and climate change.
In addition, a five year Both these areas will continue to provide xed preferential rate mortgage offering opportunities.
has been made available only to World Wildlife Fund approved builders, and we HBOS has already implemented many of are the only bank operating in this space.
the measures recommended in the Treasury Committee reports on financial inclusion and Asset management in 2007 HBOS will continue to work alongside Our asset management business, Insight the Government and the financial services Investment helped develop the Investor industry on increasing financial inclusion.
We Statement on Climate Change.
The will continue to roll out our branch and ATM Statement, which follows the United expansion programme.
HBOS is currently Nations Principles for Responsible the only major bank to commit to producing Investment PRI, requires signatories an annual detailed financial inclusion report to incorporate climate change risks and in addition to annual corporate responsibility opportunities in their investment analysis reporting.
Insight Investment is a sponsor of the PRI, as well as a member HBOS is well positioned for 2007 in terms of of the steering committee and a founding climate change impacts and the increasing signatory to the principles.
We have signed a The Responsible Investment team at new two year contract for Ofgem-accredited, Insight ensures that environmental Climate Change Levy exempt renewable management is given suf cient weighting energy and have ambitious targets for energy in all our investment decisions and works use, water use and waste recycling.
with companies to explore the steps they are taking to mitigate their risks.
Insight also offers two green funds: the Evergreen Fund, investing globally and the European Ethical Fund, investing in UK and European companies.
Paper-free banking By the end of 2006 over one million banking customers had registered for the Halifax and Bank of Scotland online HBOS CR Report paper-free service - more than 60% of HBOS online customers.
The initiative is More information about our approach to very popular with customers.
Not only is it Corporate Responsibility is available in more environmentally friendly than regular our separately published HBOS Corporate paper statements, it is also more secure Responsibility Report.
Corporate Responsibility continued Growing the UK franchise Targeted international growth Cost leadership Colleague development Capital discipline 80
