Our Board Growing the UK franchise Targeted international growth Cost leadership Colleague development Capital discipline 90 Left to right: David Shearer Kate Nealon Colin Matthew Dennis Stevenson Coline McConville Anthony Hobson Jo Dawson Charles Dunstone Sir Brian Ivory Peter Cummings Andy Hornby Phil Hodkinson Karen Jones Sir Ron Garrick Benny Higgins 91 Chairman Phil chairs the HBOS Foundation, is a Karen Jones.
Dennis was Director of Business in the Community and executive Director of HBOS plc in January appointed Chairman of HBOS plc in 2001 a Non-executive Director of BT Group plc.
She was previously a Non-executive and became Governor of the Bank of He is a Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries in Director of Gondola Holdings plc and of Scotland on 1 January 2006.
He is Chairman England & Wales.
Emap plc, the Chief Executive of Spirit Group of the House of Lords Appointments Ltd and the founder and Chief Executive of Commission, Chancellor of the University of Colin Matthew.
Colin is Chief Caf Rouge and The Pelican Group plc.
the Arts London, a Non-executive Director of Executive of the Strategy & International Western Union Group and President of the division and, since 1 January 2006, has been Coline McConville.
Coline joined the Employers Forum on Age.
Treasurer of Bank of Scotland.
Colin joined Board of Halifax plc in 2000.
Until 2006 she Bank of Scotland in 1966, becoming a Director was Chief Executive Of cer, Europe of Clear Chief Executive in 2000.
Channel International, prior to which she was Andy Hornby.
Andy became Chief with McKinseys Management Consultants Executive of HBOS plc on 31 July 2006, Non-executive Directors in London and The L E K Management having previously since 2005 been the Richard Cousins not pictured.
Coline quali ed Groups Chief Operating Of cer.
Andy joined Richard will become a Non-executive as a lawyer in Australia.
the Board of the Halifax Group in 1999 Director of HBOS plc on 1 March 2007.
He as Chief Executive of the Retail division.
is Chief Executive Of cer of Compass Group Kate Nealon.
Kate joined the He is a Non-executive Director of Home plc.
Between 1990 and 2005 he worked for Board of HBOS plc in March 2004.
Prior to joining Halifax, Andy BPB Plc, becoming Chief Executive Of cer Non-executive Director of Cable & Wireless undertook various roles at the Boston in 2000.
Richard was previously a Nonand Shire plc.
Previously Kate was Group Consulting Group, Blue Circle and ASDA.
executive Director of Peninsular & Oriental Head of Legal and Compliance for Standard Steam Navigation Co. Chartered Plc.
She is a US quali ed lawyer.
Peter joined Bank Charles Dunstone.
David, a Chartered of Scotland in 1973.
In 1995 he became appointed as a Non-executive Director of Accountant, joined the Board of HBOS plc Director of Corporate Banking.
Peter joined Halifax plc in 2000.
He is Chief Executive in March 2004.
David is a Non-executive the HBOS plc Board in January 2006 as Chief Of cer of The Carphone Warehouse Group Director and Audit Committee Chairman of Executive, Corporate division.
Peter is also a PLC which he founded in 1989.
Aberdeen New Dawn Investment Trust plc Director of Maggies Centres.
and Superglass Holdings Limited, Governor Sir Ron Garrick.
Sir Ron joined of The Glasgow School of Art and a NonJo Dawson.
Jo became Chief the Board of Bank of Scotland in 2000.
In executive Director of Scottish Financial Executive of HBOS plcs Insurance & January 2003 he became Deputy Chairman Enterprise.
He previously held senior Investment division in March 2006, joining of HBOS plc and Senior Independent Director positions with Deloitte & Touche.
the Board of HBOS plc on 1 May 2006.
He was previously Chief Executive joined the Halifax Group in 2000 as General and Chairman of the Weir Group PLC.
Company Secretary & Group Counsel Manager for Retail Sales, became Head of Harry Baines pictured below right.
Advisory Sales and, in January 2005, Group Anthony Hobson.
Anthony Tony Harry became Company Secretary of HBOS Risk Director.
Prior to joining Halifax, Jo held joined the Board of Halifax plc in 2001 and has plc in 2001, having joined the Halifax Group senior management positions with NatWest been the Chairman of the Audit Committee in that capacity in 1999.
Since March 2006 he and Green Flag.
Tony is also has also been Group Counsel and a member of Chairman of Northern Foods plc and a Nonthe HBOS Executive Committee.
Benny was executive Director of Sage Group plc, Cenkos quali ed as a Solicitor and then held positions appointed to the Board of HBOS plc and Securities plc and Glas Cymru Cyfyngedig.
in local government and private practice before became Chief Executive of its Retail division He was Group Finance Director of Legal & moving into industry in 1985. on 1 May 2006.
Between 1997 and 2005 he General Group for 14 years until 2001, and is a was Chief Executive of Retail Banking at the Chartered Accountant.
John Ormerod pictured below left.
John joined the Audit Committee a number of senior management positions Sir Brian Ivory.
Sir Brian joined of HBOS plc in 2005 and also serves on with Standard Life, latterly as a member of the Board of Bank of Scotland in 1998 the Retail Risk Control Committee.
He is a Fellow of the and has been Chairman of the HBOS plc is neither an HBOS plc Director nor a Faculty of Actuaries in Scotland.
He is a Non-executive chairs The Scottish American Investment Director and Audit Committee Chairman of Phil Hodkinson.
Phil was appointed Company PLC, the National Galleries of Computacenter plc, Gemalto NV and Misys Group Finance Director of HBOS plc in March Scotland and Retec Digital PLC.
He is a Nonplc where he is also Senior Independent 2005, having been Chief Executive of the executive Director of Synesis Life and Remy Director.
Previously, John held senior Insurance & Investment division since 2001.
Cointreau S. A. positions with Arthur Andersen and Deloitte.
Our Board Growing the UK franchise Targeted international growth Cost leadership John Ormerod Harry Baines Colleague development Capital discipline 92
