Treasury & Asset Management provides high quality services for the Group and its customers.
Its award-winning products and services include asset management and debt issuance products.
Our Brands Douglas Phil Lindsay Ferrans Hodkinson Mackay Chief Executive, Group Finance Chief Executive, Insight Investment Director Treasury Growing the UK franchise Targeted international growth Cost leadership Colleague development Capital discipline 68 68 69 69 Who we are Treasury & Asset Management provides high quality services for the Group and its customers.
Key responsibilities Treasury & Asset Management comprises the Groups treasury business and the asset management businesses of Insight Investment Insight and Invista Real Estate Management Invista.
In addition to the provision of products and services to 3rd party customers, the division supports the Group through the provision of Group funding and the management of policyholder assets on behalf of the Insurance & Investment division.
Treasury Treasury division focuses on providing funding and liquidity for the Group and sales and trading activities relating to the provision of financial services to the Group and its customers.
Treasury has branches in London, Sydney, New York and Glasgow and has management responsibility for the treasury activities of Bank of Scotland Ireland Limited.
Asset Management Insight Insight, one of the largest UK fund managers with funds under management of 98.6bn, operates a multi-channel business, managing money for the Group, retail investors, pension funds, insurance groups and other institutions.
Insights strategic product lines are Fixed Income, Cash, Liability Driven Investment LDI, Equities and Absolute Return.
Asset Management Invista Invista was formed following the IPO of the real estate division of Insight and is the largest UK listed real estate fund manager with funds under management of 9.2bn.
Invista now manages 16 real estate funds spread across the UK and Continental Europe.
This includes five funds managed on behalf of the Group as well as other funds managed on behalf of 3rd party clients.
Growing the UK franchise Targeted international growth Cost leadership Colleague development Capital discipline 70 Our Key Performance Strategy Indicators In Treasury we provide services to support the Our Key Performance Indicators help us to growth of the Groups business and deliver measure our progress against each element treasury products and services to the Groups of our strategy.
In Asset Management we offer a leading brand providing superior investment solutions to Group and external customers.
Wholesale funding 1 year ratio Funding and liquidity The provision and management of the Groups funding and liquidity requirements to ensure it has suf cient financial resources to deliver its strategy.
A key objective is to maintain 2006 46.9% an appropriate balance of short and medium term funding.
2005 44.3% Non-interest income Providing financial services to the Group and its customers The delivery of a top quality service to the Group and its customers supported by the appropriate level of investment 2006 414m in systems and infrastructure.
We will maximise cross-selling 2005 326m opportunities with Group customers, leveraging our product innovation and our capability in the market to drive sales levels.
% of Insights funds under management above benchmark Providing superior investment solutions from Asset Management Investment performance is at the heart of Asset Management 2006 % above 1 year benchmark 61% and we will focus on the delivery of superior investment 2005 % above 1 year benchmark 69% returns by focusing on those products where we have a proven track record of exceptional performance.
2006 % above 3 year benchmark 70% 2005 % above 3 year benchmark 52% Cost:income ratio % 2006 47.2% 2005 48.5% 350m Underlying pro t before tax up 33% 71 Financial Performance maintaining a limited proprietary trading Strategy Income Statement function, managed within modest risk limits and a cautious approach to investments.
Year Year Our strategy in Treasury & Asset Management ended ended is to provide treasury and asset management 31.12.2006 31.12.2005 Providing superior investment solutions m m products and services to both customers and from Asset Management to the Group.
Net interest income 205 183 Investment performance is at the heart of Asset Management.
We will strive to continue Non-interest income 414 326 The provision of treasury services to to provide superior investment solutions Net trading income 249 197 support the growth of the Groups to our customers by focusing on those Fees and commission income 186 146 business including: products where we have a proven record of Fees and commission expense 43 37 exceptional performance.
We will continue to Other operating income 22 20 Funding and liquidity consolidate our position in the market place Managing the Groups funding and liquidity by further improvement and innovation and Net operating income 619 509 position to ensure that the Group has grow our key product lines.
Operating expenses 292 247 suf cient financial resources to meet its Staff 171 134 obligations as they fall due and to do Creating a quality investment brand Accommodation, repairs so without excessive cost to the Group.
With exceptional performance, customer and maintenance 1 1 Treasurys core objectives in this area include service and offering superior investment Technology 10 10 producing the Groups funding plan which returns, we want to be one of the leading Marketing and communication 6 5 seeks to optimise the funding mix and the investment brands in the asset management Depreciation: relative cost of funds.
We are considered a key player Property and equipment and in the market and in order to maintain our intangible assets 4 4 Providing financial services to the Group competitive advantage, we will continue to Other 78 74 and its customers improve and innovate whilst also investing in Treasury provides financial services to Subtotal 270 228 front of ce infrastructure and the recruitment, the Group and its customers.
Treasurys Recharges: retention and training of high quality staff.
principal role is not direct client acquisition Technology 6 4 but to maximise cross selling opportunities Pro tably grow revenues to create Accommodation 14 13 to clients acquired by other divisions.
We shareholder value Other shared services 2 2 continue to invest in technology, particularly We will continue to grow and develop our Operating pro t 327 262 in relation to internet banking solutions and sales and trading capability and improve Share of pro ts of associates increased automation between the divisions investment performance, continuing to invest and jointly controlled entities 1 1 and Treasury.
In addition, Treasury are when appropriate whilst maintaining a strong Non-operating income 22 pursuing several initiatives around improving cost discipline.
penetration levels for the sale of treasury Underlying pro t before tax 350 263 products to Group customers.
Treasurys Net interest margin bps 7 8 overseas locations support the international Cost:income ratio 47.2% 48.5% growth plans in other divisions.
Our performance Insights funds under management 98.6bn 81.9bn of which, overlay funds Trading in 2006 under management 5.0bn The majority of the Groups market risk Invistas funds under management 9.2bn 6.8bn trading activity is conducted by Treasury, Underlying pro t before tax increased by 33% to 350m 2005 263m.
Asset quality within the risk appetite set by Group.
Risk weighted assets 15.0bn 13.7bn Treasurys aim is to continue to grow income remains high and no credit provisions were Net interest margin has been calculated as net interest required in the period.
on the back of business ows whilst income divided by average interest earning assets excluding securities classi ed as trading assets but including lending to other members of the group.
Treasury & Asset Management Growing the UK franchise Targeted international growth Cost leadership Colleague development Capital discipline US Covered Bonds Treasury opened the US Covered Bond market with a US$2bn deal which won IFRs Covered Bond of the Year award.
72 Operating Income and Margins Asset Quality and Provision Approximately 21bn of funds were Net operating income increased by 22% to Within our Treasury operations, we continue raised from existing programmes in 619m 2005 509m.
Net interest income to maintain a cautious policy to avoid subthe securitisation and covered bond increased by 12% to 205m 2005 183m.
investment grade investments, with 99% of markets during the year.
This comprised Net interest margin reduced to 7bps 2005 our bank and structured investment portfolios approximately 6.5bn from covered 8bps on a larger portfolio.
During the year no credit bonds and approximately 14.5bn from provisions were required.
These transactions included Non-interest income increased by 27% to a securitisation of Australian residential 414m 2005 326m.
In Treasury, there was a Non-operating Income mortgages originated by BankWest and the strong performance from both the UK Trading The IPO of Invista in September 2006, which first US Dollar mortgage backed covered and Sales businesses, with revenues up 33% raised almost 100m of balance sheet cobond issued into the United States.
In Asset Management, investment capital for the business to expand non-interest income bene ted from strong its sphere of operations, resulted in a one-off Sales and Trading sales in the institutional market place of gain of 22m.
HBOS now owns 55% of the Sales and Trading performance was strong Insights agship products of xed income enlarged business.
with net trading income increasing by 26% and Liability Driven Investment LDI.
Sales revenues were was combined with growth in performance Operational Performance up 19%, primarily due to increased sales fees received by Invista, our property fund of foreign exchange and interest rate manager, both before and after its initial public Funding derivatives to our Corporate customers.
offering IPO on the London Alternative Treasury continued to be active in supporting Trading revenues were up 33%, mainly as Investment Market in September 2006. the Groups capital and funding requirements a result of increased interest rate derivatives in 2006, arranging four capital issues on behalf ow and credit trading activities.
Operating Expenses of HBOS plc during the year: a 500m oating Underlying operating expenses increased by rate lower Tier 2 subordinated debt issue: Overseas Of ces 18% to 292m 2005 247m re ecting an a 750m Tier 1 perpetual preferred security Overseas Treasury revenues increased increase in personnel to support improvements issue: a 350m Tier 1 perpetual preference by 16% to 29m 2005 25m.
Sydney is to our infrastructure, and investment in our share issue and a US$750m oating rate lower our largest overseas of ce where we are overseas Treasury of ces and our asset Tier 2 subordinated debt issue.
building our capacity to support the Groups management capabilities.
Part of this expansion in Australia.
The New York branch investment included the successful completion has also continued to broaden its customer of the project to outsource Insights back of ce base in the United States.
Insights leading position Insight was the most widely recommended manager of UK Fixed Income mandates by UK investment consultants.
73 Asset Management Invista, formed following the IPO of the real which will enable us to meet customers Total funds managed by Insight and Invista estate division of Insight in September 2006, desire to seek investment returns while were 107.8bn 2005 88.7bn.
Group assets, is now the largest UK listed real estate fund also limiting downside risk by managing the managed primarily on behalf of the Insurance manager with assets under management uctuations caused by market movements.
& Investment division and invested in equity, of 9.2bn.
Invista manages 16 real estate xed income, cash, property, private equity funds spread across the UK and Continental Both businesses face the risk of the loss of and absolute return funds, totalled 58.3bn Europe.
This includes five funds managed on key personnel and are dependant on the 2005 53.1bn.
During 2006, four HBOS Group for a large part of their revenues.
real estate funds were launched, including Insights investment performance was strong the Invista European Real Estate Trust which in the year with 12 out of 16 asset classes was listed on the Of cial list of the London performing ahead of benchmark.
Insights Stock Exchange on 20 December 2006.
Prospects reputation for xed income performance was reaf rmed with over 95% of institutional Treasurys primary focus is to deliver a top xed income and cash mandates by quality service and performance to the Risks and value ahead of benchmarks over 1 and 3 Group and our clients, and we will continue years.
In equities, Global, North American, Uncertainties to invest in our capabilities to do so.
Access European and Japanese products were all to customers, product innovation and our ahead of benchmark for the year.
UK equity Risks and uncertainties faced by Treasury strong standing in the market underpins our performance in the first half of the year in the execution of the divisional strategy con dence in the pro table growth prospects was, however, below benchmark leading include the risk that the Group does not for Treasury.
Our cautious approach to to a restructuring of the UK equity platform have suf cient financial resources to meet its products and services will remain unaltered.
in the second half of the year designed to obligations when they come due, or will have improve performance.
Following on from its to do so at excessive cost.
To mitigate this, Insight continues to be positioned in order successful first year, the Insight Absolute Treasury has diversi ed its funding channels to take advantage of the current trends and Return Fund performed ahead of its and increased securitisation capacity.
shifts in the market, particularly in LDI and benchmark in 2006. xed income.
Reaping the bene ts of the Risks and uncertainties faced by Asset restructuring of the UK equity platform will On the back of this strong investment Management include poor investment also be a key area of focus in 2007. performance, Insight delivered its best ever performance, and a product set that is not year for new business with gross in ows aligned with client needs.
Our principal Invista has successfully built a platform for of 23.7bn 2005 9.7bn.
Included within challenge will be to maintain and improve growth and is now well positioned to bene t gross sales were LDI sales of 10.6bn 2005 investment performance in our core from its presence in the UK commercial and 0.6bn including overlay mandates, an LDI capabilities of xed income and LDI and residential property markets.
Furthermore, product where we manage some of the risks to develop a performance track record in the planned opening of of ces in France and of a pension schemes liabilities rather than UK equities.
We plan to exploit our leading Germany will fully complement its expansion the underlying portfolio of assets.
Net in ows edge LDI and absolute return capabilities by into Europe.
introducing a product into the retail market Treasury & Asset Management continued Gr Growing the UK franchise owing the UK franchise T Ta argeted inter rgeted international gr national growth owth Cost leadership Cost leadership Colleague development Colleague development Capital discipline Capital discipline Invista Initial Public Offering IPO The IPO of the property business of Insight to form Invista created the largest UK listed property fund manager.
