At HBOS we believe that good corporate Balance of Executive and Non-executive governance enhances our ability to Directors as at 31 December 2006 Contents perform well.
It provides an effective 1 Chairman framework for determining how authority 6 Executive Directors and accountability exist throughout the 90 The Board 8 Non-executive organisation and sets an effective context Directors 93 Corporate for the Companys interactions with its key stakeholders.
This report gives detailed Governance Report information on our corporate governance 99 Report of the Board arrangements and clari es how we apply in relation to the principles of the 2006 Combined Code the Non-executive Directors and other senior executives are all set out in the fide ned and explained below.
Remuneration policy Board Control Manual.
and practice The Board The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive 120 Directors Report are clearly split, those positions presently Independence and balance 122 Statement of Directors Throughout the year at least half of the Board being held by Dennis Stevenson and Andy Responsibilities Hornby respectively.
Dennis is primarily of HBOS plc were independent Non-executive Directors.
To be independent, the Board responsible for leadership of the Board and Andy for running the Groups business.
requires a Director to be independent in character and judgement and to be free of Chairman relationships or circumstances which could affect their judgement.
Such circumstances The Chairman is responsible for ensuring the Boards effectiveness, for the clarity might include being a former employee of the Group, having a material business relationship and timeliness of information provided to the Board and for facilitating the effective with it, having close family ties with any of the Companys advisers, Directors or senior contribution of all Directors.
The Chairman has a key role in the joint development executives, being or representing a signi cant shareholder or having served on the Board for with the Chief Executive of the Groups strategy, as well as oversight of strategy more than nine years.
He ensures that there is a constructive, close, With the Chairman, six Executive Directors and eight Non-executive Directors, the Board working relationship with the Chief Executive.
Biographical information about the Chairman considers that it is of an appropriate size to oversee the Groups businesses, with a is set out on page 92. suitable diversity of backgrounds and mix of experience and expertise to maximise its During 2006, the Chairmans work has included shaping how the Board discusses and decides effectiveness.
The size and composition of the Board, including the mix of skills and on the Companys strategic direction.
For example, bringing proposals to the Board at experience around the Board table, is kept under continuous review by the Nomination a formative, rather than at a fully considered stage, to get the full bene t of the breadth of Committee.
Further details of the Nomination Committees work are set out on page 97. skill and experience of all Directors, in particular the Non-executive Directors.
Division of responsibilities In addition the Chairman frequently along The Group maintains and regularly updates its Board Control Manual which sets out with the Deputy Chairman has continued his policy of meeting executive teams across the high level policy and decision-making arrangements within the Group, including the business outwith formal Board meetings.
The purpose of the meetings is to understand details of those matters that are reserved to the Board and its principal subsidiaries as in more detail each teams key deliverables and motivations, to inform the Chairmans well as the terms of reference of the principal Committees of the Board.
The responsibilities contributions to debate and support his leadership of Board meetings.
Similarly, the and speci c accountabilities of the Chairman, the Deputy Chairman Senior Independent Chairman strongly encourages Non-executive Directors to engage directly with executive Director, the remaining Executive Directors, Corporate Governance Report Compliance In this report we have chosen to measure Committee.
John is neither an HBOS plc our compliance with the 2006 Combined Director nor an employee of the Group.
Code the Code rather than the 2003 His membership of the Audit Committee Combined Code, even though we will not does not comply with the requirement be required to do so until next year.
The that this Committee should comprise Company considers that it has complied solely independent Non-executive throughout the year with all the provisions Directors.
In practice, Johns membership within section 1 of the Code, other than provides access to an experienced, provision C. 3.1 on the composition of additional resource and brings an even the Audit Committee, where we believe more independent perspective to the we have gone beyond the independence Audit Committees deliberations.
Further requirements of the Code, as a result information and biographical details for of John Ormerods membership of that John are given on page 92.
93 Board also monitored the evolving legal and forecast results.
Amongst many other Corporate best practice requirements for the Operating and things covered, the Board in the year Financial Review and subsequently the Business has reviewed the Groups business plan, Governance Review legislation.
Procedures to capture the internal controls, policies and standards information for the Business Review were then on risk and the progress of Basel II embedded in individual businesses, building implementation.
Report continued onto well established, pre-existing financial Delegation to subsidiary Boards and reporting protocols.
Board Committees is undertaken by the management across the business, outwith Board.
Harry is an employee but not a Director Approval of capital expenditure and of the Company and the Non-executive guarantees indemnities securities above In January 2007 it was announced that the Directors have access to his advice and pre-fide ned limits must be considered and Chairman would be a member of the Board of services.
Additionally, if required in the approved by the Board.
Loudwater Investment Partners Limited, the furtherance of their duties, Non-executive Approval of new or material changes to Investment Advisor to Loudwater Trust Limited Directors along with any other members existing employee share schemes Loudwater, an AIM Listed venture capital of the Boards main Committees are entitled is a matter reserved to the Board and, business.
The Chairman in his personal to seek independent, professional advice at where appropriate, shareholder approval capacity is also an investor in Loudwater.
Company, through the Corporate business, Ethics the Board has set out the is a signi cant shareholder in Loudwater.
The Board proceedings standards to which the Group aspires Chairmans involvement with Loudwater was A formal schedule of matters speci cally in dealings with its key stakeholders in reviewed in detail by the Deputy Chairman reserved to the Board of HBOS plc is The Way We Do Business, a statement Senior Independent Director, together with published on the Companys website, as are available in full from our website the Chief Executive, on behalf of the Board.
the Terms of Reference which are reviewed www.
The Board also The Board was and remains satis ed that no at least annually of its principal Committees.
monitors transparency, responsible con ict arises as a result of this situation.
These are also set out in the Board Control lending, value for money and other Manual, which also covers the Companys corporate responsibility drivers, details of Senior Independent Director principal subsidiaries and key senior which are in the Corporate Responsibility Sir Ron Garrick, the Deputy Chairman, has executives.
Below are details of some of the Report on page 78. been the Senior Independent Director since Boards work in 2006 and certain other key 2004.
Biographical information about Sir Ron matters reserved to it.
The Non-executive Online Approving the annual Business Plan Directors meet on one occasion each year, which fide fines the Groups strategic The following documents are published without the Chairman or the Executive and operating objectives and the risk Directors present under the leadership on our website at www.
com: framework within which it operates.
of Sir Ron, to review the performance Following the Boards approval, it is of the Chairman.
As the performance of Memorandum and Articles of the responsibility of the Companys Association: the Chairman and that of the Board are management under the supervision of inextricably linked the meeting also reviews Matters reserved to the Board: the Board to deliver the Business Plan in Terms of reference of the principal the Boards functioning as a whole, as well accordance with the Groups policies and as the relationship between the Chairman committees Audit, Remuneration standards within the risk appetite fide ned and Nomination : and the Chief Executive, which is key to the by the Board.
effective functioning of the Board.
Biographical information about HBOS plcs Strategy and risk the Board sets and Directors: oversees the Groups strategic direction, The Senior Independent Director attended The Way We Do Business statement: including the adoption of the Groups and various brie ngs and other meetings with policies and standards on financial and analysts and other representatives of A history of the Group nonfinancial risks and other aspects of institutional investors during the year.
The the corporate governance framework, Board considers his contact with investors which are developed and implemented was suf cient to develop a balanced Frequency of, and attendance by the Companys management, under understanding of the issues and concerns at, Board meetings the leadership of divisional heads and the of major shareholders, in accordance with oversight of the Board.
Number of meetings held in year 10 provision D. 1.1 of the Code.
Regulatory legal activity including Number of meetings the approval of the Companys results, In addition, the Senior Independent Director attended in year: dividends and other key documents.
Any is available to meet shareholders on Dennis Stevenson 10 class 1 or 2 circulars as fide ned in the request.
Should any shareholder have a Andy Hornby 10 Listing Rules, substantial transactions or concern which they feel cannot be resolved Peter Cummings 10 any change in the Groups activity require through the routine mechanisms for investor Jo Dawson 6 Board approval.
communication, or through the Chairman Jo Dawson attended all Board Appointments with input from or Chief Executive as appropriate, they meetings held since becoming the Nomination and Remuneration are encouraged to contact the Senior a Director on 1 May 2006 Committees, in 2006 the Board appointed Independent Director, initially via the Benny Higgins 6 Peter Cummings, Karen Jones, Jo Dawson Company Secretary at the Registered Of ce.
Benny Higgins attended all Board and Benny Higgins to the Board and meetings held since becoming subsequently Richard Cousins.
Company Secretary and independent advice a Director on 1 May 2006 Training is critical to enable Directors Harry Baines, Company Secretary & Group Phil Hodkinson 10 and Board Committee members to update Counsel, is responsible for advising the Board Colin Matthew 10 their skills and to ensure they have the on corporate governance matters and, in necessary knowledge and familiarity to Sir James Crosby 5 conjunction with the Chairman, for ensuring Sir James stood down from perform effectively.
During the year, the good information ows between the Board, the Board on 31 July 2006 Board received extensive training and its Committees, Non-executive Directors and updates in relation to the capital treatment senior executives.
Biographical information Charles Dunstone 9 of Basel II and the implications for the about Harry is set out on page 92.
Sir Ron Garrick 10 Group of this revised approach, as well as Anthony Hobson 8 other topics.
The Board, with advice from Harry, dealt with Sir Brian Ivory 9 Management oversight the Board a number of corporate governance matters Karen Jones 10 routinely reviews operating, financial during 2006.
As part of a drive to streamline Coline McConville 9 and risk performance.
Divisional heads Board processes, HBOS plc made changes normally report to the Board at each Kate Nealon 8 to how management information is generated, meeting and the Board challenges them, which has resulted in the information supplied David Shearer 10 where appropriate, on performance and to Directors being produced more promptly.
The 94 Executive Committee Induction an introduction to key aspects of the Groups An Executive Committee, consisting of All new Directors and Committee members business, including the main business all HBOS plc Executive Directors plus the receive a full and tailored induction plan.
Company Secretary & Group Counsel Meetings were arranged for Karen Jones Harry Baines and the Group Risk Director with the heads of all divisions, key business Attendance at meetings Dan Watkins met 14 times during 2006. units and other functions, including Investor The terms of reference require the Audit The Executive Committee has no speci c Relations and the Public Policy Unit.
Karen Committee to meet at least four times a year.
authorities delegated to it by the HBOS also held separate meetings with the then During 2006 the Committee met on eight plc Board, but provides advice to the Chief Chief Executive, the then Chief Executive occasions, as shown in the box below.
The Executive, in particular in relation to strategy Designate and the Company Secretary & quorum for an Audit Committee meeting is and matters having cross-divisional or GroupGroup Counsel.
Similar arrangements are in any two Audit Committee members.
The Committee also place for Richard Cousins.
Induction for Jo Audit Committee invites the Chief Executive, takes the lead role in preparing the Groups Dawson and Benny Higgins, as Executive senior executives from the Finance and Risk annual Business Plan, for submission to the Directors, took place in the course of their functions, the Head of Group Internal Audit Board, and reviews all issues and papers activities within the Group.
Induction for Risk and the external auditors to attend all of its requiring HBOS plc Board or Audit Committee Control Committee members is detailed on meetings.
Other senior management attend approval.
It considers decisions and initiates page 96. as requested by the Committee to enable it appropriate actions following meetings of to discharge its duties.
Board and Director evaluation The performance and effectiveness of Internal control the Board and each of its Committees is Membership of Audit Committee and frequency and attendance at meetings The Board has overall responsibility for evaluated annually, with the involvement the Groups system of internal control of the Chairman and all Directors and Number of meetings held in year 8 and risk management and reviews its where appropriate, other members of those Number of meetings attended in year: effectiveness annually.
The outputs or other findings of Anthony Hobson Chairman 8 financial, operational, compliance and risk these evaluations lead to the development and management controls.
The implementation implementation of detailed action plans.
No Coline McConville 8 and maintenance of the risk management and material failings or weaknesses were identi ed Kate Nealon 7 internal control systems are the responsibility during the year.
David Shearer 8 of the Executive Directors and other senior John Ormerod 8 executives.
Systems are designed to manage A number of enhancements were identi ed as the risk of failure to achieve business a result of Board evaluation activity in 2006, David Shearer will step down from this Committee when he retires from the Board objectives, and provide reasonable assurance including a decision that Board strategy over at the 2007 AGM.
against material misstatement or loss.
the long-term would be discussed in a speci c meeting in the early part of 2007, where it Further details of the Groups internal controls would be the only agenda item.
Committee evaluation are disclosed in the Risk Management report The Audit Committees effectiveness was on pages 81 to 89. evaluated during the year.
The evaluation Board committees was conducted by Group Internal Audit and Election and re-election of Directors Audit Committee the views of all members, as well as regular The Company requires all Directors to stand Membership attendees from other key functions, were for re-election at intervals of no more than Membership of the Audit Committee sought.
Minutes, supporting papers and three years, hence Anthony Hobson and Kate as set out in the box on this page is governance papers, including the Board Nealon will retire at the forthcoming Annual designed to ensure that the Committee Control Manual, were all used to review General Meeting AGM and will seek can ful l its role effectively.
In 2006 it the Audit Committees effectiveness.
included four independent Non-executive outcome of the Audit Committees review Directors and one co-opted member, indicated that the Audit Committee was Sir Brian Ivory and David Shearer will retire John Ormerod, who is neither a Director effective with a high degree of compliance at the forthcoming AGM and will not offer of HBOS plc nor an employee of the with the Combined Code.
A small number themselves for re-election.
John, whose biographical details of potential, minor enhancements were to stand down comes after serving nine are given on page 92, enhances the Audit identi ed, which resulted in the re-issuance years on the Boards of Bank of Scotland Committees independence and brings of the Secretarys guidance on the format and, more recently, the Company.
Whilst additional experience, expertise, resource and submission of reporting papers to ensure Sir Brian remains fully independent in and perspective to its deliberations.
terms of his approach and outlook, it is the Secretary to the Audit Committee is Lysanne Companys policy that, except in exceptional Black, Senior Deputy Company Secretary of Overview of the activities of the Audit circumstances, independent Non-executive HBOS plc.
Committee to discharge its duties Directors should not serve longer than The Audit Committees terms of reference, nine years on the Board.
David Shearer Membership of the Audit Committee is which are reviewed annually, include all has decided to stand down to ensure that reviewed by its Chairman and the Group matters required by the Combined Code.
Its no con icts arise in the future between his Chairman who is not an Audit Committee activities include receiving and challenging position as a Director of the Company and his member at regular intervals in consultation reports from senior management and other business interests.
So that his talents with the Nomination Committee.
The consulting, as necessary, with the internal are not totally lost to the Company, however, Audit Committees structure requires the and external auditors.
The Audit Committee David has agreed that, given his experience inclusion of at least one nancially quali ed assists the Board in relation to the Groups and expertise, he will continue to work closely member as recognised by the Accounting external financial and regulatory reporting with the Companys Corporate Division.
The Board considers that Anthony requirements, its risk and internal control Hobson, a Chartered Accountant and until environment and the Groups compliance All Directors are subject to election by 2001 the Group Finance Director of Legal with the Combined Code.
In particular, in shareholders at the first AGM following their & General, has the signi cant, recent and 2006 the Audit Committee: appointment, and accordingly Jo Dawson, relevant financial experience to satisfy this considered and approved the accounting Benny Higgins and Richard Cousins, all requirement.
In addition, both John Ormerod policies, principles and practices as appointed Directors since the last AGM, and David Shearer have the requisite expertise presented in the Groups accounts: will present themselves for election at the and experience to ful l this requirement.
assessed signi cant accounting and 2007 AGM.
The Chairman has endorsed the reporting issues and the key accounting effectiveness and commitment of all Directors The Group provides an induction programme and audit judgements: standing for election or re-election at the AGM.
for new Audit Committee members and considered the external auditors annual on-going training to enable them to carry out Internal Control Report and managements their duties.
The induction programme covers response: the role of the Audit Committee, its terms of reference, expected time commitments and 95 detecting fraud: ensuring compliance with Audit Committee, the adequacy of that Corporate regulatory and legal requirements and divisions system of internal control and risk monitoring the operational effectiveness of management, the signi cant risks facing that Governance policies and systems: business and how they are investigated and considered the activities of the divisional the techniques used to identify, assess and Risk Control Committees RCCs manage those risks particular to the business Report continued described below : and of the division.
At each of its meetings the initiated a review of the Companys Audit Committee reviews the minutes and monitored the relationship of the Group control environment in the broad context work of the RCCs.
with its regulators: of the Sarbanes-Oxley legislation, as a reviewed and advised the Board on the benchmark of the Groups standard of The membership of the RCCs is shown Groups interim and annual financial control and compliance.
Each RCC is chaired by a Nonstatements, the control of financial and executive Director and comprises a business risks including whistleblowing The Audit Committee also held private minimum of one Non-executive Director, arrangements, the nature and scope of the meetings on a regular basis with the an independent executive from another work performed by internal and external external auditors, the Head of Group Internal division and additional members drawn from auditors, the results of this audit work and Audit, the Group Risk Director, the Group outside the Group who are chosen for the the responses of management: Finance Director and other key members relevance of their skills to the division.
At concluded a comprehensive external of the management team as part of the least one Audit Committee member serves audit tender process, as described further Committees work on the effectiveness of the on each RCC.
below: risk management policies and procedures.
assessed the resources, organisational The Group Risk Director and the Head of The Group provides an induction programme structure and operational effectiveness of Group Internal Audit also have the right of for new RCC members focusing on meetings the internal audit function together with direct access to the Chairman of the Audit with key personnel in the relevant divisions.
managements response to the findings: Committee.
The Chairman of the Audit Meetings were also held with the Chairman, reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups Committee reports on the activities and Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, system of internal control, including recommendations of the Audit Committee the Audit Committee Chairman, Group Risk financial, operational, compliance and risk at the Board meeting subsequent to each Director, Head of Group Internal Audit and management on an on-going basis: Committee meeting.
Background reading, reviewed other services provided to including the Memorandum & Articles of the Group by the external auditors, Risk Control Committees RCCs Association, the Board Control Manual and and monitored their independence, The Audit Committee is supported by Model Code arrangements, is routinely concluding that they had maintained their divisional RCCs, which act under delegated provided to new Board and Committee independence throughout the year: authority from the Audit Committee, members, alongside materials speci c reviewed management procedures for under detailed Terms of Reference.
Each to the division on whose RCCs they sit.
identifying business risks and controlling divisional RCC reviews, on behalf of the their financial impact: preventing or Retail Risk Control Committee Non-executive Director Audit Committee member Executive from another division External Charles Dunstone Chair Peter Cummings Kate Nealon John Ormerod Oliver Page Corporate Risk Control Committee Non-executive Director Audit Committee member Executive from another division External Sir Ron Garrick Chair Benny Higgins Al-Noor Ramji David Shearer Insurance & Investment Risk Control Committee Non-executive Director Audit Committee member Executive from another division External Anthony Hobson Chair Audit Duncan Ferguson Committee Lindsay Mackay Michael Moore Malachy Smith International Risk Control Committee Non-executive Director Audit Committee member Executive from another division External Coline McConville Chair Duncan Ferguson Douglas Ferrans Sir Ron Garrick Treasury & Insight Risk Control Committee Non-executive Director Audit Committee member Executive from another division External David Shearer Chair Sir Brian Ivory Scott Moeller Mike Wooderson External appointment, neither HBOS plc Director nor a Group employee, selected to enhance the independence of the RCC and to provide an additional resource and perspective to their deliberations.
96 Internal Audit best practice in order to maintain their relevant senior executives.
In this way the Group Internal Audit supports the Audit independence.
This includes the rotation of Chief Executive, senior executives and the Committee, divisional RCCs and senior key members of the audit team.
Total auditor Committee and, through the Committee, executives by reviewing independently and remuneration analysed between audit and the Board monitor closely the nature, mix objectively the effectiveness of the controls other services is shown in Note 6 to the and availability of suitably experienced and risk environment.
The Audit Committee Accounts on pages 138 to 139. and appropriately quali ed management, reviews and approves the annual Internal both within and outwith the Group: create Audit Plan and achievements against it, Nomination Committee opportunities to challenge and develop the Internal Audit Charter, the results of Membership individuals at senior executive level including audits and other signi cant findings, the Membership of the Nomination Committee through inter-divisional moves : and can adequacy of managements response and the is set out in the box below and at all times act with con dence when, expectedly or timeliness of resolution of recommendations has a majority of independent Non-executive unexpectedly, senior roles become vacant, and the adequacy of staff numbers, Directors and includes the Chairman of or other opportunities to strengthen the quali cations and experience.
It seeks to the Company, the Chief Executive, Deputy senior executive emerge.
ensure that the activities of the Internal Audit Chairman Senior Independent Director and function are co-ordinated with the external at least two further Non-executive Directors.
With assistance from external search and auditors.
The Audit Committee also approves The Deputy Chairman Senior Independent recruitment consultants, the Committee the appointment, or removal, of the Head Director chairs the Committee.
At the adopts a similar continuous approach to of Group Internal Audit.
In 2007 a review to invitation of the Nomination Committee, other the identi cation of potentially suitable assess the independence of the Internal persons may attend its meetings to assist candidates to join the Board as NonAudit function is planned.
in the effective discharge of its duties.
The executive Directors and to become external Committees responsibilities relate to both the RCC members, maintaining a rolling list Audit tender Executive and Non-executive Board roles, as of potential candidates.
When a vacancy The Company has a policy that an audit well as oversight of the succession planning occurs, the Committee determines the tender should be undertaken at appropriate process in respect of senior executive optimum skills mix required to ll the intervals.
This supports the Boards belief positions.
It is thus considered appropriate vacancy, which it then matches to the that the performance of the incumbent that the Chief Executive is a member of previously identi ed candidates.
Nonauditors is best evaluated through a thorough the Nomination Committee.
Harry Baines, executive Directors are normally appointed comparison with formal proposals from other Company Secretary & Group Counsel, is to serve a three year term, but this duration audit rms.
In years when there is no audit Secretary to the Nomination Committee.
is kept under regular review.
The Committee tender, an annual in-depth assessment of the is also responsible for ensuring that Directors external auditors is undertaken.
devote suf cient time to their role and, should Membership of Nomination Committee and concerns emerge, would address these on an frequency and attendance at meetings In 2006, a comprehensive audit tender exceptional basis.
process, involving the incumbent auditors Number of meetings held in year 4 and other major audit rms, was concluded.
The Committee, under authority delegated Number of meetings attended in year: The process lasted six months and involved by the Board, also approves the appointment Sir Ron Garrick Chairman 4 an in-depth assessment of tendering parties and where appropriate the removal of expertise, industry experience, international Trustees of the Groups pension schemes.
Andy Hornby - resources, audit staff and leadership Sir Brian Ivory 4 quality.
The outcome of the process was a The Committee led the process for making Karen Jones 1 recommendation from the Audit Committee, appointments to the Board during 2006 Coline McConville 4 approved by the Board, that KPMG Audit in relation to both Executive and NonDennis Stevenson 4 Plc KPMG be retained.
A resolution to executive positions, which included the re-appoint KPMG as auditors will be put to appointments of Peter Cummings, Karen No meetings have been held since Andy Hornby shareholders at the 2007 AGM.
joined this Committee and one meeting has Jones, Jo Dawson, Benny Higgins and more been held since Karen Joness appointment to recently Richard Cousins.
Sir James Crosby served on this Committee Auditor independence and remuneration also led the process in relation to Andy until 31 July 2006 when he stood down from the Both the Board and the external auditors Hornbys appointment as Chief Executive, Board.
Sir Brian Ivory will step down from this have safeguards in place to protect the in succession to Sir James Crosby.
Being Committee when he retires from the Board at the independence and objectivity of the closely familiar with his skills and experience, 2007 AGM.
The Audit Committee the Nomination Committee was able very has a comprehensive policy to regulate quickly to con rm Andy as Chief Executive Attendance at meetings the use of auditors for non-audit services.
Designate when Sir James Crosby noti ed The Nomination Committee meets at least This policy sets out the nature of work the the Company of his intention to stand down.
twice a year with additional meetings as external auditors may not undertake, which required, and the actual number of meetings, includes work which will ultimately be subject The Committee also ensures that the along with attendance, is shown in the to external audit, internal audit services process for making appointments is formal, box above.
Any Committee member or and secondments to senior management rigorous and transparent as is demonstrated the Secretary may call for a meeting as positions in the Group that involve decisionin its methodology described above.
It also includes the Groups policy on Committee also keeps the composition of hiring former external audit staff.
For those the Board and its Committees under review Committee evaluation services that are deemed appropriate for through a proper evaluation of the skills, The effectiveness of the Nomination the auditors to carry out, the policy sets out knowledge and experience of Directors and Committee is measured by the effectiveness the approval process that must be followed the needs of the Group, the Board and its of appointments made, which are assessed for each type of assignment.
The Chairman Committees to ensure best use is made through the Director evaluation process, of the Audit Committee must be consulted of Non-executive Directors skills.
as well as by ongoing evaluation by the regarding potential instructions in respect of Committee of its role, responsibilities, actions fide ned non-audit services with a value above Remuneration Committee and effectiveness.
fide ned limits and such services must be Membership subject to a competitive tender process.
Membership of the Remuneration Committee Principal duties in set out in the box overleaf.
It must at all The Committee continuously reviews Each year the Audit Committee establishes times comprise at least three Non-executive internal, executive talent which it a limit on the fees that can be paid to Directors.
Given their complementary benchmarks against appropriate peer group the external auditors in respect of nonroles, the Board believes that a signi cant comparisons, as a key input to succession audit services and monitors quarterly the degree of overlap in the memberships of the planning decisions by the Chief Executive amounts paid to the auditors in this regard.
Remuneration and Nomination Committees is and other senior executives.
From time to The external auditors also report regularly desirable.
David Fisher, Director Group HR, is time, potential external recruits are also to the Committee on the actions that they Secretary to the Remuneration Committee.
In total, talent and succession have taken to comply with professional data is held in respect of approximately 2,500 and regulatory requirements and current colleagues across the Group, including all 97 considering the policy and monitoring As part of our ongoing review of shareholder Corporate process for all Directors, and senior perceptions a pilot research project was executives for holding shares in the undertaken during the year, in which a Governance Company.
sample of shareholders was interviewed Full details of remuneration policy and about the services available to them.
practice are in the Directors Remuneration Shareholders comments have informed our Report continued Report on pages 99 to 119.
The Remuneration subsequent communication and, in particular, Committee Chair will be available at the AGM enhancements have been made to the 2007 At the invitation of the Remuneration to answer shareholders questions in regard AGM documents.
Committee Chair, the Groups Chairman to Directors remuneration.
and the Chief Executive regularly attend Annual General Meeting AGM Committee meetings to provide background The Companys AGM takes place at and context on matters relating to the Relations with different UK locations each year to maximise remuneration of other Executive Directors shareholders opportunities for the Companys shareholders and other colleagues in the Group, but do Institutional shareholders to attend.
The AGM provides an opportunity not attend when their own remuneration or The Investor Relations team has primary, for shareholders to hear about and question contractual terms are discussed.
No Director day-to-day responsibility for managing the Groups performance and the Directors is involved in determining his or her own communications with institutional stewardship of the Company.
Shareholders remuneration or contractual terms.
shareholders through a combination of who wish to raise a question can submit it brie ngs to analysts and institutional beforehand, or can ask it at the AGM.
The Attendance at meetings shareholders both at the interim and year Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and The Remuneration Committee must meet end results and throughout the year, site Nomination Committees are present at at least four times each year, and the actual visits and individual discussions between the AGM - along with other Directors - to number of meetings, along with attendance, institutional shareholders and Board answer shareholders questions, through the is shown below.
In addition, any Committee members and key senior executives.
Regular Chairman of the Board, on the responsibilities member or the Secretary may call a dialogue with shareholders helps to ensure and activities of their Committees.
In the meeting as necessary.
This frequency of that the Companys strategy is understood last three years our AGMs have been held meetings enables the Committee regularly and that any queries or other issues are in Birmingham, Edinburgh and Manchester, to review, for Executive Directors and addressed in a constructive way.
and the 2007 AGM will be held in Brighton.
other senior colleagues, overall reward and the components thereof, in relation to There is also an annual audit of investor 2007 AGM - Voting the absolute performance and the relative opinion which is undertaken on behalf of Separate resolutions will be proposed competitiveness of the Group.
This takes the form of structured on each separate issue, and details for a meeting of the Committee is any two interviews with individual investors and of all proposed resolutions will be sent Committee members.
is conducted by an independent external to shareholders at least 20 working days adviser.
The 2006 audit was conducted with beforehand.
Membership of Remuneration Committee and over 30 major investors in the UK, North Voting will be conducted entirely on a poll.
frequency and attendance at meetings America and Europe.
Collectively these Shareholders will be able to vote for or institutions represent a signi cant proportion against each resolution or to select vote Number of meetings held in year 7 of the institutional ownership of HBOS plc.
A vote withheld is not a vote Number of meetings attended in year: All interviewees had held meetings with in law and will not be counted in the Sir Brian Ivory Chair 7 HBOS management over the previous 12 proportion of votes cast for or against Sir Ron Garrick 7 months, the majority of which were with any resolution.
The audit gathered Coline McConville 7 The results of voting will be announced opinion on strategy, financial and operational Karen Jones 3 to the UK Listing Authority and will appear results including comments on individual on our website www.
com, on Karen Jones has attended all meetings held divisions, management, corporate 26 April 2007. since her appointment to the Remuneration governance and investor communications.
Sir Brian Ivory will In order to make the proxy appointment The views of these investors were reported step down from this Committee when he retires process as easy as possible for from the Board at the 2007 AGM, and will be to the HBOS plc Board on a non-attributable shareholders who cant attend the AGM succeeded as Committee Chair by Karen Jones.
basis, giving the Board direct access to in person and to encourage shareholder investor views on a wide range of performance engagement, the Company provides both Principal duties metrics to help them to develop a balanced electronic and written proxy appointment Below are details of the Committees work in understanding of major shareholders.
The facilities for all shareholders.
2006 and other key matters reserved to it: annual audit of investor opinion complements considering and recommending to monthly reports to the Board on market and the Board the remuneration policy for investor sentiment and opinion.
Executive Directors and other senior executives and determining the speci c Private shareholders remuneration arrangements for the The Company Secretary & Group Counsel, Chairman of the Company, Executive primarily through the Shareholder Services Directors and other direct executive reports team, oversees communications with private to the Chief Executive: shareholders.
approving the contractual terms for the Chairman and the Executive Directors: Each year shareholders receive the Annual operating and administering the incentive Review & Summary Financial Statement and schemes of the Company for the in addition, if they so choose, the Annual Chairman, the Executive Directors and Report and Accounts.
Shareholders can other senior executives: receive up-to-date information throughout approving the salary review for Executive the year on the Companys website, Directors and certain senior executives: www.
This provides share determining contractual and discretionary price information, financial results, copies payments to be made on the retirement, of presentations to analysts and answers resignation and where appropriate to frequently asked questions.
A telephone dismissal of Executive Directors and other helpline is available on 0870 702 0102 direct executive reports to the Chief Executive: providing a contact point for shareholders on providing advice in relation to the fees issues such as dividends and announcements.
payable to external parties serving on Risk Control Committees and Non-executive Directors of the Group but not of the Company and the fees payable to pension scheme Trustees: and 98
