8 the board Rodney Baker-Bates Mark B Jackson David E Lindsay ACA David A Robertson Company Chairman Chief Executive Group Finance Director Group Operations Director Rodney was previously Mark qualied in medicine from David began his career in 1986 Prior to joining Helphire Chief Executive of Prudential Oxford University in 1980, and with ANZ Merchant Bank.
He in August 1997, Davids Financial Services from subsequently pursued a career subsequently trained from career encompassed senior 1998 to 2001 and prior in general medical practice with 1991 to 1994 as a chartered management positions in the to that he was the Finance a period spent completing a accountant with Coopers & service sector before moving and Information Technology doctorate in epidemiology.
From 1995 to 1996 he into management consulting.
Director for the British was financial accountant at As a consultant, he advised Broadcasting Corporation He co-founded Helphire in 1992 Telewest plc.
He joined Helphire some of the largest companies between 1993 and 1998. and became a full time Executive in October 1996. in Europe, both with Coopers & Director and Deputy Chief Lybrand and latterly as a director He is currently the Chairman Executive in 1998.
He became of his own consulting business.
of the Executive Managing Chief Executive in 2001.
Partners and Consultant to the Board of C. Hoare & Since November 2003 he Co and holds a number of has been Non-Executive other Chairmanships, which Chairman of the Medical include The Westbury Property Property Investment Fund Ltd. Fund Limited and First Assist Group Limited.
We offer a full range of replacement vehicles, from commercials to scooters 9 Peter F Holding Roger J Taylor Alistair H Mathers FCA Richard C M Burrell Group Legal Director Deputy Chairman Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Formerly a partner in Shoosmiths Roger Taylor was appointed Alistair qualied as a chartered Richard Burrell was appointed and Harrison Solictors, Peter as a Non-Executive Director of accountant in 1969 and since as a Non-Executive Director joined Helphire as Group Legal Helphire in February 2000.
Roger that date has held a number of Helphire in January 2002.
He is is currently Chairman of Amlin of finance positions in major Richard is Chief Executive of the a member of the Association of plc, prior to which, from 1986 to international companies, Medical Property Investment Personal Injury Lawyers.
1998, he was a director of Royal including African Oxygen Fund Limited MPIF.
He is also & Sun Alliance, where he also Limited, a subsidiary of B. O. C. the Chairman of the Investment served as Deputy Chairman plc, and Avon Cosmetics Limited.
Committee of the Westbury of the Group and Chairman of Property Fund Limited.
Prior to the Management board.
From From 1981 to 1995 he was this, Richard was the majority 1997 to 1998 he was Chairman the finance director of the shareholder and Chief Executive of the Association of British pharmaceutical division of of Berrington Fund Management Insurers ABI.
He joined the board Limited which was acquired of Helphire in February 1997. by MPIF in May 2006.
Prior to He is currently a director of He currently runs his own forming Berrington, he was a Yura International Holding management consultancy in Senior Managing Director at ING B. V. and the White EnSign Nottingham.
Barings in Corporate Finance Association Ltd. and a member of the banks Global Operating Committee.
From 1988 to 1998 he was an Executive Director in Corporate Finance at UBS Warburg.
Personal injury claims are a key area of our business
