10 introduction to the managing directors Rodney Baker-Bates Company Chairman Mark Jackson Chief Executive David Lindsay Peter Holding David Robertson Group Finance Director Group Legal Director Group Operations Director Nick Tilley Company Secretary Solicitor Rupert Rod Tim Peter Jason Chris Alan Martin Richard Llewellyn Jenkins Williams Gomes Tripp Chatterton Gilbert Ward Edwards MD of Group MD of Human MD of MD of MD of MD of Helphire MD of MD of Fleet Financial Resources Collections Business Helphire and Automotive Albany IT Services Controller & Training Change Angel Division Assistance Limited 11 Rupert Llewellyn Group plc as Managing Director of Human name companies in the leisure and travel, Managing Director of Fleet Services Resources & Training in September 2005. fashion retail and building materials sectors, specialising in successfully delivering major Rupert joined Helphire in May 2004, having change programmes and improving the spent all of his working life within the Peter Gomes value delivered by the use of information automotive fleet and logistics industry.
Managing Director of Collections and technology.
Richard joined Helphire He brings with him a broad knowledge of in January 2005. all aspects of fleet including the disciplines Peter is an honours graduate in Pure of purchase, disposal, maintenance and Mathematics from the University of rental operations.
On leaving university he joined Nick Tilley Arthur Andersen in Manchester where he Company Secretary Solicitor Prior to joining Helphire, Rupert was Divisional qualified as a Chartered Accountant.
He Managing Director and Head of European gained considerable experience in audit and Nick was a Solicitor in private practice from Operations for Autocare Ltd a company corporate finance, rising to partner with the 1982 until 1998 when he joined Helphire and owned by the Wallenius Wilhelmsen shipping firm before entering industry in 1996.
Since has been Company Secretary since 2002. organisation, who specialise in automotive then, Peter has held the roles of Finance shipping and logistics.
Extensive fleet and Director at Flying Colours Holidays and rental operations experience came from latterly at Swift Prestige Hire.
Following the Alan Gilbert time spent with Hertz UK, Europe and Budget acquisition of Swift by Helphire Group plc, MD of Helphire Automotive Division Rent A Car International.
Peter was appointed Managing Director, Collections in August 2006.
After graduate and post-graduate study in life sciences Alan spent a number of years Rod Jenkins FCMA in B2B Marketing, Market Research and Group Financial Controller Jason Tripp Business Development before joining HSBC Managing Director of Business Change in 1988 becoming NW Regional Manager of Rod is a graduate of the London School of the Current Asset Finance Division.
In 1995 Economics and a Fellow of the Chartered Prior to joining Helphire in August 2000 he was appointed Sales and Marketing Institute of Management Accountants and Jason held several senior operational Director of Misys plc subsidiary Countrywide joined Helphire in 2001.
He began his career management roles in a number of Insurance Marketing the largest wholesale with Rank Hovis McDougall, before moving credit hire, claims handling and personal Insurance Intermediary in the UK.
He joined on to the sports and leisurewear multinational injury management organisations the board of Swift Rent-A-Car Limited as Pentland Group, where he concentrated specialising in the development of new Sales and Marketing Director in 1999: became primarily on acquisitions.
He has over 15 products and services.
Managing Director in January 2002 and saw years experience in senior financial roles in a the business through to its acquisition by variety of industries including car components Helphire in October 2005.
He is now MD with French manufacturer, Valeo, electronics Chris Chatterton of the Helphire Automotive Division with with Rank Xerox and also has experience in Managing Director of Helphire and Angel responsibility for all of the Groups business supply chain management and printing.
Prior to joining Helphire in August 2002 Chris worked for over 12 years in the Tim Williams automotive and financial services sectors, Martin Ward Managing Director of in various senior sales and marketing roles, Managing Director of Human Resources & Training securing a number of major business Albany Assistance Limited to business outsource contracts.
Tim has a degree in biochemistry from Martin has 12 years of experience in Birmingham University.
He started his career the insurance industry and was the in Cadbury Schweppes on the production Richard Edwards founding director and major shareholder graduate training scheme and after a number Managing Director of IT of the Rarrigini & Rosso Group which of years of production management he took specialises in motor fleet insurance and a career step into HR.
Since then he has Richard has a Physics degree from the risk management services.
During this time built a successful career in HR across a University of Manchester.
Richard worked Martin was commercial and operations number of sectors including FMCG, finance for several years as a senior consultant director and led the raising of over and banking, pharmaceuticals manufacturing with Coopers & Lybrand advising banks, 10 million in VC backed development and cosmetics with Cadburys, HSBC pharmaceutical companies and central capital.
The business was acquired by Group, First Direct, Cardinal Health Inc. government on IT strategy, project THB Group plc in 2003.
Martin has an MBA latterly as European HR Director for Revlon management and security.
Richard went from Durham Business School and joined International Corporation.
Tim joined Helphire on to lead IT Departments for household Helphire in August 2005.
12 financial contents advisors 13 directors report 14 corporate governance 16 directors remuneration report 19 corporate social responsibility 26 directors responsibilities 28 independent auditors report 29 consolidated income statement 30 consolidated statement of changes in equity 31 consolidated balance sheet 32 consolidated cash ow statement 33 notes to the consolidated financial statements 34 company income statement 51 company balance sheet 52 company cash ow statement 53 notes to the consolidated financial statements 54
