BUSINESS AND STRATEGIC REVIEW OUR STRATEGY 06 British American Tobacco Annual Review 2006 Operating and financial review OUR STRATEGY Our vision is to achieve leadership of the global tobacco indirect costs anything we spend money on other than industry, through strategies for creating shareholder value leaf, wrapping materials, cigarette making machinery based on Growth, Productivity, Responsibility and a and labour costs.
We define leadership in both a quantitative and qualitative RESPONSIBILITY sense.
Quantitatively, we seek volume leadership among Because we manage a product that poses real risks our international competitors.
Qualitatively, we aim to to health, we strongly believe that our business must lead our industry as the preferred partner of key demonstrate responsibility in everything it does.
We aim stakeholders and in demonstrating responsibility.
to balance our commercial objectives with stakeholders changing expectations of a modern tobacco business.
See diagram 1 Our Business Principles and our Standards of Business Conduct set out what we require of our companies and GROWTH employees in terms of responsible corporate behaviour We aim to grow our revenues and profits and to grow and personal integrity.
our share of the global market.
We have two routes to We support tobacco regulation that balances the do this: organic growth and mergers and acquisitions.
preferences of consumers with the interests of society, Organic growth means increasing our market share in establishes an open-minded approach to harm reduction existing markets and through entering new markets.
as a policy, and enables our businesses to continue to To achieve organic growth, we focus on key market compete and prosper.
segments that offer the best long term prospects, Harm reduction is an important element of our strategy.
including Premium and International Brands.
We also aim For more about our approach, see page 17. to optimise the performance of our Global Drive Brands and to exploit opportunities for profitable volume growth in the Value-for-Money and Low Price segments.
We see WINNING ORGANISATION innovative products that offer consumers meaningful, To achieve our vision of industry leadership, we recognise value-added differentiation as key to organic growth.
that we must continue to have the right people and the We aim to continue sustaining or developing strong right working environment.
We aim to develop leaders positions in our largest and most profitable markets.
at all levels, to foster a confident culture that embraces change and innovation, to attract and retain talented Strategically important and nancially attractive people and to ensure continuous improvement mergers and acquisitions may also provide us with throughout the Group.
OUR KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS PRODUCTIVITY Measuring our performance Our approach to productivity concentrates on smart We have a wide range of measures and indicators by cost management, marketing efficiency and capital which the Board assesses performance compared to effectiveness: deploying our global resources more the Groups strategy.
effectively to increase profits and generate funds to reinvest in our business.
This includes ensuring that The Groups goal to create shareholder value through we use our marketing resources and capabilities in the the strategies of Growth, Productivity, Responsibility most efficient way, reducing unnecessary complexity and Winning Organisation is best measured by the main and using our cash and other assets effectively.
We financial drivers of the business.
To ensure managements are saving money by turning a multinational business focus is aligned with the interests of our shareholders, operating in over 180 markets into an integrated global these measures form the basis upon which the levels enterprise that can really take advantage of its scale.
of incentives for the global organisation are decided.
They are described below as our seven Key Performance Greater integration across our supply chain is helping us Indicators KPIs.
Some of these KPIs are used to set the to reduce costs, increase speed to market and improve targets for the Groups performance over three years and effectiveness.
We are also reducing our overheads and some are focused on the short term.
These KPIs were chosen BUSINESS AND STRATEGIC REVIEW OUR STRATEGY Annual Review 2006 British American Tobacco 07 Operating and financial review as they are mainly based on published results or can be Diagram 1: Group strategy calculated from them.
They are therefore reliable and are not based on subjective measures or interpretations.
A number of other Business Measures, financial and Achieve non-financial, are monitored and assessed on a frequent leadership basis to ensure that all the Groups strategies are delivered.
of the global Although all these are not included in managements tobacco industry incentives, we believe that these Business Measures are all contributing to the success of the Group, particularly over the longer term.
We have therefore included, in this Review, some Growth Productivity Responsibility additional Business Measures relating to the Responsibility and Winning Organisation elements of our strategy.
Our progress under Productivity is, of course, covered by the Winning Organisation information we already publish about the Supply Chain and Overheads and Indirects programmes.
These measures and the performance relating to them, are discussed on pages 14 to 19.
The Remuneration Committee sets targets at different levels, based on the Group budget approved by the Board in December.
The KPIs used in 2006 have been retained for 2007.
Measuring short term performance 1 Net revenue growth Net revenue for 2006 grew by 5 per cent.
The long term goal is to grow net revenue, on average, by 3-3.5 per cent per annum.
1 Net revenue growth The net revenue gure is calculated as the revenue of million the Group after the deduction of any duties, excise and 9,672 Long term target, on average 9,301 5% 7% other taxes, as published in the Group Income Statement on page 42.
3-3.5% 2 Global Drive Brand volume A key strength of the Group is its diversied Global Drive Brands GDBs portfolio.
The growth of the four GDBs 2005 2006 Dunhill, Kent, Lucky Strike and Pall Mall is therefore a key driver of the Group strategy and is measured as one 2 Global Drive Brand volume of the KPIs.
billions In 2006, GDB overall volume grew by 17 per cent to 146.1 Long term target, on average, 17% 124.9 high single gures 146 billion compared to 9 per cent growth in 2005.
Our 9% target is to achieve high single gure growth.
GDB volumes are calculated as the total volumes of the four brands sold by our subsidiaries.
More information about the GDBs and their individual 2005 2006 performances, is provided in this Review on pages 12 and 13. BUSINESS AND STRATEGIC REVIEW OUR STRATEGY 08 British American Tobacco Annual Review 2006 Operating and financial review OUR STRATEGY 3 Share of global volume amongst key players The purpose of this measure is to ensure that the Group The long term goal is to become the leading international generates sufficient cash to fund its operations, pay tobacco company and British American Tobacco is dividends to its shareholders, operate the share buy-back currently second.
programme and undertake other investment opportunities that may arise.
In 2006, our share of global volumes amongst key players grew by 0.2 per cent.
Share of global volume is calculated Measuring long term performance 6 as the volumes sold by Group subsidiaries as a percentage Earnings per share of the volumes sold by all international players, namely Adjusted diluted earnings per share Adjusted EPS Philip Morris International, Japan Tobacco, Imperial grew at an average of 12.4 per cent per annum since the Group, Gallaher and Altadis.
The information used to beginning of 2004.
This compared favourably to the long complete this calculation is based on publicly available term goal of growing at the rate of high single gures information and internal company analysis.
per annum, on average, over the medium to long term.
Adjusted EPS grew 10 per cent in 2006 2005: 17 per cent.
In our endeavour to grow global volumes, we assess all available acquisition opportunities on a frequent basis, Adjusted diluted EPS is the best measure to assess the but will only make a move when it is both nancially underlying performance of the business, as it excludes and strategically attractive.
all significant distortions one-off and exceptional items that occur but includes the potentially dilutive effect of 4 Organic operating profit growth employee share schemes.
The detail of the calculation The Groups long term aim is to grow organic underlying and the adjustments made, are explained in note 7 to operating profit by 6 per cent per annum, on average.
the accounts included in the Annual Report and Accounts.
For 2006, it was 7 per cent and for 2005, it was 9 per cent.
This calculation removes the impact of the exceptional Organic profit used in this assessment is the operating items shown as memorandum information on the Group profit of the Groups subsidiaries, excluding any exceptional Income Statement on page 42.
These items are the items the items shown as memorandum information on restructuring costs and impairment of a business, offset the Group Income Statement on page 42. by gains on disposal of brands.
In addition, the calculation also adjusts for certain distortions in net finance costs 5 Cash ow arising under IFRS.
The Groups free cash ow in 2006 was 1,541 million, marginally below 2005.
Free cash ow is dened as net cash from operating activities including dividends from associates, restructuring costs and taxation less net interest, net capital expenditure and dividends to minorities the change in free cash ow is described on page 28. BUSINESS AND STRATEGIC REVIEW OUR STRATEGY Annual Review 2006 British American Tobacco 09 Operating and financial review 7 Total Shareholder Return 3 Share of global volume amongst key players The Groups strategy is focused on increasing shareholder percentage value which is measured using Total Shareholder Return Long term target TSR, compared to the FTSE 100 Index and also to the Fast Moving Consumer Goods FMCG peer group.
1 Group has achieved a top quartile performance in both these categories since 1999.
The goal is to be in the top quartile of each of the two comparator groups over a three year average.
4 Organic operating profit growth Over the past five years, the Group has delivered an million average TSR of 26 per cent compared to 7 per cent for 2,797 Long term target, on average 2,607 7% the FTSE 100 Index see page 37 for performance graph.
9% TSR performance combines both the share price and 6% dividend performance of the Company during the performance period, as set against the two comparator groups.
The FMCG comparator group is reviewed 2005 2006 annually to ensure that it remains both relevant and representative and to, as far as possible, reect the 5 Cash ow Companys financial and business trading environment.
million TSR is measured according to the return index calculated 1,582 Specic target set for each year 1,541 18% 3% by Datastream, on the basis of all companies dividends being reinvested in the shares of the companies.
The return is the percentage increase in each companys index over a three year period.
The measures and the outcome for the current and previous years are explained in the Summary Remuneration Report on page 36, where the 2005 2006 Groups employee share schemes are described.
6 Earnings per share pence 98.20 Long term target, on average, 89.34 10% high single gures 17% 2005 2006 7 7 Total shareholder return annual % Total shareholder return annual % 1 January 2004 31 December 2006 FMCG group 1 January 2004 31 December 2006 FTSE 100 35 70 Upper Quartile Median 15.3% BAT32.2% Upper Quartile Median 19.9% BAT 32.2% Lower Quartile Lower Quartile 30 60 25 50 20 40 15 30 10 20 5 10 0 0 5 10 The FMCG comparison is based on three months average values.
The FTSE 100 comparison is based on three months average values.
