BUSINESS AND STRATEGIC REVIEW OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION 10 British American Tobacco Annual Review 2006 Operating and financial review OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION GROWTH expect both current and long term growth opportunities.
Our approach to marketing We also continue to invest in our regional and local We recognise that our marketing must be conducted brands, especially where they play a strategic role in responsibly, ensuring that we communicate our product a particular markets portfolio.
and brand benets to adult consumers.
In 2001, we We also take opportunities to invest in brands that show developed, along with two major international competitors, specic promise, particularly in the growing segments, the International Marketing Standards IMS.
They set such as Vogue, our premium superslims offer, and Kool, out detailed guidance on all aspects of tobacco marketing our premium menthol offer.
from print, billboards and electronic media to promotional 1 events, packaging and sponsorship.
In 2006, in accordance See chart with the IMS, we ended our sponsorship of Formula 1 GDB strategy is working motor racing.
In 2006, our Premium GDBs alone We want to keep our marketing activity responsive to a grew by 9 per cent.
Each of our four GDBs grew in 2006, fast changing world.
During 2007, we will therefore be including Lucky Strike which returned to marginal volume revising our own set of Standards, to include newer media growth and continued to improve its share in most of its not captured in the original 2001 version e. g. internet core markets.
We grew our GDBs in each of our operating sales and text messaging, enhanced adult age verication regions, with double digit GDB increases in Asia-Pacic, procedures and tighter restrictions on promotion and Europe, Africa and Middle East and Latin America.
These and other changes will help raise the The 2 per cent overall volume growth is not concentrated bar further in terms of addressing what is acceptable in one country or region.
We saw increases in all regions tobacco marketing worldwide.
except for America-Pacic, where volume declines in Our marketing approach focuses on using insights into Canada offset gains in Japan.
consumer lifestyles and values to develop relevant products.
Our investment in consumer relevant innovation is These insights drive the development of our product and delivering results in both volume and value terms.
2006 communication campaigns, to differentiate our products saw a number of highly successful product launches in from our competitors offerings in ways that resonate which we offered consumers additional value at a higher with adult consumers.
This includes the work of our Trade price point.
Dunhill Fine Cut cigarettes in numerous Marketing & Distribution teams to place and promote the markets and Pall Mall superslims across key Eastern right brands in the right retail outlets for the right consumers.
European markets, such as Russia, were just two specic Strategy product innovations that drove volume and higher net Central to our marketing approach is the premise that revenue from our GDBs portfolio.
They are concrete one size does not t all and we believe a key strength of examples of us meeting the preferences of consumers British American Tobacco is our diversied Global Drive who, in turn, are choosing to trade up to products that Brands GDBs portfolio.
These brands deliver rational deliver higher margins.
Innovation is strengthening the choices such as product, blend and price along with foundations for our future growth.
other perceived consumer benets like strength and 2 See chart taste.
Our growth strategy is built on the success of our four GDBs, Dunhill, Kent, Lucky Strike and Pall Mall.
Other International Brands We focus our resources to develop these brands in the While our investment and managerial focus remains key International, Premium, Lights and Adult Smokers rmly on our four GDBs, 2006 saw robust growth across Under 30 ASU30 marketing segments, where we our broader range of International Brands IBs, with total BUSINESS AND STRATEGIC REVIEW OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION Annual Review 2006 British American Tobacco 11 Operating and financial review International Brand growth at 11 per cent for the year.
1 Strategic segment volume in 22 key markets Vogue, our premium superslims offer, led the way with billions an impressive 32 per cent growth due to excellent results 208 199 in South Korea, Russia, Italy, France and Ukraine.
Kool 171 156 150 153 144 139 grew by 16 per cent, as the menthol category continues to expand worldwide.
In addition, we saw robust growth from Benson & Hedges, Rothmans and Craven A.
Our 2005 efforts to appeal to consumers who are choosing to 2006 trade down in price but still want an international brand ASU30 Lights IBs Premium succeeded with Viceroy, which grew by 19 per cent in 2006.
Based on data from the 22 markets, our share in each segment increased in 2006 to ASU30 30.2%, Lights 26.6%, IBs 21.8% 3 See chart and Premium 29.4%.
Relationships with customers 2 GDB volume growth The increasingly restrictive environment in which we billions can communicate with consumers means that Trade 146 Marketing & Distribution TMD is a key element of 125 114 113 100 our marketing activity.
We recognise the importance 93 of the retail outlet.
That is why we strive to achieve and maintain benchmark business partnerships with the retail trade in all the strategic channels where we do business.
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 To achieve benchmark status, we must operate Since 2001, our four GDBs Dunhill, Kent, Lucky Strike and Pall Mall consistently in the most effective and efficient manner have increased combined volume by 57%.
to serve our trade customers, both independent outlets as well as our major account customers.
We measure 3 Other International Brands volume growth billions our performance in this area extensively and the most recent external and independent survey carried out in 133 129 127 122 118 116 2006 revealed that, in a majority of countries, retailers perceive British American Tobacco as having the best TMD organisation compared to other tobacco companies.
The foundation for this success is our Win Win Win strategy.
We recognise that in order for our strategy 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 to succeed, it is imperative that there is a benefit for all Since 2001, other International Brands excluding the four GDBs rose three participants our customers, ourselves and, above by 3%.
All three must stand to win in some way.
This approach resonates with our trade partners, as reected in our global deal with Shell signed in 2006, the first of its kind within the FMCG sector.
Our GDBs, plus two strategic brands in appropriate markets, now have guaranteed, prominent display space in 5,500 Shell convenience stores around the world.
BUSINESS AND STRATEGIC REVIEW OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION 12 British American Tobacco Annual Review 2006 Operating and financial review OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION CONTINUED GDB performance Kent Dunhill Kent continues to play its key role in our portfolio as Dunhill provides us with a Premium Super Premium the free standing premium brand for consumers seeking brand to meet the needs of consumers at the top end a mild and smooth taste.
Kent aims to be the leading of the tobacco market.
In 2006, we extended Dunhills brand for ASU30 smokers and perceived consistently geographic reach, as well as the product segments in as the brand that delivers the modern way to smoke.
Kent has continued to demonstrate the innovative 2006 saw the successful enhancement of the House of nature of a brand designed for the 21st century Dunhill via the rapid roll-out of Dunhill Fine Cut cigarettes, through a number of linked initiatives.
These include the relaunch of Top Leaf and the pilot launches of the the introduction of a new global pack and the core Essence superslims and Senses menthol ranges.
charcoal ranges use of 3-Tek lter technology.
A new These initiatives succeeded in Dunhills core markets communication campaign in Russia, Japan, Romania and such as Australia, Malaysia, South Korea and Taiwan, Chile resulted in accelerated organic growth of the brand where they supplemented existing Dunhill offers, while in these markets.
In Switzerland and the Netherlands, stretching the price mix to premium plus levels.
These British American Tobacco launched the brand via the developments also helped in the promising launch and migration of Barclay consumers to Kent.
Initial results are roll-out of Dunhill in new markets, particularly in Western promising, with exceptionally strong consumer response Europe and the Middle East.
Furthermore, a number from both existing smokers and those switching from of key product innovations that commanded premium competitor brands.
plus price points were successfully launched.
We believe The net result of these initiatives saw Kent become the that the equity of the brand, combined with tangible number one brand in Romania, as well as achieving over a product benets delivered by these innovations, provides billion cigarettes a month in sales in Russia.
Kent delivered consumers with what they want.
the fastest rate of growth among our premium GDBs, Manufacture of the Dunhill Signed Range cigars with its fourth consecutive year of double digit growth.
was moved to Nicaragua in 2006.
This change will Lucky Strike signicantly reduce our supply chain complexity, allow 2006 was a milestone year for the Lucky Strike brand, us to continue to deliver a premium cigar and invest in as it managed to return to volume growth and achieved the further growth of the range.
record market share in Germany, Spain, France, Indonesia, 2007 sees the centenary of the Dunhill tobacco brand Argentina and Italy.
and several ambitious initiatives will roll-out worldwide In 2006, Lucky Strike focused on establishing itself as the in celebration.
brand that provides a rich tobacco experience through the launch of an innovative pipeline of product and packaging initiatives.
BUSINESS AND STRATEGIC REVIEW OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION Annual Review 2006 British American Tobacco 13 Operating and financial review Lucky Strikes new premium pack designs add quality, heritage and product expertise cues and further differentiate the Original Red from the Original Silver variant.
The new ranges, with Madura, Fireleaf Silver and Mentha Piperita variants, deliver unique tobaccos to provide a choice of rich taste and uncompromised smoking pleasure.
Lucky Strike launched new Roll Your Own RYO products in an effort to capitalise on growth without diluting its premium image.
In smokeless products, the market success of Lucky Strike snus in Sweden and the pilot learnings achieved in South Africa, are encouraging signs that the 33 billion cigarettes sold in 2006 brands equity can be successfully stretched into other 6 per cent increase on 2005 tobacco categories.
Pall Mall Pall Mall aims to redene consumers experience at the Value-for-Money price point by delivering on its promise of imagination in tobacco with innovative product 45 billion cigarettes sold in 2006 and brand attributes.
Pall Mall achieved an outstanding 16 per cent increase on 2005 performance in 2006, driven by good organic volume and share growth in its established markets such as Germany, Poland and Spain, as well as many successful launches in all regions.
Pall Malls success is driven by the strong and globally consistent brand mix, supported by a solid innovation pipeline, ensuring Pall Mall has a leadership position in responding to consumer needs in the Value-for-Money 22 billion cigarettes sold in 2006 segment.
The launch of House of Pall Mall in Switzerland 0.4 per cent increase on 2005 included the introduction of four different tobacco products small cigars, RYO, Superslims and Stix along with a range of King Size cigarettes offering more choice.
In Germany, Pall Mall successfully captured consumers moving from Stix to other tobacco products within the brand family and achieved its highest ever share of the 46 billion cigarettes sold in 2006 German market by the year end, to become the second 40 per cent increase on 2005 largest tobacco brand.
BUSINESS AND STRATEGIC REVIEW OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION 14 British American Tobacco Annual Review 2006 Operating and financial review OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION CONTINUED PRODUCTIVITY In addition, we will establish new capabilities for driving Savings generated by our productivity initiatives are ahead growth through consumer relevant innovations, delivered of plan.
The substantial efficiencies made in the supply through an effective and efficient, integrated supply chain.
chain, supported by savings through our overheads and Improvements in global supply chain operations to date indirects programmes, are releasing funds for reinvestment were recognised by a European Supply Chain Excellence in research, product innovation and growth, as well as Award, presented by the magazine Supply Chain Standard being a significant driver of operating profit growth.
Supply chain savings Overheads and Indirects Our focus on primary supply chain efficiencies has The Overheads and Indirects cost reduction programme delivered benets of 148 million in 2006, bringing the ended its fourth year and delivered savings of 99 million.
annual savings for the four years of the programme up to Since its inception in 2003, annualised savings have 374 million.
These savings are predominantly the result reached 355 million and are well on the way to reach of efficiencies within our manufacturing and logistics the 400 million target by 2007. operations and initiatives surrounding the specication, Savings are, in part, being driven by the adoption of purchase and usage of packaging and leaf materials.
smarter procurement processes around the Group, with There has been further rationalisation of our manufacturing procurement specialists working with key business managers capacity, with 12 factories closed in the year, including to nd mutual benets.
The amount of indirect expenditure Guelph in Canada and Southampton in the UK, and those items that are not involved in cigarette production cigarette manufacture in Bologna in Italy has ceased.
In that is channelled through procurement has increased to addition, a further four factory closures were announced, a level that now covers most areas of the business and including Zevenaar in the Netherlands, and a number the processes established are being embedded within of downsizing exercises have been completed.
These the business for sustainable benefit.
initiatives, together with the Groups Bullseye best The move to shared services in both IT and Finance is practice audits have increased overall productivity by gaining momentum and is now delivering real value.
nearly 10 per cent in the year.
We have also redeployed 650 individual machinery assets around the Group.
RESPONSIBILITY The job losses resulting from closures and downsizings have Responsibility is a key element of our business strategy been addressed with care and responsibility.
Mitigation but how do we measure or assess our performance?
activities have included fair redundancy packages, extensive We look to external benchmarking to provide us with outplacement support and, where appropriate, community an objective view on how we are doing and use the Dow wide initiatives aimed at new job creation.
The Companys Jones Sustainability Indexes DJSI as our primary Business Mitigation-Plus programme in response to the Darlington Measure.
With regard to our environmental impacts, we factory closure in the north east of England is one of those have the data and have been reporting on the trends for to have received recognition, a best practice award in 2006 several years.
On pages 15 to 17, we have included some from the UK-based Management Consultants Association.
of these measures in a section on the key topic of climate The Product Complexity Reduction programme targets change.
In harm reduction, we can report some encouraging the elimination of irrelevant complexity across our brand signs of increasing engagement around an area which is portfolio.
Working together, our Operations and Marketing central to our business strategy.
teams have dened standards covering all the key attributes Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes of our brands, from packaging design through to product In 2006, we were, for the fifth year running, the only specications and leaf blends.
As a result, we have been tobacco company included in the DJSI.
Launched in able to rationalise and simplify the number of combinations 1999, the DJSI are global indices tracking the performance and specications we use in our supply chain by more of the leading companies worldwide.
The indices are than 30 per cent.
We have also reduced the number of based on a detailed assessment of companies economic, stock keeping units we sell by 24 per cent, leaving a more environmental and social performance, and on how well focused, consumer-relevant portfolio.
they integrate sustainability strategies into their business.
The productivity, complexity and capacity optimisation Externally, these benchmarks are used by asset managers programmes will continue over the next few years and to make investment decisions and by other stakeholders will realise significant savings.
Internally, participation BUSINESS AND STRATEGIC REVIEW OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION Annual Review 2006 British American Tobacco 15 Operating and financial review in the indices gives us an objective third party perspective 4 Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes on how we are managing the business and allows us to Was 2006 score Was score benchmark our performance against the best in the sector same or better higher than and the sector averages.
Economic Dimension The tobacco sector group is based upon an assessment Environmental Dimension of 10 tobacco companies, although the names of all the Social Dimension companies are not publicly disclosed.
In 2006, our overall Economic Dimension score remained equal to last years at 79 per cent against Corporate Governance a sector average that increased signicantly to 66 per cent.
Risk & Crisis Management We achieved the top score in 13 out of 19 categories, Codes of Conduct Compliance improved our score in 16 and scored better than the sector Corruption & Bribery average in 18.
We shall continue to submit ourselves for Customer Relationship Management Combat Smuggling consideration, with the aim of maintaining our position in the indices.
However, because inclusion is determined by Environmental Dimension a third party, we have chosen not to regard inclusion itself Environmental Policy Management as a Business Measure.
Chart 4 shows how we report our Environmental Performance Eco-efficiency performance in the DJSI.
Our annual target is to record Environmental Reporting a higher score than the sector average in a minimum of Management of GMO Fuels for Tobacco Curing 15 out of 19 categories.
Raw Material Sourcing 4 See chart Social Dimension Climate change Labour Practice Indicators We consider it to be part of our responsibility to measure, Human Capital Development Talent Attraction & Retention monitor and reduce our energy use and greenhouse gas Social Standards for Suppliers new GHG emissions and report on our global performance in Corporate Citizenship Philanthropy accordance with Global Reporting Initiative GRI guidelines, Social Reporting publicly on an annual basis.
Responsible Marketing Policies Occupational Health & Safety We view reductions in emissions as being the top priority, TARGET reached followed by mitigation.
Where no further reduction or mitigation is possible, we will look to offsetting.
We were previously sector leaders in this category but a change in the scoring system resulted in a significant fall in our score in 2006.
Reduction our performance on reducing emissions Our target is to record a higher score than the sector average in a minimum of 15 out of 19 categories.
We have reduced both the absolute amount and intensity per unit production of our CO emissions in recent years.
2 This has been achieved by energy conservation initiatives, investment in energy efficient technologies, use of renewable fuels and through consolidation of our manufacturing footprint.
We also work to reduce waste sent to landll and increase the amount of waste recycled.
Emissions CO is a GHG, a major contributor to climate change.
2 5 Emissions tonnes CO per million cigarettes equivalent 2 In 2000, the Group committed to reducing CO emissions 2 by 5.2 per cent by 2008, in line with the Kyoto protocol.
We have set progressively more 0.83 stretching targets each year since 2004.
In 2006, the target 0.79 was 0.78 tonnes CO per million cigarettes equivalent and 2 we achieved 0.79 tonnes, a reduction of 5 per cent over 2005.
Over the last five years, our emissions have reduced 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 by 43 per cent.
Since 2001, our emissions have fallen by 43%.
5 See chart BUSINESS AND STRATEGIC REVIEW OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION 16 British American Tobacco Annual Review 2006 Operating and financial review OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION CONTINUED Waste to landll In terms of reducing GHG emissions, we are working Waste sent to landll creates methane, which is 21 times with leaf and material suppliers, through both the SRTP more potent as a GHG than CO. and BEST programmes, to achieve further improvement 2 and we will be establishing minimum environmental By reducing the amount of total waste generated and performance criteria for suppliers during 2007. increasing recycling rates, we have reduced waste sent to landll by 59 per cent since 2001.
Mitigation activities The British American Tobacco Biodiversity Partnership 6 See chart We are also working with our Non-Governmental Recycling Organisation partners Earthwatch Institute Europe, Increasing recycling rates reduces the amount of waste Fauna & Flora International, the Royal Botanic Gardens, that is sent to landll.
Our 2006 global recycling rate Kew and the Tropical Biology Association within the was 81.2 per cent.
Biodiversity Partnership to avoid, minimise and mitigate our impacts on biodiversity and minimise the use of Through proactively seeking new partners and destinations ecosystem services, such as soil, water and wood.
for recycling, we have increased our recycling rates over the last five years.
There are now 10 companies within We have categorised our projects in accordance with the Group achieving 95 per cent recycling rates.
denitions from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change IPCC, splitting the contribution to the Climate 7 See chart Change agenda into the following: Working with our Supply Chain Understanding impacts, adaptation and vulnerability Suppliers are increasingly seen as a critically important Mitigation stakeholder group and there are growing expectations that businesses should use their influence to encourage Of the current 43 projects within the partnership good standards of corporate responsibility in their supply programme portfolio, 25 address understanding impacts, chains.
We accept this responsibility and work not only adaptation and vulnerability, and 17 address the mitigation to set high standards for our suppliers but to support part of the IPCC denitions.
14 of the projects address them in achieving continuous improvement.
both and 15 are relevant to neither aspects of climate change but are relevant to biodiversity conservation.
We see this as particularly important for a very large business such as ours, with a primary supply chain that Water use includes some 250,000 farmers who grow tobacco leaf In many areas where we operate, climatic variations and other international suppliers from whom we buy may cause water to become a scarce resource.
In 2006, other raw materials such as packaging and paper.
we have reduced our water use by 7 per cent and over the last five years it has come down by 41 per cent.
Our major supply chain programmes include our Business 8 Enabler Survey Tool BEST, which sets out in detail the See chart standards we expect of the suppliers from whom we buy Offsetting raw materials other than leaf.
BEST assesses suppliers across We do not use the information below to formally offset 102 performance criteria, covering, for example, suppliers our CO emissions, as many of the trees that we sponsor 2 business ethics: environment, occupational health and are not owned by us.
safety management: employee rights and the suppliers ability to trace the sources of raw materials, including However, since the 1970s, Group companies have sourcing wood from sustainably managed forestry.
promoted forestry programmes to ensure a source of wood fuel for tobacco growers.
The Edinburgh Centre for Social Responsibility in Tobacco Production SRTP is a Carbon Management has helped the Group to quantify significant programme that aims to ensure that we only the CO take-up and storage by these forests since 1998.
2 purchase tobacco leaf from responsible and sustainable At the end of 2005, the carbon storage associated with sources, by working to address the social and environmental the programmes in Brazil, Kenya, Pakistan and Uganda issues associated with tobacco leaf growing and processing.
was estimated at 400,000 tonnes of carbon, equivalent We have also encouraged other manufacturers to adopt a to 1.46 million tonnes of CO.
This compared to the 2 similar approach, an initiative that is gaining considerable 0.85 million tonnes of CO emitted from Group companies 2 support.
Our supplier review methodology has been operations in 2005.
This study will be updated in 2007. adopted by a number of tobacco manufacturers, while others have adopted similar programmes of their own.
BUSINESS AND STRATEGIC REVIEW OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION Annual Review 2006 British American Tobacco 17 Operating and financial review During 2007, we will investigate potential ways to offset 6 Waste to landll our emissions, although our first priority will always be tonnes per million cigarettes equivalent to reduce them as far as possible.
0.056 0.050 Harm reduction 0.042 0.036 0.035 We believe that harm reduction, which is a key element of 0.023 our business strategy, ought to be able to nd common ground with the goals of public health policy.
We agree that risky products such as tobacco should be 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 regulated.
Currently, tobacco regulation broadly focuses Since 2001, we have reduced our waste to landll by 59%.
on three areas: preventing people from starting to smoke, 7 Recycling encouraging quitting and protecting people around smokers.
percentage of waste recycled However, we strongly believe that these prevention, 81.2 72.3 72.5 cessation and protection efforts are missing an important 69.4 63.6 57.3 fourth dimension, namely, harm reduction, for the millions of adults globally who will continue to be tobacco consumers.
The World Health Organisation predicts that, even 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 with increasingly strict regulation, there will be as many Since 2001, we have increased our recycling by 24%.
or more smokers globally in 10 years time as there are today, as falling tobacco consumption is offset by a 8 Water use strongly rising world adult population.
cubic metres per million cigarettes equivalent 8.73 In public policy, harm reduction is an established concept.
8.01 7.84 6.61 It recognises that positive health outcomes can be achieved 5.58 5.18 in ways other than through disincentives, punitive measures or the prohibition of certain lifestyle choices.
Smoking poses real and serious health risks, but nicotine, 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 at the levels smokers take, does not.
If smokers could take nicotine from pleasurable tobacco products with far lower Since 2001, our water usage has decreased by 41%.
risks than smoking, we believe that tobacco related harm For comparison purposes, the 2004 gure excludes data from Peru relating to the use of irrigation water by farms owned by a company we acquired in late 2003.
It is unusual to health would reduce far faster than current public for the Group to own farms.
The 2004 gure, including Peru, is 8.01. health efforts can achieve alone.
We believe we can contribute to reducing the harm of tobacco use through innovative products, while also supporting the long term sustainability of our business.
What we are doing Encouraged by public health stakeholders, we have extended some major cigarette brands to Swedish-style snus, a smokeless tobacco product mainly sold in Sweden and recognised by health experts, such as the UKs Royal College of Physicians, to be much less harmful than smoking.
We are marketing snus in Sweden, have started sales in Norway and, building on our experience in South Africa, have begun a pilot in Japan.
We plan to extend these initiatives elsewhere in due course.
We are planning to lobby for an amendment to the EU ban on snus sales in the EU except for Sweden.
We believe there is no rational justication for continuing to bar smokers from choosing a less hazardous alternative to cigarettes.
BUSINESS AND STRATEGIC REVIEW OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION 18 British American Tobacco Annual Review 2006 Operating and financial review OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION CONTINUED We are also developing a scientific framework for are afforded the same opportunities for promotion, training evaluating the relative risks of different tobacco products, and career development as other staff.
Our Employment both combustible and non-combustible.
Currently, there is Principles are available to all staff on the Groups intranet.
no accepted approach to measuring tobacco consumers The Group continues to encourage employee ownership exposure to the toxicants believed relevant to tobacco through its provision of employee share plans, including the related disease.
This is vital to enable development of Partnership Share Scheme and the Share Reward Scheme.
However, we cannot develop a framework alone.
To ensure that the work and supporting In addition to the global survey see below, we encourage research are robust, we are expanding our engagement employee engagement through individual discussions, team with external scientists.
briengs, local surveys, publications and regular meetings with recognised employee representatives.
Research and development 9 Our research and development activities are focused on See chart developing new products and new processes, as well as Employee opinion maintaining and improving the quality of existing products.
The extent to which our employees, at every level of Research is also carried out on risk characterisation, the business, feel engaged and committed to delivering building a framework to assess the relative risk of novel superior results is key to delivering our leadership vision.
and conventional products and a better understanding of how consumers use them.
Risk reduction, such as The most authentic way to measure progress is to collect developing technologies that have the potential to lower views from employees themselves.
The best judge and exposure to toxicants in smoke, is also a central part of indeed the best inuencer of the extent to which we are the research and development programme.
Research is making tangible progress in what underpins our Winning also undertaken into aspects of the science and behavioural Organisation strategy has to be our employees, at every science related to smoking and we continue to provide level and in every part of the business.
We therefore work funding for independent studies.
to create an environment where employees feel that they can speak honestly about their company and the issues of importance to them, placing emphasis on the role of WINNING ORGANISATION employee opinion research.
British American Tobacco will be a winning organisation when it is recognised by its employees as being a great Our international employee opinion survey, Your Voice, place to work, where outstanding people are attracted, is run by ISR International Survey Research, a leading challenged and have the opportunity to grow.
global employee research organisation, to gather detailed views from employees to enable regional, functional and Employees local action planning.
Your Voice was conducted as a global Creating a safe place to work has to be our primary census for the first time in October 2005, in over 70 markets, consideration for employees.
We measure and track followed by a further census in November 2006, capturing performance using a measure of the Lost Workday the feedback from over 38,000 employees.
The survey Case Incident Rate LWCIR.
covers all levels of employees and will now be run at Over recent years, the rate has been reducing, although two yearly intervals.
the acquisition of ETI in Italy in late 2003 had a negative Benchmarking effect on safety performance in 2004.
As British American To establish how employee opinion within British American Tobaccos standards for safety were adopted, performance Tobacco compares with other organisations, our global in Italy has improved.
In 2006, we aimed to achieve a employee opinion survey data is compared with ISRs further 10 per cent reduction to a rate of 0.44.
In fact, global FMCG companies norm.
Positive as this trend is, we continue to aspire to achieve a rate of 0.1-0.2, Many of these companies e. g. Diageo, Nestl, considered to be a best practice standard for comparable Coca-Cola and Unilever also appear in the peer group multinational organisations.
of FMCG companies used to assess our performance in the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP see page 37.
We are committed to providing a work environment that is free from harassment, bullying and discrimination.
2006 survey results There is no discrimination against people with disabilities The overall response rate for the survey in 2006 improved who apply to join the Group and those with a disability over the previous year to reach 89 per cent.
BUSINESS AND STRATEGIC REVIEW OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION Annual Review 2006 British American Tobacco 19 Operating and financial review In all of the 15 categories in the 2006 survey, employee 9 Lost Workday Case Incident Rate LWCIR opinion in British American Tobacco is signicantly more LWCIR No.
of lost workday cases through injury or occupational illness positive than in the FMCGs benchmarked by ISR.
to employees x 200,000 total hours worked by all employees 0.72 There were also significant improvements in most of the 0.63 0.55 categories compared to the previous survey.
0.48 0.49 0.42 10 See chart Using the survey results Of course, it is positive for us to know that our employees, 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 for example, understand our global vision and are proud Since 2001, the LWCIR has decreased by 42%.
to be associated with the Company, but how can the For comparison purposes, the 2004 gure excludes new companies acquired.
If these survey be used to improve performance?
acquisitions are included, the 2004 gure is 0.64.
ISR research shows that employee attitudes about leading indicators e. g. strategic direction, leadership, talent, customer focus tend to be signicantly more favourable in high performing organisations.
The lagging indicators e. g. morale, efficiency, commitment tend to follow naturally.
As the leading indicators tend to be 10 Your Voice survey 2006 the key drivers of improved organisational performance, British American Tobacco vs. ISR global FMCG companies norm we concentrate our efforts on these particular areas.
Favourable scores Differences from benchmark Survey follow up A number of the indicators e. g. strategic direction, 75 8 morale are drawn from a range of the categories shown Pay and benets in Chart 10 and do not correspond directly to a single 55 8 category heading.
Information and communication 77 7 We are performing well in terms of many of the leading Leadership 72 6 indicators, including strategic direction and customer Respect for our focus.
In response to scores that were less positive, we employees 69 6 have committed to put more focus on leading indicators Learning such as leadership and talent.
Recent actions include 64 6 Talent setting clear targets for local representation on top teams 60 6 and in succession plans.
Team working 79 5 The survey results are used at global, regional, local and Alignment functional levels, while the learning from companies with 76 5 good results is captured and shared around the Group.
Structure 68 5 The survey results also provide detailed information Corporate responsibility 80 4 about any areas of concern.
If issues have been raised, Culture the companies work with employees on action plans 79 4 to improve in the highlighted areas.
Freedom through responsibility 71 2 The Your Voice survey is a major undertaking across the Enterprising spirit Group and is key to the way we measure our performance 67 2 compared to the Group strategy.
We will continue to seek Open minded 57 2 and respond to our employees opinions.
