2 The return on average total shareholders equity is defined as profit attributable to shareholders of the parent company divided by average total shareholders equity.
3 The cost efficiency ratio is defined as total operating expenses divided by net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions.
4 Each American Depositary Share ADS represents five ordinary shares.
5 Total shareholder return TSR is defined on page 281.
6 The Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100 Index.
7 The Morgan Stanley Capital International World Index.
8 Comparative data for 2004 excludes the provisions of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4, which were adopted for the first time with effect from 1 January 2005.
9 The periods 2002 and 2003 were prepared in accordance with previous HSBC accounting policies under UK GAAP.
HSBCs accounting policies under UK GAAP are stated in Note 2 on the Financial Statements in the Annual Report and Accounts 2004.
10 Capital resources are total regulatory capital, the calculation of which is set out on page 243.
11 Includes perpetual preferred securities, details of which can found in Note 32 on the Financial Statements.
12 Net of suspended interest and provisions for bad and doubtful debts UK GAAP.
13 Net of impairment allowances IFRSs.
14 First, second and third interim dividends for 2006, each of US$0.15 per ordinary share, were paid on 6 July 2006, 4 October 2006 and 18 January 2007 respectively.
Note 11 on the Financial Statements on page 339 gives more information on the dividends declared in 2006.
On 5 March 2007, the Directors declared a fourth interim dividend for 2006 of US$0.36 per ordinary share in lieu of a final dividend, which will be payable to ordinary shareholders on 10 May 2007 in cash in US dollars, or in sterling or Hong Kong dollars at exchange rates to be determined on 30 April 2007, with a scrip dividend alternative.
The reserves available for distribution at 31 December 2006 were US$12,045 million.
Quarterly dividends of US$15.50 per 6.20 per cent non-cumulative US dollar preference share, Series A Series A dollar preference share, equivalent to a dividend of US$0.3875 per Series A American Depositary Shares, each of which represents one-fortieth of a Series A dollar preference share, were paid on 15 March 2006, 15 June 2006, 15 September 2006 and 15 December 2006.
15 Dividends per share expressed as a percentage of earnings per share 2002 and 2003: excluding goodwill amortisation.
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements The Annual Report and Accounts 2006 contains expressions are intended to identify forward-looking certain forward-looking statements with respect to statements.
These statements are based on current the financial condition, results of operations and plans, estimates and projections, and therefore undue business of HSBC.
reliance should not be placed on them.
Forwardlooking statements speak only as of the date they are Statements that are not historical facts, including made, and it should not be assumed that they have statements about HSBCs beliefs and expectations, been revised or updated in the light of new are forward-looking statements.
Words such as information or future events.
expects, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, seeks, estimates, potential and reasonably Written and or oral forward-looking statements possible, variations of these words and similar may also be made in the periodic reports to the 4 United States Securities and Exchange Commission, Authority, the US Federal Reserve, the US summary financial statements to shareholders, proxy Securities and Exchange Commission, the statements, offering circulars and prospectuses, press US Office of the Comptroller of the releases and other written materials, and in oral Currency, the European Central Bank, the statements made by HSBCs Directors, officers or Peoples Bank of China and the central employees to third parties, including financial banks of other leading economies and analysts.
markets where HSBC operates: Forward-looking statements involve inherent expropriation, nationalisation, confiscation risks and uncertainties.
Readers are cautioned that a of assets and changes in legislation relating number of factors could cause actual results to differ, to foreign ownership: in some instances materially, from those anticipated initiatives by local, state and national or implied in any forward-looking statement.
These regulatory agencies or legislative bodies to factors include, among others: revise the practices, pricing or changes in general economic conditions in the responsibilities of financial institutions markets in which HSBC operates, such as: serving their consumer markets: changes in foreign exchange rates, in both changes in bankruptcy legislation in the market exchange rates for example, principal markets in which HSBC operates between the US dollar and pound sterling and the consequences thereof: and  exchange rates general changes in governmental policy that for example, between the Hong Kong may significantly influence investor dollar and US dollar : decisions, in particular markets in which volatility in interest rates: HSBC operates: volatility in equity markets, including in the other unfavourable political or diplomatic smaller and less liquid trading markets in developments producing social instability or Asia and South America: legal uncertainty which in turn may affect demand for HSBCs products and services: lack of liquidity in wholesale funding markets in periods of economic or political the costs, effects and outcomes of crisis: regulatory reviews, actions or litigation, including any additional compliance illiquidity and downward price pressure in requirements: and national real estate markets, particularly consumer-owned real estate markets: the effects of competition in the markets where HSBC operates including increased the impact of lower than expected competition from non-bank financial investment returns on the funding of private services companies, including securities and public sector defined benefit pensions: firms.
the effect of unexpected changes in factors specific to HSBC: actuarial assumptions on longevity which would influence the funding of private and the success of HSBC in adequately public sector defined benefit pensions: identifying the risks it faces, such as the incidence of loan losses or delinquency, and continuing or deepening recessions and managing those risks through account employment fluctuations: and management, hedging and other consumer perception as to the continuing techniques.
Effective risk management availability of credit, and price competition depends on, among other things, HSBCs in the market segments served by HSBC.
ability through stress testing and other techniques to prepare for events that cannot changes in governmental policy and regulation, be captured by the statistical models it uses.
including: the monetary, interest rate and other policies of central banks and other regulatory authorities, including the UK Financial Services Authority, the Bank of England, the Hong Kong Monetary 5
