Directors Report The directors present their report and Directors and directors interests individuals who report problems the audited Financial Statements of Biographical details of the directors in the Groups workplace.
the Group for the year ended who held office throughout the year are 31 March 2006. given on pages 24 to 25.
Details of The Group recognises the value of the service contracts of the current communication with employees at all Activities, business review and directors and of the interests of the levels and incentive schemes and development directors in the Companys shares share ownership schemes are run for A fair review of business activities are shown in the Report on Directors the benefit of employees.
Information and future developments of the Remuneration on pages 38 to 47. on these schemes is set out in the Group is given in the Group Profile on Report on Directors Remuneration the inside front cover, and the In accordance with the Companys on pages 38 to 47.
Chairmans Statement, Group Chief Articles of Association Michael Executive Officers Review on pages Spencer will stand for re-election Intranet sites are available in both 4 to 9 and in the Operating and and Mark Yallop will stand for the UK and the US allowing Financial Review on pages 12 to 23. re-appointment at the forthcoming employees easy access to the Annual General Meeting.
Groups website for information on Related party transactions current developments.
The intranet Details of related party transactions Corporate Social Responsibility brings together information on are set out in note 30 to the As an international business employment opportunities, the staff Financial Statements.
operating in 23 countries with over handbook, including policies and 3,000 staff worldwide, ICAP aims to procedures, and compliance Post balance sheet events conduct its business in a socially procedures and manuals.
Details of post balance sheet events, responsible manner, to contribute to including the agreement to acquire the communities in which it operates Charity Day and charitable donations EBS, are set out in note 34 to the and to respect the needs of customers, During the year the Group donated Financial Statements.
5.2 million 2004 05 4.2 million to charitable organisations globally, Results and dividends ICAP endeavours to comply with the of which 2.6 million 2004 05 The results of the Group for the year laws, regulations and rules applicable 2.1 million was donated to are set out in the consolidated to its business and to conduct its charitable organisations in the UK.
income statement on page 50. business in accordance with For the past 13 years ICAP has held The directors recommend a final established best practice in each of an annual Charity Day and the dividend of 7.5 pence per share the countries in which it operates.
Groups offices around the world which, together with the interim The Group aims to be a responsible have raised over 26 million.
Many dividend of 2.5 pence per share employer and adopt values and charities have received significant already declared, will make a standards designed to help guide our donations enabling them to continue total for the year ended 31 March staff in their conduct and business their valuable work without incurring 2006 of 10.0 pence per share relationships.
Details of the offices around the world choose their interim dividend payment are set Employee involvement and own charities and those that have out in note 11 to the Financial employment practices benefited include medical research, Statements.
Subject to approval The Group is committed to achieving third world, cancer and childrens at the Annual General Meeting the the highest standards in its charities.
Among these were CLIC final dividend will be paid on workplace.
The policies and practices Sargent, the Memorial Sloan 25 August 2006 to shareholders in place within the Group to deter Kettering Cancer Center and the on the Register on 28 July 2006 acts of harassment and discrimination Cystic Fibrosis Trust.
Further ex-dividend date being 26 July 2006. are regularly monitored.
The Group information can be found on the maintains a zero tolerance policy Groups website concerning sexual harassment, www.
discrimination and retaliation against 28 ICAP plc Annual Report 2006 Equal opportunities their optimum efficiency.
The Group Share capital The Group is committed to promotes a paper recycling regime All changes in share capital are employment policies that follow best with a collection being made weekly detailed in note 24 to the Financial practice and offers opportunities in the UK.
As at 31 March 2006, for employment, training and career options existed over 22,878,313 of development and promotion based The landlords of the UK Broadgate the Companys ordinary shares of on individual abilities, regardless building are responsible for heating, 10 pence each in relation to employee of gender, race, national origin, energy consumption and ventilation.
Of this figure disability, age, sexual orientation, or The heating system is operational 8,022,955 are options over existing religious or political beliefs.
during the winter months and shares which are held in employee controlled according to outside benefit trusts and the remainder are Health and safety temperature.
Gas consumption is expected to be satisfied by new The Group has a health and safety minimal and electricity usage is issues of shares.
Changes in options policy approved by the board and a monitored through an energy under the various schemes are Health and Safety Committee, chaired consumption meter.
detailed in note 25 to the Financial by the Group Company Secretary, Statements.
The board is In the US Harborside office where committed to providing for the more than 1,100 employees are The Company did not repurchase health, safety and welfare of all its based, the landlords are responsible any shares during the year.
As at employees and to maintaining high for heating and ventilation which are the date of this report, the Company standards.
monitored by a building management had an unexpired authority to system which controls the supply to repurchase shares up to a maximum Environment each area.
Lighting is controlled by of 60,553,006 ordinary shares of Recognising that the Groups a centralised low voltage relay 10 pence each.
operations are themselves of minimal system allowing each lighting zone environmental impact, ICAPs policy to be programmed specifically to is to operate, as far as practicable, its corresponding areas hours of environmentally friendly policies and operation.
meet the statutory requirements placed on the Group.
Creditor payment policy The Groups policy with regard to the Various control measures have been payment of its suppliers is to agree implemented and, in the UK the terms of payment at the start of Broadgate building where 1,200 business with each supplier, ensure employees are based, an that the suppliers are made aware of environmental management system the terms of payments and pay in is in place for lighting and airaccordance with its contractual and conditioning controlled by a legal obligations.
The Company does supervisory PC utilising the latest not have any trade creditors.
Time programmes within the software allow for all units to be Political donations switched off when not required, There were no political donations typically evenings and weekends.
made during the year 2004 05 The use of presence detectors for 11,684 to Vote No.
light fittings ensures an energy efficient method of control.
Regular planned maintenance is carried out to ensure that all units are working at Annual Report 2006 ICAP plc 29 Directors Report continued Substantial shareholdings As at 17 May 2006, the Company had been notified of the following interests of 3% or more in its issued ordinary share capital: Number of ordinary % of ordinary shares held shares held Mr & Mrs M Spencer, together with INCAP Finance B. V. 131,816,360 21.70 Lansdowne Partners Limited Partnership 23,735,885 3.91 Jupiter Asset Management Limited 19,806,371 3.26 Lloyds TSB Bank plc 18,585,889 3.06 Mr and Mrs M Spencer own approximately 55.10% of IPGL which in turn owns 100% of INFBV.
Accordingly, Mr and Mrs M Spencer are deemed by Schedule 13 of the Companies Act 1985 to be interested in all the shares in ICAP plc held by INFBV 130,769,560 respectively.
A trust fund of which their children are beneficiaries holds a further 50,000 shares and Michael Spencer holds 996,800 shares in his own name.
Annual General Meeting shares for cash, up to an aggregate Shares with a view to possible reThe eighth Annual General Meeting nominal amount of 3,032,582 sale at a future date.
The Company of the Company will be held on being approximately 5% in value of would consider holding repurchased Wednesday, 19 July 2006.
The Notice the existing issued share capital at shares pursuant to the authority of Meeting is set out on pages 120 31 March 2006 and 4.99% of the conferred by this resolution as to 123. issued share capital at 2 May 2006.
This would give the Company the ability to re-issue In addition to the ordinary business The authorities in Resolutions 8 and Treasury Shares quickly and cost of voting upon receiving the Financial 9 last for a period of one year each, effectively and would provide the Statements, declaring a dividend, in accordance with institutional Company with additional flexibility in the re-election and re-appointment guidelines.
The directors have no the management of its capital base.
of directors, the re-appointment of present intention of exercising these The directors would exercise this auditors and the setting of the authorities.
It is normal for boards of authority only if they were satisfied auditors remuneration, the following listed companies to have these that a purchase would result in an special business will be considered: authorities in order to take advantage increase in expected EPS and would of market opportunities as they arise.
be in the interests of shareholders Resolution 7 will be proposed as an generally.
There is no present Ordinary Resolution to approve the Resolution 10 will be proposed as a intention of exercising this authority Report on Directors Remuneration.
It will empower and the authority given in the the Company to purchase its own resolution will expire at the Resolution 8 will be proposed as an ordinary shares by market purchases conclusion of the Annual General Ordinary Resolution.
It is to authorise not exceeding approximately 10% of Meeting to be held in 2007. the directors to allot ordinary shares the Companys issued share capital of the Company to an amount equal as at 2 May 2006.
The maximum Resolutions 11 and 12 will be to approximately one third of the and minimum prices are stated in the proposed as Ordinary Resolutions to existing issued share capital.
The directors believe that approve the making of political it is advantageous for the Company donations and incurring of political Resolution 9 will be proposed as a to continue to have this flexibility to expenditure by the Company and Special Resolution.
It is to empower make market purchases of its own its subsidiary ICAP Management the directors to allot ordinary shares, shares.
In the event that shares Services Limited of up to an otherwise than on a pro-rata basis to are purchased, they would either aggregate amount of 100,000 in existing shareholders in connection be cancelled and the number of the period to the Companys Annual with any future rights issue or grant shares in issue would be reduced General Meeting to be held in 2007. rights over shares or sell treasury accordingly or retained as Treasury 30 ICAP plc Annual Report 2006 The Political Parties, Elections and Statement of directors Going concern Referendums Act 2000, contains responsibilities for the Financial The directors are satisfied that the restrictions on companies making Statements Company and the Group have donations to EU political organisations The directors are required by the adequate resources to continue to or incurring EU political expenditure Companies Act 1985 to prepare operate for the foreseeable future without prior shareholder approval.
Financial Statements for each and confirm that the Company and accounting period that give a true the Group are going concerns.
For Details on electronic proxy voting can and fair view of the state of affairs of this reason they continue to adopt be found in the Notice of the Annual the Company and Group as at the the going concern basis in preparing General Meeting on pages 120 to 123. end of the financial year and of the these Financial Statements.
profit or loss of the Group for the year.
The directors consider that all the The directors confirm that suitable resolutions of the Annual General accounting policies have been By order of the board Meeting are in the best interests of used and applied consistently and the Company and recommend that reasonable and prudent judgements shareholders vote in favour of them.
and estimates have been made in the preparation of the Financial Deborah Abrehart Auditors and the disclosure of Statements for the year ended Group Company Secretary information to auditors 31 March 2006.
The directors also 30 May 2006 So far as each person who was a confirm that the Financial Statements director at the date of approving this comply with applicable International report is aware, there is no relevant Financial Reporting Standards as audit information, being information adopted by the European Union.
needed by the auditors in connection with preparing their report, of which The directors are responsible for the auditors are unaware.
Having keeping proper accounting records made enquiries of fellow directors which disclose with reasonable and the Companys auditors, each accuracy the financial position of the director has taken all the steps that Company and of the Group, for taking he is obliged to take as a director in reasonable steps to safeguard the order to make him aware of any assets of the Company and the relevant audit information and to Group and to prevent and detect establish that the auditors are aware fraud and other irregularities.
The maintenance and integrity of  LLP were the Groups website is the re-appointed auditors to the Company responsibility of the directors: the on 13 July 2005.
Resolutions to rework carried out by the auditors does appoint  LLP not involve consideration of these and to authorise the directors to set matters and, accordingly, the auditors their remuneration will be proposed.
accept no responsibility for any Note 8 to the Financial Statements changes that may have occurred to sets out details of the auditors the Financial Statements since they remuneration.
were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
