British EnErgy group plc 23 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 to examine the contribution each kWh of electricity Co and nuclear 2 that nuclear power makes produced at torness to cutting these emissions released around 5g of Co 2 the conventional we analysed the nuclear when averaged over the electricity sector is life-cycle taking our torness plant lifetime.
About the one of the largest station as an example.
starting same carbon footprint as single contributors with the mining of uranium, wind turbines.
we looked at the impact of of greenhouse construction, operation and operational emissions from gases.
But nuclear decommissioning of the power gas-fired stations are some generation isnt.
station through to final disposal 80 times higher, whilst coalof the nuclear waste.
fired stations are higher still around 180 times higher the results show that most than nuclear energy, which Co is not emitted during is virtually emissions-free 2 generation, but during the in comparison.
British EnErgy is thE uKs lArgEst mining of uranium.
overall, proDuCEr oF loW CArBon ElECtriCity 16 tCo to around 27 tCo although the and as a consequence the site now has tighter 2 2 British Energy remains actual cost pass-through to the electricity price procedures and the Company issued a new committed to all aspects was masked by price rises due to increases in policy on environmental compliance.
of equal opportunities, fossil fuel costs.
All of our power stations and their main recognising the value the Company has played an active role in the support offices continue to retain certification of a positive approach stakeholder engagement process run by to the international environmental management to diversity.
industry and the government to establish how standard, iso 14001. staff are encouraged phase 2 of the Eu Ets will be implemented in to target reductions in the production of all the uK.
phase 2 runs from 2008 to 2012 and kinds of waste and resource consumption is important as it corresponds to the Kyoto by incorporation in business unit targets, compliance period.
the governments preferred where appropriate.
approach at this time is to require all emission reductions to come from the electricity sector Community and to distribute allowances to the sector British Energys year-long partnership with the according to a benchmark methodology, with a princes trust raised 350,000 through a wide limited degree of auctioning.
the government range of fundraising activities right across the plans to finalise its national Allocation plan by Company.
the funds raised have had a very the end of 2006. real impact on the lives of young people in each of the areas around our locations, 350,000 the large Combustion plant Directive lCpD, supporting a number of valuable projects which comes into force in 2008, is aimed at established by the princes trust.
raised for the princes trust reducing the emission of acidifying gases and particulates and is important because of the As a key member of the local communities constraints it places on coal plant.
After in which we operate the Company continues reviewing our options the Company elected to place great emphasis on engaging local to operate Eggborough under the available stakeholders and encouraging open and national Emissions reduction plan constraints, transparent dialogue.
At sites which are shared which will allow operation at levels broadly with British nuclear group hunterston, consistent with historic operation.
hinkley, Dungeness and sizewell we play a key role in the site stakeholder groups which 3 During the year the Company sent 387m of meet regularly with local people, media, low level Waste llW to the disposal site at council and nhs representatives and local Drigg which is owned by the nDA and operated politicians.
All other sites run regular local by BnFl.
this is a slight increase of about 8% liaison meetings with the same groups on the previous year, corresponding to normal of stakeholders.
the level of production of intermediate level Waste ilW is fairly there were a number of important events constant and each station produces typically at our power stations: hinkley point B and a few tens of cubic metres each year, which hunterston B celebrated 30 years of operation: is stored on site.
sizewell B celebrated 10 years of generation, while the Company declared it would extend investing in people spent Agr nuclear fuel is transported in the life of Dungeness B for a further 10 years our nEW trAining CEntrE At hEyshAM specially designed steel flasks to sellafield in beyond 2008, its original design life.
these oFFErs progrAMMEs inCluDing lEADErship Cumbria where it is initially stored in cooling milestones are important for the local DEvElopMEnt AnD Continuing trAining As WEll As BEing thE sitE inDuCtion CEntrE ponds spent fuel from our sizewell pWr communities, the Company and the uK.
For nEW rECruits remains in storage on site.
this year we sent 333 flasks to sellafield, compared with 298 the stations continue to support local initiatives in the previous year.
the increase is primarily be they educational, sporting, or health related.
as a result of normal variations in the pattern For example the biggest site sponsorship this of spent fuel dispatch.
year involved a unique partnership between sizewell B and leiston high school.
the station As discussed in the review of operating is helping the school to develop its engineering performance, the Company had 22 course by providing 10,000 plus practical Environmental Events during the year, against support including mentoring and safety a target of less than 50. one of the events the equipment.
the course is aimed at encouraging Company considers most significant occurred students into mechanical engineering, a vital at heysham stage 1, where a reactor was part of sizewell Bs operation, by providing a protecting the future allowed to return to full power with only three practical hands-on course.
ChilDrEn FroM CAnnington priMAry sChool out of four main cooling water pumps lEArning MorE ABout thE EnvironMEnt At our operating.
this indicated procedural shortfalls hinKlEy point nAturE trAil
