indd Proof: 09 Proof Read by: Operator: Amy Date: 18 07 06 Server: Studio lll Set-up: Amy First Read Revisions British EnErgy group plc 24 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 01 02 Board of Directors 03 04 05 06 01 sir Adrian Montague CBE Chairman 02 Bill Coley Chief Executive 03 roy Anderson Chief nuclear officer 04 stephen Billingham Finance Director 07 08 05 pascal Colombani non-Executive Director 06 Bob Davies non-Executive Director 07 John Delucca non-Executive Director 08 ian harley non-Executive Director 09 10 09 David pryde non-Executive Director 10 Clare spottiswoode CBE non-Executive Director 11 sir robert Walmsley non-Executive Director 11 B denotes member of the Board A denotes member of the Audit Committee r denotes member of the remuneration Committee g denotes member of the governance and nominations Committee s denotes member of the safety, health and Environment Committee n denotes member of the nuclear performance review Committee E denotes member of the Executive Committee t denotes member of the trading review Committee British EnErgy group plc 25 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 Bob Davies 57 Brg Clare Spottiswoode CBE 53 BArgt Board of Directors Appointed as an independent non-Executive Appointed as an independent non-Executive Director in May 2006, he was previously Chief Director in 2001 and Deputy Chairman and Executive of Arriva plc, the uK transport services senior independent non-Executive Director Sir Adrian Montague CBE 58 Bg group, from 1998 until April 2006. prior to joining since June 2002. she is Chairman of the Joined British Energy as Chairman in november Arriva, he was Chief Executive of East Midlands remuneration Committee.
Between 1993 and 2002. he is currently Chairman of Friends provident Electricity plc.
he holds an llB in law and 1998 she was Director general of ofgas and she plc, Michael page international plc, infrastructure Economics from the university of Edinburgh and was previously a non-Executive Director of Booker investors limited and the Waterways trust, and a is a Fellow of the Chartered institute of Management plc.
she currently chairs Economatters limited and Director of CellMark AB.
he is Chairman of Biffa plc, and a is also currently a non-Executive Director of number of senior roles in the implementation of the Director of Barratt Developments plc and the Advanced technology uK plc, Biofuels Corporation, governments private finance policies.
he was sunderland urban regeneration Company.
tullow oil plc, petroleum geo-services AsA and awarded a CBE in 2001 and was knighted in he also chairs the Board of governors of the Bergensen As.
she was awarded a CBE for December 2005. university of sunderland.
Bill Coley 63 BnEt John Delucca 63 BAgt Sir Robert Walmsley 65 BArgsn Accepted the position of Chief Executive in March Appointed as an independent non-Executive Appointed as an independent non-Executive 2005 and was formally appointed on 14 April 2005 Director in 2004 and Deputy Chairman of the Audit Director in 2003. previously he served in the royal having served as an independent non-Executive Committee.
he holds an MBA in Finance from navy where his final appointment was as Controller Director since 2003.
During his 37 year career with Fairleigh-Dickinson university school of graduate of the navy and member of the navy Board as a Duke power he held a variety of management and study.
he has held a variety of senior roles in us vice Admiral, starting in 1994. he was knighted in executive roles culminating in group president business.
Most recently, from 2003 until March 1995.
During his naval career he held a number of between 1997 and 2003. he is a non-Executive 2005, he was Executive vice-president and Chief nuclear-related posts including service as the Director of Ct Communications inc. peabody Financial officer of the rEl Consultancy group.
prior Chairman of the naval nuclear technical safety Energy Corp. and Er Jahna Enterprises.
to that, from 1998 to 2002 he was Executive vicepanel and Director general, submarines.
After president, Finance and Administration and Chief retiring from the navy, he was appointed as Chief Roy Anderson 58 BsnE Financial officer of Coty inc. and a member of their of Defence procurement a permanent secretary Appointed as Chief nuclear officer in september Executive Committee.
he is a non-Executive grade post in the Civil service, occupying that 2004. he was previously president of psEg Director, and chairs the audit committees of position from 1996 until 2003. he is an nuclear in the us, and Chief nuclear officer of Deltacom, Enzo Biochem, Endo pharmaceuticals independent Director of general Dynamics nuclear Management Company and of Florida inc. and the Elliott Company.
Corporation, the Major projects Association, EDo power Corporation.
his early career involved Corporation, stratos global Corporation and Cohort working for Carolina power and light Company, Ian Harley 56 BAgt plc.
he is Chairman of the governance and Boston Edison Company and general Electric Appointed as an independent non-Executive nominations Committee and the safety, health and Company, all in the us.
Director in 2002 and Chairman of the Audit Environment Committee.
he held a variety of posts in the Dr Stephen Billingham 48 BtE Finance, retail Banking and Wholesale Banking Appointed as Finance Director in september 2004.
Divisions of Abbey national and spent nine years immediately prior to joining British Energy, he was on the Board.
he is a Fellow of the institute of Executive team the group Finance Director of the engineering Chartered Accountants and Fellow and past consultancy and support services group, Ws Atkins president of the institute of Banking.
he is currently plc, during its successful financial recovery.
he led a non-Executive Director of rentokil initial plc, JW Robert Armour tE the finance team which signed the MetronetEducational limited and remploy limited.
he is Appointed as Company secretary in 1995 and london underground public private partnership.
governor of the Whitgift Foundation, vice-president general Counsel in 2003. he has been group treasurer of the engineering of the national Deaf Childrens society and Director group BiCC plc now Balfour Beatty plc and has of south london Church Fund and southwark Neil OHara tE held finance positions in severn trent plc, Burmah Diocesan Board of Finance.
previously Chairman of Appointed as Director of power and Energy trading oil plc and British telecom plc.
the Association for payment Clearing services, a in May 2004. member of the Deposit protection Board, appointed Dr Pascal Colombani 60 Brgn by the Bank of England, and a member of the Sally Smedley E Appointed as an independent non-Executive Financial services Authoritys practitioner panel.
Appointed as human resources and Director in June 2003. he holds a Doctorate in Communications Director in 1999. nuclear physics.
he presently holds directorships David Pryde 56 BArgt at Alstom sA, rhodia sA, the French institute of Appointed as an independent non-Executive Peter Wakefield Esn petroleum, and is an Associate Director of A. t. Director in september 2004, he has extensive Appointed as safety and technical Director in Kearney.
he was, until 2003, Chairman and Chief trading and risk management experience.
Executive officer of the Commissariat lEnergie held various senior management positions in trading Atomique, a member of the Electricit fide France businesses, including global head of precious Board of Directors and the non-Executive Chairman Metals trading, global head of Commodity of the supervisory Board of Areva, the international Derivatives trading and Marketing and global head nuclear services group.
he is a member of the of Futures and options Brokerage at Jp Morgan.
he French Academy of technology.
he is a Knight of was also strategist for Jp Morgan Chase investment the legion of honour and an officer of the order Bank.
he sat on the Boards of the Commodity of Merit.
he is Chairman of the nuclear Exchange, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and performance review Committee.
he is Chairman of the trading review Committee.
