British EnErgy group plc 39 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 Directors report for the year ended 31 March 2006 Financial Statements Research and Development the Directors present their Annual report and the audited consolidated During the year the group spent 13m 2005: 3m on research and financial statements of British Energy group plc the group for the year development and these costs have been expensed within operating and ended 31 March 2006. the comparative period is from incorporation on energy costs in the consolidated income statement.
this is primarily 2 July 2004 to 31 March 2005, with trading occurring in the period scientific and engineering research activity that is directed towards from rED to 31 March 2005. securing further improvements in the reliability, performance and safety of the groups generating business and related activities.
Principal Activities, Review of the Business and Future Developments Directors the groups principal activities are the generation and sale of electricity.
Details of the Directors who served throughout the year are set out on the review of operating performance on pages 9 to 13 and the pages 24 and 25 of the Annual report.
information required under the Financial review on pages 14 to 21 together with the information provisions of the Companies Acts regarding the remuneration and share contained in the graphs on page 2 form the groups Business review.
options of Directors, the interests of the Directors and their families in the Business review covers the groups business performance during the share capital of the Company and Directors service contracts is the financial year and its future prospects, and forms part of this detailed in the remuneration Committee report on pages 31 to 38.
Policy on Payment of Suppliers Share Capital the groups policy is to settle the terms of payment with suppliers when Details of British Energy group plcs share capital are included in note 28. agreeing the terms of each transaction, to ensure that suppliers are made aware of these terms and abide by the agreed terms.
the Results and Dividends Company had no trade payables at 31 March 2006 2005: nil and the consolidated results for the group are set out in the consolidated the group had trade payables of 166m at 31 March 2006 2005: income statement on page 43. the Board has decided that no dividend 129m.
During the year, suppliers to the group were paid within an will be payable for the year 2005: nil.
the profit for the year of average of 56 days 2005: 68 days.
For the purpose of this analysis 430m 2005: 41m has been transferred to reserves.
supplier purchases exclude payments to BnFL, the groups principal supplier, which are generally made against an agreed contract profile.
Substantial Shareholdings As at 20 June 2006 the Company had been notified of the following Charitable and Political Contributions interests in 3% or more of the issued ordinary share capital of the the group made charitable donations during the year of 178,864 Company: 2005: 58,583 in support of the community.
no political donations were made during the year 2005: nil.
holder % Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies Amvescap pLC 16.60 the groups financial risk management objectives and policies, including Deutsche Bank 8.27 policies for hedging transactions, are discussed in the risk Management Barclays pLC 7.39 section on pages 19 to 21 of the Financial review.
Fidelity investments 3.66 prudential pLC 3.06 Zurich Financial services 3.04 Legal & general investment Management 3.02 the Company was advised of Amvescap pLCs holding on 16 June 2006.
With certain exceptions, the Companys Articles of Association place a restriction on any member holding more than 15% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
the Company is in discussions with the relevant parties with a view to ensuring an appropriate course of action the Company has not been notified of any other interest in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company of 3% or more.
indd Proof: 06 Proof Read by: Operator: Amy Date: 14 07 06 Server: Studio lll Set-up: Amy First Read Revisions British EnErgy group plc 40 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 Directors report for the year ended 31 March 2006 Employees Annual General Meeting the group is committed to involving employees in the business through the Annual general Meeting will be held at the Murrayfield stadium a policy of communication and consultation.
Arrangements have been Conference Centre on 20 september 2006 at 11:00am.
A letter from established for the regular provision of information to all employees the Chairman detailing the business to be considered at the meeting, through briefings, staff conferences and well established formal together with a notice of Meeting, accompanies this Annual report.
Directors Statement as to Disclosure of Information to the group is committed to its equal opportunities policies, which Auditors includes promoting training and career development for all employees.
the Directors who were members of the Board at the time of approving Full and fair consideration for all vacancies and opportunities will be the Directors report are listed on pages 24 and 25. having made given to men and women, people with disabilities and those from ethnic enquiries of fellow Directors and of the auditors, each of these Directors minorities, regardless of marital status, age, religion or sexual confirms that: orientation.
the policy is supported by a Code of practice on harassment that recognises that all employees have the right to be treated with to the best of each Directors knowledge and belief, there is no dignity and respect.
information relevant to the preparation of their report of which the auditors are unaware: and During the year, the share incentive plan, which is an all-employee each Director has taken all the steps a Director might reasonably be performance related share scheme, was established.
More details of expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information and the share incentive plan, and the groups other share schemes, are set to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
out in note 32 to the consolidated financial statements.
this report was approved by the Board of Directors on 20 June 2006 Corporate Responsibility and signed on its behalf by: the group will publish a separate Corporate social responsibility report including health, safety and environmental data on its website later this year.
A report on Corporate social responsibility appears on pages 22 and 23 of this Annual report, addressing the topics of our marketplace, the workforce, the environment and the community.
Robert Armour Company Secretary Auditors the auditors,  LLp, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a resolution that they be reappointed will be proposed at the Annual general Meeting.
Authority is delegated to the Audit Committee to approve the fees of  LLp.
