THE BUSINESS, ITS OBJECTIVES AND ITS STRATEGY Introduction British Sky Broadcasting Group plc and its subsidiaries operate the leading pay television broadcast service in the UK and Ireland.
We acquire programming to broadcast on our own channels and supply certain of those channels to cable operators for them to retransmit to their subscribers in the UK and Ireland.
We retail channels both our own and third parties to DTH subscribers and to a limited number of DSL subscribers references in this Annual Report to DTH subscribers includes DSL subscribers.
We also make three of our channels available via the UK free-to-air DTT platform, which markets itself under the brand Freeview.
At 30 June 2006, there were 8,176,000 DTH subscribers to our television service, and 3,898,000 subscribers of the cable operators to whom we supply certain of our channels, in the UK and Ireland.
According to estimates of Broadcasters Audience Research Board BARB, as at 30 June 2006, there were 7,326,000 homes in the UK receiving certain of our channels via DTT.
Our total revenues in fiscal 2006 were 4,148 million 2005: 3,842 million, as set out in the table below.
2006 2005 For the year to 30 June m m DTH subscribers 3,154 2,968 Cable subscribers 224 219 Advertising 342 329 Sky Bet 37 32 Sky Active 91 92 Other 300 202 Total Revenues 4,148 3,842 We operate principally within the UK and Ireland, with activities conducted principally from the UK.
Our turnover principally arises from services provided to retail and wholesale customers within the UK, with the exception of 222 million 2005: 171 million which arises from services provided to customers in other European countries.
Our fiscal years end on the Sunday nearest to 30 June in each year.
We publish our financial statements in British pounds sterling.
References to US dollars, dollars, US$, $ and are to the currency of the United States US, references to Euro and 0 are to the currency of the European Community, and references to pounds sterling, pence and p are to the currency of the UK.
For information with respect to exchange rates, see Shareholder Information Exchange Rates.
Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards.
These differ in certain significant respects from accounting principles generally accepted in the US.
A discussion of the principal differences between IFRS and US GAAP is contained in note 32 to the consolidated financial statements.
Certain terms used herein are defined in the glossary which appears at the end of this Annual Report.
The Company, a public company limited by shares and domiciled in the UK, operates under the laws of England and Wales.
It was incorporated in England and Wales on 25 April 1988.
Our principal executive offices are located at Grant Way, Isleworth, Middlesex, TW7 5QD, England.
A list of our significant subsidiaries is set out in note 30 to the consolidated financial statements.
Programming We provide subscribers with a broad range of programming options.
Our programming is an important factor in generating and maintaining subscriptions to our channels.
With respect to the channels we own and operate, we incur significant expense to acquire exclusive UK and Ireland television rights to films, exclusive UK and Ireland television rights to broadcast certain sports events live and television rights to other general entertainment programming.
We are dependent upon the licences which grant us these rights as well as our Television Licensable Content Service licences, telecommunication licences and authorisations.
We also produce and commission original entertainment programming and have acquired the rights to market the television services of third parties to DTH subscribers.
Currently, we own, operate and distribute 18 Sky Channels via our DTH service or 31 including multiplex versions of the Sky Channels, but excluding the business channels SkyVenue and the Pub Channel.
A multiplex of a channel is generally either a time-shifted version of that channel, or a version that has predominantly the same theme or content as the primary channel, but where the content is transmitted at different times.
We also simulcast some of our Channels or programming from some of our Channels in high definition.
A simulcast channel is a simultaneous transmission of programmes on other channels.
We currently retail to our DTH subscribers 129 Sky Distributed Channels including multiplex versions of certain channels.
We do not own the Sky Distributed Channels, although we have an equity interest in certain of them.
In addition to the Sky Distributed Channels, we currently retail to our DTH subscribers the digital audio services Music Choice and Music Choice Extra, certain radio services and the Sky Box Office service a pay-per-view service offering movies, sporting events and concerts.
BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 5 The Sky Channels, and their multiplex versions, as at 27 July 2006, were as follows: Sky Channel Multiplex Multiplexes Simulcasts Channel Genre Sky Movies 1 Sky Movies 3, Sky Movies 5, Sky Sky Movies 9 HD Movies Movies 7, Sky Movies 9 Sky Movies 2 Sky Movies 4, Sky Movies 6, Sky Sky Movies 10 HD Movies Movies 8, Sky Movies 10 Sky Cinema 1 Sky Cinema 2 Movies Sky Sports 1 Sky Sports HD of Sports programming from Sky Sports 1 or Sky Sports 2 Sky Sports 2 Sports Sky Sports 3 Sports Sky Sports Xtra Sports Sky One Sky Two, Sky Three Sky One HD Entertainment Sky Vegas 845 Interactive entertainment Sky Vegas 846 Interactive entertainment Artsworld Artsworld HD Entertainment Sky News News Sky Sports News Sports News Sky Travel Sky Travel 1, Sky Travel Extra Entertainment Sky Travel Shop Shopping Flaunt Music Bliss Music Scuzz Music We retail packages of channels to our DTH subscribers.
These are combinations of channels at varying prices.
Various combinations of the Sky Basic Channels and the Sky Distributed Channels other than the Premium Sky Distributed Channels are available as basic tiers of programming, which since 1 September 2005 range from 21 to 89 television channels as well as certain music audio and radio services.
These basic packages are collectively called the Basic Packages.
We introduced a new style of packaging for new DTH subscribers from 1 September 2005.
The majority of existing DTH subscribers at that date were on equivalent packages, and have had their packages renamed to match the new style packaging.
It is intended that the remaining DTH subscribers, who were not on equivalent packages, will be transferred across to the new packaging in the near future.
The new packaging offers subscribers a choice of up to six mixes of both Sky Basic Channels and Sky Distributed Channels, each mix representing a genre of interest, to which subscribers have the option to add a combination of one or more Sky Premium Channels, and one or more Premium Sky Distributed Channels.
Prior to 1 September 2005, our DTH subscribers subscribed to one of a number of stand alone Basic Packages, to which they could have added, if they chose, one or more of the Sky Premium Channel Packages, and one or more of the Premium Sky Distributed Channels.
We also offer Sky Box Office to all our DTH subscribers.
On the DTH platform, the Sky Premium Channels, the Sky Basic Channels other than Sky News, Sky Box Office, Music Choice and Music Choice Extra and the Sky Distributed Channels are encrypted in order to limit access to paying subscribers only.
ntl:Telewest the entity formed by the merger of ntl Group Limited ntl and Telewest Communications Plc Telewest currently carries versions of all of the Sky Premium Channels including multiplex channels and our PremPlus pay-per-view service see description in Pay-Per-View below on its digital networks see Distribution Cable Distribution below for details and for details of the merger between ntl and Telewest.
We also broadcast versions of three of our channels, Sky News, Sky Sports News and Sky Three, unencrypted free-to-air via DTT in the UK as part of the Freeview offering see Distribution DTT Distribution below.
In October 2005, we launched Sky Three on our DTH service which replaced Sky Travel on DTT.
Sky Travel continues to be available to our DTH subscribers and on ntls digital network.
Simultaneously with the launch of Sky Three, we renamed Sky Mix as Sky Two.
In May 2006, we launched our High Definition Television HDTV service.
The initial Sky HD channel line up consists of: Sky Sports HD currently a simulcast of programmes from Sky Sports 1 or Sky Sports 2, Sky Movies 9 HD and Sky Movies 10 HD and two Sky Box Office HD channels, Sky One HD, Artsworld HD, Discovery HD and National Geographic HD.
6 According to surveys produced by BARB, as of 30 June 2006, an estimated 32% of the estimated 25.2 million television homes in the UK were equipped with digital satellite reception equipment: 14% subscribed to a cable television or SMATV package single mast antenna television which is primarily for buildings that receive programming by means of a single satellite antenna connected to a head end and which distributes television signals to individual units in the building by cable : and 29% had digital terrestrial television.
The percentage figures given for each means of delivery include homes which receive television services via more than one of such delivery means.
According to BARB estimates, during the 52 weeks ended 30 June 2006, the Sky Channels accounted for an estimated 21% of viewing of all satellite and cable channels excluding BBC1, BBC2, ITV1, Channel 4 and S4C, not Channel 4, in Wales only and five collectively the traditionally analogue terrestrial channels in homes that are able to receive those channels in the UK Multi-Channel Homes or an overall 9% viewing share of all channels including the traditionally analogue terrestrial channels available within Multi-Channel Homes during the same period.
The Sky Distributed Channels accounted for the majority of the balance of viewing of satellite and cable channels in such homes.
For the 52 weeks ended 30 June 2006, BARB estimates that 51% of all viewing in UK homes with digital satellite reception equipment digital satellite homes was of channels available via the satellite platform other than the traditionally analogue terrestrial channels.
BARB estimates that, in the same period, Sky Channels accounted for 26% of multi-channel viewing i. e. viewing of all channels excluding the traditionally analogue terrestrial channels in UK digital satellite homes, with an overall 13% viewing share across all channels available including the traditionally analogue terrestrial channels within UK digital satellite homes.
We hold equity interests in ventures that own 15 not including time-shifted multiplex versions of the Sky Distributed Channels including certain Premium Sky Distributed Channels which are operated and distributed in the UK, Ireland and the Channel Islands, namely Attheraces, Nickelodeon, Nick Jr. Nick Jr. 2, Nicktoons TV, National Geographic Channel, National Geographic HD, Adventure One, Chelsea TV, MUTV, Paramount Comedy, Paramount Comedy 2, The History Channel, the Biography Channel, and Crime and Investigation Network.
We also have a 33.33% equity interest in the venture operating the Sky News Australia Channel, which is based in Australia.
In September 2005, we disposed of our 35.8% equity interest in the UK listed company which operates the audio services, Music Choice and Music Choice Extra.
Premium Channels Sky Premium Channels Sky Movies 1, Sky Movies 2, Sky Cinema 1 and Sky Movies HD Sky Movies 1 and Sky Movies 2 operate 24-hours per day, seven days a week and principally show the output of recent release movies, made-fortelevision movies and certain library movies in respect of which we are typically granted exclusive UK and Ireland rights to broadcast during the relevant pay television window by major Hollywood and independent US and European licensors.
There are four Sky Movies 1 multiplexes see Programming above which are provided free to DTH and digital cable subscribers who subscribe to Sky Movies 1, and four Sky Movies 2 multiplexes see Programming above which are provided free to DTH and digital cable subscribers who subscribe to Sky Movies 2.
Sky Cinema 1 operates 24-hours per day, seven days a week and primarily features library or classic films.
It is available free to DTH and cable subscribers who subscribe to both of our Sky Movies channels.
There is one Sky Cinema multiplex, Sky Cinema 2, which is available free to DTH and digital cable subscribers who receive Sky Cinema 1.
There are two Sky Movies HD channels dedicated to movies broadcast in high definition: Sky Movies 9 HD and Sky Movies 10 HD.
Sky Movies 9 HD is available to subscribers to our HD service who also subscribe to Sky Movies 1, and Sky Movies 10 HD is available to subscribers to our HD service who also subscribe to Sky Movies 2.
Sky Movies 9 HD and Sky Movies 10 HD are a simulcast of Sky Movies 9 and Sky Movies 10 respectively.
As of 30 June 2006, there were approximately 5 million UK and Irish DTH and cable subscribers to either Sky Movies 1 or Sky Movies 2 and over 97% of movie subscribers subscribed to both Sky Movies 1 and Sky Movies 2.
Sky Sports 1, Sky Sports 2, Sky Sports 3, Sky Sports Xtra and Sky Sports HD Sky Sports 1 and Sky Sports 2 each provide, on average, 22 hours or more of sports programming per day, including live coverage of certain popular sports events.
As at 30 June 2006, there were approximately 5.8 million UK and Ireland DTH and cable subscribers to either Sky Sports 1 or Sky Sports 2 and over 98% of these sports subscribers subscribed to both Sky Sports 1 and Sky Sports 2.
Sky Sports 3 currently offers, on average, 18 hours of sports programming each day.
It is available free to DTH and cable subscribers who subscribe to either Sky Sports 1 or Sky Sports 2.
Sky Sports Xtra is available as a stand alone premium channel as well as being provided free as an additional channel to DTH and digital cable subscribers to both Sky Sports 1 and Sky Sports 2.
Sky Sports Xtra currently offers, on average, 16 hours of sports programming per day.
Sky Sports HD is available to subscribers to our HD service who subscribe to Sky Sports 1 and Sky Sports 2.
Sky Sports HD is currently a simulcast of programming broadcast on Sky Sports 1 or Sky Sports 2.
Sky Sports HD currently offers live coverage of Englands home test matches, one day internationals, and county matches in cricket.
We intend to launch a second HD Channel for sport during fiscal 2007 which will provide simulcasts of BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 7 additional programming from Sky Sports 1 and Sky Sports 2.
From the start of the 2006 07 season, we intend to carry HD coverage of Barclays Premiership Football, Coca-Cola Football league, Carling Cup and some international games, and coverage of matches from rugby unions Guinness Premiership and the Heineken Cup final.
We also intend to carry HD coverage of the Ryder Cup in Ireland in September 2006.
Our programming rights for the Sky Sports channels include exclusive live rights to broadcast, in the UK and Ireland, a number of football, rugby, cricket, motor sport, golf and boxing events.
In addition, we purchase rights to broadcast a wide range of additional sports programming on both an ad hoc and longer term basis.
In fiscal 2004, the Group successfully bid for all four packages of exclusive live UK television rights to Football Association Premier League FAPL football, two near live packages of delayed UK rights television and internet respectively to FAPL football, four of the five packages of live television rights for broadcast in Ireland and two near live packages of delayed rights television and internet respectively in Ireland from the beginning of the 2004 05 season to the end of the 2006 07 season.
See Government Regulation Competition Anti-Trust Law European Union Regime Effect on our Affairs European Commission Investigation Football Association Premier League Limited below for details of the European Commission investigation in relation to the sale of FAPL football broadcast rights.
In May 2006, the Group successfully bid for four of the six available packages each of 23 games of exclusive live UK audio visual rights to FAPL football, and four of the seven packages of live audio visual rights for broadcast in Ireland, from the beginning of the 2007 08 season to the end of the 2009 10 season.
In addition, the Group has been awarded near live long form rights to 242 games per season of FAPL football in both the UK and Ireland in the case of the UK, in a joint bid with British Telecommunications plc BT from the beginning of the 2007 08 season to the end of the 2009 10 season.
In July 2006, the Group was also awarded mobile clips rights to FAPL football for the 2007 08 to 2009 10 seasons in both the UK and Ireland.
The bid for mobile clips rights in the UK was made in partnership with News Group Newspapers.
The Group has obtained broadcast rights to sporting events including i exclusive live rights to Englands primary domestic cricket matches and all of Englands home test matches and one day internationals for the 2006 to 2009 domestic cricket seasons: ii exclusive live rights to Football League matches and the Carling Cup for the 2006 07 to 2008 09 domestic football seasons: iii a number of rugby union matches including autumn international matches, Guinness Premiership matches, England A Team matches from the 2005 06 to 2009 10 seasons and Heineken Cup matches from 2006 07 to 2009 10: and iv broadcast rights to the UEFA Champions League for a further three seasons from the 2006 07 season.
Since July 2005, the Group has obtained broadcasting rights to a number of sporting events including i exclusive rights to Horse of the Year Show from 2005 to 2007, ii Hickstead Royal International Horse Show from 2005 to 2007: iii exclusively live rights in English for the International Cricket Tours of India from 2006 to 2010: iv exclusively live rights for the Cricket World Cup 2007 and ICC Champions Trophy: v exclusive rights to all tri-nations rugby union matches between Australia, New Zealand and South Africa, plus all summer tours to these three countries made by England, Scotland, Wales and Ireland and exclusive rights to domestic competitions in those territories, including the Super 14 Tournament and Currie Cup: and vi exclusively live rights to the Heineken Cup and the Challenge Cup for the 2006 07 to 2009 10 seasons.
Premium Sky Distributed Channels Disney Cinemagic Under an agreement with The Walt Disney Company Limited, we have the exclusive rights to distribute, via DTH in the UK and Ireland, Disney Cinemagic and its multiplex channel, as bonus channels to those of our DTH subscribers receiving both of our Sky Movies channels, and to other DTH subscribers as a stand alone premium channel.
Chelsea TV Chelsea Digital Media Limited a company in which we own a 35% equity interest, operates a digital subscription pay television channel dedicated to showing certain programming relating to Chelsea Football Club Chelsea TV.
We offer Chelsea TV to our DTH subscribers solely as a stand alone premium channel.
MUTV We are party to a joint venture, MUTV Limited, with Manchester United PLC and Granada Media Group Ltd each party owning a 33.33% equity interest in MUTV Limited which operates a digital subscription pay television channel dedicated to showing certain programming relating to Manchester United Football Club MUTV.
We offer MUTV to our DTH subscribers solely as a stand alone premium channel and also act as agent for the distribution of the channel to cable operators in the UK and Ireland.
Music Choice Extra In addition to Music Choice, which is included in certain of our Basic Packages see Basic Channels Basic Sky Distributed Channels below, we offer Music Choice Extra, which consists of 30 digital audio channels, to our DTH subscribers solely as a stand alone premium channel.
8 Basic Channels Sky Basic Channels Sky One is the general entertainment flagship channel of the Sky Channels.
It is targeted primarily at a 16-44 age group audience and includes firstrun US entertainment programmes and UK-commissioned factual and drama series and is broadcast on a 24-hour per day basis.
According to BARB surveys, during the 52 weeks ended 30 June 2006, Sky One was viewed by approximately 46% of individuals in all UK television homes.
Sky Two formerly Sky Mix until renamed in October 2005 is a multiplex version of Sky One.
Sky Three was launched in October 2005.
Sky Three includes a mixed schedule of programming from Sky Ones library as well as original lifestyle commissions and travel documentaries from Sky Travel.
Sky One is simulcast in HD, available to all subscribers to our HD service and includes a range of Sky One programmes in high definition.
Sky News provides national and international news to viewers in the UK, Ireland and across the globe.
The channel is broadcast unencrypted on Astra satellites see Satellites below, and distributed to viewers via cable and satellite networks in Europe, Africa, the Middle East and Asia.
It is also shown on cable networks in the UK and Ireland and on DTT as part of the Freeview offering in the UK.
Sky Sports News provides 24-hour national and international sports news coverage.
It is currently available to our DTH subscribers, to subscribers to ntl:Telewests digital cable television services, subscribers to certain other smaller cable operators and in the UK on DTT as part of the Freeview offering.
Sky Travel is a travel entertainment and retail business incorporating four travel channels and a web-site.
The primary channel, Sky Travel, broadcasts travel entertainment and teleshopping programming and is currently available to our DTH subscribers, and on ntls digital cable television services.
Sky Travel programming also features on Sky Three, which broadcasts on DTH and on DTT as part of the Freeview offering.
Sky Travel Extra is a multiplex of Sky Travel and is available on DTH and ntls digital cable television services.
Sky Travel 1 was launched in November 2004 as a multiplex of Sky Travel and is available on DTH.
Viewers of the teleshopping programming on Sky Travel Shop on DTH and users of the skytravel.
co. uk website are able to purchase a wide range of flights, hotels and holiday packages by the telephone or internet.
Flaunt, Bliss formerly The Amp and Scuzz are music channels currently available to our DTH subscribers and to subscribers to ntls digital cable television services.
In March 2004, we launched Sky Vegas Live, an interactive entertainment and gambling channel.
We have renamed Sky Vegas Live as Sky Vegas 845 and launched Sky Vegas 846.
Both channels currently broadcast on a 24 hour per day basis and are currently available to our DTH subscribers.
Artsworld broadcasts arts oriented programming, including classical music, opera and dance.
It is currently available to our DTH subscribers as part of certain Basic Packages.
Artsworld is simulcast in HD, available to all subscribers to our HD service.
Basic Sky Distributed Channels Our agreements with the owners of the Sky Distributed Channels typically grant us the exclusive right to offer these channels to residential DTH subscribers in the UK and Ireland.
We currently act as an agent for The History Channel, the Biography Channel and MUTV for the sale of these channels and their multiplexes where they exist to cable operators in the UK and Ireland.
We also have the exclusive rights to distribute, via DTH in the UK and Ireland, the Disney Channel, its multiplex and Playhouse Disney.
The owners of the Sky Distributed Channels generally sell their own advertising time on their channels, although we act as an advertising sales agent for certain of these channels see Advertising below.
We offer Music Choice, a 24-hour digital audio service consisting of ten digital audio channels, to DTH subscribers.
This is included in some of our Basic Packages.
Pay-Per-View Our Sky Box Office service currently offers our DTH subscribers over 50 screens of television premieres of movies and occasional live sports and other special events on a pay-per-view basis.
We have acquired certain exclusive DTH rights from Hollywood and independent distributors, which enable us to show their movies on Sky Box Office.
Sky Box Office HD offers at least 10 movies each week in high definition on a pay-per-view basis.
We also offer seven screens of adult movies, between 10.00 pm and 6.00 am, to our DTH subscribers via our 18 Plus Movies service.
Following our purchase of exclusive rights to all of the four live television packages of FAPL football for the seasons 2004 05 to 2006 07 inclusive, 50 additional live matches over and above those matches broadcast on our Sky Sports channels have been and are available on a pay-per-view basis via our PremPlus service for the same seasons.
We also wholesale PremPlus to ntl:Telewest, ntl Ireland, Chorus Communications Chorus and Video Networks Limited VNL, as well as a number of smaller cable operators, for them to distribute to subscribers to their respective networks.
Following the end of the 2006 07 season, we intend to broadcast all of the live matches for which we have the rights on our Sky Sports channels, and, to cease offering the PremPlus service.
We also retail to our DTH subscribers eleven third-party adult services on a pay-per-night basis.
BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 9 Distribution We distribute our programming services directly to DTH subscribers through the packages described above.
Cable subscribers, by contrast, contract with cable operators, which in turn acquire the rights to distribute certain of the Sky Channels from us, which they combine with other channels from third parties and distribute to their subscribers.
DTT viewers must have either an integrated digital television set or an appropriate set-top box see Competition Digital Terrestrial Television Top Up TV below.
As at 30 June In thousands 1 2006 2005 Distribution of Sky Channels DTH homes 8,176 7,787 Cable homes 3,898 3,872 Total Sky pay homes 12,074 11,659 DTT homes 2 7,326 4,940 1 Each of the above figures includes homes that receive Sky Channels via more than one means of distribution.
2 The number in respect of DTT homes consists of BARBs estimate of the number of homes in the UK with access to Freeview services some of which will subscribe to Top Up TV.
DTH Distribution During fiscal 2006, there were 1,275,000 new subscribers to Sky digital, whilst DTH churn in that same period was 886,000 subscribers, resulting in a net 389,000 increase in our DTH subscriber base for the fiscal year.
We define DTH churn as the number of DTH subscribers over a given period who terminate their subscription in its entirety, net of former subscribers who reinstate their subscription in that period where such reinstatement is within a twelve month period of the termination of their original subscription.
In fiscal 2006, we derived 3,154 million 76% of our revenues from DTH subscription revenues 2005: 2,968 million.
As at 30 June 2006, we had a total of 8,176,000 DTH subscribers, with over 45% of subscribers taking the Sky World with Family Pack package the channel package option containing all of the Sky Premium Channels and the largest number of Sky Basic Channels and Sky Distributed Channels.
The price inclusive of VAT, where applicable to a residential DTH subscriber in the UK and Ireland of our post 1 September 2005 basic package containing the largest number of basic channels known as the Entertainment Pack is currently 21 and 030.50 per month respectively.
The range of prices inclusive of VAT, where applicable to a DTH subscriber in the UK and Ireland of taking the Entertainment Pack with Sky Premium Channels which varies depending upon the number of Sky Premium Channels taken is currently 32 to 42.50, and 046.50 to 064.50 respectively.
The prices inclusive of VAT, where applicable to a residential DTH subscriber in the UK and Ireland of our pre 1 September 2005 basic package containing the largest number of basic channels known as the Family Pack are currently 21 and 030.50 respectively having ranged between 18.50 and 21, and 026.99 and 030.50, respectively, since the beginning of fiscal 2004.
The range of prices inclusive of VAT, where applicable to a DTH subscriber of taking Sky Premium Channels with the Family Pack which varies depending upon the number of Sky Premium Channels taken in the UK and Ireland are currently 30 42.50, and 044.50 064.50, respectively having increased in stages from 27 38, and 042 060, respectively at the beginning of fiscal 2004.
We also offer a number of our services to commercial DTH subscribers in the UK and Ireland under a range of contracts.
The types of contract, and the channels, which are available to any particular commercial subscriber depend primarily upon the type of business premises within which they wish to show our services.
Our commercial DTH subscribers include offices, retail outlets, hotels, pubs and clubs.
Commercial DTH subscribers also include those commercial subscribers that operate a SMATV system for example in a hotel or office, who are considered as being one commercial DTH subscriber, rather than a number of cable subscribers equal to the number of individual units to which the television signal is distributed.
As at 30 June 2006, there were approximately 47,000 subscribers to our commercial DTH services in the UK and Ireland including approximately 5,000 commercial DTH subscribers operating a SMATV system.
The majority of our UK DTH commercial customers are subscribers under our pubs and clubs subscription agreement.
Under that agreement, the subscription prices range from 66 to 2,210 per month exclusive of VAT.
In Ireland, prices to pubs and clubs subscribers range from 0209 to 0474 per month exclusive of VAT.
We have recently launched Sky and Sky HD subscription services to our commercial subscribers.
Digital Satellite Reception Equipment UK In order to receive our DTH service, subscribers are required to have a digital satellite system which includes a satellite dish and LNB low noise block converter, a digibox and a remote control.
We have worked with a number of manufacturers and continue to work closely with selected 10 manufacturers to develop digital satellite digiboxes based upon our specifications.
Since 1999, we have generally offered free digital satellite systems without a requirement to subscribe to one of our services.
Standard installation for all DTH subscribers, during fiscal 2006 was, and is currently, free, whereas non-subscribers to our services taking up the free digibox offer which is different to purchasing our freesat proposition, see Distribution Free-to-view Satellite Proposition below during fiscal 2006 were, and currently are, charged 120.
The services received by a non-subscriber taking up the free digibox offer depend upon the number of unencrypted services and free encrypted services available on the Astra satellite system, and also on whether they receive encrypted channels from third party broadcasters on a subscription or pay-per-view basis.
We also offer our subscribers and non-subscribers the opportunity to purchase up to seven extra digiboxes or three Sky digiboxes for use at the same residence as their original digibox, which enables them to watch different satellite programmes in different rooms at the same time using just one satellite dish known as Multiroom.
As well as the cost of the extra digibox which is currently 49 for a digibox and 89 for a Sky digibox, a monthly subscription charge of 10 is also payable by the subscriber for each additional digibox purchased.
Standard installation of the additional boxes has been free since 24 September 2004 having been 60 from 1 July 2004 until that date.
With each additional subscription the subscriber is able to obtain all the channels included in his or her subscription package for the original digibox on one extra digibox.
During fiscal 2006, we have continued to offer Sky, a digibox that we have developed which contains two satellite tuners and an integrated personal television recorder allowing programming to be recorded directly on to a hard-disk contained within the digibox.
This enables DTH subscribers to watch one live satellite programme or a previously recorded programme while simultaneously recording another or to simultaneously record two programmes, to pause or rewind live television and to record automatically some series of programmes.
Subscribers pay a one-off fee for the Sky digibox, currently ranging from 89 to 199 depending on the promotional offers that we frequently run.
Standard installation for the Sky digibox during fiscal 2006 was free for new subscribers and subscribers upgrading to Sky and taking a multiroom subscription, 60 for existing subscribers upgrading to Sky without taking multiroom subscription, and 120 for non-subscribers.
From 1 July 2006, both new and existing subscribers pay 60 for standard Sky installation.
Subscribers also pay a monthly subscription fee to use the Sky recording features, however, if a subscriber subscribes to two or more Sky Premium Channels, no additional monthly subscription fee is charged.
In May 2006, we launched our HDTV service.
A television programme shown in high definition HD has approximately four times as much picture information shown on the screen as programmes shown in standard definition.
This service is available to customers who take a HD digibox a new version of the Sky digibox, a HD subscription and the relevant Sky digital subscription.
This HD digibox is capable of decoding and showing both standard definition channels and channels in the HDTV format, as well as having standard Sky features and providing access to our existing services.
Subscribers pay a one off fee of 299 for the HD digibox provided they also take a Sky subscription, otherwise the cost is 399 and a monthly subscription fee of 10 for the HD service in addition to the subscription fee for the package of channels taken and the subscription fee if applicable to use the Sky recording features.
Both digital satellite reception equipment and subscriptions to our DTH services are offered by us directly and through a variety of retailers.
We also provide installation and equipment repair services.
In fiscal 2006, 1.0 million digital satellite reception systems were installed in the UK by or on behalf of one of our subsidiaries 2005: 1.0 million: 2004: 0.8 million.
We have built digital transmission and uplink facilities and have developed in conjunction with others on a commissioned or licensed basis a digital conditional access system, customer management systems, EPG and navigation technology, as well as applications and online return path infrastructure to permit us to offer interactive television services.
Ireland In Ireland, both satellite equipment and subscriptions to our DTH services are offered directly by us and through a large number of Irish retailers.
Some of the channels offered in Ireland differ from those offered in the UK.
At 30 June 2006, there were approximately 427,000 DTH subscribers to our services in Ireland 2005: 363,000.
Sky Active Our DTH service allows a broadcaster, such as ourselves, to develop and offer its viewers enhanced and interactive services.
We offer enhanced broadcast applications behind a number of Sky Channels, including Sky Movies Active behind our movie channels, Sky Sports Active behind our sports channels, Sky News Active behind Sky News and the interactive betting service available behind Sky Vegas 845 and Sky Vegas 846.
We, and other broadcasters, are enhancing our channels with interactive services which can be accessed whilst the programming on the channel stays in view.
In fiscal 2006, we derived 91 million of Sky Active revenues 2005: 92 million.
BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 11 We provide an interactive television platform for the development and delivery of interactive services.
The platform is also used to deliver the interactive services of third parties.
We currently own and operate five stand alone interactive portals on our DTH platform including the main Sky Active portal which provide access to a broad range of interactive services including retail, betting, customer services and games.
DTH viewers can access these interactive services by means of either stand-alone portals our Sky Active portal being one of them or in conjunction with certain broadcast channels.
Such interactive services include competitions, voting, messaging services, quizzes, home shopping, games and betting, some of which relate to the programme content being shown on the relevant channel at the time.
Sky Active in common with other stand alone interactive portals is currently offered free of charge to all DTH viewers and each viewers telephone line is the return path for these interactive services via a modem in the digibox.
We derive revenues through interactive services principally from 1 premium rate telephone charges in connection with viewers usage of our services such as pay-per-play games, voting and entries to quizzes : 2 revenue sharing in e-commerce transactions e. g. retailing or betting completed on the platform: 3 advertising: and 4 tenancy and technology fees charged to content providers who offer services by means of the platform, including licences of our Wireless Television Mark-Up Language adapted for television browser technology and backend infrastructure to third party broadcasters on the digital DTH platform.
In addition, interactive revenues are earned from the digibox subsidy recovery charges relating to the Groups subsidy of the cost to customers of our digiboxes which are included within the conditional access, access control charges and EPG charges made to customers on our DTH platform.
We have continued to develop our interactive advertising technology, deploying advertising applications from July 2003 that make use of our browser technology with a view to enabling a wider range of interactive advertising services to be offered.
Since our launch of interactive advertising in April 2000, over 1,000 interactive advertising campaigns have been broadcast by us and others via our DTH platform.
In March 2004, we launched the new browser Mini DAL Dedicated Advertiser Location template, and to date more than 147 Mini DALs have been broadcast via our DTH platform.
Third party channels and third party stand alone interactive portals such as PlayJam, Teletext Holidays, Directgov, PlayMonteCarlo & Roulette and NHS Direct Interactive make use of the interactive potential of the digital DTH platform.
Third party broadcasters such as the British Broadcasting Corporation BBC, ITV, Channel 4, five, Flextech, UK TV, Discovery, MTV, Nickelodeon, QVC, Cartoon Network, TV-X and the Disney Channel have launched interactive services on our DTH platform, as have a number of third party providers of stand alone interactive services which are separate from those offered in conjunction with any television channel.
Third party channels may offer such interactivity in conjunction with Sky Interactive or provide their interactive services independently, including making use of competing interactive infrastructures connected to our DTH platform.
Sky Bet The Group offers a range of betting and gaming services under the Sky Bet, Sky Bet Vegas and Sky Vegas brands in relation to which the Group acts as a bookmaker.
The Sky Bet fixed odds sports betting service is available across multiple platforms, including by means of Sky digiboxes including Sky digiboxes, by telephone and on the internet.
An on-line casino, licensed in Alderney in the Channel Islands, is offered by us on the internet.
Sky Bet also continues to develop a range of popular fixed odds numbers betting products offered under its UK bookmakers permit on our DTH platform, through both the Sky Vegas 24 7 games service and the Sky Vegas 845 and Sky Vegas 846 interactive television channels.
In fiscal 2006, we derived 37 million of Sky Bet revenues 2005: 32 million.
We take active measures to try to ensure that persons resident in the US do not participate in our internet gaming and betting services.
Such measures include geo-blocking software and credit card checks.
Digital Subscriber Line DSL Distribution Sky By Broadband Sky By Broadband is a PC-application that provides access to Sky Sports and Sky Movies programming.
Available Sky Sports content includes match highlights, interviews, programme clips and Sky Sports News bulletins Sky Sports Broadband.
The equivalent Sky Movies service Sky Movies Broadband is an on-demand service that provides a choice of titles from Hollywood and independent distributors and enables customers to legally download first run, library and made-for-television movies available in the pay tv licence period to a PC registered in the home.
DTH subscribers who subscribe to Sports Mix therefore receiving both Sky Sports 1 and Sky Sports 2, and who have broadband internet access, are able to access Sky Sports Broadband to their PC for free.
DTH subscribers who subscribe to Movies Mix therefore receiving both Sky Movies 1 and Sky Movies 2, and who have broadband internet access, are able to access Sky Movies Broadband to their PC for free.
Video Networks Limited VNL We began offering subscriptions to certain of the Sky Channels to households connected to VNLs platform in August 2004.
VNL distributes pay television and broadband access services via a DSL platform that it has established in Greater London, marketed under the brand Homechoice.
We have entered into an agreement with VNL which gives us access to VNLs platform to enable us to retail certain of the Sky Premium Channels to customers who already subscribe to VNLs services.
In addition, VNL provides us with certain customer management, billing and sales agency services in respect of our subscribers receiving Sky Premium Channels via VNLs platform.
In return for these services, we pay VNL a fixed monthly fee per subscriber who subscribes to a Sky Premium Channel on the VNL platform as at April 2006 there were approximately 4,400 subscribers to our services on the VNL network.
12 Easynet In October 2005, the Group made a recommended cash offer for the entire share capital of Easynet Group plc Easynet.
The offer became unconditional in all respects on 6 January 2006.
Easynet was fide-listed from the London Stock Exchange in February 2006 and the acquisition of Easynet was completed on 10 March 2006.
Founded in 1994, Easynet is a pan-European networking company, providing customers with IP based wide area network solutions.
The Easynet network covers eight countries UK, Spain, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, Italy and Switzerland enabling companies to connect their European sites to a high quality, secure and reliable Multi-protocol Label Switching MPLS network.
Easynet offers a portfolio of IP services including national and cross border IP virtual private networks VPN, internet connectivity, carrier services, hosting and co-location in purpose built data centre facilities, and security solutions.
In the UK, Easynet engages in local loop unbundling LLU, placing its equipment in BT exchanges enabling it to offer differentiated services to businesses, consumers and wholesale to other providers.
As at 30 June 2006, it had 370 exchanges unbundled covering 6.7 million homes.
In December 2004, Easynet launched its wholesale LLU offering, LLUStream, making services from its enabled exchanges available to telecom carriers, ISPs and system integrators.
In April 2005, UK Online, a subsidiary of Easynet, launched its consumer broadband offering.
UK Online, had approximately 37,000 subscribers at the end of 30 June 2006.
Sky Broadband In July 2006, we announced the launch of Sky Broadband, our broadband internet access service.
The service is available to all of our DTH subscribers.
For DTH subscribers covered by our broadband network, three different broadband products are available: Sky Broadband Base: Sky Broadband Mid: and Sky Broadband Max.
Sky Broadband Base is free although subscribers have to pay a one off 40 connection fee to DTH subscribers covered by our broadband network, with download speeds of up to 2Mb s and 2GB monthly usage.
Sky Broadband Mid costs 5 per month in addition to a one off 20 connection fee and offers download speeds of up to 8Mb s and 40GB monthly usage.
Sky Broadband Max costs 10 per month with no connection fee and offers download speeds of up to 16Mb s and unlimited monthly usage.
As at 27 July 2006, our broadband network covered approximately 28% of UK households.
The network is expanding and we expect that it will cover approximately 70% of all UK households by the end of calendar 2007.
We also offer Sky Broadband Connect to our DTH subscribers who are not covered by our broadband network.
Sky Broadband Connect offers an equivalent service to Sky Broadband Mid and costs 17 per month in addition to a one off 40 connection fee.
As our broadband network expands, Sky Broadband Connect customers will be offered Sky Broadband Base, Sky Broadband Mid or Sky Broadband Max as their area gets covered.
Mobile Networks Sky By Mobile and Sky Mobile TV Sky By Mobile is a mobile phone application that provides access to Sky Sports, Sky News, Sky One and Sky Movies mobile content alerts, live scores, news, statistics and video clips.
It is available at no extra cost to Sky World, Sky Sports World, and Sky Movies World subscribers and Sky Bet customers.
Customers can also place bets and manage their Sky Bet accounts via Sky By Mobile.
The application is available across all mobile networks to customers with a compatible handset with mobile internet access via GPRS or 3G.
In addition, Sky By Mobile customers who have Vodafone 3G, can subscribe to Sky Mobile TV.
Sky Mobile TV offers over 23 channels streamed direct to the subscribers mobile phone, including Sky Sports News, Sky News, Sky One, Sky Movies, MTV, Discovery, National Geographic and others.
Sky Mobile TV costs subscribers 5 per month and can also be bought from the Vodafone live!
Cable Distribution United Kingdom On 3 March 2006, it was announced that Telewest Global, Inc having been renamed NTL Incorporated had completed a merger with NTL Incorporated having been renamed NTL Holdings, Inc.
It was announced that the combined company, incorporating both ntl and Telewest, the two major multiple system cable operators responsible for almost all of the UK broadband cable systems, will operate under the name of NTL Incorporated.
The combined entity is also referred to as ntl:Telewest.
On 4 April 2006, ntl:Telewest and the Independent Board of Virgin Mobile Holdings UK plc Virgin Mobile announced that they had reached agreement on the terms of a recommended offer to be made by ntl:Telewest to acquire the entire issued and to be issued share capital of Virgin Mobile.
On 4 July 2006, it was announced that the acquisition of Virgin Mobile by ntl:Telewest had completed and that ntl:Telewest has also entered into an exclusive licence agreement with Virgin Enterprises Limited for the use of the Virgin brand for ntl:Telewests consumer business.
BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 13 Currently the television services offered have not been harmonised across all the cable systems operated by ntl:Telewest but remain differentiated according to whether they are provided by means of a former ntl cable system or a former Telewest system.
ntl:Telewest continues to provide both analogue and digital cable services across its cable systems and accounts for a substantial proportion of our wholesale revenues, which are revenues derived from the supply of Sky Channels to UK and Irish cable platforms.
In fiscal 2006, we derived 224 million in subscription fees from cable operators 2005: 219 million.
We estimate that, as of 30 June 2006, ntl:Telewest subscribers represented approximately 99% of all cable television subscribers in the UK measured by reference to total cable subscribers, as reported to us by the cable operators.
UK cable subscribers increased in fiscal 2006, from a total of 3,287,000 subscribers to 3,294,000 subscribers as at 30 June 2006 including broadband, narrowband and SMATV subscribers of whom all but a very small proportion take some programming from us.
Cable operators pay us a monthly per subscriber fee per channel in respect of their subscribers to the Sky Basic Channels and a monthly per subscriber fee per channel package for the Sky Premium Channels.
Like the previous rate cards setting out our wholesale prices, the current rate card allows cable operators to offer their customers any choice or combination of the Sky Premium Channels.
The Sky Basic Channels are not included in our current wholesale rate card and we negotiate separate commercial arrangements with each cable operator for the carriage of these channels.
ntl:Telewest currently carries versions of all of the Sky Premium Channels including multiplex channels and our PremPlus pay-per-view service on its digital networks both former ntl networks and former Telewest networks.
Distribution of Sky Premium Channels to ntl:Telewests remaining analogue cable subscribers is more limited.
ntl:Telewest distributes all of the Sky Basic Channels other than Artsworld, Sky Travel 1, Sky Travel Shop and the Sky Vegas channels on its former ntl digital networks, however only the Sky Basic Channels: Sky One and Sky News and Sky Sports News, are distributed on the former Telewest digital networks.
Both Sky One and Sky News are distributed on the former ntl and Telewest analogue networks.
Our current agreements with ntl: Telewest for the distribution of our channels are due to expire during calendar 2006, however, we expect to renew these agreements.
Most narrowband cable networks these are generally smaller cable companies have a more limited channel capacity than digital satellite or digital cable and do not generally carry all of the Sky Channels.
Ireland In Ireland, cable subscriber fees for the Sky Premium Channels are charged on a per subscriber per channel package basis.
The level of prices charged to cable operators for most Sky Channels is lower than in the UK.
At 30 June 2006, there were approximately 604,000 2005: 585,000 cable subscribers including SMATV to our programming in Ireland.
We currently have arrangements in place with ntl Ireland and Chorus, previously the two leading Irish cable operators but which were brought under the common ownership of Liberty Global Inc. in December 2005, for the re-transmission of certain of the Sky Channels to their subscribers.
Both ntl Ireland and Chorus have launched, albeit on a limited basis, digital cable services in Ireland.
DTT Distribution We broadcast versions of three of our channels, Sky News, Sky Sports News and Sky Three formerly Sky Travel, unencrypted free-to-air via DTT in the UK.
These channels are broadcast on a DTT multiplex for which the licence is held by National Grid Wireless which owns and operates shared wireless communications and broadcast infrastructure.
The channels broadcast via DTT by us, together with a number of other channels broadcast free-to-air via DTT by other broadcasters, are marketed to consumers under the generic brand Freeview.
Free-to-view Satellite Proposition In October 2004, we launched a new freesat proposition, offering purchasers access to over 270 free-to-view television and radio channels including regional variants and interactive services, without a monthly subscription fee.
Consumers can purchase a package of digital satellite reception equipment, including a digital satellite viewing card and standard installation, for 150.
The free-to-view channels on DTH include Sky News, and a range of television and radio channels provided by the BBC and ITV.
Access to the encrypted signals of Sky Three, Channel 4 and five is available as a result of the provision of a digital satellite viewing card which we provide as part of the package.
There is no obligation for purchasers of this proposition to subscribe to a pay television service: however, the proposition offers an easy upgrade path to a DTH subscription with us for those customers who choose subsequently to add a pay television service to their viewing options.
Emerging forms of Distribution We are also evaluating various other possible new means of distributing our services other than by DTH, cable, DSL and DTT, such as wireless broadband using Wimax or other similar technologies, mobile TV using technologies such as Digital Audio Broadcasting DAB, Digital Video Broadcasting for Handhelds DVB-H, MediaFLO by Qualcomm, the internet, General Packet Radio Service GPRS and UMTS 3G mobile telephony.
We also participate actively in the Digital Video Broadcasting DVB standardisation group both in the various working groups and at the level of the DVBs Steering Board, which gives us early exposure to other emerging technologies.
14 Seasonality New subscriptions to our channels have tended to be highest in the second quarter of our fiscal year, the pre-Christmas period.
As a result, our marketing costs have tended to be highest in the second quarter of each fiscal year.
There is no assurance that these trends will continue in the future.
Marketing The principal types of marketing used by us to promote our products and services are press including both national and regional newspapers and magazines, media inserts, door drops, direct mailings, outdoor activity such as billboards and bus backs, on-air advertising on both national and regional radio and television channels on both promotional and commercial airtime, outbound calling, on-line advertising on both third party websites and on sky.
com, advertising in our customer magazine and point of sale advertising in retail outlets which sell our products and services.
Advertising In fiscal 2006, we derived 342 million of our revenues from advertising sales revenue 2005: 329 million.
We sell advertising for all of the 17 Sky Channels as well as for their multiplexes around all programmes that are broadcast on these channels, irrespective of whether the programming was produced in-house or licensed from a third party.
We also act as the advertising sales agent for certain third party channels.
We sell advertising time across all of our channels, and tailor distribution according to the target audience an advertiser is trying to reach, but can sell on a specific channel basis where requested.
According to BARB estimates, across all UK Multi-Channel Homes, our average share for all of the Sky Channels of commercial audiences excluding those of the BBC for fiscal 2006 was 13.7%, a decrease from 15.0% at the end of the previous fiscal year.
Our subscribers households tend to be younger and more affluent than the average UK household and tend to over-represent the 16-34 year old, ABC1 i. e. upmarket and male demographic profiles sought by many advertisers.
In fiscal 2006, we launched a major new research tool, SkyView, which combines viewing data collected from digiboxes with data collected regarding product purchase.
It is intended to give advertisers a greater understanding of viewing patterns and how to target their consumers in homes that subscribe to our DTH service.
Sponsorship In fiscal 2006, we derived 28 million from sponsorship revenue 2005: 24 million, which is included in advertising sales revenue.
We acquire programme sponsors for the Sky Channels and work alongside the sales teams of partner channels such as National Geographic Channel, Adventure One, The History Channel and Hallmark to help secure broadcast sponsors for their channels.
Programme sponsorship is defined as either title sponsorship e. g. Ford Super Sunday or Gillette Soccer Saturday or in association sponsorships e. g. The Simpsons Dominos Pizza or 24 Nissan.
According to our internal estimates and an independent report into the television sponsorship sector, our share for all of the Sky Channels of the total broadcast sponsorship business conducted in the UK was approximately 20%, more than any other broadcast sales house, other than ITV, which trades with approximately 45% of the sector.
Competition We are a channel provider, a distributor of television services and a DTH platform operator.
We therefore compete with a number of communications and entertainment companies to obtain programming, for distribution, for viewers and for advertising sales.
Competition From Other Television Channels The Sky channels compete with other television channels for the acquisition of programming, for viewers, for distribution and for advertising and sponsorship revenue.
In both the UK and Ireland, the television channels with the largest audience shares are the traditionally analogue terrestrial channels, which are broadcast free-to-air.
In the UK, these channels are BBC1, BBC2, ITV1, Channel 4 and five, while in Ireland these are RTE1 and Network 2, the Irish language channel TG4, and the commercial channel TV3.
In the UK, as well as being available via analogue terrestrial television, the five traditionally analogue terrestrial channels are also available via DTH, cable, DTT and DSL, and, in the case of DTH and DTT, on a free-to-air basis.
In addition to these channels we compete with both the Sky Distributed Channels and with other television channels broadcast via satellite, cable, DTT and or via DSL.
These other channels may be broadcast by satellite free-to-air either encrypted or unencrypted or they may be  pay television channels.
The free-to-air encrypted and unencrypted channels which, as at May 2006 amounted to more than 270 digital BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 15 satellite channels including radio services can be received by anyone with appropriate satellite reception equipment including the necessary conditional access equipment for the reception of encrypted channels without payment of a subscription fee.
Other than the digital satellite versions of the traditionally analogue terrestrial channels, none of these channels individually has a viewing share in the UK that approaches the combined Sky Channels share.
However, the popularity of the non-Sky channels available on our DTH platform can make our DTH offering more attractive to subscribers and potential customers.
As at 30 June 2006, there were 26 encrypted digital satellite pay television channels for DTH reception retailed independently of us available on a subscription basis, and 13 such channels available on a pay-per-view basis.
Those channels available only on a pay-per-view, or a pay-per-view and subscription basis, were all adult channels except for two Setanta Sports pay-per-view channels.
As we and other broadcasters all seek a range of attractive programming to attract viewers, in both the UK and Ireland, there have been, and may in the future be, bidding competitions and or regulatory intervention which could increase our programming acquisition costs, or which could mean that certain programming in which we are interested may not be available to us.
For example, in 2006, Setanta Sports secured the live audio visual rights to two of the six available UK packages of FAPL football for the 2007 08 to 2009 10 seasons, for which we also bid.
In addition, the PGA Tour has announced a six year deal starting on 1 January 2007 granting Setanta Sports exclusive live rights to all PGA Tour events.
Competition From Other Video Distributors and Video Distribution Channels We compete in the distribution of video content to consumers with a range of other distributors and distribution channels.
Such distributors may also compete with us for the acquisition of programming rights.
For example, in 2003, Vodafone UK and 3 UK secured the mobile rights to show near live clips of FAPL football for the three seasons beginning with the 2004 05 season, for which we also bid, whereas, in 2006, we outbid the mobile operators for the mobile audio visual rights to FAPL football for three seasons beginning with the 2007 08 season.
ntl:Telewest has been awarded rights to offer near live clips of FAPL football matches over the internet for the same three seasons.
Cable Operators Cable operators compete with us as an alternative service to DTH distribution and carry the majority of the Sky Channels.
In the UK, the principal cable operator is now ntl:Telewest see Distribution, above, which was formed as a result of the merger of ntl and Telewest.
ntl:Telewest provides both analogue and digital cable services in the UK.
ntl:Telewest continues to provide cable services using both the Telewest and ntl brands.
In Ireland cable television services are provided principally by UPC Broadband via its Chorus and ntl Ireland subsidiaries.
ntl Ireland and Chorus offer both analogue and digital cable and multipoint microwave distribution system MMDS television services in Ireland.
There are areas in the UK and Ireland where it may not be economically feasible to offer cable television services, including some rural areas.
Equally, there are also certain areas in the UK and Ireland, such as conservation areas, where, due to planning and local regulations, DTH satellite equipment may not be installed.
According to Ofcom, cable networks currently cover approximately 50% of UK homes, whilst, according to the Commission for Communications Regulation ComReg the national communications regulatory authority in Ireland, cable and MMDS services cover nearly 80% of Irish homes.
Approximately 13% of UK homes currently subscribe to a cable television service, whilst approximately 40% of Irish homes currently subscribe to cable and MMDS television services.
In January 2005, ntl and Telewest launched Video-on-Demand VoD services in the UK.
ntls VoD service is branded ntl On Demand, whilst Telewests service is branded Teleport.
Telewest rolled out Teleport to all its digital subscriber base in 2005. ntl:Telewest expects the roll out of VoD services to all ntl cable subscribers to be completed by 2007.
The cable VoD services include movie and television programme content, and provide viewers with pause and rewind functionality.
Digital cable subscribers to whom the services are available do not need to upgrade their equipment to receive the services.
Telewest has also launched TV Drive, a HD digibox which enables its customers to watch HD programmes and movies with Teleport, as well as other broadcasters HD channels available on cable.
Top Up TV Top Up TV which launched in March 2004 offers a pay television service via DTT.
Top Up TV comprises five DTT video streams between 6pm and 6am, and four video streams at other times, on which programming from eleven digital channels is broadcast for example, programming from one digital television channel is broadcast on one of Top Up TVs video streams between 6 am and midday, whilst programming from a different digital television channel is broadcast on the same DTT video stream during other hours of the day.
In June 2006, five announced it had bought two of Top Up TVs video streams, in order to broadcast two new television channels, which will, in the absence of other developments, reduce the capacity available to Top Up TV.
It is reported that Top Up TV intends to launch an on-demand video service updated every night over the air to a Top Up TV PVR in the autumn.
The service can be received only by households with a DTT set-top box or an integrated digital television set which has conditional access technology within it, or with a Conditional Access Module CAM plugged into a set-top box or integrated digital television set which has a Common Interface Socket.
Common Interface Sockets are a mandatory feature on all integrated digital television sets: however, the majority of DTT set-top boxes that have been sold to date do not include such technology.
16 Home Videos and DVDs Home video sales and rentals including DVDs have historically been strong in the UK.
In addition to offering consumers an alternative source of programming to terrestrial, cable and satellite television, the video window which includes DVDs for new films generally starts before both the pay television window and the pay-per-view television window.
The video window typically commences approximately four to six months following a films UK cinema release.
Currently, the pay-per-view television window generally commences two to three months later.
We have, to date, been able to develop a significant customer base for our pay-per-view services and movie channels, notwithstanding competition from the home video industry and increased competition from DVDs which may increase further as DVD prices fall, electronic sell-through grows and a new High Definition HD DVD standard emerges.
HD-DVD was released in the US and Japan in the first half of 2006: there is no release date yet for the UK.
Free to air television services It is likely that as a result of the availability of free-to-air television channels some consumers will choose to take such free-to-air services in preference to a pay television service.
In the UK the principal sources of broadcast free-to-air television services are: analogue television services see Competition from other Television Channels above, Digital Terrestrial Television DTT and Skys freesat proposition.
Freeview In the UK, free-to-air channels on the DTT platform are marketed under the Freeview brand.
There are over 40 television channels available nationally as part of this offering though a number of these share the same DTT video stream at different times of the day, and over 20 radio channels.
There are also several television channels available on a regional basis within the UK.
Freeview services are currently able to be received by around 75% of UK homes.
It is anticipated that this will increase to around 98% of homes by 2012 as analogue television broadcasting is discontinued digital switchover progressively in different regions of the UK.
In order to receive Freeview services consumers purchase either a set top box, which is relatively inexpensive, or a television set with a built in digital tuner an Integrated Digital TV, or IDTV.
Digital switchover see below will release radio spectrum currently used to broadcast analogue television services, which may be used to expand the number of channels able to be carried on the DTT platform or may be allocated to allow HD services to be offered.
Take-up of Freeview services has grown quickly since its launch in October 2002.
According to BARB estimates, at 30 June 2006 there were 7,326,000 homes in the UK with access to Freeview services.
There is currently no DTT service in Ireland.
In 2004, the Irish Government commenced an evaluation of the options for the roll-out of a DTT network in Ireland.
As part of the process, in May 2006, it announced the commencement of the roll out of infrastructure for a pilot DTT service, indicating that the pilot network is expected to be operational by mid-August 2006.
The pilot is planned to continue over a two year period in the Dublin region, and the Government has indicated that it should be seen as a precursor to a national roll out.
Details of the services to be provided as part of this pilot DTT service have not yet been announced.
Free-to-view Satellite Propositions The introduction by us in October 2004 of our freesat proposition see Distribution Free-to-view Satellite Proposition above has provided an alternative multichannel television service to households, which might elect to take up such service instead of our pay television offerings.
In September 2005, ITV announced that it is working together with the BBC to develop a free digital satellite service to complement Freeview, entitled Freesat which was to be operational in 2006, but is now planned for autumn 2007.
ITV announced that this new service will enable viewers to access subscription free digital television via satellite and will be aimed primarily at people in the UK currently unable to access Freeview.
DSL networks Broadband-enabled telephone lines, principally using DSL technology, are being used increasingly in the UK and Ireland to deliver video content to consumers.
This includes content delivered on an on-demand basis for example, via the internet and, to a lesser extent, broadcast content.
It also includes delivery of content to consumers PCs, and to their television sets, via compatible set top boxes.
The increase in the average speed of internet connections and the emergence of new codecs such as MPEG-4 and WM9 means consumers can increasingly download video over the internet.
Additionally, the use of peer to peer technology for both legitimate and illegitimate video downloading is growing.
DSL services have grown significantly in the UK in the recent past, both in terms of the number of providers, and the number of users.
According to BT, as at 31 March 2006, there were 7.9 million subscribers to DSL services in the UK.
Only a very limited number of these subscribers currently use these services for digital television.
Although consumer broadband DSL access remains focused on the provision of internet access, two operators BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 17 developed DSL networks with the capacity to deliver digital television services to homes: Kingston Communications in Kingston-upon-Hull which closed its TV platform in April 2006 and VNL in parts of London and Stevenage.
The latest version of VNLs service was launched commercially in May 2004 and offers access to a range of broadcast channels and video-on-demand content, including movies packaged together with broadband internet access.
VNL has indicated that it intends, subject to raising the necessary financing, to extend its DSL platform throughout the UK.
The private building sector has launched several smaller TV via DSL networks in the past 12 months.
According to Ofcom, at May 2006 48,545 television homes in the UK were viewing television via a DSL platform.
We are also aware of other companies continuing to look at TV via DSL network opportunities.
BT has announced plans to launch a service BT Vision which will enable the provision of video content via DSL.
BT Vision is due to launch in autumn 2006.
BT Vision will enable consumers to purchase a set top box which can receive and view on their television both DTT services via a households television aerial, and on-demand video services via a DSL connection.
The set top box will also include PVR functionality.
Broadband Following the launch of our broadband internet access service in July 2006, we compete with other providers of broadband internet access in the UK.
These primarily include BT, ntl:Telewest, AOL UK, Tiscali, Orange and the Carphone Warehouse.
We also compete with providers of dial up internet access, including BT, ntl:Telewest, AOL UK, Tiscali and Orange.
According to the Office of National Statistics ONS, in March 2006, broadband comprised 69% of internet subscriptions in the UK, with the remaining 31% being dial up.
According to Point Topic, a broadband research company, in March 2006, there were 10.7 million broadband lines in the UK, of which, 9.6 million were consumer broadband lines.
During 2006, several of our competitors updated or relaunched their broadband services: in April 2006, the Carphone Warehouse launched its broadband service, TalkTalk: in June 2006, BT announced a new range of packages, BT Total Broadband, and broadband provider Wanadoo was rebranded Orange by parent company France Telecom.
Average broadband download speeds continue to increase.
Currently, our broadband services highest download speed is up to 16Mb s, however, the majority of rival packages do not currently exceed 8Mb s. According to Point Topic, as at 31 March 2006, ntl:Telewest had the largest share of the UK consumer broadband market with 28.7%, followed by BT with 19.6%.
Other Technologies Other technologies, such as third generation cellular telephone networks 3G, provide additional means by which video content can be delivered to viewers.
All major cellular network operators in the UK and Ireland now offer 3G services to consumers.
However, 3G services have yet to make a significant impact.
Although the volume of subscribers to 3 UK who only operate a 3G mobile network has shown strong growth increasing to over 3.6 million at March 2006, 3G penetration amongst more established operators remains low.
Following a trial period, BT has announced plans to launch a commercial mobile TV service branded BT Movio in 2006.
The service will use DABIP technology and be offered to mobile network operators on a wholesale basis.
Initially, the service will be available exclusively to subscribers of Virgin Mobile which is owned by NTL Incorporated.
Digital Switchover The UK Government has indicated that it intends to switch off the transmission of analogue terrestrial television in the UK between 2008 and 2012.
On switching off analogue transmission, the coverage of the core multiplexes of the existing DTT network those carrying digital versions of the main traditionally analogue terrestrial channels will rise from its current level of approximately 73% to an estimated 98.5%.
The licence conditions for Channels 3, 4 and 5 require those channels to achieve substantially the same DTT coverage as is currently achieved in analogue.
Following a consultation on planning options for digital switchover which took place in February 2005, Ofcom issued a statement in June 2005 in which it indicated that DTT coverage for the main analogue terrestrial channels should match the existing analogue core coverage of 98.5%.
Switching off analogue terrestrial transmission will, in any event, enable DTT to be made available to households who cannot currently receive it.
In March 2006, the UK Government published a white paper entitled A public service for all: the BBC in the digital age, in which it gave the BBC a new purpose of building digital Britain.
In particular, it proposes that the BBC will be required to replicate, through digital switchover, substantially the same coverage for its television services as in analogue 98.5%, provide information on switchover to viewers, and help to implement and pay for schemes to assist the most vulnerable people to switch from analogue to digital television.
Following analogue terrestrial transmission being switched off, all analogue households wishing to continue to receive television services will need to convert to digital television.
Current options for digital television reception are DTT, digital satellite via our DTH service either as a subscriber, or as a non-subscriber or BBCs and ITVs proposed freesat service, and, in some areas, cable or DSL, as well as a combination of these services.
There 18 may be other options for digital television available in the future.
The extent to which households may choose another service in preference to our DTH service is difficult to predict.
Advertising Our primary competitors for television advertising sales are ITV plc formed by the merger of Granada plc Granada and Carlton Communications plc Carlton, which completed in February 2004 which sells advertising on ITV1, ITV2, ITV3, ITV4, and ITV Play, Channel 4 which also sells advertising for E4, More 4 and Film Four and their multiplexes, five, Interactive Digital Sales IDS which sells advertising on behalf of the UKTV group of channels and the Flextech channels Living, Bravo, Trouble and Challenge, and Viacom Brand Solutions VBS which sells advertising on behalf of Viacom, MTV and Nickelodeon.
In November 2003, the Contract Rights Renewal CRR remedy was introduced to protect media buyers and advertisers from the increased market power enjoyed by the merged ITV.
CRR allows media buyers and advertisers that contracted directly with Carlton and Granada to renew the terms of their existing share deals without change and new advertisers to contract on fair and reasonable terms.
In addition, in respect of agreements that include a share commitment, the advertisers media buyers are able to reduce the share committed to ITV commensurate with any decline in ITVs share of impacts year on year.
Based upon the latest BARB survey estimates, ITV1 and Channel 4 were available to approximately 25.1 and 25 million television homes, respectively, in the UK both digital and analogue, with approximately 92% of the estimated 25.3 million television homes in the UK receiving an acceptable five terrestrial analogue signal.
In addition, according to BARB survey estimates, as at June 2006, approximately 17.7 million UK homes have access to satellite, cable, or digital terrestrial television.
Both ITV1 and Channel 4 have a significantly greater overall UK television viewing share than any individual Sky Channel.
As a result of the ability of ITV1 and Channel 4 to reach almost all UK television homes, these channels are able to generate greater advertising revenues than we do.
We also compete with the Sky Distributed Channels and all other commercial channels for television advertising sales.
Within UK Multi-Channel Homes, however, the Sky Channels in aggregate attract viewing levels which are comparable to some of the traditionally analogue terrestrial channels.
This suggests to us that, as the number of Multi-Channel Homes increases, our competitive position with respect to advertising revenues may improve.
Additional growth from the free-to-view offerings, Freeview and our freesat proposition, should also improve the revenue share of the Sky Channels which are available as part of these offerings.
The Sky Channels jointly have an overall viewing share within Multi-Channel Homes significantly greater than each of Channel 4 and five in those homes, although the Sky Channels combined viewing share is still less than that of ITV1 in these homes.
Based upon BARB surveys for the 52 weeks ended 30 June 2006, the viewing shares in UK Multi-Channel Homes of the traditionally analogue terrestrial channels and the combined Sky Channels were, respectively, BBC1 19.5%, BBC2 6.9%, ITV1 18.1%, Channel 4 8.3%, five 5.1%, and the Sky Channels 8.9% of which Sky One accounted for 20.6% of the Sky Channels viewing share and had an individual viewing share of 1.5%.
The remaining 33.2% of viewing in UK Multi-Channel Homes was of other non-Sky satellite, cable and DTT channels.
Technology and Infrastructure We control access to DTH channels through the use of a conditional access system, VideoGuard see Encryption of Digital Services below.
The satellite reception equipment provided to DTH customers is owned by them whether or not they are subscribers, except for certain aspects such as the smart card a credit card size plastic card containing a chip that provides conditional access functionality, some of the software in all digiboxes, and a proportion of the hard drive capacity in some of the Sky digiboxes and HD digiboxes.
All costs associated with the acquisition of subscribers, including the cost of satellite reception equipment, are charged immediately to the income statement and are therefore not included within capital expenditure.
Underpinning the EPG in the digibox is an operating system which we license from OpenTV, Inc. OpenTV.
The OpenTV operating system provides a virtual machine interface which enables applications to be authored once, yet still be capable of running on all our different types of DTH digiboxes once the application is downloaded to the digiboxes.
This simplifies the development of applications for the digibox and ensures universal availability of services to all DTH digiboxes.
The operating system in each digibox is licensed upon payment of a per digibox royalty by the digibox manufacturer to OpenTV.
Encryption of Digital Services VideoGuard is a conditional access technology which can be used to encrypt and decrypt digital television and audio services.
We use it to control DTH viewers access to encrypted satellite non-subscription channels and encrypted digital pay and pay-per-view television and audio channels broadcast on digital satellite for reception in the UK and or Ireland.
We use the VideoGuard technology and distribute smart cards in the UK and Ireland under an agreement with NDS Limited which expires in 2010, but is renewable, at our option, for a further three years.
NDS supplies smart cards and undertakes ongoing security development and other support services in return for the payment of fees by us.
BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 19 In conjunction with NDS, we maintain a policy of refining and updating the VideoGuard technology in order to restrict unauthorised DTH reception of our services.
We take appropriate measures to counter unauthorised reception, including implementing over-the-air countermeasures altering authorised smart cards in a manner which then renders counterfeit smart cards obsolete and seeking available legal remedies, both civil and criminal, reasonably available to us.
We also periodically replace smart cards in circulation with smart cards containing progressively more sophisticated technology.
Such replacement has the effect of rendering useless smart cards then in circulation, whether genuine or counterfeit.
The first periodic replacement of digital smart cards since our digital launch in October 1998 was successfully completed in November 2003.
We are actively working with cable companies in the UK to investigate the use of any cable piracy devices.
We believe that we have suffered a loss of wholesale cable revenue as a result of the availability of cable piracy devices in relation to both analogue and digital cable services.
We are unable to quantify this loss, including whether or not such loss is material.
We have not to date invoiced any cable company in respect of such lost cable revenues and therefore, such lost revenues have not been recognised within our consolidated financial statements.
ntl: Telewest together with ntl Ireland in respect of certain Sky Channels receives our signal via secure landlines.
In respect of other operators, we generally provide delivery to cable operators via satellite.
To enable reception of the satellite signal, a smart card is located at the site of the cable operators feed into its cable transmission system, permitting decryption of the signal, which the operator in turn distributes to those of its subscribers who are authorised and equipped to receive the service.
Encryption of Channels Retailed by Third Parties Any potential DTH broadcaster wishing to operate and independently retail an encrypted television service within the UK and Ireland needs either to acquire an alternative encryption and conditional access technology from someone other than us, and build its own decoder base capable of receiving transmissions encrypted using that technology, or, in respect of digital services, to contract with us for conditional access services in respect of access to the installed VideoGuard decoder base.
In addition to providing broadcast conditional access services, both for our own DTH offerings and those of third parties, we provide digital access control services for interactive services produced by us and others, including using a telephone return path to carry out transactions between suppliers and viewers.
These broadcast conditional access and access control services are regulated by Ofcom.
See Government Regulation Broadcasting and Telecommunications Regulation European Union Electronic Communications Directives.
Satellites We contract for the majority of capacity on the satellite transponders that we use for digital transmissions for reception by both DTH viewers and cable operators from SES ASTRA SES, the operator of the Astra satellites.
SES is 100% owned by SES GLOBAL, a Luxembourg company in which the Luxembourg State and GE Capital hold interests of 11.58% and 24.58%, respectively, with the balance held by other international financial institutions, communications groups, institutional and private investors and Luxembourg public institutions.
We have also contracted, via an agreement with BT, for capacity on four transponders on the Eurobird satellite, which is owned and operated by Eutelsat.
For the transmission of our DTH service, we have contracted for capacity on 31 transponders from SES on SES satellites Astra 2A, 2B and 2D.
All but seven of our digital transponder agreements on SES satellites are for a period of ten years with varying end dates between 2008 and 2011.
We have rights to extend certain of the initial contract periods.
Four of the remaining seven transponder agreements have been extended: three of these agreements now expire in 2017, and the fourth in 2015.
The three remaining transponder agreements were entered into in calendar 2005 to provide additional capacity to facilitate the launch of our HD service.
These three agreements expire in 2020.
The term of the agreement on the Eurobird satellite expires in 2013.
We use some of the transponder capacity that we have contracted for the Sky Channels.
Some transponder capacity and in some cases all of the capacity on a particular transponder is sub-contracted to third parties for the transmission of other channels or services, including certain of the Sky Distributed Channels.
We have been designated a non pre-emptible customer under each of our transponder agreements.
This means that, in the event of satellite or transponder malfunction, our use of these transponders cannot be suspended or terminated by SES or Eutelsat in favour of another broadcaster which has pre-emption rights over capacity in preference to some other customers.
In addition, in the event of satellite or transponder malfunction, we have arrangements in place with SES pursuant to which back-up capacity may be available for some of our transponder capacity based on an agreed satellite back-up plan.
We have also put in place disaster recovery plans in the event that we experience any significant disruption of our transponder capacity.
To date, we have not experienced any such significant disruption.
However, the operation of both the Astra and Eutelsat satellites is outside our control and a disruption of transmissions could have a material adverse effect on our business, depending on the number of transponders affected and its duration.
Our transponder agreements with SES provide that our rights are subject to termination by SES in the event that SESs franchise is withdrawn by the Luxembourg government.
20 Capital Expenditure Programme In addition to the core capital expenditure on information systems infrastructure, broadcast infrastructure and new product development which in fiscal 2006 was 106 million and in fiscal 2005 was 72 million and is expected to be approximately 100 million per annum over the next two years, we continue to invest in our infrastructure, properties and facilities, required to support our growth strategies, in accordance with the capital expenditure programme of approximately 450 million over 4 years announced in August 2004.
The capital expenditure programme includes further investment in our customer management previously referred to as our Customer Relationship Management CRM centres and systems, increasing contact centre capacity, and building and or acquiring new facilities and properties.
We expect to finance the programme from operating cash flows.
In addition, in July 2006, we announced expected capital expenditure of approximately 250 million in the first two years in relation to our broadband network and services.
Capital expenditure on our customer management centres and systems and on our Advanced Technology Centre ATC is described in further detail below.
The remaining expenditures are required in order to service future subscriber growth more effectively, as well as maintain and enhance our broadcasting facilities.
In fiscal 2005, the cost incurred in relation to the refurbishment of existing properties and facilities was approximately 75 million.
Included in this cost was the acquisition of buildings at our Osterley campus, the creation of a Sky News Centre and the refurbishment of new office headquarters.
In fiscal 2006, the cost incurred in relation to the refurbishment of existing properties and facilities was approximately 16 million.
As is common with capital expenditure projects of this scale, there are risks that they may not be implemented as envisaged: or that they may not be completed either within the proposed timescale or budget: or that the anticipated business benefits of the projects may not be fully achieved.
The Customer Management Centres and Sky In-Home Service Limited Our customer management centres are based in Scotland.
The centres functions include the handling of orders from subscribers, the establishing and maintaining of customer accounts, invoicing and revenue collection, telemarketing and customer service.
These functions permit the centres to play a key role in both customer acquisition and customer retention.
We provide customer management services for the Sky Channels, the Sky Distributed Channels and for two third party channels, North American Sports Network and Setanta Sports.
We also deliver customer services for both our own, and certain third party, interactive television services, our telephony services, our video-streaming services, and the personal video recorder TiVo.
The customer management centres also provide the distribution of ordered customer installations into Sky In-Home Service Limited which then provides nationwide installation and servicing of digital satellite reception equipment directly in customer homes.
Sky In-Home Service Limited also provides an aftercare service to the DTH subscriber base in relation to digital satellite reception equipment which is both in, and out of, warranty.
During the course of the last six fiscal years, we have invested more than 261 million in our customer management centres.
This expenditure has been focused principally on completely replacing the centres existing customer management and billing systems with new applications and also on improving the existing physical infrastructure of the centres.
The replacement of the customer management and billing systems was completed in March 2006.
We have now migrated all existing customer data onto the new applications.
The cut-over to the new system was completed in two phases, the first commenced on 1 September 2005 and related only to new customers.
The second involved the migration of remaining customers, commencing 30 March 2006.
Both phases have been completed with minimal disruption to normal business operations and the applications are now functioning in line with expectations.
Playout and Uplink Facilities Our uplinking facility, located in Chilworth, England, provides primary uplinking capacity for our digital services to the Astra 2A, 2B and 2D satellites as well as Eutelsats Eurobird 1 satellite.
This is backed up by a second facility which was completed in 2003.
The majority of our television channels are played out from one of the buildings on our main site at Isleworth.
The Isleworth-sourced channels are fed to the uplink site at Chilworth using a fibre link, which is backed up by a diversely routed secondary link in case of any malfunction in the primary fibre route.
This route passes through the second facility so that, in the case of Chilworth being unavailable, the services can be uplinked directly from the second facility.
In the event of failure of our primary playout site, we have alternative facilities available, though at the present time, the restoration of services would not be immediate.
However, we have completed, and brought into live use in the last fiscal year, the ATC which provides a complete alternative playout facility.
Over the course of the next 12 months, we will increase the amount of live operation carried out in the ATC facility and deploy server based playout fully across both playout sites, enabling diversification of the playout of our channels.
For those third parties to whom we sub-contract transponder capacity, we usually have agreements in place to provide uplinking facilities as well.
BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 21
