FINANCIAL REVIEW INTRODUCTION The following discussion and analysis is based on, and should be read in conjunction with, the consolidated financial statements, including the related notes, included within this Annual Report.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS, which differs in certain respects from US GAAP.
Note 32 to our consolidated financial statements provides a description of the significant differences between IFRS and US GAAP as they relate to our business, and provides a reconciliation from IFRS to US GAAP.
The consolidated financial statements included within this Annual Report are our first full financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS.
Overview and recent developments During the year ended 30 June 2006 the current year total revenues increased by 8% compared to the year ended 30 June 2005 the prior year to 4,148 million.
Operating profit for the current year was 877 million, resulting in an operating profit margin of 21%, consistent with the prior year.
Profit after tax for the year was 551 million, generating basic earnings per share of 30.2 pence, in line with the prior year.
At 30 June 2006, the total number of DTH digital satellite subscribers in the UK and Ireland was 8,176,000, representing a net increase of 389,000 subscribers in the current year.
At 30 June 2006, the total number of Sky households was 1,553,000, 19% penetration of total subscribers.
The significant growth in Sky households 665,000 in the current year demonstrates the value that customers place on easy to use technology which enables them to better manage their time and control their viewing.
The number of Multiroom households also continued to grow strongly, increasing by 402,000 in the current year to 1,047,000, 13% penetration of total DTH subscribers.
Sky launched high definition TV services on 22 May 2006 and there were 38,000 Sky HD subscribers at 30 June 2006.
The total number of bookings to date is around 90,000 and, after some initial delays, the Group currently expects to install all of these orders by September 2006.
Sky Sports HD has covered more than 50 days of live cricket including three England Test matches, five England One-Day Internationals and 24 domestic matches.
DTH churn for the current year was 11.1% 2005: 10.3%.
We define DTH churn as the number of DTH subscribers over a given period that terminate their subscription in its entirety, net of former subscribers who reinstate their subscription in that period where such reinstatement is within a twelve month period of the termination of their original subscription.
In May 2006, the Group successfully bid for four of the six available packages each of 23 games of exclusive live UK audio visual rights to FAPL football, and four of the seven packages of live audio visual rights for broadcast in Ireland, from the beginning of the 2007 08 season to the end of the 2009 10 season.
In addition, the Group has been awarded near live long form rights to 242 games per season of FAPL football in both the UK and Ireland in the case of the UK, in a joint bid with BT from the beginning of the 2007 08 season to the end of the 2009 10 season.
In July 2006, the Group was also awarded mobile clips rights to FAPL football for the 2007 08 to 2009 10 seasons in both the UK and Ireland.
The bid for mobile clips rights in the UK was made in partnership with News Group Newspapers.
The Group also concluded a number of other content agreements as part of its commitment to invest in programming.
On 27 February 2006, Sky and Disney announced a wide ranging series of agreements covering childrens entertainment, sports and movies.
Under the agreements, Sky Movies customers will also be able to enjoy these movies via the Sky by Broadband service and Sky HD.
The Group also secured live coverage of UEFA Champions League football until the 2008 09 season on 13 September 2005, and both National Geographic and Discovery launched HD channels during the year which form part of the Sky HD offering.
The launch of The Crime and Investigation Network channel, coverage of the Americas Cup and A1 Grand Prix racing also demonstrate the Groups commitment to widen the range and depth of programming within its wholly owned channels and with channel partners.
On 31 March 2006, Sky completed the implementation of its new customer management systems.
These new systems will support the projected growth in Skys subscriber base and a greater number of products, as Sky continues to launch new entertainment and communications services.
These systems also integrate key parts of the customer service chain, such as the contact centres and field engineers, which will enable the Group to offer a more tailored, flexible and immediate response when dealing with customer requests.
Corporate Having served on the Board of Directors for over 14 years, Lord St John of Fawsley has decided not to seek re-election at this years AGM and will retire from the Board on 3 November 2006.
The Group would like to thank Lord St John for his contribution to the Board over many years.
He will, however, still be connected with Sky in his new role of Chairman of the Artsworld Channel, building on his extensive experience as a patron of the arts.
On 20 October 2005, the Group made a recommended cash offer for the entire share capital of Easynet Group plc.
The offer became unconditional in all respects on 6 January 2006.
Easynet was fide-listed from the London Stock Exchange in February 2006 and the acquisition of Easynet was completed on 10 March 2006.
On 14 October 2005, the Group announced a private placement with institutional investors which raised net proceeds of approximately 1,014 million from the issuance of Guaranteed Notes by its wholly owned subsidiary, BSkyB Finance UK plc.
BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 37 The Board of Directors are proposing a final dividend of 6.7 pence per ordinary share, resulting in a total dividend for the year of 12.2 pence and consistent with the Boards statement in February 2006 that it intended to reduce target dividend cover from approximately 3.0 times to approximately 2.5 times underlying earnings.
In light of the continued cash generative nature of the Group, it remains the Boards aim to maintain a progressive dividend policy throughout the investment phase of the recently announced broadband strategy.
It is therefore the Boards current intention to reflect the underlying growth in earnings when setting future dividends, resulting in continued real growth in dividend per share.
The ex-dividend date will be 25 October 2006 and, subject to shareholder approval at the Companys Annual General Meeting, the dividend will be paid on 17 November 2006 to shareholders of record on 27 October 2006.
During the year the Group repurchased for cancellation 76.4 million shares for a total consideration of 408 million, including stamp duty and commissions.
This comprised 22.7 million shares which completed the authority granted on 12 November 2004 and 53.7 million under the current authority granted on 4 November 2005.
Operating results Revenues Our principal revenues result from DTH subscribers, cable subscribers, the sale of advertising on our wholly-owned channels, the provision of interactive betting and games and other interactive services.
Our DTH subscription revenues are a function of the number of subscribers, the mix of services taken and the rates charged.
Revenues from the provision of pay-per-view services, which include Sky Box Office, are included within DTH or cable subscriber revenues as appropriate.
Our cable subscription revenues also referred to as wholesale revenues, which are revenues derived from the supply of Sky Channels to cable platforms, are a function of the number of subscribers on cable operators platforms, the mix of services taken by those subscribers and the rates charged to those cable operators.
We are currently a leading supplier of premium pay television programming to cable operators in the UK and Ireland for re-transmission to cable subscribers, although cable operators do not carry all Sky Channels.
Our advertising revenues are mainly a function of the number of commercial impacts, defined as individuals watching one thirty-second commercial on a Sky Channel, together with the quality of impacts delivered, and overall advertising market conditions.
Advertising revenues also include commissions earned by us from the sale of advertising on those third-party channels for which we act as sales agent.
Our Sky Bet revenues represent our income in the period for betting and gaming activities, defined as amounts staked by customers less betting payouts.
Our Sky Active revenues include income from online advertising, e-mail, telephony income from the use of interactive services e. g. voting, interconnect, text services and digibox subsidy recovery revenues earned through conditional access and access control charges made to customers on the Sky digital platform.
Other revenues principally include income from installations, digibox sale revenues including the sale of Sky and Multiroom digiboxes, Sky Talk revenues, service call revenue, warranty revenue, Easynet wholesale revenues, customer management service fees, conditional access fees and access control fees.
Operating expenses Our principal operating expenses result from programming, transmission and related functions, marketing, subscriber management and administration costs.
Programming represents our largest single component of costs.
Programming costs include payment for: i licences of television rights from certain US and European film licensors: ii the rights to televise certain sporting events: iii other programming acquired from third party licensors: iv the production and commissioning of original programming: and v the rights to retail the Sky Distributed Channels and the Music Choice and Music Choice Extra audio services to DTH subscribers.
The methods used to amortise programming stock are described in note 1 of the consolidated financial statements.
Under our pay television agreements with the US major movie studios, we generally pay a US dollar-denominated licence fee per movie calculated on a per movie subscriber basis, subject to minimum guarantees, which were exceeded some time ago.
During the year, we managed our US dollar pound sterling exchange risk primarily by the purchase of forward foreign exchange contracts and currency options collars for up to five years ahead see note 22 to the consolidated financial statements.
Offering multiplexed versions of our movie channels on the DTH platform and on digital cable incurs no additional variable rights fees.
Under the DTH distribution agreements for the Sky Distributed Channels, we generally pay a monthly fee per subscriber for each channel, the fee in some cases being subject to periodic increases, or we pay a fixed fee or no such fee at all.
A number of our distribution agreements are subject to 38
