central office equipment and the end users house SMPF MPF lines.
We purchase these from BT Openreach under terms and conditions outlined within the Ofcom Telecoms Strategic Review OTSR settlement between Ofcom and BT.
The OTSR settlement stipulates that we buy these products on a fully equivalent basis when compared to other operators who supply broadband, telephony and network products and services.
Ofcom has set up an Equivalence of Access Board whose role is to monitor and ensure that all Equivalence of Input requirements under the OTSR Settlement are being enacted.
Despite the requirements of the OTSR Settlement, failure by BT Openreach to provide its products to us on a fully equivalent basis could have a material adverse effect on our business.
We are reliant on encryption and other technologies to restrict unauthorised access to our services.
Direct access to our services via DTH is restricted through a combination of physical and logical access controls, including smart cards which we provide to our individual DTH subscribers.
Unauthorised viewing and use of content may be accomplished by counterfeiting the smart cards or otherwise overcoming their security features.
A significant increase in the incidence of signal piracy could require the replacement of smart cards sooner than otherwise planned.
We continue to work with our technology suppliers to ensure that our encryption and other protection technology is as resilient to hacking as possible, however, there can be no assurance that it will not be compromised in the future.
We are reliant also upon the encryption or equivalent technologies employed by the cable and other platform operators for the protection of access to the services which we make available.
Our network and other operational systems rely on the operation and efficiency of our computer systems.
Although our systems are protected by firewalls, there is a risk that our business could be disrupted by hackers or viruses gaining access to our systems.
Any such disruption, and any resulting liability to our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business.
We undertake significant capital expenditure projects, including technology and property projects.
In July 2006, we announced expected capital expenditure of approximately 250 million in the first two years in relation to our broadband network and services.
In August 2004, we announced an incremental capital expenditure programme of approximately 450 million, which was to be incurred over four years in support of our growth strategy.
This expenditure is in addition to core capital expenditure, which is expected to be approximately 100 million per annum.
As is common with capital expenditure projects of this scale, there is a risk that they may not be completed as envisaged, either within the proposed timescale or budget, or that the anticipated business benefits of the projects may not be fully achieved.
We, in common with other services providers that include third party services which we retail, rely on intellectual property and proprietary rights, including in respect of programming content, which may not be adequately protected under current laws or which may be subject to unauthorised use.
Our services largely comprise content in which we own, or have licensed, the intellectual property rights, delivered through a variety of media, including broadcast programming, interactive television services, and the internet.
We rely on trademark, copyright and other intellectual property laws to establish and protect our rights in this content.
However, we cannot assure you that our rights will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or that we will successfully renew our rights.
Third parties may be able to copy, infringe or otherwise profit from our rights or content which we own or license, without our, or the rightsholders, authorisation.
These unauthorised activities may be more easily facilitated by the internet.
In addition, the lack of internet specific legislation relating to trademark and copyright protection creates an additional challenge for us in protecting our rights relating to our on-line businesses and other digital technology rights.
We generate wholesale revenues from a limited number of customers.
Our wholesale customers, to whom we offer the Sky Channels and from whom we derive our cable revenues, have comprised principally ntl and Telewest.
On 3 March 2006, it was announced that ntl and Telewest had completed a merger.
On 4 July 2006, it was announced that the acquisition of Virgin Mobile by ntl:Telewest had completed.
Economic or market factors, or regulatory intervention, or a change in strategy by ntl:Telewest as it relates to the distribution of our channels, may adversely influence the wholesale revenue we receive from ntl:Telewest, which may negatively affect our business.
We are subject to a number of medium and long-term obligations.
We are party to a number of medium and long-term agreements and other arrangements including in respect of programming and transmission, for example, our transponder agreements which impose financial and other obligations upon us.
Were we unable to perform any of our obligations under these agreements and or arrangements, it could have a material adverse effect on our business.
GOVERNMENT REGULATION We are subject to regulation primarily in the UK and the European Union.
The regimes which affect our business include broadcasting, telecommunications and competition anti-trust laws and regulation.
BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 27 Broadcasting and telecommunications regulation UK Communications Act 2003 The Communications Act 2003 the Communications Act forms the basis of the communications regulatory regime in the UK which is enforced by a single unified regulator, Ofcom which replaced the five previous regulatory bodies responsible for the sector, including the Office of Telecommunications Oftel and the Independent Television Commission ITC.
Spectrum Under the Communications Act Ofcom is introducing a new system for the management of spectrum.
This is intended to enhance the efficiency of spectrum use through liberalisation of use and trading in spectrum, whilst protecting the quality of spectrum.
This new regime may include a voluntary system of Recognised Spectrum Access RSA which would afford some protection from interference for satellite downlinks and would include a charging mechanism for the use of relevant spectrum.
Ofcom has announced that it intends to consult the public on the application of RSA to satellite downlinks, for which no date is currently set.
Ofcom review of public service broadcasting Ofcom has undertaken, under the Communications Act, a review of public service broadcasting.
In September 2004, Ofcom published its second report on this review in which it considered the position of public service broadcasting after digital switchover.
In the report, Ofcom makes a number of proposals, one of which is the creation of a Public Service Publisher PSP, a new publicly-funded service, which Ofcom considers would ensure a continued plurality in the provision of public service broadcasting.
Ofcom published its final report on this review in February 2005 in which it expanded on the PSP concept.
Ofcom considers that the PSP would require around 300 million funding a year.
It contemplates three possible sources of funding for the PSP: general taxation, an enhanced television licence fee, or a tax on the turnover of UK licensed broadcasters.
It is therefore possible, if the Government and Parliament were to accept the PSP proposition and fund it under the broadcaster tax model, that the Group would be required to contribute to such funding.
The Government has confirmed in the white paper entitled A public service for all: the BBC in the digital age published in March 2006 that a review of whether there is a case for providing funding to recipients beyond the BBC such as Ofcoms proposed PSP will take place towards the end of the process of digital switchover with the option of conducting an earlier review before 2010 see Competition Digital Switchover section above.
Our Television Services Licences The broadcasting services provided by us are currently regulated by Ofcom as Television Licensable Content Services TLCS, Digital Television Programme Services DPS, and Digital Television Additional Services DAS pursuant to the Broadcasting Act 1990, as amended and supplemented by the Broadcasting Act 1996 together, the Broadcasting Acts and the Communications Act.
We and our broadcasting joint ventures each currently hold a TLCS licence for each of our respective channels and for a number of other broadcasting services, including our EPG on digital satellite.
A TLCS licence permits a channel to be broadcast on cable, DSL or satellite but does not confer on a TLCS licensee the right to use any specified satellite, transponder or frequency to deliver the service.
TLCS licences are granted for an indefinite duration for so long as the licence remains in force and new licences are issued by Ofcom if certain minimum objective criteria are met.
We have also been issued a DPS licence, which is required for the distribution of our channels via DTT, and a DAS licence for the distribution of other services including Sky Text on DTT.
Ofcom Powers In common with all television licences issued by Ofcom, our licences impose on us an obligation to comply with the Codes and Directions issued by Ofcom from time to time.
The Codes include requirements as to impartiality and accuracy of news programming, requirements as to harm and offence and the portrayal of sex and violence, and restrictions on the quantity and distribution of advertisements.
Ofcoms Broadcasting Code came into force in July 2005 replacing the six Codes it inherited from the ITC and other legacy regulators the Broadcasting Standards Commission BSC Code on Fairness and Privacy, the BSC Code on Standards, the ITC Programme Code, the ITC Code of Programme Sponsorship, the Radio Authority RA News and Current Affairs Code and Programme Code, and the sponsorship rules contained in the RA Advertising and Sponsorship Code.
Ofcom has residual powers in relation to the regulation of the content of broadcast advertising.
It has devolved this responsibility to the Advertising Standards Authority, a self regulatory body.
In May 2006, Ofcom published a new Cross Promotion Code, replacing the previous ITC Code.
The rules contained in the new Ofcom Code are designed to ensure cross-promotions on television are distinct from advertising which is subject to rules on maximum per hour minutage and to inform viewers of services likely to be of interest to them as viewers.
The new Code allows broadcasters only to promote broadcasting-related services in promotional airtime subject to the requirement that the promotion is provided for no consideration.
The 28 new Code provides non-binding guidance that no consideration will be presumed to have passed where the promoting channel has a shareholding of 30% or more in the promoted channel or vice versa.
The new Code also contains additional rules, applicable only to ITV1, Channel 4 and five, requiring all references to digital retail television services or digital television broadcasting platforms to be on an equal and impartial basis.
The new Code came into effect on 10 July 2006.
Ofcom may revoke a licence in a range of circumstances, including licence breach, in order to enforce the restrictions contained in the Broadcasting Acts as amended by the Communications Act on the ownership of media companies, or in the event that the characteristics of the licensee change so that it would not be granted a new licence.
In addition, the amended Broadcasting Acts prohibit disqualified persons from holding certain licences.
Disqualified persons include any bodies whose objects are wholly or mainly of a political nature and advertising agencies.
Religious bodies are prohibited from holding certain licences but can seek Ofcoms prior approval to hold other types of licences including a TLCS or DPS licence.
Media Ownership The UKs rules in respect of media ownership, which are contained in the Broadcasting Acts and the Communications Act, currently preclude us for as long as the Group is ultimately owned as to over 20% by News Corporation or another member of the same group from acquiring more than a 20% interest in any Channel 3 licence which covers the 15 regional ITV1 licences and GMTV.
Certain restrictions also apply to the ownership of local radio businesses by persons that own local newspapers in the same area or to persons who are connected to such persons.
There are also certain restrictions on the ownership of multiple radio multiplex licences.
The Communications Act has also introduced a plurality test for media mergers see Competition Anti-trust Law UK Competition Law Regime Enterprise Act 2002 Mergers below.
In April 2006 Ofcom published guidance on the definition of control of media companies.
This guidance sets out the matters which Ofcom will take into consideration when assessing control in this context, and the procedure it will follow when investigating whether control exists.
Digital Terrestrial Television The Broadcasting Act 1996 established a framework for DTT broadcasting in the UK.
Certain multiplex frequencies are currently used to transmit public service and other channels.
In August 2002, the ITC confirmed its conditional decision to award three multiplex licences to the BBC and National Grid Wireless Limited formerly Crown Castle UK Limited for an initial twelve year term.
As part of an agreement with National Grid Wireless Limited, we have agreed to supply versions of three channels, namely Sky News, Sky Sports News and Sky Three as well as Sky Text, unencrypted free-to-air via the DTT platform marketed under the brand Freeview see History and Development of the Group and Business Overview Distribution DTT Distribution above.
When these multiplex licences were awarded in 2002, Ofcom included a requirement in three of the six multiplex licences that all of the services they carry shall be provided on a free to air basis save with the prior consent of Ofcom.
This free to air only restriction was contained in the licences for multiplex B operated by BBC Free to View Ltd and multiplexes C and D both operated by National Grid Wireless Limited.
Skys services are currently carried on multiplex C. Following consultation earlier this year, in April 2006 Ofcom published a statement concluding that the free to air only restriction is no longer necessary and so can be removed from the relevant licences, in response to a request from the relevant multiplex licence holder.
Listed Events Limits on Exclusive Distribution Rights The Broadcasting Act 1996 as amended by the Communications Act provides that no UK broadcaster may undertake the exclusive live broadcast of certain sporting or other events of national interest designated by the Secretary of State from time to time listed events, whether on a free-to-air or subscription basis, without the previous consent of Ofcom.
The effect of these rules is that many leading sports events cannot be shown exclusively live on pay television in the UK.
In August 2004, Ofcom published a consultation on a draft Code on listed events which largely seeks to formalise the listed events regime as previously applied by the ITC.
Ofcom has not yet published the final Code.
In September 2005, the Secretary of State for Culture, Media and Sport indicated that a review of listed events is likely to take place around 2008 09.
A list of designated events in Ireland has also been defined, under the Irish Broadcasting Major Events Television Coverage Act 1999 Designation of Major Events Order 2003.
The effect of these rules is that many leading sports events cannot be shown exclusively live on pay television in Ireland.
In early 2006, the Irish Government conducted a review of its list of designated events: in April 2006, it announced that, following consultation undertaken as part of this review, it did not propose to make any changes to its list.
Television Access Services The Communications Act prescribes certain annual targets for television access services subtitling, audio description and signing broadcasters licensed channels must meet.
Ofcom has set out its guidance on broadcasters compliance with these requirements in its Code on Television Access Services which applies to all licensed channels.
Under this Code, Ofcom requires broadcasters to provide quarterly returns to Ofcom reporting on their licensed channels compliance over the previous quarter: Ofcom then publishes quarterly reports on broadcasters compliance.
In 2005, all of Skys channels met their relevant access services targets.
In the first quarter of 2006, all of Skys channels exceeded their relevant targets, except Sky Box Office for audio description, in relation to which we explained to Ofcom that, as the targets are designed to be measured against transmission time on linear services, the targets do not truly reflect the commitment made to access services on programming broadcast on pay-per-view BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 29 services, and that around 25% of titles on Sky Box Office had actually been audio described.
Ofcom has not advised us that, in relation to the Sky Box Office service, any remedial measures are necessary.
In June 2006, Ofcom consulted on a review of its Code on Television Access Services: it did not propose any significant changes to the provision and reporting of subtitling and audio description but, in relation to signing and in light of evidence it had received that signing on television is not meeting the needs of sign language users, Ofcom has proposed consulting further on possible alternative options to the present signing targets set per channel.
Sky indicated its support for such a further review in its response to this consultation.
Ofcom has not yet published the outcome of the present consultation.
At this stage, the Group is unable to ascertain the outcome of this consultation process.
Our Telecommunications Licences We operated under a number of class licences under the Telecommunications Act 1984 in relation to the technical side of our transmissions until 25 July 2003, when these class licences were revoked by the Communications Act and replaced with authorisations or continuation notices.
The most important of these relate to conditional access, EPGs and access control services for digital transmissions.
These are discussed further in the context of the UKs implementation of European Union legislation see European Union Electronic Communications Directives below.
Broadband and Telephony As a Communications Provider under the Communications Act, the Group is regulated in relation to the supply of broadband internet access services and public telephony services.
All Communications Providers are subject to a set of basic conditions the General Conditions of Entitlement : in relation to the provision of electronic communications services which includes the provision of broadband internet access services and public telephony services, these conditions include the following: a requirement to ensure that any end-user can access the emergency services a requirement to support number portability for customers wishing to switch to or from another network provider a requirement that customers are offered contracts that satisfy certain minimum standards a requirement to ensure that any end-user can access directory enquiry and operator assistance services a requirement to publish up-to-date price and tariff information a requirement to provide accurate billing, itemized on request from each customer a requirement to publish codes of practice concerning the services provided and the handling of customer complaints and resolving disputes.
As a network operator, Easynet is also subject to requirements to negotiate network interconnection, to comply with relevant compulsory standards and to take all reasonable steps to maintain to the greatest extent possible the proper and effective functioning of its public telephone network.
The Group has published a Code of Practice dealing with Sky Talk products, services and customer care procedures, and a Code of Practice concerning the sales and marketing practices for the Sky Talk telephony service.
The Group will also publish a Code of Practice dealing with customer complaints procedures for the provision of Sky Broadband and has also signed up to the industry-led Broadband Service Provider Migration Code of Practice which establishes a process for the switching of broadband customers between ISPs.
The Sky Talk and Sky Broadband services are registered with the telecommunications ombudsman service Otelo.
Ofcom can also impose various specific conditions on Communications Providers under the Act, for example where a provider has been determined as having significant market power which equates with the competition law concept of dominance.
The only such specific conditions to which we are currently subject relate to call termination services to ensure that calls originated on one fixed network can be terminated on all other fixed networks : we are required under a specific condition to provide fixed geographic call termination services on Easynets network on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms.
The same condition is applied to all operators of fixed public electronic communications networks in the UK.
Any breach of these conditions could result in Ofcom issuing a direction against us to rectify the breach, and or lead to the imposition of a fine or, ultimately, to the suspension of the Groups right to provide such electronic communications services.
The Group is a member of the Internet Watch Foundation which provides a UK hotline for users to report potentially illegal content, specifically child abuse images hosted anywhere in the world or content hosted in the UK which is either criminally obscene or could incite racial hatred.
The European Commission has proposed, as part of its current consultation, to extend certain terms of the Television Without Frontier Directive to non-linear services see European Union The Television Without Frontiers Directive below, which could result in the Group being required to meet certain standards in relation to the provision of non-linear content relating to the protection of minors and human dignity.
30 Betting and Gaming We carry out our betting and gaming activities through two Group companies, Hestview Limited Hestview and Bonne Terre Limited Bonne Terre.
Hestview carries out its betting activities under a UK bookmakers permit issued in accordance with the Betting, Gaming and Lotteries Act 1963 and is regulated by the UK Gambling Commission.
When the new Gambling Act 2005 is brought into force expected to take place in calendar 2007 Hestview will be required to operate under the new act.
Bonne Terre, a company registered in Alderney, carries out its gambling activities under a licence granted by the Alderney Gambling Control Commission under the terms of The Gambling Interactive Gaming Alderney Ordinance 2001 and is regulated by that body.
European Union The Television Without Frontiers Directive The EC Television Without Frontiers Directive 1989 TWF Directive, as revised in 1997, sets forth basic principles for the regulation of television broadcasting activity in the European Union.
The UK has adopted a variety of measures to give effect to the requirements of the TWF Directive.
The European Commission is responsible for monitoring compliance and has authority to initiate infringement proceedings against Member States which fail to implement the TWF Directive properly.
The European Commission is currently consulting on the provisions of the TWF Directive and put forward proposed legislation to amend the TWF Directive in December 2005.
A principal issue is whether to extend the scope of the TWF Directive, which currently only applies to broadcasting, to include all audiovisual content delivered by electronic means but excluding private communications.
This could mean that non-linear services such as services delivered using the internet would be required to meet certain minimum standards including in relation to the protection of minors and human dignity, and certain limited restrictions in relation to advertising notably concerning alcohol advertising and advertising to minors and prohibiting surreptitious advertising.
Other issues for consultation include stricter monitoring and enforcement of the certain programme and independent production quotas: new provisions in relation to cross-border access to rights to short programme extracts for use in informational programmes such as news programmes : and increasing the minimum period between advertising breaks for childrens, religious and news programmes from 20 minutes to 35 minutes.
The proposals also contemplate the acceptance of product placement as long as it is clearly signalled.
If the Commissions proposals are adopted, amendments to the TWF Directive are unlikely to come into effect for several years.
Programme and Independent Productions Quotas Articles 4 and 5 of the TWF Directive require Member States to ensure where practicable and by appropriate means that a broadcasters reserve a majority proportion of their transmission time for European works, and b broadcasters reserve at least 10% of their transmission time or, at the discretion of the Member State, at least 10% of their programming budget for European works created by producers who are independent of broadcasters in relation to b an adequate proportion of such works should be produced within the five years preceding their transmission.
The term where practicable and by appropriate means is not defined in the TWF Directive and is left for the interpretation of each Member State.
In applying these requirements, broadcast time covering news, games, advertisements, sports events, teletext and teleshopping services are excluded.
A condition requiring licensees to comply with these requirements of the TWF Directive, where practicable, and having regard to any guidance issued by Ofcom for the purpose of giving effect to the relevant provisions of the TWF Directive, was introduced by Ofcom into all Broadcasting Act licences including TLCS and DPS licences in December 2003.
On 10 February 2005, Ofcom published guidance in relation to compliance with Articles 4 and 5 of the TWF Directive.
Ofcoms guidance requires television broadcasters, who consider that it would not be practicable to meet one or more of the quota requirements, to explain why to Ofcom, which will advise whether any remedial measures are necessary.
If Ofcom does not accept that it is not practicable for a broadcaster to meet the relevant quota requirements, possible consequences may include Ofcom issuing a direction under the Broadcasting Act licence requiring compliance with the licence condition and a fine for contravention of the licence condition.
Ofcom also has the ultimate power to revoke a broadcasters Broadcasting Act licence where it is found to be in breach of its licence if no other remedies are considered appropriate.
Ofcom has not yet provided an indication of its approach to enforcement of the licence conditions which is not addressed in the guidance.
A number of our channels currently meet the relevant quota requirements for both European works and European independent productions.
Some of our channels only meet one of the relevant quotas and some do not meet either quota.
For those channels that do not currently reserve the relevant proportion of relevant transmission time to European works or to European independent productions, it may not be practicable to do so, in which case those channels would still comply with the condition in their Broadcasting Act licences.
Ofcom has not advised that any remedial measures are necessary in respect of these channels, nor has it advised that it does not accept that it is not practicable for any of these channels to meet the relevant quota requirements.
BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 31 Electronic Communications Directives The EC Electronic Communications Directives, which include the Access Directive, Authorisation Directive, Framework Directive and Universal Services Directive, together the EC Directives provide a framework for the regulation of electronic communications networks and services and associated facilities within the European Union.
The EC Directives, notably the Framework and Access Directives, apply to us in relation to the regulation of conditional access services, access control services, EPGs and standards for the transmission of television signals.
Their provisions were implemented in the UK by the Communications Act in July 2003 and which conferred the regulatory function in the UK on Ofcom.
In December 2005, the European Commission commenced a periodical review of the functioning of the EC Directives which will remain ongoing in the course of 2006.
Conditional Access Services and Technology The regulation of conditional access for digital television services is carried out in the UK under the Communications Act, the principal requirements of which include: that the provision of conditional access services to other broadcasters should be on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms: that providers of conditional access services should co-operate with cable operators regarding transcontrol the process of changing a conditional access system at cable head-ends: and that, where conditional access technology is licensed to manufacturers of digital decoders, such licences should be on fair, reasonable and nondiscriminatory terms.
These requirements have been applied as conditions imposed under the Communications Act on our subsidiary Sky Subscribers Services Limited SSSL, which has been identified as a provider of conditional access services.
In May 2002, Oftel published its guidelines entitled The pricing of conditional access services and related issues and in October 2002 published revised guidelines on the pricing of conditional access services.
These guidelines set out Oftels policy towards the regulation of the supply of conditional access and access control sources including the structure of tariffs charged for such services.
Ofcom continued to apply these guidelines after it replaced Oftel.
In May 2005, Ofcom started a review of these guidelines which led to the publication of its two consultation documents on the Provision of Technical Platform Services.
We are actively participating in this review which remains ongoing.
At this stage, we are unable to determine whether the review will have a material effect on the Group.
Access Control Services The provision of access control services which include services, other than conditional access and EPG services, that control access to digital television services is also regulated.
Our subsidiary, SSSL, is currently designated a regulated supplier in respect of its activities in providing access control services to third parties on our DTH platform and it is, among other things, subject to the obligation to provide such access control services on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms and not to favour related companies.
This designation, set out in a continuation notice issued by Oftel under the Communications Act in July 2003, will remain in place for as long as SSSL is considered to have significant market power.
In November 2003, Oftel commenced a review under the Communications Act to determine whether any provider of access control services has or, in the case of SSSL, continues to have significant market power.
The deadline for comments on the consultation document was in January 2004.
Ofcom has yet to publish its conclusions to this consultation: in the meantime, SSSL continues to be subject to the regulatory regime under this continuation notice.
Ofcom has indicated in its present review of the Provision of Technical Platform Services that the general principles of cost recovery set out in its proposed guidelines would, once in force, also apply to the provision of access services.
Regulation of Electronic Programme Guides In addition to being required to hold a TLCS licence in relation to the broadcasting of our EPG, the provision of EPG services is also regulated.
We are required to provide these services to other broadcasters on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms and not to favour related companies.
These requirements have been applied under a continuation notice issued by Oftel in July 2003.
Ofcom has consulted on replacing this continuation notice with authorisation conditions under the Communications Act, the deadline for comments on the consultation document having been in March 2004.
Ofcom has yet to replace this continuation notice following this consultation and therefore the continuation notice still applies.
The Communications Act does not, however, envisage that the manner of regulation of EPGs will change.
Ofcoms proposed guidelines being consulted on as part of its present review of the Provision of Technical Platform Services would, once in force, also extend to the provision of EPG services.
We are also required to offer listings on our EPG in accordance with Ofcoms Statement on Code on Electronic Programme Guides July 2004 EPG Code, which applies to all providers of EPGs licensed under the Broadcasting Acts.
This requires us to give public service channels which currently comprise all BBC television channels, ITV1, Channel 4, five, and S4C Digital and the digital public teletext service such degree of prominence as Ofcom considers appropriate.
Ofcoms EPG Code provides guidance as to its interpretation of this requirement.
We are also obliged by Ofcoms EPG 32 Code, inter alia, to provide EPG services on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms: not to give undue prominence to connected channels: to maintain and publish an objective policy for allocating listings: and not to require exclusivity on an EPG for any service.
Transmission Standards The use of standards for the transmission of television signals is also governed by the EC Directives notably the Access and Universal Services Directives which required Member States to impose transmission standards on broadcasters of television services.
These requirements on technical standards have been implemented in the UK by The Advanced Television Services Regulations 2003 and are administered by Ofcom.
Interoperability Under the terms of the Framework Directive, the European Commission published its review of progress towards facilitating access for content providers to multiple platforms in July 2004.
The European Commission found that there was no case for mandating the use of technical standards for the delivery of interactive services at present, but that Member States should continue to promote open and interoperable standards for interactive digital television.
The European Commission issued a communication in February 2006 in which it concluded that there remained no case for mandating any technical standard, stating that mandation would not contribute significantly to the growth of interactive digital television in Europe and, in fact, could have significant negative effects.
Ireland We are currently not regulated by the Irish national communications regulatory authority, ComReg, as the services offered by us fall under the jurisdiction of Ofcom in the UK.
All of the EC Directives were also implemented in Ireland on 25 July 2003.
During the consultations concerning the implementation of the EC Directives in Ireland, ComReg indicated that it would be seeking to regulate our Irish operations.
However, in June 2003, ComReg clarified that it would not, for the time being, seek to regulate the provision of access to broadcasting networks or the delivery of content services to end users in Ireland under the EC Directives.
Environmental We are subject to environmental regulations that require our compliance.
Failure to meet the requirements of such regulations may lead to fines being incurred or damage to our brand image.
Recent regulations based on European Union Directives, notably the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive WEEE Directive and the Restriction on the use of certain Hazardous Substances in electrical and electronic equipment Directive RoHS Directive necessitate the removal of stipulated hazardous substances from products placed on the market after mid 2005 within set timeframes and the recovery and recycling of electrical products to specified levels.
Both Directives apply to our purchase and supply of digiboxes and related equipment and require registrations to be completed by us, our suppliers and retailers.
Other changes in the categorisation, segregation, storage and removal of certain hazardous wastes require us to register sites that produce such wastes.
Without registration, hazardous wastes are not able to be removed from site for disposal.
Incorrect disposal may lead to regulatory action.
We track draft environmental directives and regulations to establish their applicability to the business and enable an appropriate response to be planned and implemented.
Competition anti-trust law We are subject to the European competition law regime administered by the European Commission and by the competition authorities and civil courts in each Member State and to individual national regimes in the countries in which we operate, of which the principal country is the UK.
We are also subject to specific competition regulation by Ofcom under powers contained in the Communications Act.
UK Competition Law Regime The Competition Act 1998 On 1 March 2000, the Competition Act 1998 Competition Act came into force in the UK.
It aligns UK domestic competition law with European law, in particular Articles 81 and 82 of the EC Treaty.
Anti-Competitive Agreements The Chapter I prohibition of the Competition Act prohibits agreements which have the object or effect of preventing, restricting or distorting competition in the UK.
An agreement will only infringe the Chapter I prohibition if it is likely to have an appreciable effect on competition.
BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 33 Agreements which fall within the scope of the Chapter I prohibition will not be prohibited where they meet specific statutory criteria, that is, where they produce beneficial effects in improving production or distribution or promoting technical or economic progress, provided that consumers receive a fair share of the benefit, that competition will not be substantially eliminated and that no unnecessary restrictions are accepted by the parties.
Abuse of a Dominant Position The Chapter II prohibition of the Competition Act prohibits abusive behaviour by dominant firms.
Effect on Our Affairs In November 2001, the arrangements relating to the Attheraces ATR joint venture made between Arena Leisure plc, the Group, Channel Four Television Corporation and The Racecourse Association Limited RCA were notified to the Office of Fair Trading OFT seeking either a clearance or exemption under Chapter I of the Competition Act.
In April 2004, the OFT issued its decision in which it found that the Chapter I prohibition of the Competition Act had been infringed to the extent that the notified arrangements entailed the collective sale by the 49 racecourses of certain of their media rights to ATR.
The OFT did not impose a penalty on the notifying parties.
The RCA and the British Horseracing Board appealed the OFTs decision to the Competition Appeal Tribunal CAT which issued its judgment in August 2005.
The CAT found that the OFT had erred in its decision and was wrong to find an infringement of the Chapter I prohibition.
The OFTs infringement decision was therefore set aside.
Enterprise Act 2002 Mergers The merger provisions of the Enterprise Act 2002 Enterprise Act provide that the OFT has a duty to refer relevant merger situations i. e. transactions which involve a change in control between previously distinct enterprises to the Competition Commission CC where it has a reasonable belief that they will result in a substantial lessening of competition and it has not been possible to agree a remedy.
The CC would then decide whether the relevant merger situation would substantially lessen competition and, if so, decide appropriate remedies.
A relevant merger situation qualifies for investigation where it satisfies either a share of supply or turnover test contained in the Enterprises Act.
The Communications Act has amended the Enterprise Act merger control provisions to introduce among other things a plurality test for mergers between broadcasters or involving broadcasters and newspaper enterprises.
Under the plurality test, the Secretary of State is able to intervene in, and take certain decisions concerning, mergers involving broadcasters, on the basis of the plurality test.
The Government issued guidance in May 2004 stating, however, that its policy is to consider intervention in mergers involving media enterprises only where the media ownership rules have been removed by the Communications Act, save in exceptional circumstances which would be where the Secretary of State considers that the merger would give rise to serious public interest concerns.
Market Investigations The market investigation provisions of the Enterprise Act provide that the OFT may make a market investigation reference to the CC where it has reasonable grounds for suspecting that any feature, or combination of features, of a market in the UK for goods or services prevents, restricts, or distorts competition in connection with the supply or acquisition of any goods or services in the UK or a part of the UK.
Ofcom has market investigation powers, concurrent with the OFT, in relation to the communications sector.
Instead of making a reference to the CC, the OFT or Ofcom may accept remedial undertakings from the companies concerned.
Where the OFT or, in relation to the communications sector, Ofcom makes a market investigation reference to the CC, the CC will conduct a detailed inquiry.
The CC may decide that remedial action is required if it finds that there is an adverse effect on competition in a market under investigation.
Ultimately, the CC has extensive powers to impose remedial action including the divestment of parts of a business and the prohibition on the performance of agreements.
Any decision by the OFT, the CC or Ofcom relating to market investigations can be appealed to the CAT on a judicial review basis.
Effect on our Affairs Our operations are subject to both the Enterprise Act and the Competition Act.
To date, there have been no market investigation references made to the CC which concern any sector in which the Group is active.
The Secretary of State has yet to invoke the media plurality intervention powers in relation to a media merger.
34 Ofcom Competition Jurisdiction In addition to its concurrent powers under the Competition Act in relation to the communications sector, under the Communications Act Ofcom has among others a duty to further the interests of consumers, where appropriate, by promoting competition in relevant markets.
It also has powers to use Broadcasting Act licence conditions to ensure fair and effective competition in the provision of licensed services and connected services.
Ofcom has not made any rulings using either its concurrent Competition Act powers or powers to ensure fair and effective competition under the Communications Act that have had a material adverse effect on our business during fiscal 2006.
Irish Competition Law Regime Our operations in Ireland are subject to the Irish competition law regime which regulates anti-competitive agreements, abuses of dominant positions, and mergers.
European Union Competition Law Regime Anti-Competitive Agreements Article 81 1 of the EC Treaty renders unlawful agreements and concerted practices which may affect trade between Member States and which have as their object or effect the prevention, restriction or distortion of competition within the Common Market that is, the Member States of the European Union collectively.
An agreement may infringe Article 81 only if it is likely to have an appreciable effect on competition.
Agreements which fall within the scope of Article 81 1 EC Treaty will not be prohibited where they meet specified statutory criteria, that is, where they produce beneficial effects in improving production or distribution or promoting technical or economic progress, provided that consumers receive a fair share of the benefit, that competition will not be substantially eliminated and that no unnecessary restrictions are accepted by the parties.
Abuse of a Dominant Position Article 82 of the EC Treaty prohibits abuse by one or more enterprises of a dominant market position in the Common Market or a substantial part of it, insofar as the abuse may affect trade between Member States.
Mergers The European Commission regulates mergers, full function joint ventures i. e. ones which perform on a lasting basis all the functions of an autonomous economic entity and the acquisition of holdings which confer decisive influence over an enterprise and which meet certain turnover thresholds specified in the EC Merger Regulation.
Such transactions may not be carried out without prior approval from the European Commission.
Where the European Commission has jurisdiction under the EC Merger Regulation, national authorities do not normally have jurisdiction.
Infringement under the UK or European Union Competition Law Regimes Infringement of the Chapter I or Chapter II prohibitions, or Article 81 or Article 82, may result in significant consequences including fines, voidness or unenforceability of all or part of infringing agreements, prohibition of infringing conduct, potential liability to affected third parties notably for damages, and or the potential for involved directors to be disqualified.
In the case of the cartel offence which was introduced to the UK competition law regime by the Enterprise Act individuals found guilty of that offence could be imprisoned for up to 5 years and or fined.
Effect On Our Affairs Regulatory update European Commission Investigation Football Association Premier League Limited FAPL The European Commissions investigation into the FAPLs joint selling of exclusive broadcast rights to football matches concluded with the European Commissions adoption, in March 2006, of a decision making commitments offered by the FAPL legally enforceable.
These commitments a nonconfidential version of which has been made available to third parties are to remain in force until June 2013 and thus applied to the FAPLs auction of media rights for the 2007 08 to 2009 10 seasons and will apply to subsequent auction of rights.
Among other things, the commitments provide for the FAPL to sell a number of packages of media rights, showcasing the League as a whole throughout each season.
They provide for live TV rights to be sold in six balanced packages, with no one bidder being allowed to buy all six packages and packages being sold to the highest standalone bidder.
The commitments also create more evenly balanced packages of rights and increase the availability of rights to broadcast via mobile phones.
The Group has been awarded four of the six packages of rights to show live coverage of FAPL football matches in the UK for the 2007 08 to 2009 10 seasons.
BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 35 The decision is binding on the FAPL for the duration of the commitments, but does not bind national competition authorities or national courts.
The Commissions decision does not address competition issues which may arise from contracts for rights in relation to FAPL matches from the 2007 08 season onwards: any such issues could be assessed separately under the competition rules at either European or national level.
European Commission Sector Inquiry New Media Sports Rights In September 2005, the European Commission published its concluding report on its sector inquiry into the provision of audio-visual content from sports events over 3G networks, which it had initiated in January 2004.
The European Commission has identified a number of commercial practices which it considers raise competition concerns in relation to the availability of mobile sports content and on which it states that it will focus in the future.
Among others, these include: i the sale of what the European Commission considers to be bundled audiovisual rights for various retail platforms to one or a few operators, in relation to which the European Commission has said that it will target situations where rights to premium sports remain under-exploited through such bundled sale of rights and subsequent warehousing of rights by powerful operators: and ii restricting the length and timing of 3G transmissions of sports coverage, which the European Commission considers may have a negative impact on the value of 3G rights and the take-up of 3G sports services by consumers.
The European Commission has stated that it will take account of the findings of the sector inquiry in future proceedings in this area.
It has also stated that it will further review, together with the relevant national competition authorities of Member States, potentially harmful situations identified during the sector inquiry, and that procedures will be initiated in cases where behaviour is not adjusted to comply with the requirements of competition law.
The European Commission has not announced any proceedings arising from situations identified in the sector inquiry or publicly indicated which individual companies might be the subject of proceedings.
At this stage, the Group is unable to determine whether the European Commissions concluding report or any subsequent proceedings might have a material effect on the Group.
Ofcom review of conditional access guidelines In May 2005, Ofcom initiated a review of its guidelines entitled The pricing of conditional access services and related issues.
These guidelines, which were originally adopted by Oftel in May 2002, set out Ofcoms policy towards the regulation of the supply of conditional access and access control services including the structure of tariffs charged for such services.
In November 2005, Ofcom published a consultation document as part of this review entitled Provision of Technical Platform Services a consultation on proposed guidance as to how Ofcom may interpret the meaning of fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory and other regulatory conditions when assessing charges and terms offered by regulated providers of Technical Platform Services.
The services to which this review extends include conditional access services, EPG services and access control services.
The Group submitted a response to this consultation.
In April 2006, Ofcom issued a further document containing draft revised guidelines and an explanatory statement concerning the provision of Technical Platform Services encompassing all of conditional access services, EPG services and access control services.
This document was subject to consultation, the deadline for which was 16 June 2006.
The Group submitted a response to this further consultation.
Ofcom has indicated that it intends to publish final guidelines during the summer of 2006.
The Group continues to participate actively in this review and at this stage is unable to determine whether the review will have a material effect on the Group.
Material contracts We have entered into the following contract outside the ordinary course of business during the two years immediately preceding the date of this Annual Report.
Revolving Credit Facility RCF In November 2004, the Group entered into a 1 billion RCF to refinance our existing facilities and for general corporate purposes.
Bond issue In October 2005, the Group entered into an indenture in respect of the issue by the Group of $750 million 5.625% unsecured notes due 2015, $350 million 6.500% unsecured notes due 2035 and 400 million 5.750% unsecured notes due 2017.
These agreements have been included as an exhibit as part of this Annual Report and are also described in note 21 of the consolidated financial statements.
