The portfolio Intermediate Capital Gr Intermediate Capital Gr oup PLC oup 15 PLC In the 14 months The portfolio ended 31 March 2006 ICG and its mezzanine funds invested in the following companies.
Aviapartner Acteon is the leading French Courtepaille is a leading chain of grill Lariviere, a French company, is a manufacturer of small dental equipment restaurants based in France.
In June distributor of roofing materials.
In December 2005 2005 ICG took a participation of 16m 2005 ICG arranged and provided ICG arranged and provided mezzanine in the mezzanine financing arranged to mezzanine finance of 27m to assist finance of 16m to assist in financing the assist in the secondary buyout.
ICG also invested 3m secondary buyout.
ICG also invested in the equity.
Dometic, a Swedish company, is a supplier of appliances for recreational LWB Refractories, a Belgian company, A-Katsastus is a Finnish company that vehicles.
In June 2005 ICG took a is the worlds leading manufacturer of provides vehicle inspection services.
participation of US$ 123m in the dolomite-based refractories, principally In March 2006 ICG took a participation mezzanine loan arranged to support for use in stainless steel and carbon of 22m in the mezzanine loan provided the secondary buyout.
In April 2005 ICG to assist in the buyout.
took a participation of 7m in the high Famosa is the largest toy manufacturer yield bond.
Aster is a company that provides cable and distributor in Spain.
In September television and broadband internet and 2005 ICG arranged and provided a Mach, a company based in Luxembourg, telephony services in Poland.
In March mezzanine loan of 20m to assist in the is the leading global clearing house of 2006 ICG took a participation of 26m in secondary buyout.
ICG also invested roaming billing records for mobile network the mezzanine facility provided to assist 1m in the equity.
In August 2005 ICG took a in the secondary buyout.
ICG also took participation of 70m in the mezzanine a participation of 4m in the equity.
Fitness First is the leading health club facility arranged to finance the secondary operator in the UK.
ICG made an equity investment of Aviagen is the worlds leading breeder ICG took a participation of 18m in the 10m in February 2006 to assist in of poultry stock for meat production.
mezzanine facility provided to support financing an acquisition.
In June 2005 ICG took a participation the buyout.
ICG also made an equity of US$36m in the mezzanine finance investment of 3m.
Marken is a UK company that provides arranged to assist in the acquisition by specialist global logistic services for The Wesjohann Group, a German Geoservices, a French company, is clinical drug trials.
a service provider in the upstream oil arranged and provided mezzanine industry.
In July 2005 ICG arranged and financing to assist in the buyout.
Aviapartner, a company based in provided mezzanine finance of 30m Belgium, is one of the leading providers to assist in the buyout.
Medi-Partenaires is a leading French of airport ground handling services.
hospital group in specialised acute care.
In September 2005 ICG arranged Geoxia, a French company, is a leading In May 2005 ICG arranged and provided mezzanine finance of 22m to assist house builder.
In March 2006 ICG mezzanine facilities of 57m to assist in the buyout.
arranged and provided a mezzanine in the buyout.
facility of 16m to assist in the AVR is the largest waste management secondary buyout.
Menissez is a leading industrial bread business in The Netherlands.
In March producer based in France.
In March 2006 ICG arranged senior shareholder Himart is South Koreas largest chain 2006 ICG arranged and provided loans of 149m to assist in the buyout.
In March mezzanine financing of 35m together ICG also invested 25m in the equity.
2005 ICG arranged and provided with equity finance of 25m to assist mezzanine facilities of Won 80bn to in the re-organisation of the share capital Caradon, a UK company, is a assist in the buyout.
manufacturer of boilers and radiators.
In July 2005 ICG took a participation HMY, a French company, is a provider Meyn, a Netherlands company, is a of 15m in the mezzanine facilities of shelving equipment, checkout manufacturer of poultry processing arranged to assist the secondary buyout.
counters and point of purchase items.
In March 2005 ICG arranged In March 2005 ICG took a participation and provided a mezzanine loan of 14m Carema, a Swedish company, provides of 20m in the mezzanine finance to assist in the secondary buyout.
ICG healthcare and care services in the arranged to assist the secondary buyout.
made an additional 1m investment in Nordic region.
In July 2005 ICG arranged March 2006 to assist with an acquisition.
mezzanine facilities of SEK150m to assist in the buyout.
ICG arranged an additional SEK14m facility in January 2006 to assist with an acquisition.
16 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Meyn Menissez Molnlycke, a Swedish company, is a Sogetrel, a French company, is a In the same period ICG arranged or global surgical supplies and wound care specialist in the design, installation and participated in the refinancings of 11 products business.
In August 2005 ICG maintenance of communication companies, all existing borrowers: took a participation of 18m in the networks.
In March 2006 ICG took a mezzanine finance provided to assist participation of 10m in the mezzanine AA refinanced in March 2006, in which in the secondary buyout.
finance provided to assist in the ICG reduced its exposure by 5m.
Nocibe is a French retailer of perfumes Allflex refinanced in June 2005 and and cosmetics.
In March 2006 ICG Souriau is a French company which ICG increased its exposure by 12m.
arranged and provided mezzanine designs, manufactures and sells facilities of 44m to assist in the connectors to the commercial aircraft Codere refinanced in June 2005. secondary buyout.
In March 2006 ICG took a ICG had its mezzanine loan fully repaid 10m in the equity.
participation of 24m in the mezzanine but invested 15m in a high yield bond.
loan provided to assist in the secondary NW Vending, based in Italy, is the buyout.
ICG also invested 5m in Edscha refinanced in May 2005. leading European manufacturer of food the equity.
ICG invested 26m in the new and beverage vending machines.
November 2005 ICG took a participation Svenson is the leading specialised of 40m in the mezzanine finance haircare group in Spain.
In March 2006 Elis refinanced in July 2005.
ICG arranged to assist in the buyout.
ICG ICG arranged and provided mezzanine reduced its exposure by 5m.
also invested 6m in the equity.
facilities of 13m to assist in the buyout.
ICG also invested 3m in the equity.
Gala refinanced a number of times Petroplus, a Netherlands company, during the period.
ICG invested an is a midstream oil company involved TDF Towers, an existing borrower, additional net 31m.
in the refining, storage and wholesale is a French company that operates distribution of petroleum products.
In March 2005 Gerflor refinanced in July 2005.
ICG ICG took a 1m equity investment in ICG made an additional investment of retained its mezzanine exposure and the public to private.
5m in the equity of the company.
reduced its equity exposure by 6m.
PHS, a UK company, provides Terreal is a French company that Leisure Link was refinanced in washroom cleaning and maintenance produces clay roofing tiles and bricks.
ICG retained its existing services and office services.
In December In November 2005 ICG took a commitment.
2005 ICG took a participation of 35m in participation of 30m in the mezzanine the mezzanine finance used to assist in finance provided to assist in the Medica was refinanced in July 2005. the public to private acquisition.
ICG also invested ICG retained its existing commitment.
Protection One, a French company, Springer refinanced in June 2005 and provides electronic surveillance services.
TSL is a UK publisher in the education ICG increased its exposure by 10.3m.
In July 2005 ICG arranged and provided market.
In February 2006 ICG took a a mezzanine loan of 13m to assist participation of 16m in the mezzanine SR Technics refinanced in September in the secondary buyout.
ICG also finance provided to assist in the buyout.
ICG increased its exposure by invested 9m in the equity.
Tunstall, a UK company, manufactures Sia is a French company that designs, and maintains social alarm systems.
sources and distributes household In October 2005 ICG took a participation products.
In July 2005 ICG arranged a of 13m in the mezzanine facility mezzanine facility of 20m to assist in arranged to assist in the secondary the secondary buyout.
Intermediate Capital Group PLC 17 The portfolio Continued Fitness First Sector analysis of ICGs portfolio Geographical analysis of ICGs portfolio Agencies 0.1% Other 0.4% Denmark 1.8% Belgium 0.7% Waste management 3.2% Finland 0.7% Building materials 6.2% Telephone networks 1.8% Business services 11.0% Shipping & transport 11.9% UK 28.0% Chemicals and plastics 0.8% Restaurants 0.8% Consumer Publishing and products 8.7% printing 4.5% Pharmaceuticals France 34.7% Contracting 0.3% 0.6% Drapery and Other industrial stores 1.4% materials 1.4% Switzerland Electrical 1.8% 2.2% Motors 6.0% Sweden 7.4% Electronics 5.3% Motor parts 2.2% Singapore 0.1% Germany 9.1% Mechanical Financial services 3.0% engineering 2.3% Luxembourg 1.4% Spain 1.3% Food manufacturing 7.9% Leisure 5.4% Italy 2.1% South Korea 1.2% Health 9.6% Insurance brokers 3.4% Netherlands 7.9% Poland 1.4% Repayments During the period, repayments of loans and investments amounted to 335m.
Loans to 26 companies were repaid or prepaid in full.
These companies were: Name Country Form of realisation Codere Spain Secondary trade Courtpaille France Secondary LBO Electrokoppar Sweden Refinance Elmville UK Trade sale ERM UK Refinance IG Group UK Flotation IMO Carwash UK Secondary LBO Jallatte France Secondary trade Jane Norman UK Trade sale Kiekert Germany Secondary trade Leisurelink UK Secondary trade Moliflor France Secondary LBO Nocibe Darnival France Refinance Regent Medical France Trade sale Sebia France Refinance Sericol UK Trade sale Servicetec UK Refinance Sia France Secondary LBO Societe Jarnysienne France Trade sale Souriau France Secondary LBO Swissport Switzerland Trade sale Symrise Germany Refinance Takko Germany Refinance TDF France Refinance Tunstall UK Secondary LBO Viatris Germany Trade sale 18 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Red Funnel DSV Current loan portfolio At 31 March 2006, in addition to the new loans and investments listed previously, ICGs mezzanine portfolio consisted of the following companies: Name Country Business 1st Credit UK Provides debt purchase and outsourced debt collection services AA UK Provider of roadside breakdown services and insurance Accantia UK Health and beauty Accord UK Outsourcing for local authorities Allflex France Animal identification tags Asco UK Provider of logistic services for the oil industry Bertelsmann Springer Germany Academic publishing company Cardfair UK Specialist greeting card retailer Ceva Sante France Developer and distributor of animal health products Coal Products UK Producer of smokeless solid fuels Comptage Immobilier Services France Water and heat metering services Condor Ferries UK Provides ferry and catamaran services to the Channel Islands DV Holding France Leading operator in the nursing homes and elderly care market DSV Denmark Transportation and logistics Duni Sweden Supplier of tabletop products Edscha Germany Global automotive supplier Eliokem France Manufacturer of specialty chemicals Elis France Leader in textile rental and hygiene Eurodatacar France Provides services to complement traditional insurance policies covering theft of vehicles Eurofarad France Manufacturer of passive components Gala UK Leading bingo and casino operator Gealan Germany Manufacturer of PVC window systems Gerflor France Manufacturer of PVC flooring Global Garden Products Sweden Garden equipment Grand Vins fide Gironde France Wine trading company Groupe Moniteur France Magazine group HLF Insurance UK Insurance broking Homann German Produces chilled food and delicacies Keolis France Leading private passenger transport company Materis France Group of businesses in aluminates, mortars and paint Medica France Nursing homes and elderly care Motip Netherlands Manufacturer of aerosol paints Orefi France Wholesaler of industrial components Pasteur Cerba France Performer of clinical laboratory tests Porcelain and Fine China UK Manufacturer of china and porcelain Picard France Frozen food distributor and retailer Raet Netherlands Provider of payroll services Rehema Netherlands Boiler manufacturer Retif France Wholesaler and retailer of display units Saga UK Provides products and services to people aged 50 and over Score France Contract catering Spring UK IT Recruitment agency Intermediate Capital Group PLC 19 The portfolio Continued Carema Souriau Name Country Business SR Technics Switzerland Global aircraft maintenance provider Steiner Industries Austria Plastic packaging and garden furniture producer Talbot UK Underwriter of insurance at Lloyds Target UK Express delivery services Team System Italy Provides software packages and related maintenance Thornbury UK Provider of relief nursing staff Thule Sweden Global sports utility transportation company Vetco UK Supplier to upstream oil and gas companies Via Location France Independent truck rental company Viterra Germany Service provider in the metering industry WZG Group Netherlands Distributor of mobility aids The top twenty companies measured by original investment are as follows: Name m Name m Gala 61.2 Viterra 25.3 AVR 48.6Domus 25.1 Picard 46.5 Menissez 24.7 Keolis 42.7Materis 23.5 A.
42.2 Allflex 23.4 Dometic 40.8 Condor Ferries 23.3 Saga 38.5 Undisclosed 21.0 Springer Bertelsmann 37.1 Nocibe 20.8 Elis 35.8 Duni 20.1 Mach 33.2 SR Technics 33.0 Total 666.8 The portfolio of warrants, unquoted shares and other investments At 31 March 2006 ICG had unquoted shares and warrants in most of the companies in its loan portfolio, as well as in the following companies: Name Country Business Cartiere del Garda Italy Manufacturer of coated wood-free papers Codere Spain Gaming company DanishTimber Denmark Materials for building and home improvement Focus UK DIY Stores Janton Finland Publisher and distribution of free sheet newspapers Norcros UK Manufacturer and distributor of showers and tiles Portman UK Travel agent Red Funnel UK Operates ferry services between Southampton and the Isle of Wight Sound Holdings Denmark Hearing aid component supplier Symrise Germany Manufacturer of flavours, fragrances and aromas TDF Towers France Operator of broadcasting towers Tensar UK Manufacturer of mesh products 20 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Report and accounts Intermediate Capital Group PLC 21
