The board of directors John Manser CBE DL, Non-Executive Chairman, Tom Attwood, Managing Director, Christophe Evain, Managing Director, age 66, is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered age 53.
Prior to joining ICG in April 1996, he age 44.
Prior to joining ICG in 1994, he Accountants in England and Wales.
He was formerly was a director of James Capel & Co where he worked for Banque fide Gestion Privee in Chairman of Robert Fleming Holdings Limited and worked for eight years.
He chairs the executive Paris.
He is responsible for ICGs mezzanine is currently Chairman of Shaftesbury PLC, Hiscox committee and is responsible for ICGs fund business in Germany, Benelux, Spain and Investment Management Ltd and deputy Chairman management business.
of Colliers CRE plc and a non-executive director of SAB Miller PLC.
Francois fide Mitry, Managing Director, Andrew Phillips, Managing Director, Paul Piper, Managing Director, age 40.
Prior to joining ICG in 1997, he worked age 43.
Prior to joining ICG in 1989, at its age 48.
Prior to joining ICG in 1989, at its for Societe Generale.
He is responsible for ICGs formation, he worked for Chemical Bank.
formation, he worked for Chemical Bank.
French and Italian mezzanine business.
He is responsible for ICGs UK and Nordic He is responsible for finance and operations mezzanine business.
and is chairman of the Investment Committee.
Tom Bartlam, Non-Executive Director, Justin Dowley, Non-Executive Director, Eric Licoys, Non-Executive Director, age 58, is a qualified Chartered Accountant.
In 1989 age 51, is a qualified Chartered Accountant.
He age 67, was formerly Director General of Vivendi he co-founded ICG, of which he was a Managing is currently a Partner of Tricorn Partners LLP, the Universal, the media and communications group, Director until his retirement in April 2005, when he independent advisory firm, which he co-founded having previously been President of the venture was appointed a non-executive director.
He is in 2003 and a non-executive director of Bridgewell capital arm of Lazard Freres in France.
He is Chairman of Pantheon International Participations Group plc and Wyevale Garden Centres plc.
PLC, Deputy Chairman of Homebuy Group PLC and He was previously head of investment banking a non-executive director of Numis Corporation PLC.
James Nelson, Non-Executive Director, Peter Stone, Non-Executive Director, age 58, is a non-executive partner in Graphite age 59, a qualified solicitor.
He is a non-executive Capital, Chairman of PIFC Group Limited and director of DTZ Holdings PLC as well as a a non-executive director of American Opportunity number of other businesses and was previously Trust PLC and Henderson Smaller Companies a director of Close Brothers Group plc.
He is a past Chairman of the BVCA.
