Operating and Financial Review Business Resources Britvic is one of the two leading soft drinks businesses in Great Britain.
It is one of the top two soft drinks businesses in the GB take-home channel, is the leading soft drinks supplier to the GB licensed on-trade and is a significant player with a growing presence in the leisure and catering channel.
The main resources the Group uses to achieve its results are: an extensive and balanced portfolio of stills and carbonates brands, including Robinsons, Pepsi, 7UP, Tango, J2O, Britvic, Fruit Shoot, R Whites and Pennine Spring.
The breadth and depth of Britvic's portfolio enables it to target consumer demand across a wide range of consumption occasions, in all the major soft drinks categories and across all relevant routes to market.
The strength of Britvic's brand portfolio is underpinned by its consumer insight and product development capability which has consistently enabled it to produce innovative products, packaging formats and promotional activity designed to meet evolving consumer tastes and preferences.
Andrew Richards Sales Director Responsible for all aspects of customer management, including a successful long-standing relationship with PepsiCo that was identifying new business and expanding sales opportunities with renewed in 2004 for a further 15 years, and extended for a existing customers.
Andrew joined Britvic in 1998 and is a further five years to 2023, as a result of the flotation.
This member of the Executive Committee.
relationship gives Britvic the exclusive right to distribute the Pepsi and 7UP brands in Great Britain, access to all new carbonated drinks developed by PepsiCo for distribution in Great Britain and, to support the development of its carbonates offering, access to PepsiCo's consumer and customer insight, competitor intelligence, marketing best practice, brand and product development expertise and technological know-how.
In take-home, Britvic's customers include the Big 4 supermarkets Tesco, J Sainsbury, Asda and Wm Morrison together with a number of other important grocery retailers.
The Group has significant supply arrangements with a number of key players in the GB pub sector and leisure and catering channels.
Through Britvic International, the Group has built on the success of the Robinsons and Fruit Shoot brands by introducing these products into markets outside Great Britain including Sweden, Holland, Belgium and Spain.
Britvic also has a well-invested and flexible production capability and a large-scale distribution network that, according to AC Nielsen, enabled its soft drinks to be made available to consumers at over 95 per cent of the points of sale on a sterling-weighted value basis in the GB take-home and over 93 per cent of the Alan Beaney Strategy Director points of sale of the licensed on-trade channels in 2006.
Responsible for the development of Britvics business strategy, particularly focusing on driving value from existing programmes and identifying opportunities for growth.
Alan joined Britvic in 1996 and is a member of the Executive Committee.
