Directors Profiles Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc on 1st January 2005.
G M T Howe, Chairman, Non-Executive On 1st December 2005, he was appointed Group Chief Geoffrey Howe, 57, was appointed a non-executive director in Executive standing down as Chief Operating Officer on that January 2002, became Joint Deputy Chairman in November date.
2004 and the Senior Independent Director in April 2005.
He was appointed Chairman in April 2006 when he 3.
Lord Leach, Deputy Chairman, Non-Executive relinquished the appointments as Senior Independent Director, Rodney Leach, 72, was Chairman of Jardine Insurance Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and member of the Brokers, latterly JIB Group plc now JIB Group Ltd, between Audit Committee.
He remains a member of the Nominations 1988 and 1997.
He was appointed Deputy Chairman of the Committee.
He is a director of The J P Morgan Overseas Company in February 1997.
He is Chairman of the Investment Trust plc, Nationwide Building Society and Investec Nominations Committee and a member of the Remuneration plc.
He was formerly Chairman of Railtrack Group plc, a Committee.
Other directorships include Jardine Matheson director and group general counsel of Robert Fleming Holdings Holdings, Rothschild Continuation AG and various listed and managing partner of Clifford Chance.
B P Carpenter Dominic Burke, 48, joined Jardine Lloyd Thompson in 2000, Brian Carpenter, 57, joined Jardine Australian Insurance when the Burke Ford Group of companies, of which he was Brokers in 1987.
He has been Managing Director of JLT Chief Executive and co-founder, became part of JLT.
He is Australia and New Zealand since 2000 and Chief Executive of Chairman of the Group Executive Committee and was Chief JLT Asia Pacific and a member of the Group Executive Executive of the UK and Ireland Insurance Broking and the Committee since May 2005.
He joined the Board in April 2006.
Group's Employee Benefits businesses until December 2005.
He was appointed a director and Chief Operating Officer of 1.
S L Keswick, Non-Executive Chris Keljik, 58, was appointed a non-executive director on Simon Keswick, 64, was a non-executive director of JIB Group 1st November 2005 and Chairman of the Remuneration plc now JIB Group Ltd between 1988 and 1997 and was Committee in April 2006.
He is a member of the Audit, and appointed a director of the Company in January 2001.
He retired in May 2005 as Group His other directorships include Jardine Matheson Holdings Ltd Executive Director of Standard Chartered Plc following a long and other Jardine Matheson Group companies.
He is a director career with that company, most recently being responsible for of JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc and is a their operations in Africa, the Middle East, South Asia, the UK, member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations USA and Latin America.
A Chartered Accountant, he is also a Committees.
non-executive director of Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust Plc and Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc.
24 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 7.
J W Rush, Finance Director Nick MacAndrew, 60, was appointed a non-executive director Jim Rush, 46, an Australian Chartered Accountant, was on 1st July 2005.
He is a member of the Nominations and appointed Finance Director of the Group on 1st August 2006.
Remuneration Committees and, from 1st August 2005, He is a member of the Group Executive Committee.
He joined Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He is Chairman of Save the JLT from Jardine Matheson, where he was Group Treasurer, Children, is a non-executive director of Fuller Smith and having held a number of senior management roles within the Turner plc and Wates Group Limited: he also chairs the audit Jardine Matheson Group.
Prior to Jardine Matheson, Jim was committee for these latter two companies.
A Chartered with Price Waterhouse for 12 years.
Accountant, he was previously finance director of Schroders plc.
R A Scott CBE, Non-Executive Bob Scott, 65, was appointed a non-executive director in 8.
W J N Nabarro January 2002 and is Senior Independent Director and a William Nabarro, 51, joined the Group in 2003 following a member of the Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
He was appointed Executive He is Chairman of Yell Group PLC and a non-executive director Chairman of JLT Employee Benefits in January 2006 and joined of the Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc, Swiss Reinsurance the Board as Commercial Director in April 2006.
He is a nonCompany Zurich, Pensions Insurance Corporation Holdings executive director of ICAP plc and Treasurer of the University of LLP, and a trustee of the Crimestoppers Trust.
previously Group Chief Executive of CGNU plc now Aviva plc, a former Chairman of the Board of the Association of British Insurers and a member of the Presidents Committee of the Confederation of British Industry.
V Y A C Wade Vyvienne Wade, 45, joined JIB Group in 1987 as Group Legal Adviser.
A barrister and member of the Inner Temple, she has been Group Legal Director of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc since 1997 and is a member of the Group Executive Committee.
She was appointed a director of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc in January 2002.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 25 Directors & Directors Report
