Directors Report Principal activities and business review The Board Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc is a holding company.
With the exception of Brian Carpenter, William Nabarro and Its principal subsidiary and associated undertakings are Jim Rush, who were appointed directors during the year, the directors shown on pages 24 and 25 served throughout engaged in risk management advice, insurance & reinsurance the year.
broking and the provision of employee benefits services.
The Operating & Financial Review, comprising the Chairmans Brian Carpenter and William Nabarro were appointed to the Statement, Chief Executives Report, Review of Operations Board on 5th April and Jim Rush on 1st August 2006. and Finance Directors Review on pages 4 to 23 report on the Group's development during the year under review and on The following resignations from directors were accepted during the outlook for the future.
These fulfil the requirements of the the year: Dominic Collins on 5th April, Ken Carter on 27th April, Business Review and are incorporated in this report by George Stuart-Clarke on 1st August and John Hastings-Bass reference.
As reported in the 2005 Accounts, Ken Carter retired as Results and dividends Chairman and director on 27th April 2006, and was succeeded The financial statements deal with the consolidated results of by Geoffrey Howe.
On the same date Bob Scott assumed the the Group for the year ended 31st December 2006, which are role of Senior Independent Director and Chris Keljik the role of shown on pages 46 to 95.
The profit attributable to Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Lord Leach, Brian Carpenter, Simon Keswick, William Nabarro, The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of Jim Rush and Bob Scott will retire at the forthcoming Annual 12.0p per share which, together with the interim dividend of General Meeting and, being eligible, will offer themselves for 8.5p per share paid in October 2006 amounts to a total re-election.
dividend of 20.5p per share 2005: 20.5p per share.
As set out in the Articles of Association, each director must Subject to shareholder approval, the final dividend will be paid stand for re-election at least once every three years and Lord on 27th April 2007 to shareholders registered at the close of Leach is required to stand for re-election annually, having business on 30th March 2007. attained the age of 70 in 2004.
The unconsolidated financial statements for the Company to The Special Notice required by s293 and s279 of the 31st December 2006, prepared in accordance with UK GAAP, Companies Act 1985 has been received in respect of his are set out on pages 98 to 102. proposed re-election.
The service contracts for Mr Keswick, Lord Leach and Substantial shareholders Mr Scott are subject to a three month notice provision.
At the date of this report, the Company had been notified of The Company is required to give 364 days notice under the the following major interests, each representing 3% or more of service contract with Messrs. Carpenter, Nabarro and Rush.
the existing issued ordinary share capital see table below.
During the past twelve months, a formal evaluation of the Jardine Matheson Holdings Limiteds interest is held through its Board, its committees and individual directors has been wholly owned subsidiary JMH Investments Limited.
Strategic Holdings Limited is interested in the shares of Jardine Matheson Holdings Limited under Section 823 1 b of the The performance evaluation was undertaken by means of Companies Act 2006. individual questionnaires that were summarised and debated by the Board or the relevant committee.
Ordinary Shareholder shares % Held The non-executive directors, led by the senior independent JMH Investments Limited 64,514,916 30.3% director, also carried out a performance evaluation of the Chairman during this period.
Silchester International Investors Limited 34,941,807 16.4% Sanderson Asset Management Limited 7,938,200 3.7% Full details of the directors remuneration and interests are shown in the Remuneration Report.
During the period, no director had any material interest in a contract, disclosable Relationship with Jardine Matheson Group pursuant to s317 Companies Act 1985, to which the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings was a party.
During the year, the Group continued to have a number of arms-length trading links with Jardine Matheson Group At the date of this report the Board is comprised of five companies, the financial implications of which are given in executive directors and six non-executive directors including note 34 on page 93. the Chairman.
26 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 There are established formal procedures for the structure Reviewing the requirements of the Reporting Statement and authorities through which the Board discharges its issued by the Accounting Standards Board on the responsibilities for the direction and management of the Operating and Financial Review: Group.
Receiving and reviewing reports from business risk & compliance and internal audit functions on a regular basis: The Board meets at least six times a year, to review the performance of the Group and to discuss the matters Approving the external audit plan and fee proposal and reserved for its decisions, which include, inter alia, the considering auditor independence in relation to non-audit approval of Group strategy and budget plans, material services provided: expenditure authorisations and any other matters that are Evaluating the performance of the external auditors referred to it.
by way of a questionnaire completed by Group companies worldwide: The Board has established a number of standing committees including an Audit Committee, a Nominations Committee and Reviewing the progress of the UK general insurance a Remuneration Committee.
The terms of reference of these intermediaries within the Group in respect of the Risk Committees are available on the Company's website.
Mitigation Programme following the FSA risk assessment visits: Relationship with shareholders: The Board endeavours to Considering the Groups risk management profile and maintain dialogue with institutional shareholders and carries controls: and out a programme of meetings and presentations each year following the publication of interim and final results and at Reviewing the effectiveness of the Committee.
At the Annual General Meeting the This exercise is conducted annually by way of an Chairmen of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration assessment questionnaire completed by the members Committees will be available to answer questions.
with the exception of the Chairman and regular attendees.
Committees of the Board External auditors The Audit Committee The Committee is responsible for overseeing the relationship The Committee members are non-executive directors, a with the external auditor.
majority of whom are independent.
The membership of the Committee during the year comprised: Nick MacAndrew During the year, the Committee: Chairman, Geoffrey Howe until 27th April 2006, Chris Keljik, Approved their remuneration for both audit and non-audit Simon Keswick and Lord Leach until 27th April 2006. services, including satisfying itself that the level of audit fee Mr MacAndrew is a chartered accountant and his profile is is appropriate to enable an adequate audit to be noted on page 25.
The Board considers that the members of conducted: the Committee have, collectively, the requisite skills and Approved terms of engagement, including any experience to enable it to discharge its responsibilities in a engagement letter issued at the start of each audit and proper manner.
the scope of the audit: The Committee met five times during the year, with Assessed their independence: representatives from the external and internal auditors, and Approved the annual audit plan and ensured that it was the Group Finance Director and Group Legal Director in consistent with the scope of the audit engagement: attendance at each meeting.
The Chairman and the Group Reviewed the findings of the audit, including discussion of Chief Executive may also attend, subject to availability.
any major issues arising, any accounting and audit In addition the committee meets separately with the external judgements and the internal control reports, including and internal auditors.
Details of the attendance of each responses from management and any proposed remedial member are set out on page 28. action: and The work of the Committee during 2006 and to the date of Reviewed the effectiveness of the external auditors.
this Report included: To encourage the external auditors to speak freely, the Audit Reviewing the drafting of the Interim Report, Preliminary Committee held meetings with the external auditors without Announcement and the Annual Report and Accounts for management present.
The Committee schedules this into its the 2006 year end before their submission to the Board: timetable as a matter of course, usually every other meeting.
Reviewing the regular reports of the external auditors including internal control reports following the year end audit: Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 27 Directors & Directors Report Directors Report at http: www.
In addition the Audit Committee, Internal Audit function through its Chairman, formally reports to the Board on its The Committee is required to assist the Board to fulfil its activities.
responsibilities relating to the adequacy of the resourcing and plans of the Internal Audit department.
To fulfil these duties, the Committee: Remuneration committee Reviewed and assessed the annual internal audit plan: The Committee consists of non-executive directors, a majority of whom are independent.
The membership of the Committee Reviewed all reports on the Group from the internal during the year comprised: Geoffrey Howe Chairman until 27th auditors: April 2006 when he stood down on becoming Chairman of the Reviewed the co-ordination between internal and external Group, Chris Keljik Chairman from 27th April 2006 : Lord auditors: Leach: Simon Keswick: Nick MacAndrew: and Bob Scott.
Reviewed and monitored management's responsiveness to the findings and recommendations of the internal auditor: The Remuneration Committee met seven times during the year.
and It is responsible, inter alia, for setting the remuneration and Met the head of internal audit, without management being terms and conditions of the executive directors and setting present, to discuss their remit and any issues arising from overall remuneration policy for senior management of the the internal audits carried out.
It also approves the allocations under all long term incentive plans and share option schemes.
The Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee cover all matters indicated by the Combined Code and include Assistance was provided to the Committee by the Chairman responsibility for providing advice to the Board on the Groups and the Chief Executive, neither in relation to his own interim and financial statements: on accounting policies and on remuneration, and by New Bridge Street Consultants LLP the control of its financial and business risks as well as NBSC.
NBSC were appointed by the Remuneration reviewing the work of the internal and external auditors.
Committee to act as advisers to the Committee and they have A copy of the Terms of Reference can be obtained from the no other connection with the Company.
Company Secretary and is displayed on the Groups website Board attendance The number of Board and Committee meetings attended by Board or appropriate Committee members in the year is shown in the table below.
Board Audit Remuneration Nominations meeting Committee Committee Committee Note 9 x in period 5 x in period 7 x in period 3 x in period G M T Howe 69223 D J Burke 9--- B P Carpenter 3 6--- K A Carter 2 3 - - 1 A D J B Collins 3 1--- J P Hastings-Bass 4 6--- C A Keljik 8472 S L Keswick 7563 Lord Leach 77153 N R MacAndrew 9572 W J N Nabarro 3 7--- J W Rush 5 3--- R A Scott 8 -63 G W Stuart-Clarke 5 6--- V Y A C Wade 9--- 4 Mr J P Hastings-Bass resigned as a director on 15th September 2006.
Notes to table 5 Mr J W Rush was appointed a director and Mr G W Stuart-Clarke 1 The attendance of directors who were appointed, retired or resigned resigned as a director on 1st August 2006. during the year is shown from their date of appointment or up to the date of their retirement or resignation.
6 Mr Howe ceased to be a member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees on 27th April 2006, when he was appointed Chairman.
2 Mr K A Carter retired as a director on 27th April 2006.
7 Lord Leach ceased to be a member of the Audit Committee on 27th 3 Mr A D J B Collins resigned as a director and Mr B P Carpenter and April 2006.
Mr W J N Nabarro were appointed as directors on 5th April 2006.
28 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 The external auditors also report regularly on the actions that Nominations Committee they have taken to comply with professional and regulatory The membership of the Committee during the year comprised: requirements and current best practice in order to maintain that Lord Leach Chairman : Ken Carter until his retirement from the independence.
Board on 27th April 2006 : Geoffrey Howe: Simon Keswick: Nick MacAndrew and Bob Scott.
The directors are able to consult the Companys legal, financial and other professional advisers on any matter relating to the The Committee met three times during the year.
Any director may make use of this facility Its purpose is to make recommendations to the Board on subject to notifying the Chairman or Finance Director.
the appointment of directors of the Company.
The terms of If independent advice is sought, this is subject to prior reference of the committee are available on the Companys website.
consultation with the Chairman or a non-executive director as appropriate.
All directors also have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
Group Executive Committee The Company maintains appropriate directors and officers During the year the Group Executive Committee ceased to be liability insurance in respect of legal actions against its a formally constituted committee of the board and became an directors.
advisory group to the Chief Executive who has primary responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Groups operations.
The board procedures and delegated authorities Share capital were revised to reflect this change.
Movements in the share capital of the company during the year ended 31st December 2006 are set out in note 25 on Corporate Governance page 84.
During the year the Company has been in compliance with the At 31st December 2006 the authorised share capital of the provisions as set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Company was 12,500,000 of which 10,634,566 had been Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting issued and 1,865,434 unissued.
"Council in July 2003 and amended on 1st November 2006 the ""Code"" except for the following: Accountability and audit Lord Leach Deputy Chairman and Simon Keswick both served as non-executive directors and both are directors of The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of Jardine Matheson Holdings Limited, which has a 30.3% internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness."
The relationship with Jardine The implementation and maintenance of the risk management Matheson is maintained on an arms-length basis as and internal control systems are the responsibility of the detailed in note 34 on page 93.
However neither director Executive Directors and senior management.
The system is can be regarded as independent in the context of the designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to Code.
achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable The Board believes that the presence of Lord Leach and assurance, but not absolute assurance, against material misMr Keswick on the Board and its committees subject to statement or loss.
re-election under the Articles continues to be appropriate and in the interests of shareholders generally and does not Directors responsibilities: The following statement should be detract from their independence and judgment on any read in conjunction with the Independent Auditors Reports on relevant issue.
The non-executive directors bring to the Board a broad The directors are required to present for each accounting range of experience and expertise.
The knowledge held by period financial statements which give a true and fair view of Lord Leach and Mr Keswick built from the long standing the state of affairs of the Company and the Group at the end of relationship between Jardine Matheson and JLT continues the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Group for that to be of particular value.
These statements are prepared on the going concern The majority of the members of the Audit and basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will Remuneration committees are independent.
However, Lord Leach and Simon Keswick both served on these committees during the year, and therefore the Group The financial statements must be prepared in compliance with did not comply with the Code in relation to the membership the required formats and disclosures of the Companies Act of these Committees.
1985 and with applicable accounting standards.
Both the Board and the external auditors have safeguards in It is also the responsibility of the directors to ensure that place to prevent the compromise of the auditors arrangements are made for the maintenance of adequate independence and objectivity.
Details of services provided by accounting records, to safeguard the assets of the Group and the Groups auditors are set out in note 8 on page 70. to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Audit Committee also have a policy on the engagement of external auditors and the supply of non-audit services to the Group, including an annual review of the auditors independence.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 29 Directors & Directors Report Directors Report The directors confirm that suitable accounting policies, The Group adopts a prudent approach to the management of consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent its US dollar foreign exchange exposure by maintaining a judgements and estimates, have been used in the preparation hedging programme with the objective of selling forward a of the financial statements and that applicable accounting minimum of 50% of US dollar income projected to arise during standards have been followed.
the following 12 months and 25% of that expected to arise over the subsequent 12 months.
So far as the directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
Interest rate risk arises on the interest income from both own The directors have taken all the steps that they ought to have and fiduciary funds held in the Group.
The Group policy is to taken as directors in order to make themselves aware of any protect its sterling and US dollar interest earnings by relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys maintaining, on a rolling 12-month basis, a minimum hedged auditors are aware of that information.
Depending on market conditions this minimum can vary between 25% and 75% of projected interest income during Operating Company controls: The identification and mitigation the following 12 months and between 0% and 50% over the of major business risks is the responsibility of operating subsequent 12 months.
Each operating company maintains controls and procedures appropriate to its own business environment Financial risk management, borrowing facilities, liquidity risk and while conforming to Group standards and guidelines.
foreign currency risk are discussed within the Finance Directors These include procedures to identify and then investigate all Review on pages 20 to 23. types of material risk.
Risk management controls: In accordance with the Code, a Compliance and legal: The Groups legal, compliance and quality process has been established for identifying, evaluating and control departments establish compliance policy and carry out managing risks faced by the Group.
This process has been in regular audits.
The scope of work includes ensuring compliance place for the full financial year and up to the date the financial with laws, regulations and operating standards for the conduct statements were approved.
of business which is reported to the Board and Audit On an ongoing basis, management profiles the significant risks, Committee.
both operational and strategic, faced by the Group and reviews Going concern: The directors consider that the Group and the the effectiveness of risk management controls including loss Company have adequate resources to continue in operational prevention and recovery planning.
existence in the foreseeable future.
Consequently, the financial This exercise involves the senior management across the Group statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
and covers a broad range of risks, including operational, Internal control: The directors acknowledge that they are financial treasury, information technology, health & safety, human responsible for the Groups systems of internal control and for resource and legal areas.
reviewing their effectiveness and this review has been The key operational risks facing the Group include errors & undertaken during the year.
omissions, failure of business planning, regulatory sanctions and Internal financial controls: The present framework of financial IT security.
controls may be summarised under the following headings: Monitoring of risk is facilitated internally by the Risk & Organisational structure: There are clearly defined areas of Compliance function and assurance gained through financial, responsibility and limits of authority within the Group.
Annual compliance and quality based auditing.
Significant failures are budgets are approved by the Board following detailed reviews reported to the executive directors to ensure remedial action is by management.
Group results are reviewed against budget taken.
and reported to the Board on a regular basis.
The Board reviewed the Groups procedures for the Treasury: Treasury policy is reviewed and approved by the management of risk during the year and the Board is satisfied that appropriate processes and procedures are in place in order Board and a review group reporting to the Finance Director to identify and manage the significant risks faced by the Group.
is responsible for monitoring treasury activity and performance.
The Group has policies to cover the key treasury activities of As noted above, the overall responsibility for internal controls investment of funds, counterparty risk, foreign exchange and within the Company and its subsidiary undertakings rests with interest rate risk.
the directors of the Company.
Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of such controls forms part of the duties of the Cash and investments mostly consist of money market deposits Audit Committee.
Monitoring procedures include detailed and money funds with prime banks and institutions.
reviews of operating company systems which are routinely The Group maintains a counterparty policy based on published undertaken by internal audit.
The responsibility for internal rating criteria to limit the concentration of funds and the controls within associated undertakings rests essentially with the exposure with any one party.
Monetary limits are assigned to senior management of those operations, the role of the Group each counterparty based on an agreed scale in relation to their being to monitor its investments and to exert influence, normally credit rating.
30 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Investment appraisals: Major items of capital expenditure Donations require Board approval.
During the period the Group made charitable donations totalling 388,950 2005: 462,410.
No political donations The Board is also responsible for the overall strategy of the were made by the Group.
Group, including acquisitions and related due diligence requirements.
Annual General Meeting Employment policies The notice convening the Annual General Meeting to be held on 26th April 2007 at 12 noon at 6 Crutched Friars, London It is the policy of the Group to provide an environment in which individual talents can excel.
Employee involvement is EC3N 2PH is contained in the circular accompanying this encouraged with wide share ownership and participation in report.
The special business comprises the following items: share option schemes.
The renewal, within prescribed limits, of: Employees are kept informed of the performance of the i the authority of the directors to allot securities of the Group and all matters affecting them as employees by means Company up to the available unissued capital: of regular briefings and consultation.
ii the disapplication of the statutory pre-emption rights: The Group is an equal opportunities employer and bases all iii the authority of the Company to purchase, for cancellation, decisions on individual ability regardless of race, religion, its own shares by way of market purchases: gender, age or disability.
iv a waiver of the requirement arising under Rule 9 of the City Applications for employment by disabled persons will always Code on Takeovers and Mergers, that Jardine Matheson be fully considered, having regard to their particular aptitudes Holdings Limited, together with parties deemed to be and abilities.
Should employees become disabled, every effort acting in concert with it, be required to make a general offer will be made to ensure that their employment with the Group for the Company by reason of the change in its percentage continues and, in the event that they are unable to continue to holding in the capital of the Company arising from any such work, that their financial interests are safeguarded.
It is the purchase under iii above.
intention of the Group that opportunities for training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far Save for the allotment of shares under the Companys as possible, be identical with those for other employees.
share option schemes or as may arise with the acquisition of minority interests, the directors have no present intention of utilising the authority under i and ii above.
Environmental Policy The directors will only consider making purchases of the The Board considers respect for the environment to be an Companys shares if they believe that it would be in the integral business responsibility and good business practice.
best interests of shareholders and would result in an To this end, the following guidelines have been issued within improvement in earnings per share: the Group, to: v Amendments to the Memorandum and Articles of - carefully manage waste so as to minimise its production Association to bring them up to date with recent where possible, or suitably dispose of it through recycling developments in company law and practice, including schemes: directors indemnity provisions and the electronic - control and, where possible, restrict polluting emissions: communication provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
- ensure appropriate regulatory compliance: - design and operate facilities taking into account the Auditors efficient use of energy and materials: and It is proposed that the auditors,  LLP, - encourage the adoption of these guidelines by contractors having signified their willingness to continue in office, be acting on behalf of the Company.
reappointed auditors of the Company.
A resolution proposing their reappointment will be put to the Annual General Meeting.
Suppliers The Group agrees payment terms with suppliers when it enters By order of the Board into contracts for the purchase of goods or services and seeks David Hickman to abide by those terms when it is satisfied that the supplier Company Secretary has provided the goods or services in accordance with the 20th March 2007 agreed terms and conditions.
At 31st December 2006 the Company did not have any direct external supplier creditors.
The Group does not have a standard or code that deals specifically with the payment of suppliers.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 31 Directors & Directors Report
