Regulatory framework REGULATORY FRAMEWORK The Regulatory Regime Wholesale Markets: BT operates within a regulatory regime based on five EC Communication Directives implemented Wholesale residential analogue exchange line services in April 2002.
The Directives, which aim to create harmonised regulation of the electronic Wholesale business analogue exchange line services communications markets throughout the Community, were transposed into UK law in the Wholesale business ISDN2 exchange line services Communications Act 2003 The Act.
Ofcom use the Act to issue formal Directions on all Call origination on fixed public narrowband networks operators with Significant Market Power SMP.
Local-tandem conveyance and transit on fixed public narrowband networks Single transit on fixed public narrowband networks Ofcom undertook reviews of communications markets in the UK to determine whether any Technical areas Interconnect Circuits operators had SMP in specified markets.
Following those reviews BT was deemed to have SMP in a Fixed call termination number of Wholesale and Retail markets, as described below.
Where an operator has SMP, the Act Traditional interface symmetric broadband origination up to and including 8Mbit s enables Ofcom to impose one or more obligations in relation to each market, including: Traditional interface symmetric broadband origination above 8Mbit s up to an including Accounting separation, which requires the operator to maintain accounting systems such that 155Mbit s the financial results of each SMP market can be separately presented and that costs relating to Alternative interface symmetric broadband origination all bandwidths products and markets are allocated in a transparent and appropriate way.
Accounting Wholesale trunk segments separation is also used to ensure that there is no undue discrimination.
Technical areas Point of Handover Cost accounting in relation to both wholesale and retail activities.
Wholesale activities include Wholesale IDD to category B the provision of network access, the use of the network and the availability of various facilities.
Asymmetric broadband origination in the UK Retail activities are those that relate to services to end-users.
Obligations may include price Broadband conveyance in the UK controls for specified SMP products, cost-orientation of prices for SMP products and the Wholesale residential ISDN2 exchange line services recovery of costs for the purpose of demonstrating transparency.
Wholesale business ISDN30 exchange line services Publication of financial information in relation to SMP markets.
The annual regulatory financial Wholesale local access i. e. LLU services sold externally.
statements satisfy this obligation, and the publication of information relating to SMP markets Retail Markets: is intended to provide public assurance that BT has complied with its cost accounting and accounting separation obligations.
BT is required to have the published statements audited by Residential analogue exchange line services in the UK an independent auditor.
Residential local calls in the UK Residential national calls in the UK The form and content of the published regulatory financial statements is reviewed regularly by Residential IDD calls category A routes retail IDD routes which are competitive in the UK Ofcom, in the light of changes in the regulatory regime and the needs of stakeholders.
Ofcom also Residential IDD calls category B routes retail IDD routes which are not competitive in the UK requires BT to provide more detailed information to enable Ofcom to regulate effectively and Residential calls to mobiles in the UK efficiently, this being in addition to the information in the regulatory financial statements, and not Residential operator assisted calls in the UK.
published by either BT or Ofcom.
In this pro-forma report, BT is re-presenting and reporting on the above markets in a revised format SMP Markets that proposes a new basis of financial reporting in the future.
As referred to above, Ofcom determined that BT has SMP in a number of specified markets.
The In the wholesale markets above BT has amalgamated the following markets to reflect a hybrid view SMP status of BT in each market is subject to periodic review by Ofcom, and the requirement to of the revenues, costs, assets and liabilities of the Wholesale Access Markets.
This hybrid view does publish financial and other relevant information in relation to each SMP may change as a result of not replicate the Openreach Line of Business created in 2006 as part of BTs Undertakings arising these reviews.
from Ofcoms Telecom Strategic Review, as the market definitions do not exactly map into the The markets in which BT has SMP in the period covered by the current report are as follows: products sold by Openreach, and this business did not begin to trade separately until 1 April 2006.
