Introduction INTRODUCTION Comments and suggestions regarding the form and content of this report should be sent by e-mail Introduction to: peter.
If you are unable to use electronic mail please send your This report forms part of the overall body of evidence that demonstrates that BT has complied with comments to: The Director of Regulatory Finance at BT Centre, 81 Newgate Street, London, EC1A key regulatory obligations, in particular the requirements to implement accounting separation, to 7AJ.
comply with price controls, to set prices that are cost-oriented and not to unduly discriminate.
The report includes the following: Costs relating to SMP markets and key individual products, and the relationship of those costs to the prices charged both internally to downstream parts of BT and externally to third parties.
Key performance indicators relating to regulatory obligations.
Descriptions of BTs accounting processes and the methodologies used to allocate costs to services and markets.
Current Cost Accounting The accounting information presented in this report is on a Current Cost Accounting CCA basis.
This is different from the Historical Cost Accounting basis in that it takes account of changes in the purchasing power of money and the impact that this has on the carrying value of assets.
CCA is used for regulatory accounts because regulation takes a forward looking approach to setting prices, which need to give appropriate economic signals to customers, end-users and other network operators.
The CCA adjustments relating to each SMP market are identified in the individual statements in this report and isolate the effects of one-off holding gains and losses over the year.
Status of this report Readers should note that this report is being produced voluntarily by BT, in addition to the main Current Cost Regulatory Financial Statements that BT is required to publish for the year ended 31 March 2006.
BT has compiled the information in this report to demonstrate that a more userfriendly form and content of financial and related data gives a high level of assurance of BTs compliance, without the need to publish the very detailed information included in the main Regulatory Financial Statements.
Ofcom consulted on the future of BTs regulatory financial reporting during 2006, and intend to issue a further consultation document in the autumn of 2006.
By publishing this report BT aims to contribute to the debate about the most appropriate information to publish regarding BTs compliance with the key obligations referred to above.
The content of this report has been influenced by feedback from industry members on a draft pro-forma version that BT put into the public domain earlier in 2006 as part of the consultation process.
Invitation to comment BT is actively seeking comments on this fully populated report, in order to take the debate forward and to work with key stakeholders on providing relevant and useful information in the future.
