Investment Managers Report Stephen Mitchell has been managing the assets of the Company since December 1997. Review Performance The current economic expansion in Japan is set to The Companys total return on net assets, in sterling surpass the longest post war expansion on record, the terms, was 2.0% over the fiscal year, 2.8% behind the so-called 5 year Izanagi boom from 1965-1970.
Performance had been strong during the the current cycle remains intact, economic data was first half of the year, gaining 29.5%, but two events in softer towards the end of the review period, with particular affected Japan in the second half, and the NAV consumption in particular not responding as expected to then fell back 21%.
Firstly, the a tighter labour market.
Industrial machinery orders accounting scandal concerning internet company eased back a little over the summer, though they remain Livedoor was a trigger for the selling off of all small and at very high levels, and consumer sentiment was mid-sized companies, and secondly, the Bernanke somewhat affected by high oil prices and the difficult Shock in May when the US central bank reacted environment in world stockmarkets.
Exports held up vigorously to soaring oil and commodity prices, triggered though with notably strong exports of cars.
The setback a second wave of risk aversion and selling which reduced in the stockmarket in 2006 through January to July came valuations.
The Company was overweight in small and against this positive background, and was mainly due to mid cap companies and this materially affected the a correction in the valuation of stocks rather than any performance in the latter half of the year.
The portfolios drastic change in the fundamentals of corporate Japan.
bias to small and mid caps was designed to exploit Japans smaller service oriented companies, rather than Two factors exacerbated this years decline in Japanese global export giants such as Toyota, many of whom have stocks.
Firstly, individual investors had bought large high growth rates.
Currently, looking at the Companys positions in small and mid-cap stocks using their margin largest small and mid cap names they offer a more accounts, and they therefore suffered several painful attractive valuation for above average rates of growth.
Secondly, hedge funds were High yielding J-REITs real estate investment trusts also overweight in Japanese stocks without any offsetting performed very well for the Company during the weak hedges in place.
There was thus frantic selling that phase of the stockmarket.
dramatically affected the prices of stocks regardless of their quality.
This gave the Company a good buying This fiscal year the Company was positioned for an opportunity at distressed prices and gearing was raised ongoing economic recovery and performance benefited in July, which proved timely.
strongly from this in the first half-year.
However, the decline in stock valuations in the second half was both The final two months of the fiscal year marked a recovery more abrupt and more extreme than anticipated, with as the decline in Japanese stocks had gone too far, an associated sharp switch by investors into defensive particularly in small and mid-caps.
A more benign stocks, and the Companys economic-sensitivity investment background also prevailed.
Firstly, yen was affected its performance.
JPMorgan Asset Management quite weak, boosting the profits of Japanese exporters.
believe that the underlying improvement in the Secondly, oil peaked at $77 per barrel at the end of July Japanese economy and corporate profits will continue, and fell back to $60.
This improved the inflation outlook and as a result do not want to make wholesale changes and global interest rates reduced significantly.
Thus the to a portfolio of long-term holdings.
Nevertheless some Federal Reserve Bank looked more likely to engineer a adjustments were made to the portfolio, which soft landing.
Lastly, the order books of Japanese increased turnover, as it became clear that the global companies remained very healthy.
There was no let up in inflation risk was greater than previously perceived.
demand from China, India, Russia, the Middle East, and This activity did help to mitigate the setback in many other oil and commodity producing countries.
The economic sensitive stocks within the Company.
The year thus ended with a renewed sense of optimism and valuation decline in the Tokyo market now appears to with the stockmarket back at much more comfortable have largely run its course with stocks making a good valuations.
Indeed small company shares were in many recovery since July, most notably in the real estate cases offering much better value relative to their growth sector in which the Company is overweight.
4 JPMorgan Fleming Japanese Yen was a fairly neutral factor in the first half of the Performance attribution for the year financial year, declining just 2% against sterling, but in to 30th September 2006 the second half of the year the Bank of England raised rates and yen then depreciated 7.5%, to make a total 1 Year decline of nearly 10% for the year.
This was unhelpful to % UK based shareholders but was not sufficiently large that Contributions to Total Returns the manager felt hedging was justified.
The first half of Benchmark total return in sterling terms 4.8 2006 should be regarded as a period of sharp and abrupt Allocation effect 1.2 consolidation rather than a bear market.
It came after the Selection effect 4.7 three very strong years of stockmarket gains from 2003 Gearing cash effect 1.7 through 2005 during which the Nikkei 225 index rose Investment manager contribution 3.0 125%.
Subsequently the economic cycle has continued and companies in the portfolio have revised up earnings Fees expenses 0.8 and created value for shareholders.
Bid valuation adjustment 0.4 Residual 0.6 The Companys portfolio had a strong bias towards stocks that benefited from the end of deflation in Japan, Other effects 1.0 and it was these investments in banks and real estate Return on net assets 2.0 developers that performed best.
Technology stocks also Increase in discount 5.2 added value.
For example, Sumco which makes silicon Return to shareholders 3.2 wafers did particularly well.
The retail sector was a Source: Frank Russell JPMAM Fundamental Data domestic sector that disappointed, and the overweight Definitions position hurt.
Wages and incomes rose rather slower Performance attribution: Analyses how the Company than expected as companies kept the lid firmly down on achieved its recorded performance relative to its costs.
A factor unique to Japan was a move by politicians benchmark.
to cap the interest rates paid on consumers loans.
This Allocation effect: Measures the impact of allocating had a severe effect on credit card companies in which the assets differently to those in the benchmark, via the Company had several holdings.
Credit card use though portfolios weighting in different countries, sectors or remains an area of structural growth in Japan and the asset types.
companies now trade cheaply at book value.
Selection effect: Measures the effect of investing in Outlook securities to a greater or lesser extent than their Yen has weakened steadily since its 1995 peak and this weighting in the benchmark, or of investing in securities has affected returns this fiscal year.
In real terms, it is at outside of the benchmark.
levels near where the G7 nations intervened in the Gearing cash effect: Measures the impact on returns of famous Plaza accord of 1985 and against sterling is at borrowings or cash balances on the Companys relative levels last seen in 1979-81.
Japan is thus enjoying a performance.
significant reflationary stimulus helping the profitability Fees expenses: The payment of fees and expenses of the corporate sector, and certain industries such as car reduces the level of total assets, and therefore has a makers in particular.
It would not be surprising for yen to negative effect on relative performance.
strengthen back to nearer its purchasing power parity in Bid valuation adjustment: The change from mid to bid the next few years.
The long-term investor in the valuations impacted the underlying portfolio value by Company may thus expect to eventually benefit from this 0.4%.
Residual: Residual due to timing differences of income Secondly, the risks facing the Japanese stockmarket need flows.
The attribution accounts for income as it is to be considered.
Inflation around the world, which might received, while fundamental data only account for income paid out by the Company.
trigger further central bank tightening, is still a concern, JPMorgan Fleming Japanese 5 Investment Managers Report continued as the Chinese and Indian economies will continue to machinery, and by Disco, which makes equipment for absorb large amounts of the worlds scarce natural polishing silicon wafers.
These latter two companies are resources.
Within Japan, question marks over the global leaders in their respective areas.
Daicel is a durability of this cycle are worrying investors.
The drivers chemical manufacturer, and is positioned in three growth of growth have moved from exports to capital areas including materials for LCD TVs.
The Company has a expenditure, but for the cycle to really be sustainable stake in Inpex, Japans largest oil exploration company, into 2007 and 2008 it will need personal consumption, which has made considerable gas discoveries in which accounts for 50% of Japanese GDP, to pick up.
Its valuation is less than western oil majors, and its reserves are growing.
Leading indicators for US inflation have now moderated Lastly, a venture capital company, Japan Asia Investment and central banks may now be able to cut rates should Corp, is held as the VC industry has markedly improved growth start to slow.
In Japan, the labour market with the economy.
The company invested well after the continues to tighten and shortages of new employees are 1998 Asian crisis, and is now bringing to the stockmarket becoming quite acute.
Raising wages to resolve these a successful list of bio-technology, service and digital bottlenecks has proved frustratingly slow though.
These ten holdings comprise just short extreme demographic factors could also stall the of a quarter of the Companys value, and offer an consumption recovery.
In 2007-9 the number of attractive and diversifying mix of Japans best companies youngsters coming into the workforce drops sharply, and that should create value over the medium term.
The main the retirement of baby boomers aged 55-60 starts in changes made in the top holdings this year have been to earnest, which will exacerbate a tight labour market.
reduce the beta of the portfolio and to realize profits in There is also the chronically low birth rate and the fact the real estate sector which did exceptionally well.
One that the population has just started to decline to holding was cut in the small company loan sector due to consider.
So investors will have to wait and see how the new Government cap on interest rates.
personal consumption plays out in 2007 and onwards.
In summary, Japan now faces challenges from the Nevertheless Japanese corporations have positioned durability of both global and domestic growth.
Difficult themselves well due to their competitive advantages.
This demographic changes also markedly accelerate in 2007 can be seen in the extremely high operating rates of and will have an important part to play in the future factories and the significant capital expenditure to invest dynamics of the economy.
Japanese shares suffered a in profitable new products.
The success of the car industry decline in their valuation in January to July 2006, and is notable, and currently they need to invest in more new thus are better positioned to withstand these challenges factories as far forward as 2010.
The returns that and also to positively respond to earnings growth when it companies in general achieve from these significant comes through.
The Companys manager has invested in investments will be very important to future earnings companies for the portfolio with more secular earnings growth.
JPMorgan Asset Management can report to growth, and these should be better able to grow even as shareholders the strong position of companies and the global economic growth slows.
Lastly, Japan has now confidence they have to invest for the future.
A high return started to normalise interest rates and this should on capital can be achieved, and most importantly more eventually help to correct the undervaluation of yen, and will be distributed to shareholders through higher any reversal would benefit shareholders outside Japan dividends.
Looking at the top ten holdings, they include three banks which are benefiting from the normalisation of the Stephen Mitchell economy in Japan.
Japans blue chip value-creating Investment Manager 15th November 2006 companies are represented by Honda in the auto industry, and by Fuji Film in imaging and medical equipment.
Japans vigorous capital expenditure is captured by holding SMC, which makes pneumatic 6 JPMorgan Fleming Japanese
