Investment Managers Report Alexander Fitzalan Howard Stephen Macklow-Smith Has been assisting in the Has been managing the management of the Companys assets since Companys assets since September 1997.
INVESTMENT MANAGERS Market and Performance Review The following table provides a breakdown, relative to the benchmark, of the contributions to total return.
The year under a review saw further rises in equity markets.
The Companys NAV out-performed the Performance attribution for the year to market, with the NAV rising by 40.0% against a 31st March 2006 1 Year % benchmark rise of 35.5%.
The discount also Net asset value total return 40.0 narrowed, meaning that the share price total return Benchmark total return 35.5 was 45.6%, a significant out-performance of the Relative return 4.5 benchmark.
Analysis of relative return Allocation effect 0.9 The Companys long-term performance remains Selection effect 5.2 satisfactory, with the three and five year NAV Gearing cash liquidity effect 1.2 Currency effect 0.5 returns comfortably ahead of the benchmark.
Over Management fee & other expenses 2.3 three years, which takes us back to the bottom of Repurchases 0.6 Residual item 1.2 the bear market, the Companys NAV is up 131% Total 4.5 and the stock price is up 167%, against a total Source: Xamin FTSE Fundamental Data.
Over five years the Definitions companys NAV and stock price are both up around Performance attribution: Analyses how the Company 46% against a market up 33%.
This means that we achieved its recorded performance relative to its benchmark.
are delivering what we have undertaken to do over Allocation effect: Measures the impact of allocating assets differently to those in the benchmark, via the portfolios all time periods steady out-performance of the weighting in different sectors or asset types.
This was also Selection effect: Measures the effect of investing in individual securities to a greater or lesser extent than their weighting in the year in which the Companys share price the benchmark, or of investing in securities outside the benchmark.
exceeded the previous peak, standing at the Gearing cash liquidity effect: Measures the impact on relative returns of the Companys net borrowings.
Companys year-end 33% above its level in 2000.
Currency effect: Measures the impact of currency exposure differences between the Companys portfolio and its The one year performance is therefore benchmark.
It also identifies the effect of holding forward currency contracts or currency futures.
satisfactory, but equity investing is a long term Management fee & other expenses: The payment of fees business, with the rises of the last three years and expenses reduces the level of total assets, and therefore has a negative effect on relative performance.
making up for the falls of the previous three.
We Repurchases: Measures the net effect on relative performance of repurchasing shares at a discount to NAV for cancellation.
remain confident about long-term prospects for Residual item: Arises when there is a divergence between Continental Europe though, and we feel that there total return as calculated by Fundamental Data, and total return as calculated by the attribution generating system.
This is scope for markets to make further headway in is a result of methodology differences with respect to the treatment of income and cashflows, and timing differences.
JPMorgan Fleming Continental European 7 Investment Managers Report continued Our confidence stems from the fact that the steady Economic Research: this found that 78% of US improvement in European profitability continues, financial executives would give up economic value and has further to run.
Anyone who judges the in exchange for smooth earnings progression and state of Europe by the headlines in the press 55% would not initiate a project with a very would have thought this year that the European positive overall return if it meant a short-term risk Union was tottering.
The rejection of the EU of disappointing consensus earnings.
Constitution in the Dutch and French referenda, the The steep rise in the oil price and indeed in most sluggish pace of headline economic growth in commodity prices has not, so far, derailed 2005, and the frequent criticism of the European economies, partly because of the huge export Central Bank for not giving more monetary demand being generated by China and India.
stimulus, all seemed to suggest a background of European companies are well represented in stagnation and institutional deadlock.
As we often supplying these markets and many of the stocks say, however, political Europe and economic which contributed most directly to the good Europe are not the same as investor Europe.
performance of the Company were direct Steady cost-cutting at a company level and tax beneficiaries of the commodity and export effect, reform at a government level, combined with such as Vallourec, a French manufacturer of steady growth in the volume of world trade, meant seamless steel tubes used in the oil exploration that European profits grew by a high single digit industry, Rauturuuki, a Finnish steel manufacturer, number in 2005 and the same factors are expected and MAN, the German manufacturer of capital to propel them forward again in 2006.
These companies emerged from the best companies now routinely cover their cost of of value filter that we use.
On the best of growth capital, even in poor years such as 2002, which side, we saw good contributions to performance makes them value creators.
The reputation of US from Porsche, which not only saw good demand companies as the ultimate value creators is based for its Cayenne off-roader, but also benefited from on many years of excellent corporate performance, US Dollar strength.
Zurich Financial Services the but this year saw question marks appear about multi-line Swiss insurer, also contributed well as current US corporate culture, with the publication the restructuring of the last four years started to of a paper from the US National Bureau of pay off.
8 JPMorgan Fleming Continental European Market Outlook Valuations, while not cheap, are not stretched, partly because profits growth has come through as equity prices have risen.
Relative to other global areas we believe Europe has much to recommend it, selling as it does on a slightly cheaper level of valuation, but with earnings growth underpinned by the tide of corporate restructuring.
We see some clouds on the horizon in the form of higher long term interest rates and a weakening US Dollar and for this reason we are currently not utilising our gearing, but if markets were to weaken in the second half of the year we would be happy to increase our risk budget in order to benefit from higher markets in 2007 and 2008.
Stephen Macklow-Smith Alexander Fitzalan Howard Investment Managers 5th June 2006 JPMorgan Fleming Continental European 9
