Investment Managers Report Martin Hudson James Soutter Has been managing Was appointed the Companys assets assistant investment since 1994. manager in 2004.
Market Background The following table provides a breakdown, relative to the benchmark, of the contributions to total return.
The strong market conditions that have prevailed since March 2003 continued throughout 2005, Performance attribution for the year to producing a very healthy return for the year ended 31st January 2006 1 Year 31st January 2006.
The first half of the year was % characterised by a shift in sentiment away from Net asset value total return 32.9 mid and small cap stocks to the familiarity of large Benchmark total return 28.8 cap stocks, as investors became concerned that Relative return 4.1 the strong relative performance of UK mid and Analysis of relative return small cap stocks could no longer be justified.
By the end of May this shift had started to reverse, as Allocation effect 1.7 Selection effect 0.1 investors once again saw the attraction of the Gearing Cash effect 2.9 higher earnings growth potential that mid and Fees Expenses 0.7 Share repurchases 0.1 small cap stocks offer.
The outcome for the year ended 31st January 2006 was that the Companys Total 4.1 benchmark, the FTSE All-Share Index excluding Source: Xamin JPMAM Fundamental Data Russell Mellon Caps.
FTSE 100 constituents and investment trusts returned 28.8%, outperforming the return Definitions generated by the FTSE 100 Index of 22.8%.
Performance attribution: Analyses how the Company achieved its recorded performance relative to its The strong share price rises within small and mid benchmark.
sized companies were driven by a stream of Allocation effect: Measures the impact of allocating earnings upgrades during the year when company assets differently to those in the benchmark, via the profits reported outstripped analysts forecasts, as portfolios weighting in different sectors or asset types.
the UK economy recorded its 54th consecutive quarter of GDP growth.
Underpinning this earnings Selection effect: Measures the effect of investing in individual securities to a greater or lesser extent than growth was the compelling valuation of small and their weighting in the benchmark, or of investing in mid sized companies, which were trading on a securities outside the benchmark.
forward price earnings ratio of 12.9x at the Gearing Cash effect: Measures the impact on relative beginning of our financial year.
returns of the Companys net borrowings.
Fees Expenses: The payment of fees and expenses Performance reduces the level of total assets, and therefore has a The Companys net asset value total return of negative effect on relative performance.
32.9%, for the year ended 31st January 2006 Share repurchases: Measures the effect on relative outperformed the benchmark index return of performance of repurchasing shares at a discount to NAV for cancellation.
28.8% and the total return to shareholders was 38.8%, as the share price discount to net asset JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile 3 Investment Managers Report continued value with debt at fair value narrowed from 14.5% outperformance was driven by two separate to 9.3% during the financial year.
The first of these was the continuing globalisation within the building materials sector.
The net asset value outperformance of the Over the year, a number of our holdings have benchmark by 4.1 percentage points is analysed in agreed takeover bids from international the table on page 3, which shows that the excess competitors: BPB was bought by St Gobain of return generated came from stock selection, asset France, Aggregate Industries by Holcim of allocation and gearing.
Switzerland and Pilkington was bid for by Nippon The bar chart below shows the relative Sheet Glass of Japan.
The second theme was the contributions to performance for the year of the five re-rating of UK house builders as fears of a crash in best and five worst sectors within the portfolio.
This re-rating was finally blue bars to the right show a positive contribution sparked when Persimmon bid for Westbury, to performance relative to the benchmark index and highlighting the value of development land owned reflect a combination of both sector weightings and by house builders and the potential for stock selection.
The orange bars to the left show a consolidation within the industry.
Transportation was a strong sector for us last year, with the largest contribution coming from P&O This shows that the Companys overweight stance which agreed a takeover bid from DP World.
in building companies was the largest contributor to performance, with house builders now being Our worst performing sector was Software and included in the Household Goods sector.
The Computer Services, where one stock in particular, Sector performance contribution analysis.
Year to 31st January 2006 Top 5 0% Household Goods 1.2% Industrial Transportation 1.0% General Financial 0.8% General Retailers 0.8% Oil Equipment and Services 0.5% Bottom 5 0.4% Chemicals 0.4% Real Estate 0.6% Media 1.0% Oil and Gas Products 1.2% Software and Computer Services Relative Contribution % Source: Russell Mellon Analytical Services.
4 JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Managers Report continued Gresham, detracted from performance as the The portfolio retains its style of broad company missed revenue targets and was diversification across all sectors and we currently subsequently fide-rated.
We suffered a poor relative hold approximately 175 stocks, 100 being mid performance by being underweight in Oil and Gas sized and 75 smaller.
By value, 85% of the Producers, but this was offset to some extent by portfolio is in mid sized stocks and 15% in smaller our overweight position in Oil Equipment and stocks, which is close to the size split of the Services companies.
However, within that mix we are overweight in very small stocks, where we find Portfolio Activity better growth opportunities in under-researched Throughout the year gearing was kept in the range companies and overweight in the larger companies of 9% to 15%, as we believed that small and mid in our investment universe were we find value sized UK companies would benefit from the robust opportunities in companies that are out of favour economic backdrop and strong corporate earnings or have been ejected from the FTSE 100.
This gearing into a strong market aided larger end of the scale, we also favour companies performance during the year.
that are pushing their way up into the FTSE 100 Corporate activity was a strong feature of the year, with strong momentum characteristics.
driven by the low cost of debt finance, The table below shows the overweight stance in underleveraged balance sheets and strong the very largest and the very smallest companies, corporate earnings.
The Company benefited from at the expense of the middle ground.
We often find holding more than half of the takeovers that this middle ground less attractive because it is well occurred in the FTSE 250 mid cap index with BPB owned and researched by small cap funds.
and P&O being the largest contributors to performance.
Market We continued our search for new growth Capitalisation Index Mercantile Relative opportunities and acquired a number of new holdings in stocks that we believe can deliver on More than 1.5bn 37.9 52.3 14.4 their strong growth potential.
New smaller 1bn to 1.5bn 15.2 16.7 1.5 company purchases included Gulfsands Petroleum, 500m to 1bn 26.3 14.7 11.6 MP Evans, Hansteen, New Star Asset Management, 300m to 500m 8.9 4.2 4.7 Orchid Developments, Real Estate Opportunities, 100m to 300m 10.7 7.1 3.6 Serica Energy, Trading Emissions, Vebnet Holdings, 50m to 100m 0.9 3.0 2.1 Vigilant Technology and Wogen.
In addition, we Less than 50m 0.1 2.0 1.9 bought holdings in a number of attractive larger Total 100.0 100.0 0.0 new issues during the year, which included Drax Group, Inmarsat, Kazakhmys and Petrofac.
JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile 5 Investment Managers Report continued The composition of the ten largest holdings has often overlooked by the mainstream, evaluate changed over the year.
Our second and third management and resolve issues.
Our fundamental largest holdings of a year ago, BPB and P&O, analysis of companies is aided by JPMorgans inagreed takeover bids and we sold International house proprietary screening process which helps Power on its promotion into the FTSE 100 Index.
us to identify companies that exhibit the best value New holdings in the top ten include Lonmin and and growth characteristics.
Pilkington, which were held within the portfolio a year ago, Corus and Whitbread which fell out of the Outlook FTSE 100 Index and Drax Group, a new introduction The magnitude of returns last year surprised many.
to the stockmarket, which is the owner of the UKs However, these strong returns were in response to largest coal fired power station.
much higher than expected earnings growth and thus we start 2006 with the portfolio still Currently 5% of the portfolio is in four FTSE 100 attractively valued on a forward price earnings stocks: Persimmon, Kelda, Kazakhmys and ratio of 13.7x and underlying dividend yield of Hammerson.
5% is our normal maximum in the 2.7%.
This valuation, combined with a robust FTSE 100 and reflects the recent promotion of outlook for earnings growth in the UK, sets a firm these stocks.
We will look to sell these over time, backdrop for another year where mid and small but currently we believe that the FTSE 100 stocks cap equities can perform well.
that we hold still exhibit characteristics that will lead them to outperform.
The table below shows the aggregate of stockmarket forecasts for the individual companies During the year we met or visited around 250 held within the portfolio and, for reference, we companies and this remains a key component in compare these with the corresponding figures for our process of evaluating companies.
We believe both our benchmark non-FTSE 100 Index and with that properly targeted company meetings can help the FTSE 100 Index.
us analyse smaller growth companies that are 12 months 1 Forward Forecast 12 months Forecast Forecast Price Earnings Earnings Forward Dividend Dividend Ratio Growth Yield Growth Cover JPMF Mercantile 13.7x 11.7% 2.7% 7.7% 2.7x FTSE All-Share ex FTSE 100 & investment trusts 14.7x 11.7% 2.7% 8.1% 2.5x FTSE-100 11.9x 12.5% 3.5% 7.9% 2.4x Excluding loss making companies.
Source: UBS Global Research 31st January 2006.
6 JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Managers Report continued In constructing the portfolio, we are constantly much of this growth is being found in small looking for both value and growth opportunities companies across a wide range of new and this is reflected in the portfolio aggregates: opportunities in, for example, gas storage, natural the portfolio is cheaper than the benchmark, resources, technology, carbon credits and real trading on a forward price earnings ratio of 13.7x estate.
versus 14.7x respectively, and for that cheaper In conclusion, we believe there remains a positive valuation the Company has as much potential investment case for mid and small sized growth as the benchmark, with both forecast to companies.
We shall continue to seek to be grow at 11.7%.
invested in compelling growth and value Due to changes in FTSE sector classifications opportunities within a broadly diversified portfolio implemented at the end of 2005, house builders creating a sound foundation from which to look no longer fall into the Building Materials and forward to another good year.
Construction sector, but find themselves classified as Household Goods.
House builders remain our largest overweight position as we believe that their Martin Hudson valuation remains too low and that the outlook for James Soutter 11th April 2006 pricing and volumes is improving.
Our largest underweight positions are in the Support Services sector, which comprises an eclectic mix of companies, where generally we are not finding valuations compelling, and in Software and Computer Services, where the delivery against growth expectations continues to disappoint.
We remain positive on the outlook for mid and small sized companies and believe that earnings can again, on average, exceeded expectations within a robust UK economy where interest rates, inflation and unemployment all remain low.
We also expect corporate activity to continue, particularly while the cost of borrowing remains low.
As touched on above, the portfolio has exposures to growth as well as value.
