DIRECTORS REPORT The directors have pleasure in submitting their annual report which The purchase price and availability of products distributed by the includes this Directors Report and the audited financial statements Group can fluctuate from time to time, thereby potentially affecting of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings for the year ended the results of operations.
The Company endeavours, whenever 31 December 2006.
The Directors Report incorporates by reference, possible, to pass on price increases from its suppliers to its customers to the extent indicated below, certain information included in the Annual and to source its products from a number of different suppliers so Review and Summary Financial Statement and should be read in that it is not dependent on any one source of supply for any particular conjunction with that document.
The Company would also be affected if there was a catastrophic failure of its major distribution facilities or information Principal activity and business review systems.
The Company seeks to mitigate against this risk through The principal activity of the Group is the provision of value-added the use of multi-site facilities with products stocked in more than distribution and outsourcing services across North America, Europe one location and the adoption of detailed back up plans which would and Australasia.
Details of the Groups activities, developments and be implemented in the event of any such failure.
performance for the year and information which fulfils the requirements of the Companies Act 1985 relating to the production of a Business The international nature of the Companys operations exposes it to Review are set out in the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives potential claims as the Group is subject to a broad range of laws and Review, the Financial Review and the Corporate Social Responsibility regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
In addition report on pages 4 to 15 and 18 to 23 of the Annual Review and the Company faces potential claims from customers in relation to Summary Financial Statement and in the section below entitled Principal the supply of defective products or breaches of their contractual risks and uncertainties.
The Company uses a number of key performance arrangements.
While any litigation has an element of uncertainty, the indicators to measure progress towards its objectives.
These are set out in Company does not presently expect that the outcome of any such the form of bar graphs on pages 7, 19 and 23 of the Annual Review and claims, either individually or in the aggregate, will have a material Summary Financial Statement.
adverse effect on the Groups financial condition or results of operations.
Principal risks and uncertainties The Companys business is partially dependent on general economic There are a number of potential risks and uncertainties which could conditions in the US, the UK, France and other important markets.
have a material impact on the Companys business, financial condition A significant deterioration in these conditions could have an adverse or results of operations.
The Company has specific policies and effect on the Companys business and results of operations.
However procedures which are designed to identify, manage and mitigate the diversity of the Groups operations, the nature of its customer business risk.
The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the base and its ability to react to market changes provide considerable Company include the following: protection against this risk.
The Companys operations are also subject to a variety of other risks and uncertainties relating to trading The majority of the Groups sales are made and income is earned in numerous foreign countries, including the imposition of any import in US dollars and other foreign currencies.
As a result movements or investment restrictions, including tariffs and import quotas or any in exchange rates may have a material translation impact on the restrictions on the repatriation of earnings and capital, and changes Companys reported results.
However any significant translation in tax regulation and international tax treaties.
The Company exposure on shareholders equity is limited by borrowing and or endeavours to monitor such matters and keep them under regular using forward foreign exchange contracts in those currencies in which review, amending its business procedures as appropriate to mitigate the Group has significant net assets.
The majority of the Groups any such exposures.
transactions are carried out in the functional currency of the Groups operations and so transaction exposures are limited and exchange Going concern rate fluctuations have minimal effects on the quality of earnings.
The directors, having made appropriate enquiries, consider that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence The Company operates in highly competitive markets and faces for the foreseeable future.
For this reason the directors believe it is competition from international companies as well as local and regional appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing companies in the countries in which it operates.
Increased competition the financial statements.
and unanticipated actions by competitors or customers could lead to an adverse effect on results and hinder the Companys growth Dividends potential.
The Company seeks to mitigate against this risk by remaining An interim dividend of 5.3p was paid in respect of the year and the competitive both in terms of price and product offering and by directors recommend a final dividend of 11.7p per share, making a maintaining high service levels and close contacts with its customers total for the year of 17.0p 2004: 15.7p.
Dividend details are given to ensure that their needs and demands are being met satisfactorily.
in Note 18 to the financial statements.
Subject to confirmation by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 16 May 2007, the final A significant portion of the Companys historical growth has been dividend will be paid on 2 July 2007 to those shareholders on the achieved through acquisitions of businesses and the Groups growth register at the close of business on 4 May 2007. strategy includes additional acquisitions.
There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to make acquisitions in the future or Share capital that any acquisitions made will be successful.
However the Company Details of the Companys share capital are set out in Note 17 to the continually reviews acquisition targets and has established processes financial statements.
and procedures with regard to detailed pre-acquisition due diligence and post-acquisition integration.
As a result the Company endeavours to ensure that the anticipated benefits of acquisitions can be realised.
Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2006 Directors Report 01 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Purchase of own shares Creditor payment policy As at 26 February 2007 the Company had purchased 9,112,910 of its Group operating companies are responsible for agreeing the terms and own shares into treasury pursuant to the existing authority which is due conditions under which business transactions with their suppliers are to expire at the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
It is Group policy that suppliers are made aware of these The directors again propose to seek a similar authority this year.
terms and that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with them provided that suppliers also comply with all relevant terms and Directors conditions.
The number of days billings from the Companys suppliers Mr B M May and Mr P W Johnson were appointed to the Board in outstanding at the end of the financial year was 31 2005: 30.
January 2006 and were subsequently elected at the 2006 Annual General Meeting.
Mr D M Williams retired from the Board on 31 January Donations 2006.
Biographical details of the current directors are set out on page 17 During 2006, amongst other worldwide charitable donations, the Group of the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement.
Mr M J Roney contributed 200,000 to UK charities 2005: 201,000.
No contributions and Mr J F Harris retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting in were made for political purposes.
accordance with the Articles of Association and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Chiltern Room, Selfridge Directors interests in ordinary shares are shown in Note 21 to the Hotel, Orchard Street, London W1H 6JS on Wednesday 16 May 2007 financial statements.
None of the directors was materially interested in at 11.00 am.
The notice convening the Meeting is set out in a separate any contract of significance with the Company or any of its subsidiary letter from the Chairman to shareholders which explains the items of undertakings during or at the end of 2006.
Information relating to the special business.
directors remuneration for the year and details of the directors share options under the Companys share option schemes and awards under Auditors the Long Term Incentive Plan and Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report confirms that: are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 52. so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information Directors indemnities of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under which the the director has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a Company has agreed to indemnify the directors and the Company director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and Secretary, in addition to other senior executives who are directors of to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
subsidiaries of the Company, to the extent permitted by law and the Companys Articles of Association in respect of all losses arising out of or This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with in connection with the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities the provisions of Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985. as a director or officer of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
A resolution is to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Employment policies Meeting for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the The employment policies of the Group have been developed to meet Company at a rate of remuneration to be determined by the directors.
the needs of its different business areas and the locations in which they operate worldwide, embodying the principles of equal opportunity.
P N Hussey It is the Groups policy that disabled applicants should be considered Secretary for employment and career development on the basis of their aptitudes 26 February 2007 and abilities.
Employees who become disabled during their working life will be retained in employment wherever possible and given help with Pages 1 to 2 inclusive consist of a directors report that has been drawn rehabilitation and training.
up and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon applicable English company law and any liability of the directors in connection with Substantial shareholdings this report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided As at 26 February 2007 the directors had been notified by the following by such law.
shareholders that they were each interested in 3% or more of the issued share capital of the Company.
The notifications listed below are those which have been most recently received for the named shareholders.
% of Date issued of share Shareholder notification capital Amvescap PLC 29.01.07 14.44 Baillie Gifford & Co 22.01.07 6.88 Legal & General Group Plc 13.02.07 3.41 Zurich Financial Services 17.07.06 3.08 Lazard Asset Management 05.05.06 3.07 Lloyds TSB Group plc 28.01.05 3.01 Prudential plc 16.02.07 3.00 02 Directors Report Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2006
