renowned for innovation with its proven performance outerwear serving COMPANY OVERVIEW ESTABLISHED IN 1856, as vital equipment for early polar explorers.
With its lifestyle character, the brand maintains a broad appeal across age groups and genders.
AND STRATEGY Burberrys portfolio of brand icons the trench coat, trademark check BURBERRY IS and Prorsum horse logo are recognised worldwide.
A BRAND DISTINGUISHED Targeted brand expressions The Burberry brand encompasses a number of individual expressions to address multiple consumer BY A RICH HERITAGE AND segments.
The runway collection is the brands most luxurious and fashionable expression.
This collection of womens and mens apparel A BUSINESS DEFINED and accessories shown four times per year in Milan validates the brands style credentials, offers a focal point for media coverage and BY A PROVEN STRATEGY provides design leadership to all Burberry collections.
Burberrys core collections offer a range of products in a modern-classic aesthetic for a WHICH HARNESSES THE wide consumer audience.
In selected markets, Burberry creates lines Burberry Blue Label and Burberry Black Label in Japan, and Thomas Burberry in Spain targeted at young adults.
STRENGTH OF THE PAST Balanced product portfolio Burberry maintains a balanced product TO FUEL FUTURE GROWTH portfolio consisting of womens, mens and childrens apparel and accessories.
In apparel, the Group offers a range of tailored and casual AND SHAREHOLDER VALUE items with outerwear as a core part of the product offering.
Accessories include handbags, scarves including Burberrys iconic cashmere scarf, silks, shoes and umbrellas.
In selected categories outside of its primary expertise, including fragrance, eyewear, OUR 150TH ANNIVERSARY timepieces and childrens apparel, the Group combines its skills with those of licensing partners for the design, manufacture and distribution IS A TESTAMENT TO of products under the Burberry brand.
Multi-channel distribution Burberry distributes products in THE ENDURING ATTRIBUTES major consumer markets globally through its retail, wholesale and licensing channels.
OF INNOVATION, QUALITY Directly operated stores With 43% of revenues in the 2005 06 financial year, retail is becoming Burberrys primary channel of AND DESIGN LEADERSHIP distribution.
The channel offers the greatest ability to manage the Burberry brand full control over brand presentation, including THAT CONTINUE TO merchandise and physical environment and greatest proximity to the consumer.
Retail operations also offer strong financial returns.
Established in 1856, Burberry is an international luxury brand.
MOTIVATE OUR TEAM, Stores and concessions are positioned in prestigious and high Through its operations, the Group designs, sources, markets, licenses quality locations in important consumer centres worldwide.
and distributes apparel, accessories and other lifestyle products for ENGAGE OUR CUSTOMERS At 31 March 2006, the Group operated 65 stores, 165 concessions women, men and children.
Burberry products are sold worldwide and 30 outlets locations.
In the US market, Burberry offers a limited through a network of 260 directly operated stores and concessions, AND DRIVE OUR PERFORMANCE assortment of its products through an e-commerce operation.
71 third-party operated retail locations and a network of wholesale customers, which include leading prestige retailers in each market.
Wholesale The wholesale channel works in tandem with retail In the financial year to 31 March 2006, the Group generated total operations.
Burberry products are distributed through a network of revenue of 743m across its retail, wholesale and licensing channels.
leading department and specialty stores and duty free retailers WE LOOK TO THE YEAR AHEAD For that period, the Group estimates the total retail value of products worldwide.
The wholesale channel allows Burberry to extend its sold bearing the Burberry brand was in excess of 2.7 billion.
reach to consumers who prefer to shop in multi-brand stores.
WITH CONFIDENCE AS WE In selected markets where the Group decides not to invest directly, Unique luxury brand The brand is uniquely positioned within the wholesale partners operate Burberry franchised stores.
Burberry offers a broader range of products and CARRY THIS LEGACY FORWARD 2006, partners operated 17 Burberry stores across several markets, price points relative to many traditional European luxury businesses.
including Eastern Europe, the Middle East, India and South America.
The brand has a rich heritage associated with Britain outfitting military officers during the early twentieth century.
Equally, Burberry is Estimated brand sales at retail value Turnover by product category Turnover by channel of distribution 2005 06 total: 2.7bn 2005 06 total: 742.9m 2005 06 total: 742.9m Womenswear 34% Retail 43% Europe 35% 249.3m 318.5m Menswear 28% Wholesale 46% North America 15% 206.2m 343.3m Accessories 26% Licence 11% Non-Japan Asia 10% 203.2m 81.1m Licensing 11% Japan 36% 81.1m Other 1% Other 4% 3.1m Includes childrenswear 8 Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 1 Licensing In addition to the product licenses discussed above, Drive retail growth The Group emphasises its directly operated store the Groups licensing channel also includes the brands Japanese network as its key growth channel.
Over the past five years, the Group licences.
In Japan, Burberry offers a broad range of apparel, has increased selling space by over 150%.
Burberry plans to continue accessory and home products through licensing partners.
In recent to develop its directly operated retail network through the addition of years, the Group has worked with these partners to enhance brand new stores and concessions, expansion of existing retail locations and positioning in this market.
These activities have included selective conversion of wholesale locations to retail formats.
improvements in product quality and design, elimination of products Strengthen wholesale Burberry continues to see opportunities to incompatible with long-term brand positioning, transition of selected strengthen its wholesale business.
The Group concentrates efforts categories to global licensing partners and upgrading distribution on key wholesale customers in each market, selectively adding in terms of number and quality of points of sale.
Japan space and enhancing brand presence and working to improve generated approximately 70% of licensing revenue in the financial execution.
The wholesale channel will also continue to be an year 2005 06. important vehicle for challenging operating environments, including certain emerging markets.
Targeted marketing Burberrys marketing strategy is structured to communicate brand attributes, maintain and raise awareness of the Investment in high potential markets Burberry plans to brand and highlight key products.
Marketing activities are targeted to concentrate its resources in underpenetrated and high growth consumers, wholesale accounts and the media.
Each season, markets, including the US, Asia and selected emerging markets.
Burberry creates an advertising campaign which broadly Enhance business in Japan In Japan, the Group will continue to communicates key brand values and presents a range of the work with its licensing partners, adjusting distribution and improving collections products.
These images are used across print, outdoor product design and quality to strengthen Burberrys brand position and electronic media in all Burberry markets.
Burberrys four annual with the aim of enhancing long-term growth potential.
At the same fashion shows and other public relations activities are designed to time, the Group has launched a programme to sell selected generate interest among consumers, targeted fashion and lifestyle international product lines directly in this market.
Strengthen operating capabilities In 2005 06, Burberry launched Sourcing Burberry maintains a sourcing network consistent with the a major infrastructure redesign programme, Project Atlas, to high quality requirements of its products and brand.
The Group enhance the Groups operating efficiency and effectiveness.
This five operates facilities for the manufacture of selected core outerwear year programme addresses the primary functional areas of the products.
In addition, Burberry maintains an external sourcing network.
Company including the supply chain and general corporate and The majority of these resources are located in Europe, consistent with administrative services.
The Group anticipates that this programme the types of products produced, quality standards and speed will generate tangible expense reductions as well as improved sales requirements.
Resources based in Asia and the Americas are used for and margins.
The execution of this growth strategy is subject to a number of risks, the most significant of which are set out on pages 18 and 19.
Growth strategy Additional components of Burberrys strategy, specifically designed to drive growth in revenue and profits, are set out below.
Leverage core expertise The Group seeks to leverage the expertise located within its individual business segments across the full brand platform.
Skills in product design and development, merchandising, retail operations and product sourcing may be more fully applied across Burberrys entire business.
Enhance apparel offering Burberry continues to see opportunities to enhance its womens and mens apparel businesses.
Key initiatives include continued investment in the core outerwear category in terms of design innovation and breadth of product assortment, expansion of additional product categories and increasing the frequency of new product offerings.
Build accessories business An important growth driver over the past five years, accessories are targeted for further expansion.
In handbags, Burberry is broadening the distribution of its runway lines and developing a tier of product with greater design sophistication relative to its existing core product range.
In the shoe category, Burberry continues to invest in people and infrastructure to build this business.
Turnover by geographic destination Turnover by geographic origin 2005 06 total: 742.9m 2005 06 total: 742.9m Europe 47% Europe 31% 350.4m 233.4m North America 24% North America 23% 180.4m 173.2m Asia Pacific 27% Asia Pacific 25% 201.4m 181.9m Other 2% Spain 21% 10.7m 154.4m Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 9
