Kensington Group plc Directors report Annual report and accounts 2006 26 Directors report The Directors are pleased to present their report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2006.
Principal activity and review of business The Company is a holding company co-ordinating the activities of its subsidiary companies.
The principal business activity of the Company and its subsidiaries Group is the provision of a range of residential mortgage loans and related insurance products.
A full review of the Groups activities, performance and outlook is contained in the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 to 3, the Business and operational review on pages 4 to 17 and the Financial Review on pages 18 to 23. Business review The Company is required to set out in this report a fair review of: the development and performance of the Group during the financial year ended 30 November 2006: the position of the Group at the end of that financial year: and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group Business Review.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business Review is incorporated in this report by reference and is set out in the Business and operational review the review of results for the Group and its operations on pages 4 to 14: and prospects and risks on page 17 : the Financial Review on pages 18 to 23: and the report on Corporate Social Responsibility on pages 44 to 45.
Results and dividends The results for the year are shown in the consolidated profit and loss account on page 49.
The profit before tax for the year ended 30 November 2006 was 49.1m 2005: 55.9m.
An interim dividend of eight pence per share was paid on 4 August 2006 2005: 6.5 pence per share.
The Board recommends payment of a final dividend of 16 pence per share 2005: 15 pence per share on 25 April 2007 to all shareholders on the register at the close of business on 13 April 2007.
This would make a total dividend for the year of 24 pence per share 2005: 21.5 pence per share.
Directors The current Directors of Kensington Group plc and their biographical details are set out on page 24.
With the exception of Mr R Blundell, who was appointed on 29 August 2006, all Directors have served on the Board throughout the year ended 30 November 2006.
Mr R Blundell was appointed to the Board with effect from 29 August 2006 and will offer himself for election at the 2007 Annual General Meeting which will be held on 11 April 2007.
Mr D Jones and Mr J Herring will retire by rotation and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Directors interests in shares The Directors interests in the issued share capital of the Company were: At 30 November 2006 At 30 November 2005 1 Mr P Birch 135,000 175,000 2 Mr S Colsell resigned on 11 August 2006 9,640 4,482 Mr J Herring 3 Mr D Jones 75,130 132,930 4 Mr J Maltby 280,083 365,645 Mr T Strauss Mr R Blundell from the date of appointment on 29 August 2006 1 Includes ordinary shares held jointly by Mr and Mrs P Birch.
2 Shares held at date of resignation.
3 Includes ordinary shares held by Mrs Jones and Mr D Jones pension fund.
4 Includes ordinary shares held by Mr J Maltbys nominees and connected persons.
In addition, certain Directors had interests in the share capital of the Company by virtue of options granted under share option schemes and awards made under the Performance Share Incentive Plan, details of which are given in the Report of the Board to shareholders on Directors remuneration on pages 29 to 38.
Kensington Group plc Directors report Annual report and accounts 2006 27 Directors report continued Directors interests in contracts None of the Directors had any interest, either during or at the end of the year, in any material contract or arrangement either with the Company or with the Group.
There have been no changes in the Directors interests between the year end and 29 January 2007 being a date not more than one month before the date of the notice convening the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Share capital Full details of the authorised and issued share capital are provided in note 20 of the notes to the financial statements.
Authority to purchase shares At the Annual General Meeting on 21 March 2006 the shareholders authorised the Company to purchase up to five million of the Companys ordinary shares.
During the year the Company did not purchase any shares.
The current authority will expire at the Annual General Meeting in 2007 when a resolution will be put to shareholders to renew the authority.
Substantial shareholders At the date of this report the following interests of 3% or more of the issued share capital of the Company had been notified in accordance with sections 198 to 208 of the Companies Act 1985: AXA S. A. and its Group Companies 17.15% The Goldman Sachs Group Inc 16.96% Hurley Partners 11.77% Barclays plc 6.67% Merrill Lynch & Co Inc 3.13% Legal and General Group plc 3.00% Derivatives and other financial instruments The Groups financial instruments, other than derivatives, and fixed and variable rate mortgages, comprise a subordinated bond issue, short-term loan facilities, longer-term bank loans, mortgage-backed floating rate notes, cash and other liquid resources, and various items, such as trade debtors and trade creditors that arise directly from its operations.
The purpose of these financial instruments is to fund the initial origination of mortgages, to finance the long-term investment in mortgages and to provide the Groups working capital.
The Group also enters into derivatives transactions in the nature of interest rate swaps to manage the interest rate risks associated with certain fixed interest rate mortgages and currency swaps to manage the currency risks associated with certain foreign currency denominated notes issued in its securitisations.
The Groups policy is not to trade in financial instruments.
The main risks associated with the Groups financial instruments are liquidity, interest rate, credit and foreign currency fluctuations.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its payment obligations when they fall due under normal circumstances.
To limit this risk, Management and the Board constantly monitor the Groups ongoing cash flow requirements and have an appropriately diversified funding base.
The Group is predominantly funded through the issuance of mortgage-backed securities.
This significantly reduces the liquidity risk of the Group as the capital receipts from the underlying mortgage assets are used to repay the securities.
The Group also has ready access to warehouse and term loan facilities.
These are drawn as required based on detailed cash flow projections to cover new lending and working capital requirements.
The Group also maintains appropriate levels of liquid cash resources to meet reasonable levels of unforeseen cash flow requirements.
Interest rate risk The Groups risk management objective is to minimise its exposure to interest rate risk.
The Group originates a number of mortgage products with an initial fixed interest rate which results in interest rate risk as the funding is predominantly at a variable interest rate.
Management regularly monitors the risks associated with these mortgages and interest rate swap agreements are entered into to manage these risks by swapping the fixed income streams to variable rates.
The interest rate risk is managed based on expected maturity of the fixed rate mortgages, taking account of normal customer behaviours.
Additionally, at the time that the mortgages are securitised, a LIBOR cap is purchased by the relevant SPV Company as part of the rating process to mitigate the effect of interest rate increases on the floating rate notes.
Also amortising swaps are purchased to hedge LIBOR basis risk arising where variable financial assets and liabilities reset on different dates.
Kensington Group plc Directors report Annual report and accounts 2006 28 Directors report continued Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that the Groups customers or counterparties fail to discharge contractual obligations and the Group incurs a loss after realising any collateral.
Credit risk predominantly arises where the Group makes a loan, however it also exists when the Group deposits cash or enters into a derivative contract.
The Group has established a credit quality review process prior to making a loan and for ongoing monitoring of existing exposures to assess any potential loss and appropriate corrective action.
All mortgages are secured on residential property.
The Group places strong emphasis on the market value of residential properties and a borrowers ability to service the loan.
There are no significant concentrations of risk due to the large number of customers within the mortgage portfolio.
Foreign currency risk Foreign currency risk is the risk that the value of a financial instrument will vary with respect to foreign currency fluctuations.
The Groups main foreign currency risk exposure is from the proportion of the mortgage-backed floating rate notes issued by the SPV Companies in connection with the Groups securitisation transactions that are denominated in foreign currencies.
Through these floating rate notes the Group is exposed to the following foreign currencies: US Dollar and Euro.
These SPV Companies have entered into cross currency swaps to hedge against the risk of fluctuations in these exchange rates.
The derivative instruments used match the maturity of the underlying floating rate notes.
Corporate Governance The Groups statement of Corporate Governance is set out on pages 39 to 43.
Directors responsibilities At the date of approval of this report, each of the Directors confirms that: 1 so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and 2 the Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given pursuant to, and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of, s234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
Social responsibility The Groups Corporate Social Responsibility Report is set out on pages 44 and 45.
Staff The Groups staff policies are set out on page 44.
Charitable and political donations No donations were made to political parties.
Charitable donations are disclosed in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report set out on page 45.
Creditor payment policy The Groups policy is to agree terms and conditions with its suppliers.
Payment is made on the terms agreed, subject to the appropriate terms and conditions being met by the supplier.
The trade creditors figure has not been stated as the measure is not appropriate to the business.
Annual General Meeting Notice of the Companys Annual General Meeting, which will be held on 11 April 2007, is set out in the separate booklet.
Special Business to be transacted at the meeting is set out in full in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Auditors A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Groups auditors and authorising the Audit Committee to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
