Kensington Group plc Board of Directors Annual report and accounts 2006 24 Board of Directors EXECUTIVES 4.
Appointed to the Board on 25 April 2003.
Appointed to the Board on 1 June 2005.
Appointed to the Board on 9 August 2000.
Mr J Herring is a chartered accountant who Alongside his Kensington Board Mr J Maltby joined Kensington Group from qualified with Deloitte & Touche.
He spent responsibilities, Mr T Strauss is co-founder Abbey National plc, where he was Managing many years in investment banking and of a new IT services business, OrderWork.
Director of First National Tricity Finance Ltd was a corporate finance director at Dresdner Before that, he was Chief Executive and Executive Director of the First National Kleinwort Benson prior to establishing his Officer of John Scott & Partners, a wealth Group Ltd.
He previously held senior executive own London-based corporate finance management and financial planning business.
roles in the NatWest Group and Barclays Bank boutique.
He is currently non-executive He was previously Managing Director of plc, and enjoyed a successful consultancy Deputy Chairman of JD Wetherspoon plc, Charcol, a leading UK mortgage broker, and career with Andersen Consulting and the managed pub company, a non-executive was an Associate Principal at McKinsey and Price Waterhouse, working with blue chip director of Workplace Systems International Company for five years.
Mr T Strauss is a clients in financial services and other sectors.
plc, a software company, and an associate of member of the Audit Committee and the Mr J Maltby is a member of the Nomination Corbett Keeling Limited, a corporate advisory Remuneration Committee.
Committee and Risk Management Committee.
Mr J Herring is a member of the In 2006 Mr J Maltby was the Deputy Chairman Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and Risk Board Committees of the Council of Mortgage Lenders.
Audit Committee Gareth Jones Chairman, John Herring, 2.
Toby Strauss Group Finance Director.
Appointed to the Board on 29 August 2006.
Appointed to the Board on 1 January 2002.
Risk Management Committee Mr R Blundell joined Kensington Group from Mr D Jones is a non-executive director Gareth Jones Chairman, John Herring, Kingfisher plc, where he was Director of Group and partner of Prytania LLC, Chairman of John Maltby, Roger Blundell Finance, Tax & Treasury.
Previously he had Paterson Enterprises Limited and an advisor held a number of senior executive roles at to Terra Firma Capital Partners.
Other previous Nomination Committee British Sky Broadcasting Group plc including non-executive roles have included director Gareth Jones Chairman, John Herring, Director of Corporate Finance & Treasury.
of Somerfield plc, director of Management John Maltby Mr R Blundell is a Chartered Accountant.
Consulting Group plc, director of Orbis Capital Mr R Blundell is a member of the Risk Limited, director of TBI, director of Marley plc Remuneration Committee Management Committee.
and Chairman of their Audit Committee, and Gareth Jones Chairman, John Herring, Deputy Chairman of Imperial Railways.
Toby Strauss NON-EXECUTIVES He was previously Executive Director and 3.
Managing Director of Wholesale Banking Non-Executive Chairman.
for Abbey National plc, which he built into Appointed to the Board on 28 June 2000. a substantial and successful business.
He Mr P Birch was Chief Executive at Abbey was also Finance Director of First Mortgage National plc from 1984-1999.
He held a Securities Limited and Group Treasurer of number of senior positions with Gillette Redland plc.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Industries Ltd from 1965 to 1984, including Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, Managing Director of Gillette UK Ltd and a past member of the Accountancy Review Group General Manager, Africa, Middle Board and its successor the Public Oversight East and Eastern Europe.
He is senior Board for Accountancy, a past Chairman non-executive director of Trinity Mirror plc, and a Fellow of the Association of Corporate and a non-executive director of Travelex plc, Treasurers, and a member of the Economic Ifonline Group Limited, SNED Lamprell plc Social Research Council Cambridge and its and Dah Sing Financial Services.
Mr P Birch successor the Centre for Business Research is also a Pension Fund Trustee of Cap Gemini Cambridge.
Mr D Jones is Chairman of Ernst & Young.
the Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and Risk Management Committees and is the recognised Senior Independent Director.
Kensington Group plc Board of Directors Annual report and accounts 2006 25 1 2 3 4 5 6
