Operating and Financial Review Finance Directors Review cont.
Balanced scorecard for capital management Group Capital Target Capital management operating Legal & General has developed a balanced scorecard for capital management which can 2006 range be seen in Figure 15, including 2006 values and IGD surplus capital 2.1bn 1-2bn target operating ranges.
Our aim in developing Society surplus capital 4.9bn 2.5-3.5bn the scorecard has been to help demonstrate how Economic capital Very strong AA Strong AA we manage capital and to provide a transparent framework for shareholders.
Return on EV 12.5% Increase over medium term We use four inter-related measures for capital.
The first two measures, the Insurance Figures extracted from the draft regulatory returns Groups Directive IGD surplus capital and the regulatory surplus capital for Legal & General Assurance Society Limited Society are key measures of financial strength for our regulator, the FSA.
The Economic Capital measure reflects our aim to run the business to a strong AA financial strength rating.
The fourth measure is Return on consolidated financial statements over the Embedded Value RoEV as we believe it is next two years.
appropriate to include a performance metric in our capital balanced scorecard.
This measure The IASB continues to develop the accounting ensures that there is a healthy tension between for insurance contracts.
It is expected that quantum of capital and the return earned an exposure draft will be released in 2008 on that capital.
followed by a final standard in 2009.
We continue to monitor these developments We anticipate that the scorecard will evolve over closely and to contribute fully to the debate.
time as industry performance measures evolve and we develop our Economic Capital model.
In 2005, Legal & General also adopted the European Chief Financial Officer CFO Forums EEV methodology to prepare its supplementary financial statements.
We anticipate that EEV methodology will Fig 16.
Group Capital Review continue to evolve during 2007, improving 2006 further the consistency of company Pensions and annuity company disclosures.
In particular, we anticipate that the CFO Forum will work to harmonise the 2007 disclosure framework for Market Consistent Investment policy for with-profits business Embedded Value MCEV reporting.
The Investment policy for shareholders funds MCEV methodology builds upon existing Investment management contract market-consistent valuation techniques and Ongoing funding of pension fund has been used by some European insurers 2007 2008 in their adoption of EEV.
When a stable framework of guidance exists, we will Society capital structure consider moving to a market-consistent Society transfer formula methodology for our supplementary financial External uncertainties statements.
As an active member of the HMRC consultation CFO Forum, we expect to contribute fully Regulatory approvals to these developments.
24 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Capital structure basis and to comply with the minimum The Groups Capital Position Statement During 2006, we initiated a wide ranging capital requirements of regulators in each prepared on the FRS 27 Life Assurance basis review of the Groups capital.
An early territory in which we operate.
The regulators is included within Note 50 on page 103. conclusion was that although our current require more prudent assumptions than IFRS.
This demonstrates the different sources of structure has proved very efficient over the Legal & Generals total capital resources are capital held within the Group.
last decade, we believe that we are able to substantially in excess of both total regulatory Individual Capital Assessment ICA enhance it to take account of the way our capital and the minimum level of regulatory The Financial Services Authority FSA requires business model has developed and recent capital we are required to hold.
insurers to hold capital on the greater of two changes in the external environment.
Figure 17 compares the Groups available capital bases.
The first basis Pillar 1 encompasses the It is essential to have a robust and stable resources with the capital resources requirement rules-based regulatory capital requirements in capital structure, and any new structure needs for Legal & General Group Plc and Society.
the FSAs Prudential Source Book, including to be capable of supporting our successful the with-profits realistic balance sheet.
The Figure 18 shows the Groups structure.
Total growing business for a number of years.
second basis Pillar 2 is the firms own internal capital resources of 8.4bn on an IFRS basis In addition, we are seeking a clearer, more assessment of its capital requirements, together comprise ordinary equity holders capital transparent structure, which will ultimately with any additional amount which may be 5.4bn, subordinated debt 0.8bn and benefit shareholders.
unallocated divisible surplus 2.2bn, including 0.3bn of Sub-fund.
The most significant areas being considered During 2006, the FSA completed its first by the review and the high level timeline for review of the Groups assessment of its Pillar 2 The largest allocation of capital has been made implementation are set out in Figure 16. capital requirements.
to Society, reflecting the significance of this Some of these will deliver quickly, while operation and the importance of ensuring Solvency II others, such as the review of corporate capital its financial strength to support long term During 2006, the European Commission and structure, will take longer as there are more growth of our business.
Financial flexibility is its advisors have continued work on revised external dependencies and uncertainties.
The achieved from Societys 5.5bn of shareholder capital and solvency standards for EU insurers most significant uncertainty is the outcome of capital.
Of this total, 2.2bn is held outside under the Solvency II project.
It is expected the ongoing Her Majestys Revenue & Customs any long term fund as Society Shareholder that a draft EU directive will be laid before HMRC consultation on the taxation of life Capital SSC, of which approximately 1bn the European parliament in 2007. companies and certainty is not expected in is within LGP: the remainder of 3.3bn is this area before the start of 2008.
Legal & General participates actively in the held within Societys Long Term Fund as consultation process through the Association Shareholder Retained Capital.
These assets The first change has already been made of British Insurers ABI and its links with the maintain the financial strength of Society with the establishment of a new pensions FSA and Government.
The Group endorses and fund new business growth.
and annuity reinsurance company called the approach taken by FSA to ensure that Legal & General Pensions Limited LGP.
Society continues to be one of the two highest Solvency II benefits from the experience of the On 31 December 2006, the pensions and rated European life insurers.
As at March FSAs implementation of ICA for UK insurers.
annuity business of Society was ceded to LGP.
2007, our financial strength ratings from The creation of a separate company provides Group Cash Flows Standard & Poors, Moodys and A. M. Best greater capital transparency and flexibility, were maintained at AA, Aa1 and A In recent years, Society and LGIM have been and will enhance Legal & Generals ability to respectively.
All ratings have a stable outlook.
the Groups main sources of subsidiary compete in the annuity and pensions markets.
The structure will ensure that both non profit Fig 17.
Regulatory Capital Surplus 1 1,2 Group Society life and pensions business are taxed appropriately.
As at 31 December 2006 bn bn Further detail of the financial impact of this Available capital resources 6.7 9.3 change is provided in the Operating and Capital resources requirement 4.6 4.4 Financial Review on page 9.
Excess 2.1 4.9 Capital resources The Group is required to measure and 1.
Figures extracted from draft regulatory returns 2.
Long term business only monitor its capital resources on a regulatory www.
com 25 Operating and Financial Review Finance Directors Review cont.
Group Structure As at December 2006 Paper programme, which facilitates access Legal & General Group Plc to both international and domestic money markets.
Additionally, the Group has a 1bn Other subsidiaries Debt five year revolving credit facility which 1.2bn 1.8bn matures in 2011.
Together these facilities satisfy the Groups liquidity and working Society Shareholder Capital 1.3bn capital needs.
At the end of 2006, we Legal & General Pensions 1.0bn Legal & General Insurance 0.2bn redeemed our 525m convertible bond at par, Legal & General France 0.1bn Legal & General Netherlands 0.1bn having thereby provided the Group with a very attractive low cost source of senior debt Long Term Fund over the previous five years.
During 2006, Legal & General America Shareholder Retained 1996 With-profits estate completed a second securitisation for Capital Sub-fund 1.1bn its term assurance business.
This raised 3.3bn 0.3bn US$450m non recourse subordinated debt to finance Triple X reserve requirements on new business written in 2005 and 2006.
Non profit insurance With-profits insurance Total debt at the end of 2006 was 2.4bn business business 2005: 2.4bn of which 0.6bn 2005: 0.4bn was non recourse funding.
1.5bn 2005: 2.0bn carries a fixed rate of interest.
The weighted average cost of the Groups dividends.
These amounts have been core borrowings during 2006 was 5.1% p. a. supplemented by regular, small dividends 2005: 5.3% p. a.. from the Netherlands and a series of one-off The Groups current long term and short dividends from our General Insurance term debt ratings are, from Standard & Poors, business.
Society remains the largest source AAand A1 and, from Moodys, Al and P1.
of dividends, with contributions from the non profit business and the with-profits Tax business each year.
Excluding the tax impact of corporate restructure and, in 2005, the effect of UK The Group dividend recommended to tax changes, the reported rate of tax on the shareholders is determined by the directors EEV basis was 27% 2005: 27%.
The after taking account of future capital principal reasons for the rate being slightly requirements, our projections of future lower than the UK corporate tax rate of 30% dividends from subsidiaries and current were the lower rate of tax on the return on projected investment market conditions.
UK equities held in shareholder funds, and The final dividend per share proposed for the fact that property income attributable 2006 has been increased by 5% to 3.81p to minority interests did not give rise to a 2005: 3.63p bringing the total dividend tax charge.
for the year up to 5.55p an increase of 5.1%.
Debt and Debt Facilities Access to the capital markets is maintained through a 2bn Medium Term Note programme, which allows debt capital to be raised in both senior and subordinated form.
The latter satisfies the FSAs criteria for upper tier II and lower tier II forms of capital for insurance companies.
The Group Andrew Palmer also makes use of a US$2bn Commercial Group Director Finance 26 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006
