Board of Directors 1 4 7 2 5 8 3 6 9 22 Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006 Click to return to contents 1 KEITH HENRY 4 ANDREW ROSE 7 MIKE CALVEY Non-Executive Chairman Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Keith Henry, age 62, is the Senior NonAndrew Rose, age 50, holds a degree in Mike Calvey, age 39, is Co-Managing Partner Executive Director of Emerald Energy plc, a Engineering from Cambridge University, but of Baring Vostok Capital Partners, the manager Non-Executive Director of South East Water has spent the greater part of his career in of several major funds associated with Ltd, Simon Carves Ltd and High-Point Rendel investment banking, working in advisory, investment in Russia and the former Soviet Ltd. A Chartered Civil Engineer with degrees capital markets and structured finance roles.
He has been closely involved with from London University and the University of He joined Burren in 2001, having previously Burren since its formation in 1994.
Birmingham, he has over 33 years experience been head of equity corporate finance for in the energy and construction industries, Central & Eastern Europe and the Middle 8 PIERRE LASRY during which time he was Chief Executive East-North Africa region at Socit Gnrale.
Non-Executive Director of National Power Plc, Kvaerner Engineering Pierre Lasry, age 47, is a Managing Director and Construction Ltd, and Brown & Root Ltd. 5 ALAN COLE of Tacoma, which participates in oil trading, Until recently he was Deputy Chairman of Senior Independent Director distribution, and production, primarily in West Petroleum Geo-Services ASA and Chairman Alan Cole, age 63, was a Board member of Africa.
He has 18 years experience in the oil of Petrojarl ASA.
He has also served as a Christian Salvesen plc and, for eight years, & gas industry and has been with Tacoma Non-Executive Director of Enterprise Oil Plc.
Chief Executive of TDG plc.
Prior to that he worked for Addax His appointment as an Independent Director executive Chairman of both The Oliver and Cargill.
took effect as at 31 March 2005, and he became Group plc and Alldays plc, and is currently Chairman of the Board on the 28 May 2006.
Chairman of JPMorgan Fleming Income and 9 ANDREI PANNIKOV Growth Investment Trust plc.
His current Non-Executive Director 2 FINIAN OSULLIVAN non-executive positions include London Andrei Pannikov, age 57, is the founder President International Exhibition Centre Holdings and of Sunfloat and is principally involved in Finian OSullivan, age 52, holds a degree in Hedaxex Limited.
He was appointed as an transportation and trading activities in geology and geophysics from University independent Non-Executive Director in Russia and the former Soviet Union.
Prior College Galway and was responsible for October 2003. to founding Sunfloat he worked with the creating Burren in 1994.
He was Chief Executive Russian government and was subsequently of the Group until September 2006.
Before 6 BRIAN LAVERS co-founder of Lukoil and Urals Trading.
this Finian pursued an international career Independent Non-Executive Director spanning 17 years in geophysics and seismic Brian Lavers, age 71, led a distinguished acquisition with Chevron, Geophysical career with Royal Dutch Shell spanning 32 Systems and Olympic Oil & Gas.
His appointments included Technical Director of Petroleum Development Oman, 3 ATUL GUPTA Technical Director of Shell UK and Chairman Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director of Shell Nigeria.
Brian Atul Gupta, age 47, holds degrees in Chemical then became Chairman and Chief Executive Engineering from Cambridge University and of Phibro Production Inc. and joined Burren Petroleum Engineering from Heriot-Watt as Chairman in January 1999, a post he held University and has worked for 22 years in until May 2006. international oil & gas production operations with Charterhouse Petroleum, Petrofina and Monument.
Atul joined Burren in January 1999 and was Chief Operating Officer until September 2006 when he became Chief Executive Officer.
23 Click to return to contents Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
