11448 R&A 2006 front 2 27 3 07 14:06 Page 68 68 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2006 Business review As an international group we have many Our values responsibilities to a broad spectrum of stakeholders that includes customers, providers of capital, employees, affiliates, suppliers, local communities, regulators licensing bodies, trade associations, consumer protection organisations and governments.
Responsibility In addition to the CSR obligations required of Operating in a proper and responsible manner is all public companies, as a gaming company something that is ingrained into PartyGamings we recognise that we have other specific business culture.
As the business has developed, responsibilities.
Our philosophy is focused on we have sought to embed a number of corporate behaving properly and responsibly in our dealings and social responsibility CSR policies into our with all stakeholders and with our customers key business strategies, reflecting the fact that in particular.
As a purely online business, we being responsible is important for our business, recognise the risks and potential damage to our our community and our stakeholders.
business and reputation if we fail to meet anything less than the highest standards of professional and ethical conduct we may fail to meet certain licensing obligations but just as important, dissatisfied customers will simply click away to a competitor.
To help manage our stakeholder relationships, we have established a framework comprising a series of policies that define the way in which we interact with each of our key stakeholder groups.
The Group Finance Director has executive responsibility for CSR matters while our approach to CSR related issues is overseen by the Ethics Committee of the Board.
The Committee not only has responsibility for overseeing our CSR policy framework, but crucially, also the implementation of these policies in practical terms.
The Committee is chaired by Rod Perry and its members in 2006 were Lars Berg, Michael Jackson and Janos Libor.
The Committee has a broad remit that includes responsible gaming, fairness of gaming platforms and community and charitable contributions.
11448 R&A 2006 front 2 27 3 07 14:06 Page 69 69 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2006 Business review As part of our ongoing commitment to improving our CSR policies and processes, in 2005 the Company engaged the services of GoodCorporation, an independent accreditation organisation in this field, to assist in a preliminary verification and audit of many of our existing practices and policies and in particular those that affect the Groups key stakeholders.
On completion of this review, we received a written report and presentation covering areas such as employees, customers, suppliers, shareholders, community and the environment.
While the report confirmed the presence and effectiveness of strong policies and working practices across many areas, it also identified a number of areas where policies were weak or were not working effectively.
During 2006 the Group made good progress on addressing many of the issues highlighted in the GoodCorporation report.
Whilst the substantial change to the shape and scale of our business has meant that a further complete audit of all of the Groups CSR policies and practices has not been possible in 2006, GoodCorporation did complete a focused review of the key areas identified in the 2005 report and concluded that all areas have been addressed.
It is hoped that GoodCorporation will conduct a follow-up review of all of the Groups policies and practices during 2007 with a view to providing the Directors with an update on progress made since GoodCorporation the original assessment in 2005.
It is intended that review Having conducted a full this will be summarised in the Groups 2007 annual review in 2005, it is hoped report.
Below we have set out our approach to that GoodCorporation managing each of the Groups key stakeholders will complete a further review of the Groups and further information can be found on the working practices Groups website: www.
