Group Overview We have applied the Business Review The Groups central finance and treasury with regard to the effectiveness of the Groups requirements as set out in the EU Accounts activities are responsible for providing systems of internal control are contained on Modernisation Directive.
We have also appropriate financial resources to support the pages 62 to 65. considered the best practice principles of Groups strategic direction, and managing the recent Operating and Financial Review Group resources to best address the Principal risks guidance provided by the Accounting requirements of shareholders, banks, Risk is inherent in the Groups business Standards Board.
Whilst this guidance is not regulators and rating agencies.
The Group and activities and the Group will earn mandatory, we have sought to apply current holds capital in various forms to meet the significant returns on its capital through best practice in corporate disclosure in order requirements of regulators and to ensure taking risks.
Our ability to identify and to enhance information primarily for our compliance with the Groups quantitative Risk manage these risks effectively is critical shareholders but also for other stakeholders.
Appetite statements, and has demonstrated to our continued success.
The risks to significant financial flexibility in meeting both our business and our approach to risk This Business Review comprises: a Group organic business needs and acquisition management are explained in detail on overview: a review of the industry environment, opportunities.
The Group Risk Appetite pages 42 to 49. strategic aims, key strategic drivers and statements are set out in the Risk performance measures in Asset Management Management section on page 42 and are The principal risks facing the Group are: and Brokerage: the Financial Review including modelled and monitored by the Group Risk The risk that global economic or capital management : Risk Management: and function.
Potential liquidity requirements in political changes result in a major the Corporate Responsibility Summary Report.
excess of internal resources are modelled for decline in activity, liquidity and levels of market stress situations and catered for by financial markets.
This would reduce The Groups strategic objective is to create the provision of external committed banking revenues in Brokerage and adversely long-term value for our shareholders, lines as detailed on page 48.
In this way affect the ability of alternative investors, customers, and other stakeholders, the Board considers that it has established investment funds to generate superior through the continued development of our a robust and flexible capital structure which returns.
It would also increase the businesses.
The focus of this development is not a constraining factor on business likelihood of default by our customers is to build on the core strengths, values development.
This capital structure is and counterparties: and expertise of the Man Group and its constantly managed against the Groups The risk of persistent poor employees worldwide, to enhance our financial target for return on equity.
performance by funds managed by leadership position in markets, and to Man, leading to a significant increase create growth which is both profitable Our reputation is a key component of our in redemption rates and lower funds and sustainable.
The focus is on: ability to achieve our strategic objectives.
under management in Asset Maintaining leadership in Asset The Groups activities are subject to oversight Management: Management by: by market regulators in many countries and The risk that competition leads to Providing attractive and innovative the Group is lead-regulated on a worldwide margin pressure in both businesses product structures: basis by the Financial Services Authority in or to reduced volumes if it results Committing to superior investment the UK.
Regulatory compliance is a major in the disintermediation of Man: returns: focus across the Group in terms of business The risk that an extreme shock to Securing access to superior manager practice, culture and employee awareness.
financial markets results in a very capacity to accommodate continued Regulatory and reputational risks both form large demand for liquidity which has asset inflows: and part of the Groups qualitative Risk Appetite to be met from the Groups committed Offering high levels of client service.
borrowing facilities as well as a risk Continued growth in Brokerage through: that some of our customers and Maintaining high standards of client Risk and Assurance functions are located, counterparties may default: and service and execution: or report, centrally at Group level.
In this The risk that the Group suffers losses Growing revenues organically and way the Group Board is provided with a from fraudulent activity.
through consolidation: high degree of independent oversight and Diversifying revenue streams by product reporting of the businesses.
The Board has The Group addresses these risks and geography: established a formal written framework of through: Extracting value from market presence: committee structures, delegated authorities, Diversification of activity by geography, and limits and reporting to supervise and control product, customer and investor: Controlling overheads.
This is complemented by support and Extensive modelling of the potential assurance activities, including internal audit, scale of such risks and through In financial terms, our success in achieving which are responsible for assessing the holding sufficient capital and liquidity these objectives will be measured at Group effectiveness of the control environment to withstand extreme events: and level against the twin targets of delivering operated by the management of the A culture that places great emphasis significant growth in underlying earnings and businesses.
A summary of the Groups on effective risk management and maintaining high post-tax returns on equity.
control and governance framework is strong internal controls.
These targets, which we set in 2000, have contained in the Corporate Governance been met in every subsequent year including section, and the Risk Management section the year under review.
provides full details of the way in which we quantify, manage and mitigate the risks in The Group Board is responsible for providing our businesses.
The Boards confirmations leadership and strategic direction, and securing and managing the resources necessary to implement business strategy.
The Board is also responsible for setting parameters for the appropriate levels of risk in the businesses and at Group level, and Post-tax return on equity establishing standards for good governance, Diluted earning per share % corporate responsibility and the behaviour Underlying EPS 40 of our employees in conducting business.
cents 30 250 33.5 The Board operates a three-year rolling 32.5 30.7 29.8 Medium Term Planning process for strategic 26.9 200 214 20 decision making and resource planning.
182 150 This process involves the senior management 141 10 of the two businesses, as well as the central 100 functions responsible for finance, liquidity, 94 50 0 risk, assurance, tax and resources.
From this 65 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 an annual operating plan is established 0 In the above chart the figures for 2002 to 2004 are as they were presented under 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 containing financial projections, resource UK GAAP.
The 2005 and 2006 figures are on an IFRS basis, although the fair value gain on the conversion option component of the exchangeable bonds is predictions and risk assessments.
The plan In the above chart the figures for 2002 to 2004 are as they were presented under excluded in 2005.
All other exceptional items arising in each year are included.
The 2005 and 2006 figures are on an IFRS basis.
Restating years also establishes the targets against which Restating years 2002 to 2004 on a similar IFRS basis would not give rise to any 2002 to 2004 on an IFRS basis would not give rise to any significant differences.
progress will be monitored during the year.
11 Man Group plc Annual Report 2006 12 Man Group plc Annual Report 2006
