11448 R&A 2006 front 2 27 3 07 14:06 Page 73 73 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2006 Business review We recognise that whenever PartyGaming enters Our values into a new relationship with a supplier, we may be exposing the Group to a variety of potential risks, whether they be financial, reputational or Suppliers otherwise.
To reduce these risks and to reflect best practice in this area, we have put in place a policy to cover the selection and ultimate approval of vendors as well as the protocol to be followed Our key suppliers include providers of systems in managing supplier relationships over time.
hardware, bandwidth and telecommunications A series of checks are undertaken before suppliers services, payment processing, advertising and can be added to the Groups supplier list and they other media.
Careful management and the can be linked to our internal payment systems.
continued performance of these suppliers are important for the continued success of our We aim to assess the quality of suppliers against business.
In our dealings with key suppliers, we seek a number of different criteria, including financial to operate to the highest professional standards strength, to ensure long-term reliability: their ability and pursue mutually beneficial long-term to deliver enduring quality and value: as well as relationships.
Our objective is to deliver best value their commitment to innovation and their ability for the Company whilst operating in a fair and to help us develop new products, processes reasonable manner.
We aim to incorporate and ways of working that will give the Group commitments to fair treatment and prompt a commercial advantage.
payment into all of our supplier contracts.
Having reviewed our supplier policy during 2006, we now aim to ensure that our suppliers also meet the standards of our wider corporate responsibility agenda.
During the selection process we request from potential suppliers any available information regarding their corporate and social responsibility policies, including their environmental policy.
These are then reviewed periodically so that we can ensure that their business practices and policies are compatible with our own.
As part of this process we also ask that suppliers notify us about any material changes to their CSR and environmental policies and practices and ensure that they are in turn aware of the Groups overall objectives regarding corporate and social responsibility.
