11448 R&A 2006 front 2 27 3 07 14:06 Page 77 77 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2006 Business review All of the Groups employees are also encouraged Our values to organise one-off events throughout the year, raising money for charities of their choice.
In the UK employees can also elect to give money every Shareholders and month to charities of their choice through a tax effective Payroll Giving scheme.
other providers PartyGaming supports employee involvement of capital in charities and at least matches the amount raised by employees.
In 2006, for instance, we Since its flotation on the London Stock Exchange donated an additional $20,000 to a team from in June 2005, the Group has had to deal with the London office who took part in a 5km fun run enormous structural, legislative and organisational for cancer research.
This has required a regular and open Charity, though, is much more than about making dialogue with all of our investors and investment financial donations.
PartyGaming employees are analysts around the world.
Ensuring that the encouraged to spend at least one day every year markets are aware of all material developments on pro bono work in the local communities around and have a good understanding of the Groups their offices.
risks, opportunities and business strategy is vital in order to instil confidence in the management For example, In London in 2007 the local team and their ability to deliver that strategy.
pro bono activities will be co-coordinated In addition to the publication of financial results through City Action for Community Development.
every six months, the Group also publishes trading Established in 1998 by the Corporation of London, updates during the second and fourth quarter, City Action acts as a free broker to facilitate the providing commentary and data on current transfer of time, skills and resources between City trading patterns.
The Chief Executive Officer, of London-based firms and community-based Group Finance Director and Director of Investor organisations in the seven boroughs surrounding Relations are engaged in a regular programme the City: Camden, Hackney, Islington, Lambeth, of conference calls, presentations and meetings Southwark, Tower Hamlets and Westminster.
with investors and analysts around the world, Engaging companies in practical activities enables providing them with an opportunity to ask them to contribute to the social and economic questions and improve their understanding of regeneration of the local community.
City Action the Groups strategy and key business dynamics.
aims to put business at the heart of the community and so does PartyGaming.
In 2007 we hope that our employees will again help us to put something back into the community where they live and work so that we can share a little bit of our success.
11448 R&A 2006 front 2 27 3 07 14:07 Page 78 From winning fortunes with one royal... 11448 R&A 2006 front 2 27 3 07 14:07 Page 79... to changing fortunes with another Charity in the community PartyGaming is committed to helping communities and worthy causes around the world.
In 2006 the Group gave a total of $750,000 to a wide range of charitable institutions.
