Board and governance Board of Directors As part of the restructuring of Cable & Wireless into two John Pluthero 42 businesses, International and UK, with separate operating boards Group Managing Director, UK reporting to the main Cable and Wireless plc Board, the John Pluthero was appointed as Group Managing Director, UK composition of the Board has been reviewed with the objective of and Executive Chairman, UK on 1 April 2006.
Previously he was creating a smaller body more aligned with its requirements under Executive Director of the UK business from November 2005. the new organisation.
As a result, a number of directors have either From September 2002 until the acquisition by Cable & Wireless, retired or will retire by the conclusion of the Annual General John was Chief Executive of Energis.
Previously, he was founder and Meeting in July 2006.
Chief Executive Officer of Freeserve now Orange, leading it to its July 1999 flotation on the London Stock Exchange and NASDAQ.
Chairman Prior to this, John held various strategy and operations positions N Richard Lapthorne 63 within the Dixons Group including Managing Director of Chairman: Chairman, Nominations Committee Mastercare, Quality Director and Business Review Director.
Richard Lapthorne was appointed Chairman in January 2003.
Prior to joining Cable & Wireless, from 1999 to May 2003, Richard was George Battersby 59 Chairman of Amersham International plc having joined its Board as Executive Director, Human Resources a Non-executive Director in 1988.
He was Finance Director of George Battersby was appointed as Executive Director of Human British Aerospace plc from July 1992 and Vice Chairman from Resources in July 2004.
He has held senior human resources April 1998 until his retirement in September 1999.
Richard is positions in a number of FTSE 100 companies over the past 20 years Non-executive Chairman of Morse plc and the New Look and immediately prior to joining Cable & Wireless was Group Human Group and was Chairman of Arlington Securities from May to Resources Director and a member of the Board of Amersham December 2005. International plc.
George is a Non-executive Director of SHL Group plc, a leading international HR consultancy, where he is Chairman of Executive Directors the Remuneration Committee and the Senior Independent Director.
The following are the ongoing Executive Directors of the Company: The following Executive Directors will retire from the Board between the date of this report and the conclusion of the Anthony Tony Rice 54 Annual General Meeting in July: Group Managing Director, Central and Finance Director Tony Rice was appointed a Non-executive Director and Chairman Robert Rob Rowley 56 of the Audit Committee in January 2003 and was a member of the Executive Deputy Chairman Nominations Committee.
He relinquished these roles on 30 March Rob Rowley was appointed a Non-executive Director in September 2006 when he was appointed Group Managing Director, Central 2002 and, following a restructuring of the Board, was appointed and Finance Director.
as Executive Deputy Chairman on 21 January 2003.
Rob is a Tony was Chief Executive of Tunstall Holdings Ltd until its Non-executive Director of Liberty International plc and was a acquisition by Bridgepoint on 13 September 2005 and he continues Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of as a Non-executive Director of that company.
Tony is also a Prudential plc until 18 May 2006.
Rob will retire from the Board at Non-executive Director of British Mediterranean Airways Limited the Annual General Meeting in July.
Prior to joining Tunstall, Tony was Group Treasurer and then Group MD, Commercial Aircraft of British Charles Herlinger 50 Aerospace plc and was also involved in the financing and flotation Chief Financial Officer of Orange.
Charles Herlinger was appointed Chief Financial Officer in December 2003.
From 1987 to 2003 he worked for the Siemens Group, most Harris Jones 44 recently as Corporate Vice President and Group Controller.
Charles Group Managing Director, International will retire from the Board at the end of May 2006.
Harris Jones was appointed as Group Managing Director, International and Chief Executive of the International business on The following Executive Directors retired from the Board 1 April 2006.
Previously he was Executive Director of the immediately following the year end: International business from December 2004.
Francesco Caio 48 Prior to joining Cable & Wireless, Harris was Chief Executive Officer Francesco Caio was Chief Executive Officer until he retired on of T-Mobile UK following its acquisition by Deutsche Telekom and 1 April 2006. has prior experience as a senior executive with Omnipoint Communications and Sprint Spectrum.
Harris is a Non-executive The Right Honourable Lord Robertson of Director of Caracal, Inc. USA.
Port Ellen KT, GCMG 60 Lord Robertson of Port Ellen was Executive Deputy Chairman throughout the year ended 31 March 2006.
He retired on 1 April 2006 to focus on his role as Chairman of Cable & Wireless International business.
42 2005 06 Annual report A R Agns T ouraine 51 Non-executive Directors The following are the ongoing Non-executive Directors of the Non-executive Director Agns Touraine was appointed a Non-executive Director in January Company: 2005 and became a member of the Remuneration committee on A R 1 April 2006.
Based in France, Agns is Managing Partner of Act III Simon Ball 46 Non-executive Director Consultants having previously been Chairman and CEO of Vivendi Universal Publishing.
She has held various senior executive positions Simon Ball was appointed as a Non-executive Director on 1 May 2006.
Simon is Group Finance Director for 3i Group plc, the FTSE with the Lagardre Group and began her career with McKinsey.
Agns is a Board member of Fondation fide France and was a 100 private equity and venture capital business, and has served on its main Board since April 2005.
Prior to this, Simon held a series of Non-executive Director of Lastminute.
com until its acquisition by Travelocity in July 2005. senior finance and operational roles over 15 years at Dresdner Kleinwort Benson and Robert Fleming Group and, for two years, The following Non-executive Directors will retire from the Board served as Director General, Finance for the UK Governments Department for Constitutional Affairs.
between the date of this report and the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in July: A R Clive Butler 59 A N R Bernard Gray 45 Non-executive Director Clive Butler was appointed a Non-executive Director on 1 May Non-executive Director Bernard Gray was appointed a Non-executive Director in January 2005.
Prior to joining Cable & Wireless, Clive was Corporate Development Director at Unilever having served on the main board 2003 and was Chairman of the Remuneration Committee from January 2003 to 31 March 2006.
Bernard was appointed as Chief since 1992.
During that period he also undertook the roles of Personnel Director and Category Director for Unilevers Home and Executive of TSL Education Limited in October 2005 having formerly been Chief Executive of CMP Information, the UK Personal Care division.
Clive joined Unilever in 1970 and worked in a variety of marketing and general management roles, including publishing and events division of United Business Media.
Bernard will retire at the Annual General Meeting in July.
positions in the USA, Zimbabwe and the Philippines, prior to his retirement in 2005.
Clive will become the Senior Independent A N R Graham Howe 45 Director and a member of the Nominations Committee on Graham Howes retirement in June.
Non-executive Director: Senior Independent Director Graham Howe was appointed as a Non-executive Director in May A N R Kate Nealon 52 2003 and is the nominated Senior Independent Director.
Graham was one of the founding directors of Orange and was its Deputy Non-executive Director: Chairman, Remuneration Committee Kate Nealon was appointed a Non-executive Director in January Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer until 2003 having previously been Finance Director.
He is Chairman of 2005 and became Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Nominations Committee on 1 April 2006.
She is Promethean Technologies Limited.
Graham will retire in June.
a US-qualified lawyer and was Group Head of Legal and Compliance for Standard Chartered plc until 2004.
Kate previously Company Secretary practised international banking and regulatory law in New York.
She is a Non-executive Director of HBOS plc and Monitor the Nick Cooper 42 Group General Counsel and Company Secretary independent regulator of the NHS Foundation Trust Hospitals as well as being a senior associate of the Judge Business School at Nick Cooper was appointed Company Secretary on 17 January 2006.
A A N R Denotes membership of Audit Committee Kasper Rorsted 44 N Denotes membership of Nominations Committee Non-executive Director, Chairman, Audit Committee R Denotes membership of Remuneration Committee Kasper Rorsted was appointed a Non-executive Director in May 2003 and became Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Nominations Committee on 30 March 2006.
Kasper also became a member of the Remuneration committee on 1 April 2006.
He is Executive Vice President at Henkel KGaA having previously been Senior Vice President and General Manager, Europe Middle East & Asia for Hewlett-Packard.
Kasper has held various senior management positions with Compaq since 1995 and has previous experience with Oracle, Digital and Ericsson.
Kasper is a Non-executive Director of Ecolab, Inc. USA.
2005 06 Annual report 43 Board and governance
