Board and governance Directors report The Directors present their annual report and audited financial year end, Simon Ball was appointed as a Non-executive Director on statements for Cable and Wireless plc and the Cable & Wireless 1 May 2006.
Group of companies for the year ended 31 March 2006.
On 31 January 2006, Cable & Wireless announced the transition to Principal activities a new organisation structure through the creation of two business The principal activities of the Group are set out on page 2. units, a reduction in the role of the corporate centre and consequently no Chief Executive role.
As a result, from 1 April On 31 January 2006 Cable & Wireless announced that, from 2006, Francesco Caio stepped down from his role as Chief 1 April 2006, it would divide its business into two operationally Executive Officer and three Group Managing Directors were self-contained businesses: International and UK including Bulldog appointed: Harris Jones, Group Managing Director, International: which reflects the recognition of differing characteristics in both John Pluthero, Group Managing Director, UK: and Tony Rice, Group these businesses.
The central functions of Cable & Wireless have Managing Director, Central and Finance Director.
All three Group been reshaped to ensure the continuation of proper governance Managing Directors report directly to the Chairman.
and control at the corporate centre.
In accordance with the Companys Articles, any Director appointed Business review since the last AGM is required to retire and seek election by the A review of the performance of the Groups businesses: shareholders at the next following AGM.
Accordingly, John Pluthero International, UK and Bulldog for the current year is set out on and Simon Ball, having been appointed as Directors since the 2005 pages 14 to 16, 23 to 25 and 26 to 27 respectively.
AGM, will retire at the 2006 AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves for election.
The unexpired portion of the service Indications of likely developments of the Groups businesses are contract for John Pluthero is disclosed on page 58 of the Directors set out in the sections titled where we want to be on pages 12, remuneration report.
The Companys Articles also require all Directors to retire every The key risks facing the Group are set out on pages 39 and 40. third year from when last elected by shareholders.
Kasper Rorsted will therefore seek re-election at the 2006 AGM.
Results and dividends The Groups profit for the year ended 31 March 2006 after The Company has provided an indemnity for the benefit of its taxation and minority interests amounted to 79 million.
Directors which is a qualifying third party indemnity provision for the purpose of the Companies Act 1985.
A final dividend of 3.1 pence per Ordinary Share is recommended for the year ended 31 March 2006.
This, together with the interim The Directors responsibilities for the preparation of the financial dividend paid in January 2006 of 1.4 pence per Ordinary Share, statements and to the Companys auditors are set out on page 66. makes the total for the year of 4.5 pence 2005 3.8 pence per Ordinary Share.
Subject to approval by shareholders at the 2006 Disclosable interests Annual General Meeting AGM, the final dividend will be paid on The Directors have no interest in the Ordinary Shares of the 11 August 2006 to shareholders on the register at 16 June 2006.
The beneficial interests of the Directors and their immediate families in the Ordinary Shares of the Company are The Company will once again offer a Scrip Dividend option for the shown in the Directors remuneration report, on page 60. final dividend payable on 11 August 2006.
Full details are contained in the Scrip Dividend brochure which can be obtained from the Acquisition of own shares Companys Registrar, from the Company Secretary or from the In accordance with approval obtained from shareholders, the Companys website www.
com Company repurchased 14,450,000 Ordinary Shares in the Company during the year ended 31 March 2006 for an aggregate cost of Share capital 17,432,998.
This number of Ordinary Shares represents 0.6% of Details of changes to the Companys issued share capital during the the Companys total issued share capital as at 31 March 2006.
All year ended 31 March 2006 are set out in note 31 to the financial Ordinary Shares purchased during the year ended 31 March 2006 statements.
In total, as at 31 March 2006, 74,950,000 Ordinary Shares are held in treasury.
Acquisitions and disposals Details of significant acquisitions and disposals during the year are Related party transactions set out on page 36.
Transactions with joint ventures and associated companies Directors All trade transactions with joint ventures and associates arise in the The Directors during the year ended 31 March 2006, together with normal course of business and primarily relate to fees for use of biographical notes, are shown on pages 42 and 43.
All the Directors Cable & Wireless products and services, network and access were in office throughout the financial year with the exception of charges.
There were no material transactions with joint ventures Clive Butler, who was appointed on 1 May 2005 and John Pluthero, and associated companies during the year other than disclosed in who was appointed on 14 November 2005.
Subsequent to the note 39 to the consolidated financial statements.
44 2005 06 Annual report The Group received 20 million 2005 14 million dividends every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the from associates and 20 million 2005 17 million from joint Group continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
It is the ventures for the year ended 31 March 2006. policy of the Group that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical Transactions with Directors with that of other employees.
Except as disclosed in the Directors remuneration report, as of 31 May 2006, neither the Company or any of its subsidiaries was As well as being absolutely committed to providing a working a party to any material transactions, or proposed transactions, in environment in which the Groups people can both realise their which any Director, any other Executive Officer, any spouse or child own potential and contribute to business success, the Groups under 18 years of age of a Director or Executive Officer had or was businesses work to ensure that no employee, job applicant, to have a direct or indirect material interest.
customer or supplier is unfairly or illegally discriminated against.
During the years ended 31 March 2005 and 31 March 2006, and Employee consultation and relations as of 31 May 2006, no Director nor any other Executive Officer, It is the quality, skill and commitment of the people who work for nor any associate of any Director or any other Executive Officer Cable & Wireless that allows the Group to deliver for its customers.
was indebted to the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Good and open communication is central to driving commitment Substantial shareholdings from the Groups employees and making them feel engaged in the Except for the holdings of Ordinary Shares listed below, the Groups progress.
As such, the Group has both formal and informal Directors are not aware of any person or organisation holding channels for consultation and communication.
An example of this is 3% or more of the Ordinary Share capital of the Company as at the staff satisfaction survey conducted in the UK business the 31 May 2006, the latest practicable date prior to the issue of this results of which are shared openly around the business and used to report.
Comparative figures for 2005 are also given.
drive continuous improvement and promote excellence.
2006 Number of Percentage of Staff participate in the Groups performance through both share Cable & Wireless Issued Ordinary 1 Ordinary Shares Share capital schemes and performance-related bonus arrangements.
Shareholder Employee representation The Trustees of the BT Pension In the UK the Groups employees are represented through the Scheme 110,392,537 4.56 Employee Consultation Forum.
Elsewhere, employee representation FMR Corp. & Fidelity International may be through works councils or trade unions, particularly for Limited 80,438,282 3.32 collective bargaining purposes.
Barclays Bank plc 74,956,874 3.10 Goldman Sachs Group, Inc 75,084,209 3.10 All of the Groups employees are free to join employee Legal & General Investment representative bodies or trade unions but decisions on union Management Limited 73,223,270 3.02 recognition are taken at the local level.
1 As notified to the Company Human rights Cable & Wireless supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organisation Core Conventions 2005 Number of Percentage of relating to freedom of association, the abolition of forced and child Cable & Wireless Issued Ordinary 1 Ordinary Shares Share capital labour.
Shareholder Environmental matters The Trustees of the BT Pension Although the Board or its subcommittees consider environmental Scheme 101,950,148 4.30 issues and identify and monitor environmental risks and Legal & General Group plc 77,951,197 3.30 opportunities, the Directors do not consider that such matters are significant to an understanding of the Group's performance for the 1 As notified to the Company year or position at year end and hence the Annual report focuses on the more significant operational issues.
Employees Employment policies Charitable and political donations Cable & Wireless employment policies comply with local During the year ended 31 March 2006, the Group made donations requirements and meet relevant standards for occupational health, of 2.5 million 2005 7.7 million of which 200,000 2005 safety and environment, business ethics, diversity, disability, 1.7 million was spent in the UK.
More information about our performance management and employee relations.
support of the communities in which the Group operates is set out in the International and UK sections on pages 13 and 22 respectively.
In particular, applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitude of the applicant concerned.
In the event of members of staff becoming disabled 2005 06 Annual report 45 Board and governance Board and governance Directors report The charitable contribution in the financial year 2004 05 were The concept of reasonable assurance recognises that the cost of unusually high as we made two $1 million one-off donations in control procedures should not exceed the expected benefits.
response to the Asian Tsunami in December 2004 and to aid in the reconstruction of Cayman and Jamaica in the aftermath of The Groups management operates a risk management process, Hurricane Ivan in September 2004. under which each business unit identifies key risks that could impede the achievement of their business objectives: these risks are In the UK we have refocused our charitable giving policy towards a reviewed by each business senior management team and passed community based focus with an emphasis on employee engagement up the organisation on a filter basis to assist the Groups Executive with local based educational organisations.
Our objective is to help Directors to monitor all significant risks.
In addition the Audit reduce the digital divide in the communities where we live and Committee reviews a schedule of the Groups risks, which covers work.
Recent examples include the highly successful ICT Academy significant operational, financial and strategic risks.
in Bracknell and our partnership with the educational charity WebPlay in Berkshire.
The Groups Executive Directors also report to the Board, on behalf of management, significant changes in the Groups business and the The Group does not make political donations and has no intention external environment in which it operates.
of making donations to what are generally regarded as political parties within the EU.
As a precautionary measure and in light of In addition, they provide the Board with monthly financial the wide definitions of EU political organisations in The Political information, which includes key risk and performance indicators.
Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 the Act, a resolution to permit the Company to make political donations and incur The Groups key internal control and monitoring procedures include political expenditure was passed at the 2004 AGM.
The purpose the following: of the resolution was to ensure that the Company did not unintentionally breach the Act.
That resolution is valid for a period Financial reporting:There is a budgetary system with an annual of four years from 22 July 2004 or until the date of the 2008 AGM, budget approved by the Board.
At each Board meeting monthly if earlier.
actual results are reviewed and reported against the budget and, when appropriate, revised forecasts.
Payments to suppliers In the UK, the Group agrees payment terms with its suppliers when Investment appraisal:The Group has clearly defined policies for it enters into binding purchase contracts.
The Group seeks to abide capital expenditure.
These include annual budgets and detailed by the payment terms agreed whenever it is satisfied that the appraisal and review processes for such expenditure.
supplier has provided the goods or services in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions.
Cable & Wireless seeks to treat all its Monitoring systems:The Group monitors its internal controls suppliers fairly according to a standard, which deals specifically with through a programme of internal audits.
The Internal Audit function the payment of suppliers.
reports to the Audit Committee on its examination and evaluation of the effectiveness and adequacy of the Groups systems of The average number of days between the invoice date and the date internal control.
of payment of invoices by the Company not the Group was 79 days 2005 56 days.
Financial controls:The Group has dedicated resource to embed processes and controls across its businesses consistent with the Annual general meeting AGM standards acceptable to the Group.
The Financial Controls Toolkit, The AGM will be held at 10.00am on Friday 21 July 2006 at which reinforces the standardisation of financial controls across the The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Group, has continued to be rolled out during the year.
The Notice of Meeting, together with a letter from the Chairman explaining the resolutions to be The Group also operates a number of additional self-assessment proposed, accompanies this report.
exercises, which include monthly certification of compliance with key financial controls and an annual controls self-assessment: the latter Auditor exercise requires management to assess the effectiveness of their KPMG Audit Plc has expressed its willingness to continue as auditor fundamental operating controls over all aspects of their operations, of the Company and resolutions proposing its re-appointment and in addition to the financial controls covered by the Financial to authorise the Directors to fix its remuneration will be proposed Controls Toolkit.
The results of this exercise are utilised by Group at the AGM.
Internal Audit in planning their work for the forthcoming year.
Internal control and risk management Additionally, finance and general management of operating units are The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control required to sign a letter of representation to confirm that their and for reviewing its effectiveness on an ongoing basis.
The Board financial reporting is based on sound data, that they are fully aware considers that the Groups system of internal control is of their responsibility to operate internal control systems and that appropriately designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of their results are properly stated in accordance with Group and failure to achieve business objectives and provides reasonable, but statutory requirements.
not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
46 2005 06 Annual report The above procedures reflect the Groups commitment to ensuring it has policies in place that ensure high standards of integrity and transparency throughout its operation.
Further, when these procedures detect unauthorised management practices, the Group is committed to the correction of such events.
The Group is also committed to analysing its internal controls to make them more robust and further limit the risk of such incidents.
The Board believes such action properly reflects the Groups commitment to financial discipline and integrity at all levels.
The responsibility for internal control procedures within joint ventures and associates rests, on the whole, with the senior management of these operations.
Cable & Wireless monitors its investments and exerts influence through Board representation.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of internal control systems in operation during the financial year in accordance with the guidance set out in the Turnbull Report, through the processes set out above.
Under the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new and enhanced standards of corporate governance, and business and financial disclosure, apply to US public companies and non-US companies, including the Company, with securities registered in the United States.
Where applicable the Group has developed policies and procedures to enable it to comply with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Going concern After making enquiries the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements on pages 69 to 141.
By order of the Board of Directors Nick Cooper Company Secretary 31 May 2006 2005 06 Annual report 47 Board and governance
