The Merchants Trust PLC Investment Managers Review October saw a relatively brief but sharp market correction with the Economic Background index falling from about 5500 to just below 5200, led by weakness Despite a number of headwinds, the UK economy continued to in U. S. markets.
Thereafter there was a strong recovery, with the produce steady growth in 2005.
The latest indications are that market improving in a consistent fashion so that the FTSE100 Index growth was just under 2%, with uninterrupted economic expansion ended the financial year at 5760.
A particularly notable feature for now stretching back over 13 years.
After a series of interest rate the last year has been the willingness of companies to return surplus rises, ending at 4.75% in August 2004, the consumer appears to cash resources to shareholders through enhanced dividends and have become more cautious.
A major contributor to this consumer share buy-backs as well as other means.
This looks set to continue.
slow-down has been the rise in crude oil prices, which at one point rose to nearly $70 per barrel.
Most commentators now consider The past year has been one of great contrasts in terms of sector that oil price increases are effectively a tax on Western consumers performances.
Resource sectors led the way with Mining rising by with the consequent inationary impact being relatively minimal.
over 70% and the Oil sector up by over 37%.
Aerospace and This can be seen in the UKs consumer price index, which also Defence, where the Trust is not represented, did well rising by over ended 2005 at just under 2%.
Banks, one of the key sectors for the portfolio, rose only just over 7%, with investors concerned about their bad debt experience.
As usual the trends in the housing market attracted much comment, with the fear that a fall in values would further dent In a less positive vein a number of sectors recorded falls in share consumer confidence.
The more cautious forecasts proved values, including Leisure -5%, and Telecoms -4%.
The latters unfounded and the cut in base rates by 0.25% in August 2005 weakness largely reected Vodafone, which fell by nearly 14% over appeared to bolster confidence.
In the event, housing transactions 2005 6.
The portfolio was under-weight in this company showed a measure of stabilisation in the latter months of the year.
Other disappointing sectors where the portfolio Nevertheless unemployment rose steadily throughout most of 2005 had limited exposure were Media 3% and Retail 2%.
As in and, coupled with this, there was an appreciable pick-up in the 2004 5, Mid-Caps led the way in 2005 6 with the FTSE Mid banks arrears experience in unsecured lending.
250 Index rising by 28.0% over the year.
One area of debate has been why there has not been a significant Portfolio Changes recovery in capital investment, despite the undoubted fact that Over the course of the last financial year the key characteristics of company nances are now on a much rmer footing.
It is clear that the Trusts portfolio have remained broadly unchanged.
As technology has led to more cost effective investment by companies previously there has been a continued emphasis on established well and that, where capital expenditure has been put in place, it is very nanced high yielding companies, where market valuations often in low cost economies like Eastern Europe and the Far East.
appeared to under-estimate their prospects.
Looking at new In latter months a number of companies have deployed their additions during 2005 6, these included A.
Ports, BAA, Scottish balance sheet resources to fund acquisitions, impacting a number of Power and Wimpey.
The first two were purchased following periods sectors especially those with stable earnings characteristics.
Whilst of under-performance when the market appeared to under-value the the dollar recorded a useful recovery, this has only been reected in quality and sustainability of their earnings streams.
Since the year reported company profits and dividends relatively recently.
end both AB Ports and BAA have been the subject of take-over interest, along with Lonmin in the mining sector.
Scottish Power Market Trends was purchased following a change in its strategy which has resulted Having started 2005 6 very positively, the FTSE 100 Index was in the sale of nearly all of its US interests.
Wimpey also suffered a subdued for much of the first three months of the last financial year.
period of dull performance, reecting the sluggish UK housing After falling to just below 4800 at the end of April, it appreciated market over much of 2005.
All of these shares have shown useful steadily throughout the summer.
These gains were spurred by share price recoveries.
improved trading news from the corporate sector and the prospect of a cut in UK base rates.
Take-over activity, often from overseas acquirers, re-afrmed the view that UK quoted companies appeared under-valued by international standards.
Low borrowing costs were also a motivating factor.
6 The Merchants Trust PLC Investment Managers Review Additions to existing holdings included Alliance & Leicester, Anglo Future Policy American, Aviva, Land Securities and Resolution.
The latter changed At present there is much discussion as to the future course of UK its name from Britannic, following the merger with the unquoted base rates.
This is brought into focus by the potential for interest Resolution Group.
It is now the leading quoted investor in closed rates to increase further in both Europe and the US.
Although UK life assurance companies in the UK.
Anglo Americans shares have company dividends are now growing well again, the trend in UK benefited from the Groups more focused strategy, as well as the rise interest rates will be a key determinant of market levels in 2006. in metal prices.
Land Securities, the UKs largest property group, is a That said, the current spate of take-over activity, coupled with low major potential beneciary from the continued rise in commercial nominal and real bond yields, suggests that the valuation of UK property values and the proposed legislation to create Real Estate equities remains inexpensive by historic standards.
All these factors Investment Trusts.
are supportive of higher yielding shares.
Sales from the portfolio during the year included Cantrell & Cochrane, Imperial Group and Rexam, all of whose valuations appeared to be up with events in terms of their profit prospects.
Persimmon was top-sliced following sustained strong performance, and the companys successful take-over of Westbury led to a further sharp re-valuation of its shares.
Its entry into the FTSE 100 Index means it is the first pure housebuilder to achieve this status.
The portfolio benefited from the take-over of Allied Domecq by Pernod Ricard and, just before the year end, BOC received a preliminary approach from Linde, the German industrial gases group.
The Trust took part in the new issues from Inmarsat, subsequently sold, and RHM, formerly Rank Hovis MacDougall.
