The Merchants Trust PLC Investor Information largest holdings are also published monthly by the London Stock The Managers Exchange Regulatory News Service.
They are also available to any Allianz Global Investors is the marketing name of RCM UK enquirer of Allianz Global Investors, either via Investor Services on Limited, Allianz Groups regulated UK fund management company, 0800 317 573 or on the Managers website: which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services www.
Share Prices Allianz Global Investors is one of the largest fund managers in The share prices quoted in the London Stock Exchange Daily Europe, and as at 31 December 2005, had combined assets of Ofcial List for 31 January 2006 were 450.75p-451.25p.
Through its predecessors, it has a heritage of investment trust management expertise in the UK For CGT indexation purposes, at 31 March 1982 the share price, stretching back to the nineteenth century and had 1.25 billion after adjustment for bonus issues, was 48.75p.
assets under management in a range of investment trusts as at 31 December 2005.
Share Plan The Allianz Global Investors Investment Trust Share Plan provides a Results convenient and economical way for shareholders to increase their Half-year announced September existing holdings.
Investments can be in the form of a regular Full-year announced March monthly contribution, or an individual lump sum or a combination Report and Accounts posted to shareholders April of the two.
There are arrangements for the reinvestment of Annual General Meeting held May dividends and for selling and switching.
Full details of the plan are available from Allianz Global Investors, either via Investor Services Ordinary Dividends on 0800 317 573 or the Managers website: First quarterly paid August www.
Second quarterly paid November Third quarterly paid February Investment Trust Maxi ISA and PEP Transfer Final usually paid May Shareholders can invest in the shares of the Company through the Allianz Global Investors Investment Trust Maxi ISA and PEP Preference Dividends Transfer.
Full details are available from Allianz Global Investors, Payable half-yearly 1 August and 1 February either via Investor Services on 0800 317 573 or the Managers website: www.
Payment of Dividends Direct to Bank Accounts Cash dividends will be sent by cheque to first-named shareholders Website at their registered address together with a tax voucher.
Dividends Further information about the The Merchants Trust PLC is available may be paid directly into shareholders bank accounts.
Details of on the Managers website: how this may be arranged can be obtained from the Registrars, www.
Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU.
Dividends mandated in this way are paid via BACS Association of Investment Trust Companies Bankers Automated Clearing Service.
Tax vouchers will then be sent directly to shareholders at their registered address unless other AITC instructions have been given.
The Company is a member of the AITC, the trade body of the investment trust industry, which provides a range of literature including fact sheets and a monthly statistical service.
Copies of Market and Portfolio Information these publications can be obtained from the AITC, 9th Floor, The Companys Ordinary Shares are listed on the London Stock 24 Chiswell Street, London EC1Y 4YY, or at www.
The market price, price range, gross yield and net asset value are shown daily in The Financial Times and The Daily Category: UK Growth and Income Telegraph.
The net asset value of the Ordinary Shares is calculated weekly and published by the London Stock Exchange Regulatory News Service.
The geographical spread of investments and ten 14
