Directors Anthony W Lea Colin A M Buchan Chairman Aged 52, was appointed to the Board in July 2001.
He was Aged 58, was appointed to the Board in July 2005 and Global Head of Equities at UBS Warburg before his became Chairman on 17 March 2006.
He was the finance retirement in March 2001.
He is non-executive vice director of Anglo American plc in London from 1999 to 2005, chairman of Standard Life Investments Holdings Limited one of the worlds leading mining and natural resources and a non-executive director of Standard Life Investments companies.
He was also a non-executive director of Limited, National Westminster Bank plc, The Royal Bank of AngloGold Ashanti Limited, the worlds second largest gold Scotland plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc, The producer, and fide Beers Investments SA.
Fettes Foundation and The Royal Scottish National Orchestra.
Ian C S Barby Aged 62, was appointed to the Board in December 2003.
Gordon H Sage He is non-executive chairman of Ecofin Water & Power Aged 59, was appointed to the Board in July 2001.
He was Opportunities plc and INVESCO Perpetual UK Smaller an executive director of Rio Tinto plc until his retirement Companies Investment Trust plc, and a non-executive early in 2001 and was deputy chairman of ERM Holdings director of Pantheon International Participations PLC, Limited, an environmental consulting concern, until retiring Schroder Income Growth Fund PLC and SR Europe in October 2006.
He is a director of Balfour Beatty plc.
He was managing director of Merrill Lynch Investment Managers now BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited Investment Trusts division until June 2003.
Oliver A G Baring Aged 62, was appointed to the Board in November 2004.
He is executive chairman of Mwana Africa PLC and holds non-executive chairmanships of Ridge Mining plc formerly Cluff Mining plc and First Africa Group Holdings Limited, as well as directorships in Robert Fox Limited and Tilley International plc and is a council member of the Sentient Group, a private equity mining fund.
All the Directors are non-executive.
Independent Director and a member of the Audit & Management Engagement Committee.
18 Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc
