Directors Report The Directors present the annual report and financial While the Company may hold shares in other listed statements of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings investment companies including investment trusts, for the year ended 31 December 2006. the Board has agreed that the Company will not invest more than 15% of its gross assets in other UK listed Business Review investment companies.
Principal activity and business review The Company carries on business as an investment trust.
Gearing Its principal activity is portfolio investment and that of its The Investment Manager believes that tactical use of two subsidiary undertakings, Merrill Lynch Gold Limited gearing can add value from time to time.
This gearing and World Mining Investment Company Limited, is typically is in the form of an overdraft or short term facility, investment dealing.
which can be repaid at any time.
The level and benefit of gearing is discussed and agreed with the Board regularly.
Status of the Company The Investment Manager generally aims to be fully In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has conducted invested.
The gearing limit is currently 15% of the its affairs during the year under review, and subsequently, Companys net assets.
so as to qualify as an investment trust for the purposes of section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 Performance ICTA.
The last accounting period for which the Company In the year to 31 December 2006, the Companys net asset has been treated as approved as an investment trust by HM value per share increased by 32.9% compared with a rise Revenue & Customs was for the year ended 31 December in the HSBC Global Mining Index of 21.8% and the 2005.
It is the Companys intention to continue to seek Companys share price increased by 29.1% all percentages approval under section 842 of ICTA.
calculated in sterling terms with net income and warrant The Company is an investment company and can take proceeds reinvested.
advantage of section 265 of the Companies Act 1985 The Investment Managers Report on pages 5 to 12 includes which allows an investment company to disregard losses on a review of the main developments during the year, the capital account when paying dividends out of the together with information on investment activity within the revenue account.
The Company is not a close company within the meaning of the provisions of ICTA.
Results and dividends The consolidated profit for the year was 205,293,000 2005: The Companys shares are eligible for inclusion in the 262,101,000 of which 14,782,000 2005: 5,642,000 is stocks and shares component of an Individual Savings revenue profit.
The results for the Group are set out in the Account.
Consolidated Income Statement on page 33.
Continuation of the Company The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of As agreed by shareholders in 1998, an ordinary resolution 2.50p per share and have also declared a special dividend of for the continuance of the Company is proposed at each 2.00p per share in respect of the year ended 31 December Annual General Meeting.
The dividends will be paid on 29 March 2007 to shareholders on the register of Investment policy members at close of business on 23 February 2007.
The The Companys investment objective is to maximise total cost of the dividends amount to 7,573,000. returns to shareholders through a worldwide portfolio of mining and metal securities.
Up to 10% of the assets may Derivative transactions be invested in physical metals.
No material change will be Details of the Groups derivative transactions are given in made to the objective without shareholder approval.
the Investment Managers Report on page 11 and in note 19 on pages 46 and 47.
Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2006 19 Directors Report continued Key performance indicators regular reports showing an analysis of the Companys At each Board meeting, the Directors consider a number of performance against the HSBC Global Mining Index and performance measures to assess the Companys success in other similar indices, including the performance of achieving its objectives.
Amongst others, the key major companies in the sector.
performance indicators KPIs used to measure the Income dividend risk The amount of dividends and progress and performance of the Company over time and future dividend growth will depend on the Companys which are comparable to those reported by other underlying portfolio.
Any change in the tax treatment of investment trusts are set out below.
the dividends or interest received by the Company including as a result of withholding taxes or exchange 2006 2005 controls imposed by jurisdictions in which the Company 1 Net asset value 516.07 397.03 2 invests may reduce the level of dividends received by Share price 444.00 351.50 1 Discount to net asset value 14.0% 11.5% shareholders.
The Board monitors this risk through the Revenue return per share 8.78p 3.39p receipt of detailed income forecasts and considers the 3 Total expense ratio 1.0% 1.0% level of income at each meeting.
Calculated in accordance with AIC guidelines.
Calculated on a mid to mid basis with income and warrant proceeds reinvested.
Operating expenses excluding interest as a % of average daily shareholders funds.
Regulatory risk The Company operates as an investment trust in accordance with section 842 of the The Board monitors the above KPIs at each meeting.
Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
As such the Additionally, it regularly reviews a number of indices and Company is exempt from capital gains tax on the sale of ratios to understand the impact on the Companys relative its investments.
The Investment Manager monitors performance of the various components such as asset investment movements, the level and type of forecast allocation and stock selection.
income and expenditure and the amount of proposed dividends to ensure that the provisions of section 842 are The Directors recognise that it is in the long term interests not breached and the results are reported to the Board.
of shareholders that shares do not trade at a significant discount to their prevailing net asset value.
The Board Operational risk Like most other investment trust continues to be mindful of the discount, which it believes companies, the Company has no employees.
The would be diminished through a higher capital base.
Company therefore relies upon the services provided by third parties and is dependent on the control systems of Principal risks the Investment Manager and the Companys service The key risks faced by the Company are set out below.
The security, for example, of the Companys Board regularly reviews and agrees policies for managing assets, dealing procedures, accounting records and each risk, as summarised below.
maintenance of regulatory and legal requirements, depend on the effective operation of these systems.
Performance risk The Board is responsible for These are regularly tested and monitored and an deciding the investment strategy to fulfil the Companys internal control report, which includes an assessment of objectives and monitoring the performance of the risks together with procedures to mitigate such risks, is Investment Manager.
An inappropriate strategy may lead prepared by the Investment Manager and reviewed by to underperformance against the benchmark index.
To the Audit & Management Engagement Committee twice manage this risk the Investment Manager provides an a year.
The custodian and the Investment Manager also explanation of significant stock selection decisions and produce annual FRAG reports which are reviewed by the rationale for the composition of the investment their respective auditors and give assurance regarding portfolio.
The Board monitors and maintains an the effective operation of controls.
adequate spread of investments, in order to minimise the risks associated with particular countries or factors Resource risk The quality of the investment specific to particular sectors, based on the management team employed by BlackRock Investment diversification requirements inherent in the Companys Management UK Limited is a crucial factor in delivering investment policy.
The Board also receives and reviews good performance and the loss by the management of 20 Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc key staff could affect investment returns.
The Investment No penalty on termination of the investment management Manager has training and development programs in contract would be payable by the Company in the event that place for its employees and its recruitment and six months written notice is given to BlackRock.
There are remuneration packages are developed in order to retain no provisions relating to payment of fees in lieu of notice.
Merrill Lynch Investment Managers Group Services Limited Financial risks The Companys investment activities MLIMGS acted as the secretary and administrator of the expose it to a variety of financial risks that include Company until the completion of the aforementioned market price risk, foreign currency risk and interest rate merger, when BlackRock Investment Management UK risk.
In addition, it should be noted that the location of Limited assumed the contractual responsibilities of the companies in which the Company invests and shares MLIMGS.
BlackRock receives an annual fee of 0.05% of of companies in the mining sector can prove to be more gross assets.
volatile and therefore present a greater degree of risk.
The Bank of New York Europe Limited BNYE is the Unquoted investments in the Companys portfolio are custodian of the Companys assets.
The BNYE fee is payable also subject to additional liquidity risk.
Further details at rates depending on the number of trades effected and are disclosed in note 19 on pages 46 and 47, together location of securities held.
The custodian agreement is with a summary of the policies for managing these subject to six months notice by either party.
Appointment of the Investment Manager Future prospects The Board considers the arrangements for the provision of The Boards main focus is to maximise total real returns investment management services to the Company on an and the future of the Company is much dependent upon the ongoing basis and a formal review is conducted annually.
success of the investment strategy.
The outlook for the The Board believes that the continuing appointment of the Company is discussed in the Investment Managers Report Investment Manager, on the terms disclosed above, is in on pages 11 and 12. the interests of all shareholders.
Investment management and administration As part of the annual review the Board considered the It was announced on 15 February 2006 that Merrill Lynch quality and continuity of the personnel assigned to handle Investment Managers Limited MLIM, the Investment the Companys affairs, the investment process and the Manager of the Company, was to merge with the results achieved to date.
The specialist nature of the investment management business of BlackRock, Inc.
The Companys investment remit is, in the Boards view, best merger was completed on 29 September 2006 at which served by the Natural Resources team at BlackRock, who time the Investment Manager was renamed BlackRock have a proven track record in successfully investing in the Investment Management UK Limited BlackRock.
Merrill Lynch & Co. Inc. retains a 49.8% stake in the Voting policy combined BlackRock business and has a 45% The exercise of voting rights attached to the Companys voting interest in the combined company.
The PNC portfolio has been delegated to the Investment Manager.
Financial Services Group, Inc. which bought BlackRock However, the consent of the Chairman of the Board is in 1995 maintains a 34% share in the combined company sought prior to the Investment Manager voting against and approximately 16% is held by employees and incumbent management in respect of any stock held in public shareholders.
BlackRock provides management services to the Company The Investment Managers voting policy states: under a contract terminable on six months notice.
The management fee is 1.25% per annum of gross assets.
The we will vote in favour of proposals which we expect value of any investment in BlackRock managed funds is to enhance shareholder value and on routine excluded when calculating the management fee.
issues where we are generally supportive of a companys management: Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2006 21 Directors Report continued we will vote against proposals which we believe may The Directors retiring by rotation are Mr I C S Barby and damage shareholders rights or economic interests: in Mr C A M Buchan, who offer themselves for re-election.
these situations we would normally have raised our Mr Barby has extensive experience of the investment concerns with management in advance: industry and Mr Buchan has considerable knowledge of the mining sector worldwide, as well as wider corporate finance we will abstain on proposals which we feel unable to and commercial experience.
Accordingly, their re-election is support but believe it would be against our clients recommended to shareholders.
interests to oppose publicly: and None of the Directors has a service contract with the Company.
in all situations the economic interests of our clients will be paramount.
Directors Remuneration Report The Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 25 Going concern and 26.
An ordinary resolution to approve this report will be The financial statements of the Company have been put to members at the forthcoming Annual General produced on a going concern basis.
The Directors think this Meeting.
is the appropriate basis as the continuation vote, being an annual event, is considered to be a routine item, and the Substantial shares interests majority of the Companys assets are readily realisable.
The Company has been advised that the following The Company is able to meet all of its liabilities from its shareholders owned 3% or more of the ordinary shares of assets and the ongoing expenses are less than 1.5% of the the Company on 2 February 2007. net assets, which consist almost entirely of quoted investments.
Number of % of Issued Ordinary Ordinary Shares Share Capital Share capital Legal & General Investment Details of the Companys share capital are given in note 16 Management Limited 6,555,306 3.9 on page 44.
Lazard Asset Management 6,034,232 3.6 Reed Elsevier Ltd Pension Directors Scheme 5,700,000 3.4 The Directors of the Company on 31 December 2006, all of 0.4% held on behalf of clients.
whom held office throughout the year under review unless otherwise detailed, and their interests in the ordinary Donations shares and warrants of the Company, are shown in the The Company made no political or charitable donations table below.
As disclosed in the interim report, Mr Peter Wilmot-Sitwell retired as Chairman and a Director on 17 March 2006.
Payment of suppliers It is the policy of the Company and its subsidiaries to settle 1 January 2006 31 December 2006 all investment transactions in accordance with the terms Ordinary Ordinary and conditions of the relevant market in which it operates.
Shares Warrants Shares Warrants Suppliers of goods and services are generally paid within A W Lea 5,000 5,000 1,000 30 days of the date of any invoice.
The Company has no I C S Barby 5,000 5,000 76,000 O A G Baring trade creditors.
C A M Buchan 20,000 20,000 4,000 G H Sage 10,000 10,000 2,000 Warrants In March 2006 shareholders were issued with bonus All of the holdings of the Directors are beneficial.
No warrants on the basis of one warrant for every five shares changes to these holdings had been notified up to the date held.
The warrants are exercisable over a three year period of this report.
at a price of 439p per share on 28 February 2007, or 22 Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc 478p per share if exercised on 29 February 2008, or at a Resolution 8 Continuation of the Company as an price of 565p per share if exercised on 27 February 2009.
Investment Trust The resolution to be proposed will seek shareholders Share repurchases authority that the Company shall continue in being as an A total of 98,490,586 ordinary shares have been purchased investment trust.
and cancelled up to 13 February 2007, although no shares have been bought back since October 2002.
The latest Resolution 9 Authority to allot shares authority to purchase ordinary shares for cancellation was The Directors may only allot shares for cash if authorised to granted to the Directors on 17 March 2006 and expires on do so by shareholders in general meeting.
The Directors are proposing that their seeks authority for the Directors to allot shares for cash up authority to buy back shares be renewed at the forthcoming to an aggregate nominal amount of 420,747 per annum Annual General Meeting.
which represents 5% of the current issued share capital.
The Directors will use this authority when it is in the best Although the Investment Manager initiates the buy backs, interests of the Company to issue shares for cash.
This the policy and parameters are set by the Board and authority, unless renewed, will expire in five years time.
The Company intends to raise the cash needed to finance the purchase of ordinary shares Resolution 10 Authority to disapply pre-emption rights either by selling securities in the Companys portfolio or by By law, Directors require specific authority from short term borrowing.
shareholders before allotting new shares or selling shares out of treasury for cash without first offering them to Treasury shares existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings.
The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations allow companies to hold shares Resolution 10 empowers the Directors to allot new shares acquired by market purchase as treasury shares, rather for cash or to sell shares which are held by the Company in than having to cancel them.
Up to 10% of the issued shares treasury, otherwise than to existing shareholders on a may be held in treasury and may be subsequently cancelled pro-rata basis, up to an aggregate nominal amount of or sold for cash in the market.
This would give the 420,747 which is equivalent to 8,414,945 ordinary shares of Company the ability to reissue shares quickly and cost 5p each and 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share efficiently, thereby improving liquidity and providing the capital.
Unless renewed, this authority will expire on Company with additional flexibility in the management of its 21 September 2008. capital base.
Resolution 11 Authority to buy back shares The Board currently intends only to authorise the sale of The resolution to be proposed will seek to renew the shares from treasury at prices at or above the prevailing net authority granted to Directors enabling the Company to asset value per share plus costs of the relevant sale.
This purchase its own shares.
should result in a positive overall effect on shareholders if shares are bought back at a discount and then sold at a Under the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, price at or above the net asset value per share plus costs the maximum price which can be paid is 5% above the of the relevant sale.
average of the market values of the ordinary shares for the five business days before the purchase is made, the price of In the interests of all shareholders, the Board will keep the the last independent trade, and the highest current matter of treasury shares under review.
In addition, shares will only be repurchased at prices below the net asset value per share, Annual General Meeting which should have the effect of increasing the net asset Resolutions relating to the following items of special value per share for the remaining shareholders.
In making business will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual purchases, the Company will deal only with member firms General Meeting.
of the London Stock Exchange.
The Directors are seeking authority to purchase up to 25,228,006 ordinary shares Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2006 23 Directors Report continued being 14.99% of the issued share capital.
Such authority will expire on 21 September 2008.
Resolution 12 Directors indemnities Resolution 12 is to amend the Companys Articles of Association to reflect the enactment of the Companies Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise Act 2004, which gave companies wider powers to indemnify directors in respect of any proceedings brought by third parties, covering both the legal costs and financial costs of any adverse judgement.
This does not include legal costs of the unsuccessful defence of criminal proceedings, fines imposed in criminal proceedings or penalties imposed by regulatory bodies.
Companies are also permitted to fund a directors defence costs although if the defence is unsuccessful the director will be liable to repay these costs.
An amendment is proposed to Article 166 of the Companys Articles of Association to reflect these wider powers.
Audit information The Directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and that each Director has taken all steps they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of such information.
Auditor The Auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, has indicated its willingness to continue in office and resolutions proposing its reappointment and authorising the Directors to determine its remuneration for the ensuing year will be submitted at the Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited Secretary 13 February 2007 24 Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc
