Investment Managers Report at the year end lifted the sector back up towards prior Portfolio performance record levels.
As set out in the Chairmans Statement, we are pleased to report that the Company enjoyed a satisfactory second half % Change year to performance and ended the year with the shares standing Index sterling terms 31 December 2006 not far from their all-time high.
This good performance in MSCI World Index 3.5 2006 represents the sixth consecutive year of growth in net FTSE 100 10.7 asset value NAV.
During the year under review the HSBC Global Mining Index 19.4 Companys undiluted NAV and share price both with net Gold sub index 2.3 income and warrant proceeds reinvested rose by 32.9% and Base metals sub index 27.0 29.1% respectively.
In capital only terms the NAV rose by Diversified mining sub index 23.8 30.0% and the share price by 26.3%.
These figures Gold bullion 8.6 compare with the HSBC Global Mining Index sterling MG Base Metals Index 35.7 terms which rose by 19.4% capital only and 21.8% with Source: Datastream.
The theoretical effect of diluting the NAV to allow for the exercise of the warrants would have The positive moves in the prices of commodities and mining reduced the NAV by 12.84p per share at the end of shares were given further impetus by a weaker trend in the December to 503.23p.
US dollar which declined in value despite the higher US interest rates.
The negative market sentiment focused on Mining share overview the magnitude of the US trade deficit and the corresponding The world economic backdrop was positive in 2006 with real build up of dollar reserves in China and the Middle East.
The year started off especially Dollar bears were encouraged by repeated signals that strongly with the key regions all expanding in a Central Banks in these regions might begin to diversify synchronous fashion.
The latter part of the year witnessed a away from US dollar government bonds, thereby making sharp slowdown in the US as the combined impact of 17 Americas deficits more difficult to finance.
successive Federal Reserve rate rises finally took their toll and precipitated a painful slowdown in the US housing Rising commodity prices, a good demand backdrop and the market.
Nonetheless this was not enough to offset the weakening dollar all helped to create an environment in continuing impressive growth from China, the worlds which mining analysts had to repeatedly upgrade their largest commodity using country.
forecasts for both commodities and 2006 mining sector earnings.
However, most of these adjustments were to near Despite tightening monetary policy in both the US and term forecasts and the long term estimates of metals and Europe and the seemingly intractable political and military minerals prices remain rather negative in comparison to problems in the Middle East, strong world growth led to todays spot markets.
This means that while spot favourable corporate profits growth and the MSCI World commodity prices rose quite sharply in 2006, the valuations Index ended 2006 up 4% in sterling terms and 6% in Euro of companies rose at a much lower rate leading to a terms.
Currency effects have again been important for significant reduction in share price cash flow multiples and investors in world equities and a typical US dollar based share price earnings ratios.
This effect is clearly visible in investor would have found the returns from the MSCI World the chart overleaf which shows the price earnings ratio of Index much more appealing at 18%, a reversal of the one of the largest holdings in the Companys portfolio, situation prevailing in 2005 when the dollar strengthened Rio Tinto.
In comparison with world equities the mining sector had a better year, continuing the record of sustained outperformance which commenced in 2000.
The HSBC Global Mining Index reached an all time high in May and although it weakened in the middle part of the year, a rally Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2006 5 Investment Managers Report continued PE for Rio Tinto Capital Management by the 3 UK Mining Majors 30 20,000 25 15,000 20 10,000 15 5,000 10 5 0 Jun 92 Jun 93 Jun 94 Jun 95 Jun 96 Jun 97 Jun 98 Jun 99 Jun 00 Jun 01 Jun 02 Jun 03 Jun 04 Jun 05 Jun 06 CY 2003 CY 2004 CY 2005 CY 2006E Source: Datastream.
Source: BHP Billiton, Rio Tinto and Anglo American company reports: includes dividends, share buy backs, change in debt and corporate transactions.
The extent of the fide-rating of mining shares coupled with Market cap the ready availability of attractively priced debt sparked off a as at Shares number of hotly contested corporate battles, which in 31 December repurchased aggregate provided some of the defining moments of 2006.
% of 2006 in 2006 Company investments US$m US$m The most spectacular of these battles centred around the CVRD 10.7 69,801 300 control of Falconbridge and by the time it eventually Rio Tinto 10.0 81,206 2,300 succumbed to Xstrata it had been fought over by no less Zinifex 6.9 7,211 50 than three other predators: Inco, Teck Cominco and BHP Billiton 5.3 113,156 3,400 Phelps Dodge.
Subsequently, Inco and Phelps Dodge Alcoa 3.9 26,022 350 were themselves bid for by CVRD and Freeport Anglo American 3.4 72,935 3,900 McMoran respectively.
Freeport McMoran 0.7 10,975 100 Several other factors have also helped stimulate merger Source: BlackRock Estimates and acquisition M&A activity.
For example, new projects around the world have again been plagued by severe delays It seems likely that both the M&A trend and capital to construction time, lack of availability of skills and management programmes will persist well into 2007 equipment, and rapidly escalating capital costs.
Some and will probably provide support during periods of companies clearly believe that acquisitions are a good way market weakness.
to grow without exposing the business to such risks.
In the While the year as a whole was once again positive, we gold sector, M&A has also been driven by a shortage of ore should not forget that this is and will always be a volatile reserves after many years of underinvestment.
As is usual, we saw episodic changes in sentiment Another defining characteristic of 2006 was the prevalence which led to violent movements in the markets.
Most of the larger Interestingly, 2006 saw a virtually exact repetition of the companies have enjoyed market conditions so strong that market patterns seen in 2005 and 2004, with a spring sell cash flow has surpassed capital requirements resulting in, off followed by a dull summer and an autumn rebound.
by historical standards, relatively low levels of gearing.
As noted last year, one of the main causes of these While some companies allowed cash to accumulate, others unsettling spring sell offs are analysts trying to second chose to distribute it in the form of higher dividends, special guess the peak of the commodity cycle.
It has been a dividends and share buy backs.
The amounts involved for characteristic of this cycle that commodity analysts have the larger companies have been quite breathtaking, as the been consistently too pessimistic and are on the look out chart which follows shows.
Also impressive is the list of for its demise.
The period between the disclosure of strong companies within the portfolio that bought back stock year end Q1 corporate results and the onset of seasonally in 2006. weak summer markets is when the stockmarket is most 6 Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc 12 month forward PE ratio US$ Millions vulnerable to this, something which we could easily see % Change again in 2007.
Perhaps the January sell off indicates that Price year to % Change 31 December 31 December average spring weakness is coming early this year!
2006 2006 2006 2005 We have learned that the best way of dealing with periodic Gold US$ troy oz 634.5 23.8 35.7 weakness in the market is to repay the borrowings in the Platinum US$ troy oz 1,117 15.9 27.3 portfolio and to write near dated put options covering Nickel US$ tonne 34,202 155.7 64.3 those stocks such as Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton with Copper US$ tonne 6,285 37.1 82.4 powerful cash flow and large stock buy back programmes.
Aluminium US$ tonne 2,850 24.7 35.1 This permits us to exploit both our gearing potential and Zinc US$ tonne 4,330 126.2 136.5 our willingness to buy inexpensive shares at even cheaper Iron ore lump US$ tonne 94 19.0 19.0 prices than those prevailing at the time of writing these Coking Coal hard contracts.
In 2006, option writing and sub-underwriting US$ tonne 112 10.4 10.4 commission generated 710,000 of revenue for the Group.
As always, a particular focus of the portfolio has been on Gold and precious commodities those companies that are best placed to benefit from the Looking at the year as a whole gold equities performed changing shape of global demand.
The largest portfolio disappointingly in 2006 as not only did they significantly investments are in companies which produce the metals underperform the rest of the mining sector but they also and minerals that are either in global shortage or which underperformed gold itself, which rose by some 24% year China needs to import to satisfy its economic growth on year.
In May, gold reached a 26 year high of US$720 oz requirements.
These are commodities like iron ore, zinc, before slipping back to end the year at US$634.50 oz.
Golds alumina, nickel, platinum, gold and even diamonds.
Our top average price for the year in dollars was 36% up on the ten holdings produce a combination of these materials, and average for 2005, further highlighting the lacklustre outthis strategy together with the factors mentioned above has turn for gold shares.
helped to generate out performance against our benchmark index in 2006.
Golds good performance came despite the steady tightening of US monetary policy, a factor which ordinarily The table which follows shows the price movements might have been expected to suppress the price.
The key to in US dollar terms of some of the metals and minerals golds positive returns was the continuation of favourable that are most important to the Companys portfolio.
Global mine output has been surprisingly, the favourable pricing environment showed stagnant since 2001 due to a lack of exploration success through in some good earnings numbers for the leading while jewellery demand has recovered from the shock of the companies in the mining industry.
Despite mounting rapid rise from US$500 oz to US$700 oz in 2005 2006. pressure on production costs, many of the companies in Investment demand for gold has surged over the past two the portfolio will have again achieved record earnings for years and with Central Bank sellers sidelined by the Central the year.
Bank Gold Agreement this creates an environment of upward pricing pressure, especially given the strength of other commodities.
In our view the main catalyst which underpinned the increase in investment demand was the worsening situation in the Middle East and the weaker trend to the dollar.
Despite the positive tone to the gold market, investment in gold shares has again not been a feature of the portfolio strategy in 2006 and we have been right to remain underweight throughout the year.
This unenthusiastic stance towards the major gold equities stems from their Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2006 7 Investment Managers Report continued painfully slow earnings recovery.
Costs seem to have risen pipeline.
Our largest diamond equity holding remains Aber nearly in line with revenues: put simply, the economics of Diamond 2.1% of the portfolio, which owns a 40% stake in the gold sector remain insufficiently attractive in the Diavik mine in Canada with Rio Tinto holding 60%.
In comparison with other parts of the mining industry.
For the 2006, Aber also bought out the minority interest in the first time there are no gold equities represented in the upmarket diamond jeweller, Harry Winston.
During the year Companys ten largest investments and none of the gold we made an investment in an unquoted diamond company shares that we hold in the portfolio made a meaningful Gem Diamonds 0.7% of the portfolio.
This company has contribution to overall returns in the year.
Nonetheless, cost acquired a 76% interest in the Letseng diamond mine in pressures in the industry do seem to be abating and at Lesotho.
Shortly after the mine was acquired by Gem some stage the underperformance of gold shares will Diamonds, a 603ct stone was recovered, the Lesotho bottom out.
We are therefore seeking an opportunity to Promise, the tenth biggest white diamond ever found.
Gem significantly rebuild gold exposure within the portfolio from Diamonds has announced its intention to float on the Main todays low level of 6.9% 9.3% at the end of 2005.
Market of the London Stock Exchange which is expected to complete in February 2007.
Platinum remained steadily firm in 2005 and in November reached a new high of US$1355 oz amid speculation that a Base metals new Exchange Traded Fund ETF would soon be Base metals had another excellent year with demand launched.
Although there are signs that the jewellery from China once again underpinning growth.
Overall, industry is reluctant to pay these price levels, this is more inventories in the London Metal Exchange LME than made up for by autocatalyst demand trends.
The warehouses remained low reflecting broadly satisfactory Companys portfolio currently holds four platinum equities: supply and demand trends.
With strong demand and low Impala Platinum 4.5% of the portfolio, Lonmin 1.4%, inventories, any supply disruptions tend to spark off price Aquarius Platinum 1.1% and Ridge Mining 0.2%.
This is exactly what occurred, with most of the base these companies are centred in South Africa and have thus metals reaching new multi year highs at some point during benefited from the somewhat weaker value of the Rand in the year.
The MG Base Metals Index, a basket of metals, 2006.
The South African platinum companies have also rose by 55% in US dollar terms during the year and the benefited from sharp increases in by-product revenues average price was up nearly 66% in US dollar terms especially rhodium up on average by 122% in 2006 in US compared to the average for 2005.
Not surprisingly, the dollar terms and palladium up by 59% in US dollar terms base metals equities proved to be the winners in the and ruthenium up 157% in US dollar terms.
Not mining sector, outperforming other parts of the market surprisingly, with this array of commodity prices, the although underperforming the metals themselves.
platinum producers delivered excellent cash flow and earnings.
All of the platinum stocks performed well during Nickel, one of the weakest metals in 2005, proved to be one the year but Aquarius was the star performer in the of the stars of 2006, reaching an all time high of US$16 lb.
portfolio with a gain over the year of 137% in sterling Nickel benefited from a catch up in world demand for terms.
We expect strong earnings momentum to continue stainless steel and also gained as a result of delays to into 2007 as platinum remains in a favourable several important new projects under construction i. e. BHP supply demand environment.
Billitons Ravenshorpe and CVRD Incos Goro.
There has been considerable change to the nickel exposure of the Silver enjoyed a vintage year thanks to the successful portfolio this year.
At the start of 2006 the main nickel launch of the silver ETF which stimulated investment producers in the portfolio were Inco 2005:1.3% of the demand.
Silvers average price was up by 55% in 2006, portfolio, Falconbridge 6.3% in 2005 and Eramet 0.8%.
greatly improving sentiment towards silver equities.
The Both Inco and Falconbridge succumbed to takeovers and only primary silver play in the portfolio is the Mexican miner were acquired by CVRD and Xstrata, respectively.
This Industrias Penoles 1.5% of the portfolio which performed corporate activity helped the portfolios performance and very well, posting a gain of 45% in sterling terms.
Falconbridge proved to be one of the best investments of The diamond market was again rather dull in 2006 with fide 2006 on a weighting adjusted basis.
As a result of the Beers struggling to control a rather constipated diamond corporate activity, in which the nickel companies have 8 Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc disappeared inside more diversified companies, the stated Peruvian copper miner.
This company has just nickel exposure in the portfolio equalled 0.8% at the end of commissioned an expansion to 300,000t yr, remarkably on 2006. time and budget.
Palabora, the perennial laggard, was sold out of the portfolio.
Copper continued its strong run in 2006, starting the year at US$2.08 lb and finishing at US$2.85 lb for a year on year At the end of 2006, copper exposure in the portfolio was gain of 37%.
This does not tell the whole story though as 12.2%, compared with 12.8% at the end of 2005.
We are the average for the year was up 83% at 3.05c lb and the somewhat concerned about near term trends in the peak price reached an all time high of US$4 lb.
The price copper price and since the year end have reduced strength resulted from a combination of good underlying our positions.
demand especially in China, supply disruptions and short In previous reports we have indicated a growing interest in covering by speculators.
It would seem that news of a the aluminium market.
Aluminium has risen in price but Chinese rogue trader who had accumulated a sour short tended to lag the other metals and most analysts are position in copper in late 2005 sparked off short covering by concerned about near term oversupply.
In our view this other speculators who then chased the price to pessimism is likely to dissipate as 2007 unfolds due to unsustainably high levels in the first half of the year.
2006 supply demand balances moving more favourably.
Chinese also saw a continuation of reasonably high by-product aluminium demand growth is running at very high levels molybdenum prices which averaged US$25.1 lb during the and will increasingly absorb the expanded domestic year, confounding pundits who expected much lower prices production.
This could prove to be a good opportunity for after the spike of 2005. the portfolio as the aluminium shares have been lacklustre With the surge in earnings looking unsustainable to most for a prolonged period, having derated in common with analysts, the copper shares fide-rated on to very low other base metals shares.
In 2006 we took advantage of this prospective P E multiples of around 5 times earnings.
derating to slowly increase exposure to Alcoa 3.9% of the portfolio.
Alcoas returns on equity have been plagued by The largest copper equity position, First Quantum Minerals weak margins in its downstream businesses.
Alcoa is now 3.6% of the portfolio, had another excellent year with the tackling this issue and we believe this strategy will add shares rising by 48% in sterling terms.
First Quantum has value in the medium term.
The company is now in the successfully commissioned the Guelb Moghrein copper and Companys ten largest investments.
gold mine in Mauritania and commenced construction of the Frontier copper project just over the border with Zambia The two other aluminium equities in the portfolio are Alcan in the Democratic Republic of Congo.
Earnings and and Alumina, neither of which made a significant positive dividends at First Quantum have risen at a rapid rate and contribution to returns last year.
Total aluminium exposure the shares were again one of the most important stood at 6.5% at the end of December 2006 compared to contributors to portfolio returns during the year.
5.9% at the end of the previous year.
Another exceptional performer was Oxiana 1.4% of the Along with nickel, zinc was the star performer amongst the portfolio which rose by 72% in sterling terms.
Last year we suggested to you that copper is the foundation of the business, it was the strong zinc might see another sizeable deficit of supply in zinc price which provided the earnings momentum in 2006. comparison with demand in 2006.
If this occurs then we Oxianas acquisition of the Golden Grove zinc mine in 2005 expect that zinc prices could remain buoyant.
That is proved to be inspired timing, just ahead of the huge jump in exactly what happened and zinc rose by 126% over the year the zinc price.
reaching an all time high of US$2.10 lb.
The average price for the year was 136% up on the average of 2005.
This Most other copper equities in the portfolio such as strength led to a powerful upsurge in earnings of all zinc Antofagasta 1.6% of the portfolio, Jiangxi Copper 1.4%, miners especially the Australian miner Zinifex 6.9% of Southern Peru Copper 0.9% and Amerigo Resources the portfolio one of the largest zinc miners in the world.
0.5% reported excellent earnings and sharp share price Zinifex shares rose by 157% in sterling terms over the year gains.
Star performer in share price appreciation 196% in and they were the biggest single contributor to the positive sterling terms was Cerro Verde 1.1% of the portfolio, the performance of the portfolio in 2006.
Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2006 9 Investment Managers Report continued Tin was a disappointing metal for most of the year but Diversified mining companies and industrial staged a late rally to finish up 81% year on year.
Our commodities investment in the Peruvian tin miner Minsur 1.2% of the The UK listed diversified mining companies all had a good portfolio performed better in 2006 after a lacklustre 2005. year from the perspective of cash flow and earnings but delivered mixed returns in the stock market.
The best Energy commodities performer was Xstrata 6.6% of the portfolio which won the Uranium was particularly buoyant in 2006, rising from robustly contested takeover battle for Falconbridge and US$36 lb at the start of the year to double that level at the then refinanced the acquisition with a deeply discounted end.
The uranium holdings in the fund are the Canadian rights issue which was partly sub-underwritten by the listed stocks Uranium Participation 1.1% of the portfolio, Company.
The market liked the transaction and appears to Cameco 0.7%, Denison Mines 0.2% and UEX 0.1%, support Xstratas aggressive growth strategy.
Ignoring the together with the Australian uranium miner Energy capital market effect of the rights issue, Xstratas shares Resources 0.4% of the portfolio.
With such a strong rose by 110% in 2006. backdrop to the price, not surprisingly all of these Vedanta Resources 1.9% of the portfolio spoilt what would companies performed well.
We reported a year ago that we have otherwise been a very good year by announcing that liked the outlook for uranium as we see a developing its Indian quoted operating company Sterlite would issue shortage in the coming years.
Having demonised uranium shares in order to fund additional business opportunities in and nuclear power for many years, the politicians in the India.
This confused the market and reawakened criticism developed world are now beginning to comprehend that of corporate governance issues.
We have taken some nuclear energy will have to play a major role if carbon profits and reduced the holding in Vedanta.
dioxide emissions are to be reduced.
However, the sharp rise was not just due to gradual improvement in BHP Billiton 5.3% of the portfolio had another excellent fundamentals: it was also due to the flooding of Camecos year and achieved record earnings and cash flow.
The newly developed Cigar Lake mine in Saskatchewan.
The company has a near perfect product mix for this commodity loss of this mine for possibly two years significantly tightens cycle and was able to take advantage of stronger iron ore, the market for uranium.
BHP Billiton has led the way in demonstrating commitment to shareholder value by With oil and gas prices under pressure due to warm winter returning huge amounts of cash through a stock buy back weather in the 2006 2007 season, thermal coal prices have and dividends.
The share price however was lacklustre, also been weak, especially in the USA.
This has pushed falling by 1.6% in sterling terms, perhaps reflecting the down the share prices of the US coal stocks and our only weaker second half trend in oil and the delays cost significant holding in this area, Peabody, came under overruns at its flagship projects, Atlantis oil gas and pressure and was one of the portfolios poorest performers Ravensthorpe nickel.
We have been using this weakness to in 2006, vindicating our profit taking of 2005.
We like add to the holding.
Peabodys dominant market position and expect to use any further share price weakness to build up the holding again.
Anglo American and Rio Tinto which both performed well in 2005 had a quiet year in 2006 despite good operational In contrast, our Chinese coal company Shenhua Coal results.
Analysts have criticised management for lack of 1.7% of the portfolio had a good year finishing very participation in the M&A merry-go-round and both strongly on news of deregulation of coal marketing in companies are in the midst of a handover to new CEOs.
We like Shenhua because of its dominant reserve Tinto 10.0% is the second largest holding in the portfolio.
position one of the largest in the world and its access to We like its mix of assets and its commitment to transport infrastructure.
Shenhua is poised to grow its shareholder returns.
In 2006, Rio Tinto continued to make business at a rapid rate in future years as Chinas economy substantial returns via stock repurchases and special grows and the Government discourages small scale coal dividends whilst not compromising future organic growth.
Coking coal declined in price somewhat as the We expect more of the same from Rio Tinto in 2007.
We extreme market tightness of 2004 2005 dissipated.
We sold also like Anglo American but in this case it is for the value the holding in Fording Coal.
which still remains to be unlocked by its restructuring.
10 Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc Anglo American too has a major capital return programme either puts or calls in order to generate option premium which has helped to underpin the shares during the year.
These positions, which are small in comparison Another factor which has helped Anglo Americans share with the size of the Group, usually have the effect of price has been the persistent rumours that it might fall obliging us to buy or sell stock or futures at levels we victim to a corporate predator.
The volatility of the market during 2006 provided some good opportunities for successful The large portfolio holding in Teck Cominco 4.5% paid off option writing.
However, at the end of December, most of handsomely in 2006, again.
Teck Cominco is the biggest the positions had matured or expired and the only zinc producer in the world and clearly reaped the benefits outstanding contracts covered BHP Billiton and Newmont of the sharply higher price.
It also took advantage of the Mining.
The notional cost of repurchasing these contracts at high copper price to extend the life of Highland valley market prices on 31 December 2006 amounted to 110,000. copper.
Although coking coal declined in price in 2006, Teck nonetheless had a record year.
As a result, Tecks Gearing balance sheet is now exceptionally strong, with major net At 31 December 2006, the Company was utilising just cash, and we anticipate that it will either engage in a 8.2 million of its 40 million overdraft facility.
Net gearing significant acquisition or embark on a capital is equivalent to 0.9% of net asset value.
can be drawn down or repaid at any time, is used in the CVRD, the worlds premier iron ore producer, is also portfolio to take tactical advantage of market volatility enjoying many of the benefits of this commodity cycle and and opportunities.
the company enjoyed an excellent year with the share price rising by 27% in sterling terms.
Once again analysts have Outlook and strategy for 2007 been caught out by the strength of the iron ore demand and At the interim stage last year we argued that 2006 would be cash flows this year will be underpinned by a further 9.5% another record year for the mining industry and this has rise for the 2007 2008 contract year.
This good news has proved to be the case.
2007 has started with a downward meant that CVRD was not only the largest single investment move in base metal prices, but stronger bulk commodity in the portfolio 10.7% but also one of the biggest and precious metal prices so far this year mean we expect contributors to the positive shareholder returns.
CVRD more records to be broken in due course, albeit with though is not just about movements in the iron ore price.
In reduced positive earnings momentum.
2006, CVRD won the contested takeover battle for Inco and Although China remains the most important demand side has, as a result, become much more diversified from both a factor in the natural resources industry, it is the sluggish geographic and commodity basis.
So far the acquisition has US economy that is most important to market sentiment at been funded with debt and CVRDs gearing has therefore the moment.
Although the Federal Reserve has halted, at increased significantly.
If commodity prices remain least for now, its rate raising activities, analysts remain reasonably firm then CVRDs shareholder returns will concerned about possible economic weakness ahead.
believe that weakness in the US housing market may dent, Our most disappointing industrial minerals holding was but not derail, the US economy due to reasonable job and 1 Iluka Resources, the titanium mineral and zircon producer real wage growth.
Despite a dominant market position Global growth is likely to remain strong 4% to 4 2% in real and some strong exploration results for zircon, the stock terms but below the 5% enjoyed in 2006. languished in 2006 as the company grappled with rising Project delays together with escalating capital funding costs and delays capital cost overruns at its major projects.
requirements for new green field mines continue to act as Given the climate for M&A activity it would not surprise us if a headwind for the industry and have helped to defer the Iluka were involved in the consolidation process in 2007. supply side response to higher commodity prices that many analysts predicted.
As a result, we believe that most Derivatives activity industrial commodity supply demand balances will remain The Group sometimes holds positions in derivatives favourable this year despite a slower rate of global contracts, with virtually all of the activity focused on selling Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2006 11 Investment Managers Report continued economic growth.
2007 may well prove therefore to be While we are not brave enough to predict that returns in another year in which cash accumulates on the corporate 2007 will match the very strong outturn of 2006, never mind balance sheets at a quicker rate than it can be deployed on 2005, we would not be surprised to see the mining sector new projects.
Given that many balance sheets are already continue to generate attractive returns especially if price strong there is a likelihood that these strong cash flows will earnings ratios increase a little, as seems likely.
translate into higher dividends and more share buy backs.
Graham Birch & Evy Hambro There is also the possibility of additional corporate activity BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited providing further support for the market as cash flow 13 February 2007 multiples within the sector remain modest.
We expect to see an uptrend in gold.
Mine supply is likely to remain stagnant while investment demand has grown and net Central Bank sales may even have declined.
This is a good environment for gold especially as many commentators expect further weakness in the dollar.
The main risk to this scenario is, unexpectedly, severe economic deceleration or an external shock to the global economy from a major terrorist atrocity or an escalation of Middle East violence, leading to higher oil prices.
Our portfolio strategy at the start of 2007 is summarised as follows.
Continuing emphasis on companies with strong cash flow and the potential to increase returns to shareholders through higher dividends and share buy backs.
This strategy has been the backbone of the portfolio for the past two years.
Increased focus on the companies producing those commodities which we expect to be in supply deficit this year i. e. zinc, iron ore, platinum, nickel and diamonds.
Building up positions in companies producing out of favour commodities such as aluminium and thermal coal.
Increase in precious metals exposure.
Option writing taking advantage of the innate volatility of the sector.
12 Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc
