MANAGERS PORTFOLIO REVIEW Managers Overview The twelve months to 30 April 2006 was an As shown in the attribution table on page 9, Returns From Markets exceptionally good period for markets.
Even stock selection made a larger contribution to for the year ended 30 April 2006 the worst performing major market, North performance than asset allocation and was America, rose by more than 20% in sterling positive in all geographical areas, albeit Geographical performance against FTSE terms, while the second worst, the UK, only just so in the UK.
As in the previous World Index in local currency rose by 30%.
Returns in Japan, Continental year, the very good gures for North 100% Europe and Emerging Markets were even American and Emerging Markets owe a better.
Our increase in net asset value per lot to the fact that we have a large part of 80% share of 46.7% was greater than the rise in our investments in oil and gas companies the World Index and Monks was 7th out of in these geographical areas, but North 60% 24 trusts in the AITC Global Growth sector American stock selection outside the energy in terms of NAV Total Return performance industry also made a positive contribution.
In the same During the year we added to our Japanese terms, over a ten year period the position is position which, together with an increase in 20% 5th out of 17.
Looking at the ten larger trusts gearing, also made a positive contribution in the AITC Global Growth sector those to performance.
0% UK CONTINENTAL NORTH JAPAN ASIA OTHER with assets of over 350m, Monks ranked EUROPE AMERICA PACIFIC EMERGING MARKETS 3 out of 10 in terms of NAV Total Return Source: HSBC Thomson Financial Datastream over one year and ten years.
Monks portfolio FTSE World Index All figures are calculated on a total return basis with net income reinvested.
Past performance is no guarantee of future performance.
United Kingdom The UK market continued to perform strongly dif cult to predict than usual, however, it is share price performance.
In both cases during the Companys financial year with unlikely that interest rates will change much market worries about business fundamentals the FTSE World UK Index returning 30.5%.
proved unjusti ed as pro tability exceeded Our portfolio returned 30.8%.
We also reduced holdings We made a number of sales from the supported by good corporate earnings in a number of companies which had portfolio following disappointing corporate growth which was boosted by the very performed well including Imperial Tobacco developments.
We sold the holding in strong performance of commodity stocks.
As a result of changes Provident Financial which we had purchased made to the portfolio the proportion of the Despite some areas of weakness the UK only a few months earlier as it became clear fund invested in UK equities fell to 13.1% economy continued on its path of steady, that pro tability in its mature UK market was from 18.7%.
Some areas of deteriorating faster than we had expected.
retail sales saw weakness and the housing Similarly the holding in Trinity Mirror was Pro t growth for the UK market is likely market attened, but in neither case was sold as the cyclical downturn in pro ts to moderate over the next twelve months the downturn severe enough to cause wider proved worse than expected and evidence from the very high levels seen recently.
Interestingly, whilst the share grew that its classi ed advertising revenue suggests that a less spectacular market prices of many retailers suffered badly those stream is being eroded by the internet.
The return should be expected.
Within the UK of housing related companies did well as holding in Vodafone was sold despite good we continue to hold a number of companies the long predicted crash in the UK housing recent operating performance as the threat which are modestly valued and which market failed to materialise.
Interest rates to pro tability from increased competition are likely to grow earnings at an above peaked although the quarter point cut in appears greater than anticipated.
Such companies should August did not mark the start of a period a happier note additions made to Man perform well as overall corporate pro t of sustained loosening.
The direction of Group and Northern Rock early in the growth returns to more normal levels.
the next move in UK interest rates is more period preceded periods of very strong 6 ANNUAL REPORT 2006 MANAGERS PORTFOLIO REVIEW Continental Europe In the year under review, the European air compressors and mining equipment consumer choice: however, by lowering index rose by almost 42% in sterling terms.
divisions, but in our view the most signi cant entry barriers, its impact on business The Companys European stocks did better news was the announcement that Atlas pro tability and values has often been than this, rising by over 47%.
intends to sell its US plant hire operation.
think plant hire is the groups least attractive Despite the negative headlines about The Companys two major purchases in business: without it, shareholders will bene t political paralysis and sluggish economic the year were the brewer, Heineken, and from a greater proportional ownership of growth, recent corporate results in Europe the drug wholesaler and pharmacy chain, its core air compressor franchise, which have been exceptional.
Over the past three Celesio.
We like Heinekens entrenched has superior operating characteristics.
The years, the aggregate earnings per share and dominant local market shares, and second reason for good relative returns of quoted European companies has risen free cash ow generation.
Celesio bene ts was not owning any European telecoms or by about 150%, which has underpinned from scale advantages in local markets, as media stocks.
Telecoms and media form a a doubling of stock prices over the period.
well as opportunities to consolidate various large component of the benchmark, and This cannot continue, but it does reinforce European drug wholesale and retail markets.
their operating performance continues our opinion, and long run historical These companies have similar characteristics to disappoint.
The internet is enabling evidence, that stockmarket returns have to most of the Companys existing convergence of the technology, media little to do with national economic growth, investments: they have an ability to sustain and telecoms businesses.
Contrary to the budget fide cits or trade balances.
good returns on capital: they are managed expectations of many investors during the for the bene t of outside, passive owners: Two features dominated the Companys TMT bubble in the late 1990s, convergence and their shares trade at a reasonable price.
Most importantly, the shares is destroying the pricing power and business How others value such companies in any of the Swedish engineering group, Atlas values of many incumbent telecom and single year is unpredictable, but we expect Copco, more than doubled over the period.
In line with the late long term ownership of businesses with these Its share price has been partly driven by 1990s view, the internet is revolutionary, features to generate superior returns.
buoyant results, particularly from its industrial improving productivity and expanding North America The Companys North American holdings the 12 months as the business continued the strengths of the Hershey brands and its produced a return of 38.1% during the 12 to produce excellent underlying operating long term growth potential.
Graco is an months under review.
This was better than the results.
During early April we reduced this industrial pump business which specialises in index return of 24.2% in sterling terms.
holding as we felt that its valuation was no areas such as paint spraying equipment.
We longer quite so compelling.
believe that the company is well positioned The North American economy produced in a number of niche markets and that it has strong growth over the period.
Further Over the course of the year we made two the ability to grow pro tably for many years.
improvements in the job market and notable transactions in the energy sector.
First, increasing corporate spending offset the a new holding was bought in the oil services In November we sold out of the holding headwinds created by rising interest rates rm, Schlumberger.
We believe that this in the document storage business, Iron and high energy costs.
business is well positioned as a technology Mountain.
We think that this business has leader and that it will be a major bene ciary an excellent franchise and strong long As in the prior 12 months, the main positive of increased industry capital expenditure as term growth prospects, however, it was felt contributor to performance was the heavy oil and gas companies attempt to respond that the high valuation fully re ected these weighting in oil and gas stocks.
Over to the current supply problems.
Over the course of the year we the year there was continued strength in sold out of the holding in the gas company, also sold the holdings in the apparel retailer, commodity prices with the West Texas Burlington Resources, following a bid for the TJX, and the restaurant operator, Wendys.
Intermediate oil price averaging $61 per company from ConocoPhillips.
In both instances the stock prices had barrel compared to $46 in the previous increased at a time when the underlying year and the North American gas price During the 12 months we made a further business fundamentals had deteriorated.
averaging $9 per 1,000 cubic feet three new purchases and an additional three compared to $6.
Against this backdrop complete sales.
The purchases were Linear The US economy remains in good health we saw strong pro ts growth from all of the Technology, Hershey and Graco.
Linear but some deceleration in its overall rate of energy holdings.
We remain positive on the Technology is a highly pro table and well growth can be expected and, with core outlook for energy stocks as we believe that managed semiconductor business.
We took in ation apparently under control, we are the markets expectations for long term oil advantage of weakness in the share price likely to see an end to the tightening of and gas prices are too low.
to purchase a small holding at an attractive monetary policy within the next 12 months.
Hershey is North Americas We are con dent in the operational We also saw strong performance from a leading chocolate manufacturer.
Again, we prospects of the Companys holdings and number of the Companys largest non-energy like the companys management team and believe that they will produce superior long holdings, most notably Moodys, the bond we feel that the market under appreciates term growth and returns.
This stock rose by 50% over THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 7 MANAGERS PORTFOLIO REVIEW Japan The Japanese equity markets total return in Other new holdings purchased during see clear potential for rent increases and sterling terms was 51.1% in the year ending the period included Nippon Paper, the further rises in asset values.
J-REITs will be 30 April 2006, a very strong return even Internet shopping mall company Rakuten, bene ciaries of this trend, and in addition by global standards.
Our portfolio rose by and Hitachi High-Technologies which we offer attractive yields.
The Companys much increased believe has an optimal business model The coming year will bring further political exposure to Japanese equities was therefore combining a trading company with goods interest, with the ruling LDP this autumn helpful for performance, both in terms of manufactured in-house.
However in the electing a new leader to face Upper asset allocation and stock selection.
case of Takashimaya we took the view that House elections in 2007.
The Japanese further expanding its department store base A number of important factors contributed economy is still in generally good health was not a good use of capital, and sold our to the signi cant rise in the market.
The and there are signs that it is beginning to holding.
At Konica Minolta we eventually economy delivered its fourth consecutive year normalise.
Several themes, for example a recognised that the original merger had of real growth.
Such a sustained improvement healthy property market, a strong capital brought little bene t to shareholders, was acknowledged by the Bank of Japans expenditure cycle, a tight labour market, and likewise with Inpex we have some ending of Quantitative Monetary Easing a and greater balance sheet ef ciency, all concerns about their merger with Teikoku milestone on the way to an ending of the either contribute to or are symptoms of such Oil.
At Bridgestone and Kao we fear that ZIRP zero interest rate policy.
Prime Minister an economic environment.
Of course one there will be further margin pressure from Junichiro Koizumis LDP party was re-elected of the strongest signals of normalisation will higher energy and raw material costs.
We with a clear mandate for reform.
At the start be the initial increase in short term interest therefore sold these holdings.
of the period, the stock market was trading rates, which we believe the economy will on a very attractive multiple of earnings.
Towards the end of the period under review easily accommodate.
At the corporate level, Against such a background we invested we allocated a further 25m to Japanese it will also be interesting to see if positive an additional 45m in Japanese equities equities, this time speci cally investing in ation encourages management to hoard in the late summer of 2005: this included in J-REITs Japanese real estate investment less cash.
If this happens, then the Japanese new holdings in the of ce and condominium trusts.
This re ects our optimistic view of equity market will look much less expensive company Sumitomo Realty and Development, the Japanese property market, where we versus other international markets.
and the machinery company Yaskawa.
Asia Paci c and Other Emerging Markets In the year under review the Companys in this report last year there has been an For the moment, Chinese growth is likely holdings in oil companies in various encouraging shift in the mix of growth to continue to provide an underpinning for Emerging Market countries once again from investment in industries suffering from global demand for commodities of various made a signi cant contribution to overcapacity and speculative development sorts and incremental growth is also coming performance and the overall effect of our towards investment in removing bottlenecks from India and other large Emerging Market investments in these regions was positive.
and broadening the base of consumers.
Despite recent volatility of The largest single holding remains the It remains, however, a dif cult balancing markets the economic backdrop remains Baillie Gifford Paci c Fund.
The Paci c act for the authorities and signs of refavourable for our investments in Asia Paci c Fund returned 53.8% but our direct holdings acceleration of growth in speculative and other Emerging Market equities.
performed a little better and so our overall investment fuelled by rapid credit expansion We added to our oil industry exposure return from our Asia Paci c investments was have led to further measures including an through purchases of an addition to Sasol, a 54.7%.
Our investments in other Emerging increase in interest rates.
The most interesting South African company with an expanding Markets returned 134.9%.
The FTSE World developments in China are probably the non-conventional oils business and we also Asia Paci c ex Japan index and the FTSE progress made in restructuring the banking took a holding in a new fund investing in the All World All Emerging Markets index system and developing domestic financial Indian market.
We have sold our holding in returned 45.3% and 73.4% respectively in markets and these are bringing closer West eld Holdings, an Australian property sterling terms.
While these indices are not the day when capital allocation will be real estate investment trust specialising in strictly comparable with our classi cation determined by market mechanisms and shopping centres that has the majority of of investments as Asia Paci c or Emerging conventional monetary and scal policy.
The its assets in the United States as the high Markets, they give a reasonable indication modest appreciation of the Chinese currency prices demanded for commercial property of relative performance.
Net investment in against the US dollar following a change in America are making it dif cult for it to Asia Paci c and Emerging Markets for the to the exchange rate mechanism in July nd attractive investment opportunities.
2005 is not yet a signi cant factor affecting We also made a small, and as it turned investment returns, but it may mark the The Chinese economy has shown little out premature, reduction in BHP Billiton in beginning of the end of Chinas contribution sign of slowing down, but, as we noted August 2005. to the taming of in ation around the world.
