DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT Directors and Management EM Harley Directors Managers and Secretaries Edward Harley, who is 46, was appointed Monks is managed by Baillie Gifford & JGD Ferguson a Director in 2003.
He joined Cazenove James Ferguson, who is 58, was appointed Co, an investment management rm formed in 1983, becoming a partner in 1994.
He in 1927 out of the legal rm Baillie & a Director in 2002 and became Chairman has considerable experience of overseas in 2005.
He is also Chairman of the Gifford, WS, which had been involved in markets, having worked in New York and investment management since 1908.
He is chairman of Value latterly with responsibility for the rms and Income Trust plc and The Scottish Gifford are one of the largest investment trust business in Latin America, S. E. Asia and managers in the UK and currently manage Oriental Smaller Companies Trust Plc and Australia.
He is currently a director at a director of The Independent Investment eight investment trusts.
Cazenove Fund Management and is deputy Trust PLC, Northern 3 VCT Plc, Edinburgh Baillie Gifford also manage unit trusts president of the Historic Houses Association.
U. S. Tracker Trust, Audax Properties PLC and Open Ended Investment Companies, He is also involved with the charitable and Lloyds TSB Scotland PLC.
He joined together with investment portfolios on sector both as a trustee and as a member of Stewart Ivory in 1970, becoming chairman behalf of pension funds, charities and other investment committees.
and chief executive in 1989 and retiring institutional clients, both in the UK and in 2000.
He is a former deputy chairman DCP McDougall overseas.
Funds under the management or of the Association of Investment Trust Douglas McDougall, who is 62, was advice of Baillie Gifford total around 44 Companies and is a former member of the appointed a Director in 1999 and is billion.
Based in Edinburgh, they are one Executive Committee of the Fund Managers the Senior Independent Director.
He is of the leading privately owned investment Association.
chairman of The Scottish Investment Trust management rms in the UK, with 29 plc, The Law Debenture Corporation plc, partners and a staff of around 450.
CC Ferguson The Independent Investment Trust PLC and Carol Ferguson, who is 59, was appointed The manager of Monks portfolio is Gerald Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust plc.
A quali ed Chartered Smith, who took over from Richard Burns director of Stramongate Assets PLC, Herald Accountant, she began her investment following his retiral on 30 April 2006.
Investment Trust plc and Paci c Horizon career with Ivory & Sime, an Edinburgh Gerald Smith is a partner of Baillie Gifford Investment Trust PLC.
From 1969 to 1999 fund management group.
Thereafter, she and is the head of Baillie Giffords Asia and he was a partner in Baillie Gifford & Co moved to Wood Mackenzie, stockbrokers, Emerging Markets Team and is a member of and from 1989 to 1999 was joint senior becoming a partner in 1984.
Her most Baillie Giffords Investment Policy Committee.
partner and chief investment of cer.
He recent position was as Finance Director for Stock selection is primarily the responsibility is a former chairman of the Investment Timney Fowler, a textiles company.
She is a of specialist teams covering all the regions Management Regulatory Organisation, non-executive director and chairs the of the world.
the Fund Managers Association and the audit committees of Gartmore Smaller Association of Investment Trust Companies.
Baillie Gifford & Co are authorised and Companies Investment Trust plc and Merrill regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Lynch Greater Europe Investment Trust plc.
Her current non-executive appointments All Directors are members of the Audit also include the Chartered Accountants Committee.
Compensation Scheme and the Association of Investment Trust Companies.
