DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Report The Directors have pleasure in submitting their Gearing Principal Risks and Uncertainties Annual Report together with the results of the Borrowings are invested in equity markets The principal risks facing the Company Company for the year to 30 April 2006. when this is considered to be appropriate relate to the Companys investment activities on investment grounds.
Gearing levels, and and include market risk, interest rate risk, Business Review the extent of equity gearing, are discussed credit risk, liquidity risk, foreign currency by the Board and Managers at every Board risk and loss of investment trust status.
An Objective meeting and adjusted accordingly.
explanation of these risks and how they are Monks carries on business as an investment managed is contained in note 22 to the trust.
The investment objective is to invest Performance accounts on pages 42 to 45. internationally to achieve capital growth, At each Board meeting, the Directors which takes priority over income and consider a number of performance measures Dividends dividends.
The portfolio is concentrated in to assess the Companys success in a relatively small number of holdings for a The Board recommends a final dividend of achieving its objectives.
1.40p per ordinary share which, together The key performance indicators KPIs used with the interim already paid, makes a total Investment Strategy to measure the progress and performance of 1.90p for the year.
The Company is primarily a vehicle through of the Company over time are established which exposure to international equities can If approved, the recommended final dividend industry measures and are as follows: be achieved although asset classes other on the ordinary shares will be paid on 4  the movement in net asset value per than equities will be purchased from time August 2006 to shareholders on the register ordinary share on a total return basis: to time including xed interest holdings, at the close of business on 14 July 2006. unquoted equities and derivatives.
In The ex-dividend date is 12 July 2006.
 the movement in the share price on a total exceptional circumstances currency exposure return basis: may be hedged.
When investing, the Status  the discount: and Company moves freely between different The Company is an investment company markets as opportunities arise.
While there  the total expense ratio.
within the meaning of section 266 of the is a comparative index, no attention is Companies Act 1985.
The five year record for the net asset value paid to the composition of the index when and share price performance compared to The Company carries on business as constructing the portfolio.
A long term view the FTSE World Index can be found on page an investment trust.
In the opinion of the is taken five to ten years and there may 3 along with the five year record for the Directors, the Company conducts its affairs be periods when the net asset value per discount.
Details of the total expense ratio so as to enable it to obtain approval by the share declines both in absolute terms and can be found in the ten year record on page Inland Revenue as an investment trust under relative to the comparative index.
Payment of 17 along with other financial highlights.
section 842 of the Income and Corporation dividends is secondary to achieving capital Taxes Act 1988.
The Directors do not consider the A review of the year and outlook is contained approved as an investment trust for the year shares to be a suitable investment for those in the Chairmans Statement and the ended 30 April 2005, subject to matters that seeking a regular or rising income.
Managers Portfolio Review on pages 4 to 8.
THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 19 DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Attendance at Meetings Audit Board Committee Number of meetings JGD Ferguson 6 2 CC Ferguson 6 2 EM Harley 6 2 DCP McDougall 6 2 Sir Charles Nunneley retired 2 August 2005 2 1 Sir Charles Nunneley attended all the meetings held up until the date of his retiral.
may arise from any subsequent enquiry by The appointment of new Directors is The Company also maintains Directors and the Inland Revenue into the Companys tax considered by the Board as a whole and Of cers Liability insurance.
The Company will continue to seek the Board conducts an annual review of its Mr JGD Ferguson was appointed Chairman approval under section 842 of the Income composition having regard to the present on 2 August 2005 following the retiral of Sir and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 each year.
and future needs of the Company.
The Board Corporate Governance Independence of Directors The Board has overall responsibility for the All the Directors are considered by the The Board is committed to achieving and Companys affairs.
It has a number of matters Board to be independent of the Managers demonstrating high standards of Corporate reserved for its approval including strategy, and free of any business or other Governance.
This statement outlines how investment policy, currency hedging, relationship which could interfere with the the principles of the Combined Code on gearing, treasury matters, dividend and exercise of their independent judgement.
Corporate Governance the Combined corporate governance policy.
A separate Code were applied throughout the strategy session is held annually.
The Board Mr McDougall was a senior partner of financial year.
also reviews the financial statements, Baillie Gifford & Co until he retired on investment transactions, revenue budgets and 30 April 1999 and is a director of Paci c Compliance performance.
Full and timely information is Horizon Investment Trust PLC which is The Company has complied throughout provided to the Board to enable the Board managed by Baillie Gifford & Co. Mr the year under review with the provisions to function effectively and to allow Directors McDougall and Mr Ferguson are both of the Combined Code except that no limit to discharge their responsibilities.
directors of The Independent Investment has been imposed on the overall length Trust PLC.
The Board believes that this of service of Directors and a Nomination The Board currently comprises four does not affect the independence of either Committee has not been established.
Directors all of whom are non-executive.
Mr McDougall or Mr Ferguson and they The executive responsibility for investment The Directors recognise the importance of are both considered to be independent in management has been delegated to the succession planning for company boards character and judgement.
Their skills and Companys Managers and Secretaries, and the Board composition is reviewed experience add signi cantly to the strength Baillie Gifford & Co, and, in the context of annually.
The Board is of the view that of the Board.
a Board comprised entirely of non-executive length of service will not necessarily Directors, there is no chief executive of cer.
Meetings compromise the independence or There is an annual cycle of Board The Senior Independent Director is Mr DCP contribution of Directors of an investment McDougall.
meetings which is designed to address, trust company, where continuity and in a systematic way, overall strategy, experience can be a bene t to the Board.
The Directors believe that the Board has a review of investment policy, investment Consequently, no limit has been imposed balance of skills and experience that enable performance, marketing, revenue budgets, on the overall length of service.
All Directors it to provide effective strategic leadership dividend policy and communication with are, however, required to retire and, if and proper governance of the Company.
The Board considers that it appropriate seek re-election, at least every Information about the Directors, including meets suf ciently regularly to discharge its three years.
Directors will submit themselves their relevant experience, can be found on duties effectively.
The table above shows for re-election annually when they have page 18. the attendance record for the Board and the served for more than nine years.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors Audit Committee meetings held during the As the Board is comprised entirely of to seek independent professional advice, year.
All of the Directors attended the Annual non-executive directors, a Nomination if necessary, at the Companys expense.
20 ANNUAL REPORT 2006 DIRECTORS REPORT Performance Evaluation than nine years will offer themselves for reThe Board con rms that there is an ongoing election annually.
process for identifying, evaluating and An appraisal of the Chairman, each Director and a performance evaluation and managing the signi cant risks faced by the The names of the Directors retiring and Company in accordance with the guidance review of the Board as a whole and the offering themselves for re-election together Audit Committee was carried out during Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on with the reasons why the Board supports the the Combined Code.
The performance of each Director re-elections are set out on page 23. was appraised by the Chairman and the The practical measures to ensure compliance Induction and Training Chairmans appraisal was led by Mr DCP with regulation and company law, and to McDougall, the Senior Independent Director.
New Directors are provided with an provide effective and ef cient operations induction programme which is tailored to the The appraisals and evaluations considered, and investment management, have been amongst other criteria, the balance of skills particular circumstances of the appointee.
delegated to the Managers and Secretaries, Directors receive other relevant training as of the Board, the contribution of individual Baillie Gifford & Co, under the terms of Directors and the overall effectiveness necessary.
The Board of the Board and the Audit Committee.
Remuneration acknowledges its responsibilities to supervise Following this process it was concluded As all the Directors are non-executive, the and control the discharge by the Managers that the performance of each Director, provisions of the Combined Code in respect and Secretaries of their obligations.
the Chairman, the Board and the Audit of Directors remuneration are not relevant to Baillie Gifford & Co are responsible for the Committee continues to be effective and the Company except to the extent that they each Director and the Chairman remain design, implementation and maintenance of relate speci cally to non-executive directors.
control policies and procedures to safeguard committed to the Company.
A review Consequently there is no requirement for of the Chairmans and other Directors the assets of the Company and to manage a separate Remuneration Committee.
This responsibility also commitments was carried out and the Board Directors fees are considered by the Board is satis ed that they are capable of devoting extends to maintaining effective operational as a whole within the limits approved by and compliance controls and risk suf cient time to the Company.
The Companys policy on no signi cant changes to the Chairmans management.
remuneration is set out in the Directors other commitments during the year.
Remuneration Report on pages 25 and 26.
The Baillie Gifford & Co heads of Business Risk & Internal Audit and Regulatory Risk Terms of Appointment and Re-elections Internal Controls and Risk Management Letters which specify the terms of provide the Board with regular reports The Directors acknowledge their on Baillie Gifford & Cos monitoring appointment, are issued to new Directors.
responsibility for the Companys system The letters of appointment are available for programmes.
The reporting procedures of internal controls and for reviewing its for these departments are fide ned and inspection on request.
The system of internal controls formalised within a service level agreement.
is designed to manage rather than eliminate Under the provisions of the Companys Baillie Gifford & Co conduct an annual risk and can only provide reasonable but Articles of Association, a Director appointed review of its system of internal controls not absolute assurance against material during the year is required to retire and seek which is documented within an internal misstatement or loss.
The Directors con rm election by shareholders at the next Annual controls report FRAG21.
This report is that they have reviewed the effectiveness General Meeting.
The Articles also require independently reviewed by Baillie Gifford of the system and they have procedures in that Directors retire by rotation and submit & Cos auditors and a copy is submitted to place to review its effectiveness on a regular themselves for re-election at least once every the Board.
The Board has resolved further that Directors who have served for more THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 21 DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Interests Nature Ordinary 25p shares held at Name of interest 30 April 2006 30 April 2005 JGD Ferguson Bene cial 10,000 10,000 CC Ferguson Bene cial 29,265 29,265 EM Harley Bene cial 150,000 10,000 DCP McDougall Bene cial 1,375,000 1,375,000 The Directors at the end of the year under review, and their interests in the Company, were as shown above.
There have been no changes intimated in the Directors interests up to 14 June 2006.
The Companys investments are segregated The accounts have been prepared on the  considering annually whether there is a from those of Baillie Gifford & Co and their going concern basis as it is the Directors need for the Company to have its own other clients through the appointment of The opinion that the Company will continue in internal audit function.
Bank of New York as independent custodian operational existence for the foreseeable The Audit Committee considers the of the Companys investments.
experience and tenure of the audit partner A detailed risk map is prepared which An Audit Committee has been established and staff and the nature and level of identi es the signi cant risks faced by the in compliance with the Combined Code services provided.
The Committee receives Company and the key controls employed to consisting of all Directors.
Its authority and con rmation from the auditors that they manage these risks.
duties are clearly fide ned within its written have complied with the relevant UK terms of reference which are available on the professional and regulatory requirements on These procedures ensure that consideration Managers website: www.
Non audit fees were 1,000 is given regularly to the nature and extent Mr JGD Ferguson is chairman of the Audit and related to reporting to the debenture of the risks facing the Company and that Committee.
The Committee does not believe that they are being actively monitored.
Where which were discharged during the year this has impaired the auditors independence.
changes in risk have been identi ed during include: the year they also provide a mechanism Relations with Shareholders to assess whether further action is required  monitoring and reviewing the integrity of The Board places great importance on to manage the risks identi ed.
The Board the interim and annual financial statements communication with shareholders.
The con rms that these procedures have been in and the internal financial controls: Companys Managers meet regularly with place throughout the Companys financial shareholders and report shareholders views  making recommendations to the Board in year and continue to be in place up to the to the Board.
The Chairman is available relation to the appointment of the external date of approval of this Report.
to meet with shareholders as appropriate.
auditors and approving the remuneration Shareholders wishing to communicate with Internal Audit and terms of their engagement: any members of the Board may do so by The Board carries out an annual review  developing and implementing policy on writing to them at the address on the back of the need for an internal audit function.
the engagement of the external auditors to cover.
The Board continues to believe that the supply non-audit services: compliance and internal control systems and The Companys Annual General Meeting the internal audit function in place within  reviewing and monitoring the provides a forum for communication with all the Investment Managers provide suf cient independence, objectivity and shareholders.
assurance that a sound system of internal effectiveness of the external auditors: Shareholders and potential investors control, which safeguards shareholders  reviewing the arrangements in place may obtain up-to-date information on the investment and the Companys assets, is within Baillie Gifford & Co whereby their Company from the Managers website, maintained.
An internal audit function, staff may, in con dence, raise concerns www.
speci c to the Company, is therefore about possible improprieties in matters of considered unnecessary.
Voting Policy and Socially Responsible financial reporting or other matters insofar Investment Accountability and Audit as they may affect the Company: The Company has given discretionary The respective responsibilities of the  reviewing annually the terms of the voting powers to the Investment Managers, Directors and the Auditors in connection Investment Management Agreement: and Baillie Gifford & Co.
The Managers vote with the Financial Statements are set out on pages 27 to 29.
22 ANNUAL REPORT 2006 DIRECTORS REPORT Substantial Holdings No.
of ordinary Name 5p shares held % of issue Barclays PLC 16,824,222 5.9 Scottish Widows Investment Partnership Ltd 15,586,706 5.4 U. S. Steel and Carnegie Pension Plan 12,820,000 4.5 The Standard Life Assurance Company 10,942,365 3.8 Legal and General Investment Management Limited 9,071,665 3.2 The above information has been intimated to the Company as at 14 June 2006 in compliance with section 198 of the Companies Act 1985. against resolutions they consider may interests of shareholders as a whole due The principal reason for share buy-backs is damage shareholders rights or economic to the investment performance, strength to enhance net asset value for continuing interests.
Baillie Gifford & Co give due of the investment management team, the shareholders by purchasing shares at a weight to what they consider to be socially Managers commitment to the investment discount to the prevailing net asset value.
responsible investment when making trust sector and the quality of the secretarial Shares are purchased at a price after investment decisions, but their overriding and administrative functions.
allowing for costs below the net asset objective is to produce good investment value and subsequently cancelled, thereby returns for shareholders.
The Managers Directors reducing the issued share capital see policy has been reviewed and endorsed by Information about the Directors, including note 14 on page 40.
their relevant experience, can be found on such purchases since April 1999, the net page 18.
Investment Manager asset value per share of the Company is An Investment Management Agreement approximately 4.9% higher now than it Sir Charles Nunneley retired from the Board between the Company and Baillie Gifford would otherwise have been.
& Co sets out the matters over which the The Directors are seeking shareholders Mr EM Harley and Mr DCP McDougall Managers have authority in accordance approval at the Annual General Meeting both retire by rotation and offer themselves with the policies and directions of, and to renew the authority to purchase up for re-election.
Following formal subject to restrictions imposed by, the Board.
to 14.99% of the Companys ordinary performance evaluation, their performance The Management Agreement is terminable shares in issue at the date of passing of the continues to be effective and they remain on not less than 12 months notice.
Details resolution, such authority to expire at the committed to the Company.
The Board of the fee arrangements with Baillie Gifford Annual General Meeting of the Company therefore recommends their re-election to & Co are shown in note 4 on page 35. to be held in respect of the year ending 30 shareholders.
The Board considers the Companys April 2007 or 31 January 2008, whichever investment management and secretarial is the earlier.
Under the Listing Rules of the Repurchase of Shares arrangements for the Company on an UK Listing Authority of the Financial Services The Companys buy-back authority was last ongoing basis and a formal review is Authority, the maximum price that may be renewed at the AGM on 2 August 2005 conducted annually.
The Board considers, paid on the exercise of the authority must not in respect of 43,599,958 shares of 5p amongst others, the following topics in exceed 105% of the average of the middle each equivalent to 14.99% of its then its review: the quality of the personnel market quotations for the shares over the issued share capital.
During the year to assigned to handle the Companys affairs: five business days immediately preceding 30 April 2006 the Company bought back the investment process and the results the date of purchase.
The minimum price 3,995,000 ordinary shares nominal value achieved to date: investment performance: that may be paid will be 5p per share.
199,750 : on the London Stock Exchange the administrative services provided by Purchases of shares will be made within for cancellation.
The total consideration for the Secretaries and the marketing efforts guidelines established, from time to time, these shares was 9,202,000.
Between undertaken by the Managers.
Your attention is drawn 1 May 2006 and the date of this report the the most recent review it is the opinion to Resolution 8 in the Notice of Annual Company bought back a further 625,000 of the Directors that the continuing General Meeting.
ordinary shares nominal value 31,250 appointment of Baillie Gifford & Co as for cancellation.
The total consideration for Managers, on the terms agreed, is in the these shares was 1,664,000.
THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 23 DIRECTORS REPORT Recommendation Independent Auditors The Board unanimously recommends you Resolutions to reappoint to vote in favour of the resolutions to be  LLP as independent proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
auditors to the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration Creditor Payment Policy will be proposed at the AGM.
It is the Companys payment policy to obtain By order of the Board the best terms for all business.
In general, BAILLIE GIFFORD & Co the Company agrees with its suppliers the terms on which business will take place and Managers and Secretaries it is its policy to abide by these terms.
The 16 June 2006 Company had no trade creditors at either 30 April 2005 or 30 April 2006.
Disclosure of Information to Auditors The Directors con rm that so far as each of the Directors is aware there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware and the Directors have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as Directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
