Investment Managers Review Background broadly in line with the FTSE All-Share Index, which It was another good year for the UK stock market as rose by 19.7% over the year.
the global economy continued to grow strongly on the back of rapid economic development in China, Attribution Analysis for the year to 30 June 2006 India and other emerging regions of the world.
Net Asset Value total return per Ordinary Corporate profitability was therefore robust, 19.5% share particularly for mining and industrial companies, and FTSE All-Share Index total return 19.7% generally low interest rates and inflation helped Relative return 0.2 % support equity valuations.
Analysis of relative return Indeed, it is particularly pleasing that the market managed to post impressive returns despite a Stock selection number of negative external factors.
During the past Oil & Gas 1.0% Basic Materials 0.3% year we witnessed the terrible terrorist atrocities in Industrials 0.7% London, devastating hurricanes that destroyed a Healthcare 0.1% major US city, and seemingly endless tension and Consumer Services 0.1% conflict in the Middle-East, which has been a major Telecommunications 0.1% factor in sustaining the high price of oil.
Utilities 0.1% Financials 1.3% Total stock selection 2.7% Closer to home, the domestic economic environment Asset allocation 2.6% remained broadly stable.
Interest rates were cut from Gearing cash effect 0.7% 4.75% to 4.5% in August 2005 and remained at that Management fees & other expenses 1.0% level for the period under review.
This has helped to Share buybacks 0.2% inject some life back in to the housing market, with Total 0.2 % Sources: Russell Data Services AAM FTSE house price inflation now running at around 8 to Notes: Selection effect measures the effect of 10% for the year to 30 June.
security selection within each asset category.
Allocation effect measures the impact of over or Consumption and retail sales have rebounded from underweighting each asset category, relative to the the low levels seen during the first nine months of benchmark weights.
Gearing cash effect 2005, which has given a boost to GDP.
However, measures the impact on relative returns of net borrowings.
Management fees & other expenses lower levels of investment and government spending reduce total assets and therefore reduce performance.
mean UK GDP is still running below trend, while It is calculated by dividing expenses incurred during unemployment continues to rise.
The UK is alone the year by average total assets less liabilities.
among the major industrialised economies in having Share buybacks measures the impact of the seen unemployment rise over the past year.
Company buying back and cancelling its own shares.
A continuing theme in the market over the past two There were a number of factors that benefited years has been merger and acquisition activity.
The performance over the period.
The takeovers of P&O, period under review saw a number of household BOC and BAA were all transacted at substantial names taken over, including BAA, Abbey National premiums to the prevailing share price.
Similarly to last year, corporate activity and take-over speculation have helped midOur holdings in the Travel & Leisure sector continued cap stocks outperform their FTSE 100 counterparts.
to perform well on the back of both corporate activity and strong operating performance.
Performance The Company generated a total return of 19.5% in the twelve months to 30 June 2006, which was 14 Murray Income Trust PLC The management of First Choice Holidays and Pleasingly, we were quick to identify deteriorating Mitchells & Butlers M&B continued to exceed business trends at Smiths Industries and sold out of market expectations, with the latter holding also the shares before this had been fully reflected in the boosted by a takeover approach that was share price.
Our small position in Cattles was also subsequently rejected by its Board.
The restructuring sold during the period.
of Hilton Group was also taken well by the market.
In terms of new stocks coming into the portfolio, we initiated a position in BAA, which we felt offered A purchase of BT shares back in November, and compelling value when the shares were trading at limited exposure to Vodafone, meant that the around 6.
Towards the latter part of Murray Telecommunications sector was also an important Incomes financial year, the company agreed a bid contributor to the portfolios performance.
from the Spanish infrastructure company, Ferrovial, at 9.50 per share.
Unfortunately, there were a couple of areas of the market that went against us during the financial Wolverhampton & Dudley Breweries was replaced by year.
We continued to suffer from exposure to the M&B, which operates and manages pubs and bars in retail sector, where holdings in Kesa Electricals and restaurants under brands like All Bar One, ONeills the more recent purchase of HMV have performed and Toby Carvery.
The company is regarded as the poorly.
Our holding in Provident Financial also went best operator in its sector and offers solid asset against us, as the company suffered from losses at its backing.
Unlike many of its competitors, who have Yes Car Credit division.
been involved in numerous deals over the past few years, M&B still has the balance sheet flexibility to However, the Managers are still confident that all of participate in future industry consolidation.
the underperforming assets noted above will provide attractive, long-term returns for the patient investor.
After much deliberation we decided to establish a position in William Morrison Supermarkets.
The Portfolio Activity and Structure companys problems are well documented following The portfolio has undergone a modest amount of its acquisition of Safeway, but around the 1.80 level change during the past twelve months as new we believe the shares are well supported by solid investment ideas were added to replace holdings asset backing and offer an attractive risk reward that were either fully valued or subject to corporate trade-off.
During the period we took a stake in Resolution, Proceeds from Lindes acquisition of BOC and Dubai which is the holding company for the Britannic group Ports Worldwides purchase of P&O were recycled of companies.
We are of the view that the into a combination of new and existing holdings.
consolidation of closed life funds is in its infancy and Hilton Group was also subject to corporate activity, Resolution will be a major beneficiary of this trend.
divesting its hotel assets and returning cash to Additionally, management have committed to shareholders.
dividend growth of at least 11% per annum over the next few years.
We took action accordingly as a number of our stocks became, in our view, fully priced.
First Choice We also started a holding in Scottish & Newcastle.
Holidays, HBOS and Wolverhampton & Dudley This is a company that has done much to improve its Breweries, all very successful investments for the operating performance since the arrival of Tony Company, were sold during the period under review.
Froggett as chief executive two years ago.
The shares We also reduced our exposure to the retail sector were relatively inexpensive, on around 14x earnings, through the sales of GUS and Boots.
Murray Income Trust PLC 15 Investment Managers Review continued We also began accumulating shares in AMEC, which while the purchase of Associated British Foods and is a global construction services company.
It is well Scottish & Newcastle has increased our Consumer known in the Oil & Gas industry where it is involved Goods weighting by over 1%.
in the construction and maintenance of pipelines and refining facilities.
The company also has investments It can also be seen that although we purchased in Public Private Partnership contracts and urban Morrisons, M&B, HMV and EMI, the sale of First regeneration projects.
We believe the shares look Choice, Wolverhampton & Dudley, Boots and GUS good value both on a sum-of-parts and P E basis.
has resulted in a large decrease in our overall Consumer Services exposure.
EMI is a stock with a chequered past, but at 2.50 per share its valuation is supported by its Music Telecommunications is another area of the portfolio Publishing business alone, with little value being that has seen a meaningful change in weighting as ascribed to the Recorded Music division.
While the we took advantage of share price weakness both in latter has struggled in recent years due to the decline BT and Vodafone to add to our hitherto modest in CD sales, we feel digital downloading of music positions.
The problems of Vodafone, in particular, offers opportunities for improved performance in this are well documented and the shares now offer an segment of the market.
The shares are attractively attractive dividend yield.
valued and a potential tie-up with another music company could offer significant cost saving benefits.
Income It has been another good year for dividend growth We also took a new position in Associated British across the market.
In aggregate, dividends are Foods, which is the owner of British Sugar, Allied estimated to have grown by 9% during 2005, with Bakeries and the Primark retail chain.
The latter growth particularly strong in cyclical sectors.
Share offers scope for good growth as it converts the buybacks and special dividends have also been used recently-purchased Littlewoods chain to Primark to return capital to shareholders.
fascia: while the sugar and food businesses offer steady cash flow.
The shares trade on a forward As you would expect, the Company has also seen a multiple of 12.8x and will provide high, single-digit healthy increase in revenue.
For the financial year dividend growth.
ended 30 June 2006, the revenue return per share has grown from 20p to 21.8p, or 9%.
We introduced a holding in HMV, although the decision was somewhat premature.
Trading has During the year we undertook an exercise looking at continued to be tougher than expected, but we are financial instruments that not only provide an up-lift confident that there is value in the shares.
We have in yield, but also help utilise part of the Companys had several meetings with senior management and off-balance sheet tax asset.
In this regard we are confident they have the strategy in place to purchased 4.5m of Equity Linked notes.
These are improve trading performance.
one-year equity participation notes with an embedded 110% short call option.
They were written The transactions noted above, coupled with adding on Diageo stock when the shares were trading at to and taking profit from existing holdings, have 8.77 and will provide a yield up-lift of circa 2.9%.
At obviously altered the sector positioning of the fund.
the time of purchase, the underlying Diageo share It can be seen from the Distribution of Investments was yielding 3.5%.
Put simply, capital appreciation is table on page 12 that our weighting in the Oil & Gas capped at 10% above 8.77 and, in return, the notes sector has come down over the period as we booked pay a significantly enhanced yield.
profits in BP following the rising price of oil.
Looking ahead, the market is expecting dividend As a result of the BOC takeover we now have growth to continue this year, before moderating in reduced exposure to the Basic Materials sector, 2007.
The Managers broadly agree with this outlook 16 Murray Income Trust PLC and Shareholders can again expect a respectable for the foreseeable future.
Corporate activity, which pace of dividend growth during the current financial has been an important factor in pushing the market year.
higher, also appears to be slowing.
The fact that companies are now financing deals with equity may Outlook be indicative that we have reached the peak of the The decision by the Bank of England in August to cut cycle.
base rates by a quarter of one per cent certainly proved effective in stimulating important parts of the Valuations, while not overly stretched, are not as UK economy.
House price inflation is moving back cheap as some people believe.
The market towards double digit rates and retail sales are again price earnings ratio is skewed by a handful of large, growing.
lowly-rated sectors, namely Banks, Oil & Gas and Telecommunications.
On closer inspection, our This relatively benign economic backdrop has been calculations suggest the median p e ratio is 13.5x.
supported by low absolute levels of unemployment, There are still attractive opportunities, but it is interest rates and inflation.
Looking ahead, the market is expecting more of the Against this backdrop of evolving uncertainty, same.
UK economic growth is forecast to come in at particularly on the geopolitical front, we purchased around its trend rate of between 2 2.5%, and two tranches of portfolio put protection during the inflation expectations seem well anchored at 2%.
The first tranche was bought in the middle of Corporate profits are also expected to continue to November, when the FTSE 100 was trading at 5400. grow by 10% or so this year, before slowing to 7% in Just over 2.1m was spent on options with a strike 2007. price of 5125.
This will protect 16% of the portfolio below this level.
In March 2006, with the FTSE 100 at The Managers are extremely mindful of risks to this just over 6000, we purchased an additional tranche outlook.
Inflation and interest rates are rising around of protection, which will protect 10% of the portfolio the world.
The economies of the United States and if the market falls below 5700.
China, which have served as the engines of global growth over the past few years, look set to slow during the second half of this year.
Whether or not Gary McAleese & Anne Richards the US housing market undergoes a soft landing will Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited be vitally important in determining the path of global 8 September 2006 Investment Manager economic growth.
In the UK, unemployment is rising and inflation looks set to remain above the Bank of Englands target rate Murray Income Trust PLC 17
