Directors Report The Directors submit their Annual Report together with the Financial Statements of the Company for the year ended 30 June 2006. Review of the Business A review of the Companys operations is given in the Chairmans Statement on page 10 and in the Investment Managers Review on pages 14 to 17.
Principal activity and status The Company is an investment company within the meaning of Part VIII of the Companies Act 1985 and carries on business as an investment trust.
The Directors do not envisage any change in this activity in the foreseeable future.
In the opinion of the Directors of the Company, its affairs have been conducted in a manner as to satisfy the conditions which enable it to continue to obtain approval as an investment trust under Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
HM Revenue & Customs will grant Section 842 status, if requested, provided that the Companys affairs have been conducted in such a manner as to satisfy the conditions of that section, although approval for the period would be subject to review were there to be any enquiry under the Corporate Tax Self Assessment regime.
H M Revenue & Customs approval for such status has been given for the year ended 30 June 2005.
The Company intends to manage its affairs so as to be a fully qualifying investment trust for inclusion in a general PEP and also so that the Companys shares will be qualifying investments for the stocks and shares component of an ISA.
Key Performance Indicators At each board meeting, the Directors consider a number of performance measures to assess the Companys success in achieving its objectives.
The key performance indicators KPIs are established industry measures and are as follows: x Net asset value total return x Share price total return x Performance attribution x Discount to net asset value x Earnings and Dividend per share A historical record of these measures is shown on pages 6 to 9.
In addition to the above, the Board considers peer group comparative performance.
A range of comparator groups are used, including the AITC UK Growth & Income peer group and the Open Ended UK Equity Income peer group.
Performance is also measured against the Companys benchmark, the FTSE All-Share Index.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties The principal risks facing the Company relate to the Companys investment activities and include market price, interest rate, liquidity and credit.
An explanation of these risks and how they are managed is contained in Note 15 to the accounts on pages 51 to 53.
Additional risks faced by the Company, together with the mitigation approach, are as follows: i Investment objective the objective of the Company is to achieve a high and growing income combined with capital growth.
As a consequence, the investment portfolio may not always match that of the stockmarket as a whole, with a consequential impact on shareholder returns.
The Boards aim is to maximise absolute returns to shareholders while managing risk by ensuring an appropriate diversification of stocks and sectors.
ii Investment policy and gearing a major risk affecting the Company is inappropriate sector and stock selection leading to under-performance relative to the Companys benchmark index and peer group.
In addition, the use of borrowing facilities to invest in markets may have a negative impact if markets fall.
To mitigate these risks, the Manager operates within investment guidelines and agreed levels of borrowing.
Performance against the benchmark index and the peer group is regularly monitored.
During the year, an element of portfolio protection was put in place by the purchase of put options.
iii Discount volatility investment trust shares tend to trade at discounts to their underlying net asset values, which can fluctuate considerably.
To minimise the impact of such fluctuations, the Company has operated a share buy-back programme for a number of years.
24 Murray Income Trust PLC iv Regulatory risk - the Company operates in a complex regulatory environment and faces a number of related risks.
A breach of section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 could result in the Company being subject to capital gains tax on the sale of its investments.
Serious breach of other regulations, such as the UKLA Listing Rules and the Companies Act 1985, could lead to suspension from the Stock Exchange and reputational damage.
The Board receives monthly compliance reports from the Manager to monitor compliance with regulations.
The Board regularly considers all risks, the measures in place to monitor them and the possibility of any other risks that could arise.
Results and Dividends The total return attributable to equity Shareholders for the year amounted to 76,060,000.
A third interim dividend of 4.5p per Ordinary share was paid on 15 July 2005 and the final dividend for the year ended 30 June 2005 of 5.65p per Ordinary share was paid on 31 October.
The first and second interim dividends for the year ended 30 June 2006 of 4.7p per Ordinary share each were paid on 18 January 2006 and 13 April 2006 making a total distribution to Ordinary Shareholders of 13,028,000 as shown in Note 6.
The sum of 1,397,000 has been added to the Companys revenue reserve.
The third interim dividend of 4.7p per Ordinary share was paid on 14 July 2006.
The Directors now recommend a final dividend of 7.5p per Ordinary share payable on 31 October 2006 to holders of Ordinary shares on the register on 29 September 2006.
A resolution in respect of the final dividend will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Dividends are paid by means of three interim dividends and a final, normally in January, April, July and October.
Further information on dividends is contained in the Chairmans Statement on page 10.
The Net Asset Value per Ordinary share at 30 June 2006 was 699.7p 2005 restated 603.3p.
Share Capital At the Annual General Meeting held on 26 October 2005, Shareholders approved the renewal of the authority permitting the Company to repurchase up to 9,973,815 of its Ordinary shares and gave approval for the Company to hold Shares in Treasury.
During the year ended 30 June 2006, share repurchases totalling 1,784,500 Ordinary shares of 25p each 2.66% of the issued Ordinary share capital at 30 June 2005 took place at an average price of 607.6p.
From the date of renewal of the authority on 26 October 2005 to 30 June 2006, share repurchases totalling 1,183,500 Ordinary shares of 25p each 1.78% of the issued Ordinary share capital at 26 October 2005 took place at an average price of 634.02p within the established guidelines.
From the Annual General Meeting on 26 October 2005 to 30 June 2006, 1,143,500 shares were held in Treasury.
From the date of renewal of the authority on 26 October 2005 to 15 September 2006, 1,253,500 Ordinary shares of 25p each 1.89% of the issued Ordinary share capital at 26 October 2005 were bought back at an average price of 633.87p within the established guidelines and 1,213,500 Shares were held in Treasury.
No Shares were subsequently reissued from Treasury between 26 October 2005 and 15 September 2006.
The issued Ordinary share capital at 30 June 2006 consisted of 65,272,958 Ordinary shares of 25p and 1,143,500 Treasury shares of 25p.
At 15 September 2006, the issued share capital consisted of 65,202,958 Ordinary shares of 25p and 1,213,500 Treasury shares of 25p.
Issue of New Shares The Companies Act 1985 the Act requires that the Directors may not allot unissued Shares unless so authorised by the Shareholders.
Resolution 10 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting, if passed, will give the Directors the necessary authority to allot the unissued share capital of the Company up to an aggregate nominal amount of 815,036.75 equivalent to 3,260,147 Ordinary Shares or 5 per cent.
of the Company's existing issued share capital at 15 September 2006.
Such authority will expire on the date of the next Annual General Meeting or after a period of 15 months from the date of the passing of the resolution, whichever is earlier.
This means in effect that the authority will have to be renewed at the next Annual General Meeting.
When new Shares are to be allotted for cash, Section 89 1 of the Act provides that existing Shareholders have preemption rights and that the new Shares should first be offered to such Shareholders in proportion to their existing holding Murray Income Trust PLC 25 Directors Report continued of Shares.
However, Shareholders can, by special resolution, authorise the Directors to allot Shares otherwise than by a pro rata issue to existing Shareholders.
Resolution 11 will, if passed, give the Directors power to allot, for cash, equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 815,036.75 equivalent to 3,260,147 Shares or 5 per cent.
of the Company's existing issued share capital at 15 September 2006 excluding Treasury shares as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply.
This is the same amount of share capital which the Directors are seeking the authority to allot pursuant to Resolution 10.
This authority will also expire on the date of the next Annual General Meeting or after a period of 15 months, whichever is earlier.
Furthermore, this authority will not be used in connection with a rights issue by the Company.
The Directors intend to use the authority given by Resolutions 10 and 11 to issue new Shares and disapply pre-emption rights for such Shares only in circumstances where this will be in the best interests of Shareholders as a whole.
As such, issues will only be made where Shares can be issued at a premium of 0.5 per cent or more to Net Asset Value.
At present, Shares are available under the savings plans operated by the Manager.
In circumstances where the share price of the Company stands at a premium of 0.5 per cent or more to Net Asset Value, it may be advantageous for the Company to allot new Shares directly to participants in the savings plans or to other prospective purchasers.
Such issues would only be made at prices greater than 0.5 per cent above the Net Asset Value, and would involve no dilution for existing Shareholders.
The issue proceeds would be available for investment in line with the Companys investment policy.
No issue of Shares will be made which would effectively alter the control of the Company without the prior approval of Shareholders in general meeting.
New Shares will normally only be issued where there are no Treasury Shares held by the Company and available for re-sale.
Share Repurchases and Treasury Shares For several years, the Company has been operating a share buy-back facility in the market.
The principal aim of a share buy-back facility is to enhance Shareholder value by acquiring Shares at a Discount as and when the Directors consider this appropriate.
The purchase of Shares, when they are trading at a Discount, should result in an increase in Net Asset Value for the remaining Shareholders.
The Board believes that it is beneficial to Shareholders that the Company continues to operate such a facility.
Resolution 12 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting will renew the authority to purchase in the market a maximum of 14.99 per cent.
of Shares in issue excluding Shares held in treasury at the date of the Annual General Meeting.
Such authority will expire on the date of the next Annual General Meeting or after a period of 15 months from the date of passing of the resolution, whichever is earlier.
This means in effect that the authority will fall to be renewed at the next Annual General Meeting.
Details of share buy-backs carried out during the year ended 30 June 2006 and during the period from the renewal of the authority to buy-back shares 26 October 2005 to 15 September 2006 are detailed above.
The maximum price exclusive of expenses that may be paid on the exercise of any buy-back authority is the higher of i 5% above the average of the middle-market quotations for a Share taken from, and calculated by reference to, the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Share is purchased: or in the case of a tender offer, the date the tender offer is announced: and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange at the time the purchase is carried out.
The minimum price which may be paid is 25p per Share.
It is currently proposed that the purchase of Shares by the Company will be made from the realised capital reserve of the Company.
The purchase price will normally be paid out of the cash balances held by the Company from time to time.
On 1 December 2003, regulations came into force that enable companies traded on the London Stock Exchange to purchase their own shares and, instead of cancelling such shares immediately, as was previously required, to hold them in treasury for subsequent resale or cancellation.
The holding of Treasury Shares is restricted to 10 per cent.
of the Company's issued share capital.
When Shares are held by the Company in treasury, all their voting rights are suspended and no distribution to them either by way of dividend or on a winding-up is permitted.
The resolution seeking authority to buy-back Shares Resolution 12, will permit the Company to hold Shares bought back as Treasury Shares rather than cancel them immediately.
The Directors could therefore choose to sell on Treasury Shares at some time in the future.
It is intended that any Shares bought back under the buy-back facility will normally be held in 26 Murray Income Trust PLC treasury until the 10 per cent.
limit is reached or they are re-sold.
If the Directors believe that there is no likelihood of reselling Shares held in treasury, such Shares would be cancelled.
The benefit of the ability to hold Treasury Shares is that such Shares may be resold.
This should give the Company greater flexibility in managing its share capital and improve liquidity in its Shares.
It is the intention of the Board that any re-sale of Treasury Shares would only take place at a price not less than the net asset value prevailing at the date of sale.
It is also the intention of the Board that sales from treasury will only take place when the Board believes that it will assist in the provision of liquidity to the market.
"Resolution 11 will also disapply the statutory pre-emption rights, summarised in the section headed ""Issue of New Shares"" above, on the re-sale of Treasury Shares."
This resolution will enable the Company to sell Shares held in treasury without having to make a pro rata offer to existing Shareholders.
The resolution will allow Treasury Shares to be re-sold, without giving rise to pre-emption rights for Shareholders on re-sale.
The Directors will manage the non pre-emptive issue of new Shares and the sale of Treasury Shares, so that a maximum of 5 per cent.
of the Companys issued share capital as at 15 September 2006 excluding Treasury Shares will be issued as new Shares, and a maximum of 10 per cent.
of the Company's issued share capital as at 15 September 2006 excluding Treasury Shares will be sold or transferred out of treasury each year.
Articles of Association An amendment to the Company's Articles of Association has been proposed in the light of changes made with effect from 2005 by the Companies Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise Act 2004 to the law relating to a company's ability to indemnify its directors and officers in respect of liabilities incurred by them in connection with their activities on behalf of the Company.
As a result of this Act, companies are now permitted to indemnify directors against liabilities to third parties for negligence, default or breach of trust or duty provided that the indemnity does not cover any liability incurred by the director: i to the company or any associated company: ii to pay a criminal fine or a regulatory penalty such as a fine imposed by the Financial Services Authority : iii in defending any criminal proceedings in which the director or officer is convicted: iv in defending any civil proceedings brought by the company or an associated company in which judgment is given against the director or officer: or v in an unsuccessful application for relief from liability under the provisions for relief in the Companies Act 1985.
The amendment proposed to the Company's Articles of Association would not extend the indemnity currently permitted under the Articles of Association to cover any liability excluded by this Act as summarised above.
The amendment proposed to the Company's Articles of Association would: i extend the indemnity currently permitted under the Articles of Association to cover the liability of a director or officer excluding an auditor to a third party, other than the Company, for negligence, default or breach of trust or duty: ii allow the Company to enter into deeds of indemnity with its directors and officers excluding auditors to cover the kinds of liability summarised above: iii allow the Company to fund the expenditure of its directors and officers other than auditors in defending any civil or criminal proceedings provided that the director or officer is obliged to repay such amounts no later than: - in the event that the director or officer is convicted in proceedings, the date when the conviction becomes final: - in the event of judgment being given against the director or officer in proceedings brought by the Company, the date when the judgment becomes final: or - in the event of an unsuccessful application for relief from liability under the provisions for relief in the Companies Act 1985, the date when refusal becomes final.
Resolution 13, as set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting, will be proposed to amend the Company's Articles of Association to reflect these changes and widen the indemnity which the Directors and other officers of the Company are Murray Income Trust PLC 27 Directors Report continued entitled to receive from the Company.
It is intended that deeds of indemnity in favour of the Directors in accordance with the provisions summarised above will be entered into if these changes are approved.
Copies of the proposed revised Articles of Association will be available for inspection during normal business hours on any day Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted until the close of the Annual General Meeting at the registered office of the Company, 123 St Vincent Street, Glasgow G2 5EA and at the place of the Annual General Meeting for 15 minutes prior to, and during, the Annual General Meeting.
Recommendation from the Board The Directors consider that the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting are in the interests of the Company and shareholders as a whole, and recommend that all Shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions, as the Directors intend to in respect of their own beneficial holdings of Ordinary shares amounting in aggregate to 32,061 Shares, representing approximately 0.05 per cent of the Companys issued share capital.
Share interests At 15 September 2006, the following share interests in the Company had been notified.
Ordinary shares Percentage of of 25p Ordinary share capital Aberdeen Asset Managers Savings Plans non-discretionary 10,862,675 16.7 Legal & General Investment Management 2,367,367 3.6 Directors The Directors, who held office throughout the year under review, and Mr Honebon, who was appointed on 4 August 2005, are shown on pages 3 to 5 of the Annual Report, and their share interests are shown below.
Mr Gifford and Mr van der Klugt retire by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Resolutions 4 and 5 to this effect will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The firm in which Ms Glen is a partner provides legal advice to companies within the Managers group.
She will, therefore, offer herself for re-election annually.
Resolution 6 to this effect will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The re-election of Mr Gifford, Mr van der Klugt and Ms Glen, whose biographies appear on pages 3 to 5, was considered and approved by the Nomination Committee.
The reasons for the Committees recommendations for their re-election, and the subsequent approval of those recommendations by the Board, are set out on page 35 of the Statement of Corporate Governance.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, Directors must offer themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
For those Directors who are not seeking re-election at this time, it has been less than three years since their previous re-election.
No contract or arrangement significant to the Companys business and in which any of the Directors is interested has subsisted during the year.
A report on the Directors Remuneration is set out on pages 31 and 32.
In order to provide the Company with future flexibility, it is proposed that the aggregate limit on Directors fees of 100,000 per annum contained in the Articles of the Company be increased to 150,000 per annum.
An ordinary resolution seeking shareholder authority for this amendment will be proposed as Resolution 9 at the Annual General Meeting.
28 Murray Income Trust PLC Directors Interests The interests of the Directors in office at the end of the year in the Ordinary share capital of the Company were as follows: 30 June 2006 30 June 2005 Beneficial Non-Beneficial Beneficial Non-Beneficial P A F Gifford 16,631 14,169 A J M Coats 5,000 25,000 5,000 10,000 M Glen N A Honebon 5,000 H van der Klugt 5,000 5,000 Mr P A F Giffords beneficial holding increased to 17,061 Ordinary shares by the acquisition of 120 Ordinary shares on 14 July 2006, 157 Ordinary shares on 24 July 2006 and 153 Ordinary shares on 22 August 2006.
As at 15 September 2006 there have been no other changes in the above holdings.
Manager and Company Secretary Investment management services are provided to the Company by Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited.
Company secretarial, accounting and administrative services are provided by Aberdeen Asset Management PLC.
For the year ended 30 June 2006, the management and secretarial fees payable to the Manager were calculated and charged on the following basis: A monthly fee at the rate of one twelfth of 0.55% on the first 400 million of net assets, 0.45% on the next 150 million of net assets and 0.25% on the excess over 550 million.
The value of any investments managed within the Aberdeen Asset Group is deducted from net assets.
The investment management fee remains chargeable 50% to revenue and 50% against realised capital reserves.
A secretarial fee of 75,000 per annum is also payable, which is chargeable 100% to revenue.
The management and administration contracts may be terminated by either the Company or the Manager on the expiry of three months written notice.
On termination, the Manager would be entitled to receive fees which would otherwise have been due to that date.
The management and secretarial fees paid during the year ended 30 June 2006 are shown in note 3 on page 46.
In monitoring the performance of the Manager, the Board considers the investment record of the Company over short and longer-term periods, taking into account both its performance against the benchmark index and peer group investment trusts.
The Board also reviews the management processes, risk control mechanisms and marketing activities of the Manager.
As a result of these reviews, the Board considers the continuing appointment of the Manager to be in the interests of the Shareholders because the Aberdeen Asset Management Group has the investment management, marketing and associated secretarial and administrative skills required for the effective operation of the Company.
The Board continues to keep this matter under review.
Corporate Governance The Statement of Corporate Governance is shown on pages 33 to 38.
Audit Committee Details of the Audit Committee are contained in the Statement of Corporate Governance under the heading Audit Committee on page 36.
Political and Charitable Donations The Company has not made any political or charitable donations in the year 2005: nil.
Murray Income Trust PLC 29 Directors Report continued Going concern The Directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
The Company has adequate financial resources to enable it to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Creditor payment policy The Companys payment policy is to agree terms of payment before business is transacted, to ensure suppliers are aware of these terms and to settle bills in accordance with them.
The Company did not have any trade creditors at the year end.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held on 30 October 2006.
The Notice of Meeting is contained on pages 56 to 59.
Auditors The Auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, have expressed their willingness to continue in office.
Resolution 7, to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys Auditors, will be put to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting along with Resolution 8, to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
It should be noted that the only fees paid to the Auditors over the past six years have been in respect of audit services.
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors' Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company's Auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make him or herself aware of any relevant audit information, and to establish that the Company's Auditors are aware of that information.
123 St Vincent Street By order of the Board Glasgow G2 5EA Aberdeen Asset Management PLC 15 September 2006 Secretaries 30 Murray Income Trust PLC
