The Investment Process Philosophy and Style analysis of key data covering macroeconomic and Long term investment success demands a clear focus and a monetary factors, value and performance.
The Aberdeen Asset Management Group AAM has as its primary objective in managing Murray Country selection is driven overall by short and medium International Trust the delivery of consistent term estimates of macroeconomics, politics and liquidity, outperformance against the benchmark based on the and the market implications of those.
concept of seeking growth at a reasonable price.
Stock Selection To achieve this, a disciplined investment process has been The investment manager, Bruce Stout, has responsibility developed.
However, to meet the different performance for portfolio construction across all regional segments.
objectives mandated for specific funds, there is built in Working closely with the relevant underlying desks in each flexibility.
case, portfolio construction is an interactive process.
The Manager utilises a Global Equity Buy List which is Key decisions are implemented consistently across all constructed by each of the specialist country desks.
This funds and portfolio risk limits are set and closely list contains all buy and hold recommendations for each monitored.
A continuous watch is kept over critical factors desk, which are then used as the investment universe.
If a that influence investment decisions, so that when views stock no longer meets the criteria to be included on the change, action is taken swiftly and decisively to reposition Buy List, it is sold within 30 days.
This process enables the portfolios.
investment manager to better reflect top down themes that emerge from the global equity strategy and Asset Allocation investment themes meetings that take place monthly.
Based on the guidelines set by the AAM Investment Strategy Committee, and after consultation with relevant Risk Controls AAM area specialists, the investment manager of Murray Integral to the investment process is regular provision, by a International Trust, Bruce Stout, recommends asset specialised team, of performance and risk analysis data to allocation to the Board.
There is a strong top down ensure that funds are operated within the terms of their influence to establish the economic overview and to mandate.
The approach is highly focussed and portfolios are tightly constructed to As well as market price risk inherent in all portfolio provide the greatest scope for outperformance within the investment, Murray International Trust is also exposed to agreed risk parameters.
risk from movements in foreign exchange rates and changes in interest rates.
Market price risk is managed by For Murray International Trust, regional allocation of funds strict adherence to parameters set for portfolio in line with guidelines set by the AAM Investment Strategy construction.
The foreign exchange risk involved may be Committee is the first stage of the portfolio construction hedged by the use of forward currency contracts.
At this stage, house views on specific global rate risk lies with the portfolio holdings of fixed income sectors are also taken into account.
A detailed risk profile of the Established themes and trends are considered within the Company is given in Note 18 to the financial statements process of country allocation, which is also influenced by on pages 58 to 62.
