Investment Managers Report Background Performance The Net Asset Value Total Return for the year to 31 Global equity markets generally made good progress over December 2006 with net dividends reinvested was 13.8%, the past twelve months with solid gains in Sterling terms.
compared with a return on the benchmark of 9.2%.
A full These were secured against a constantly changing macroattribution analysis is given on page 24, which details the economic backdrop that proved unsettling at times.
In the various influences on portfolio performance.
In summary, United States, rapidly decelerating housing activity of the 740 basis points before expenses of performance prompted expectations of an end to monetary tightening above the index, asset allocation contributed 470 and which duly arrived in June.
In anticipation, many stock selection 270 basis points.
Structural effects relating International equity markets posted double-digit returns by to the fixed income portfolio, net of borrowing and April, but the prevailing mood of optimism was soon to be hedging costs, deleted 110 basis points of relative severely challenged.
Persistently higher oil prices coupled performance, a reflection of the underperformance of with rising inflation deflated equity markets during the bonds relative to equities.
Within equity asset allocation, summer as investors, fearful of the consequences, locked in positive contributions came from our significant profits.
Although confidence was restored in subsequent underweighting of the United States and overweighting months, cumulating in a solid year end rally, sentiment towards Asia.
There were also material contributions from remained cautious throughout.
Whilst the US monetary superior stock selection in the UK and Latin America.
authorities wrestled with associated problems of declining house prices, the exact opposite prevailed in the UK.
Persistently rising property prices prompted the Bank of USA Deteriorating economic fundamentals dominated the England to raise base rates twice in the second half of economic landscape in the United States throughout 2006, 2006.
Sterling strengthened further against most with policymakers seemingly unable, or unwilling, to currencies, biting into the competitiveness of UK respond.
Fiscal policy remained as undisciplined as ever, manufacturers.
History shows rising property prices, higher the spiralling costs of overseas military conflict causing interest rates and rising unemployment as a potent repeated extensions to borrowing limits.
Five years ago cocktail with negative consequences.
We expect the UK the debt ceiling stood at $6 trillion!
By last summer it had economy is about to suffer from them.
Foreigners have been prepared to growth, tighter monetary policy and a full political finance this over-consumption, but at a price.
The dollar calendar in Latin America had kept most investors cautious on emerging markets at the beginning of the year, but in continued its decline and foreign holdings of US bonds the event their fears were unfounded.
Financed by huge reached 50% of the total Government bond market, up foreign exchange reserves and current account surpluses, from 17% less than twenty years ago.
In essence, domestic economic growth in Asia and the developing increased foreign ownerships of US assets means world stayed strong, an extremely positive outcome under Americans are gradually selling off the farm to pay for the circumstances.
Such resolve in the face of testing fiscal irresponsibility.
This issue of enormous fiscal global fundamentals augurs well for the future.
indebtedness, combined with an unsustainable current account deficit now running above 7% of GDP represents in our view the greatest threat to US growth over the As befits the breadth of an international universe, the usual coming years.
Unfortunately, the seriousness of structural wide spectrum of divergent market returns prevailed.
indebtedness was eclipsed by more pressing localised Countries in Asia, Latin America and Europe ranked issues.
What grabbed most attention latterly in 2006 was amongst the strongest performers in local currency terms, the plight of the housing market where the pace of whilst the UK and US lagged.
Of particular significance to deterioration in property sales and house prices was the Trust was the influence Sterling had on capital returns.
By year end many indicators were close to The greatest impact was felt in Japan and the US where twenty year lows.
The collateral damage to the economy Sterling appreciated by close to fifteen percent against the of such deflated property-related wealth usually emerges yen and the dollar.
Consequently throughout the year as a prolonged slowdown of discretionary spending on exposure to the UK was reduced further in favour of higher autos, consumer goods, home appliances etc.
We expect growth higher yielding overseas equities.
For the fourth this time to be no different.
While this itself will be painful, consecutive year Latin America produced the strongest it is the potential impact on corporate profits and credit returns in Sterling terms, up 28%.
Despite decent gains quality that is most worrying.
Apart from the obvious in local currency, Sterling strength resulted in belowhousing related stocks, company earnings in financial average returns of -7.0% and 1.5% from Japan and the services, consumer discretionary and retailing also appear US respectively.
Murray International Trust PLC 21 Investment Managers Report continued Europe vulnerable.
The ongoing structural economic difficulties Since the break up of the Soviet Union in the early nineties, entrenched in the US economy with the likelihood of the boundaries of Europe have changed dramatically.
further problems ahead, keeps us cautious on the prospects Whilst the emergence of new economies and markets have for the US market.
There was very little portfolio activity undoubtedly presented interesting investment over the past year and we envisage this to be similar in opportunities, the diversity and sheer size of the region has 2007.
Large positions in Exxon and Chevron were sold brought tough challenges for policymakers.
Last year this outright as profits were crystallised from the was clearly in evidence.
Within core Europe, economic outperforming energy sector.
A new position in Intel, the growth in France remained sluggish, Italy below trend and, worlds leading manufacturer of computer components despite a good start to the year, Germany clearly suffered was established with the proceeds.
a post World Cup hangover during the summer.
Given EU harmonised inflation remained subdued at 2%, it was UK hardly surprising that ongoing tightening by the European Caught between a rock and a hard place.
A phrase that Central Bank was greeted with widespread resentment.
adequately sums up where the UK economy now finds The problem was stronger growth and higher inflation in itself following twelve months of macro-economic peripheral European countries such as Spain, Portugal and uncertainty.
The year started brightly enough although Greece.
Here higher interest rates were needed to cool Chancellor Browns expectations for accelerating growth overheating property markets and curb inflationary and fiscal prudence were at loggerheads with reality.
The ever-vigilant ECB maintained its tough Sharply rising unemployment and individual insolvencies stance throughout as expected but the experience plus rising credit-card defaults combined to deflate highlighted the increasing difficulty of implementing a consumer confidence by the summer.
Persistent one size fits all monetary policy in an evolving Europe.
underlying inflationary pressures, or more precisely rising Unperturbed by macro-economic hurdles, many European house prices, persuaded the Monetary Policy Committee to companies enjoyed the benefits of the expanding region by raise interest rates to 5% by November, the highest level relocating production into lower cost facilities and of base rates for 5 years.
Debt-laden consumers groaned developing new end markets.
Superior returns were under the additional weight of financial obligations, but achieved by many of our European holdings that have their cries fell on deaf ears.
Despite ominous signs of pioneered such a strategy.
Nordea, the Swedish bank, emerging economic weakness, the MPC warned of tougher successfully expanded operations into Poland and the medicine ahead as inflationary pressures intensified.
As if Baltic States: Peugeot witnessed increased productivity to muddy the waters further, the ongoing malaise of fiscal through moving manufacturing to Slovakia: and Metro, the policy propelled the seventh consecutive yearly German retailer, opened 23 new supermarkets throughout deterioration in fiscal finances.
The trend of rising deficits Eastern Europe, including Turkey and Ukraine.
This enabled at a time of decent growth and strong corporate reported profits to grow above market expectations, with profitability is particularly worrying.
Forget about excess free cash flow consistently returned to shareholders balancing the books over the business cycle, no matter in the form of higher dividends.
The dark cloud of macrohow long it is stretched out.
The most dangerous economic gloom may continue to linger over Europe, but implication is the UK dependency on foreign capital to at the corporate level we can still find many exciting finance its over-consumption.
Should this source of capital growth opportunities in which to invest.
become nervous, and we believe it shortly will, then sterling looks extremely vulnerable at current levels.
Given Japan these concerns, and the policy straight-jacket that inhibits The most challenging aspect of investing in Japan last year corrective measures, there was a further reduction of total was the frustrating disconnect between the economy and UK asset exposure.
Amongst the companies divested, BP, the market.
Month after month economic trends indicated Shell, HSBC and Barclays were sold outright.
The residual positive progress yet the response from the equity market portfolio was increasingly positioned into companies that was invariably subdued.
Patience was required in were deemed less sensitive to macro economic trends abundance, but hopefully will be ultimately rewarded in where visibility of earnings and dividend growth is higher.
The root cause of market apathy lay in Resolution Life and British American Tobacco are typical of scepticism that domestic economic recovery was such companies, and this defensive positioning will sustainable in a slowing global growth environment, yet continue as long as the current level of macro-economic fundamental evidence consistently suggested it was.
partially reflected the declining importance of exports in 22 Murray International Trust PLC overall Japanese growth, but also the renewed vigour of all regions in the world.
Within the portfolio, Tenaris the domestic economy.
Rising land prices, modest real entered the lucrative steel-pipe market in the USA through income growth and falling unemployment restored its $3bn purchase of Maverick Tube, further consolidating consumer confidence, which produced the strongest its leading position in the global market.
A new position in housing data for nine years.
The Bank of Japan responded Consorcio Ara, a builder of affordable housing for the lower to improving conditions by signalling an end to five years income community in Mexico, was established in line with of zero interest rates with a 25bp hike in July.
Although the ongoing strategy to selectively capitalise on attractive the magnitude of the rate rise was minimal, the action was investment opportunities in the asset class.
significant as it reflected the BOJs upgraded assessment of Outlook current events and initiated the process towards It is the Managers belief that global economic growth normalising monetary policy in the worlds second largest momentum will be maintained in 2007 with financial economy.
The investment implications of this could be markets becoming even more discerning as to which significant.
The perplexing and painful 14% decline in the countries are rewarded.
Domestic economic activity in the value of the Yen against Sterling over the period continued UK and US has for some time been funded by enormous a downward trend which began six years ago but now housing induced wealth gains, unprecedented home equity appears close to have run its course.
The devaluation of the extraction and consumer debt, but this trend is now currency enhances the valuation case for Japanese assets, exhausted.
Rising unemployment, declining real-income and over the year additional funds were committed to growth and tighter lending procedures will cause economic existing holdings in companies such as Canon, Toyota and growth to slow, exerting pressure on corporate profit Bank of Kyoto.
Profit and dividend growth remained very margins and business confidence.
Having spent the past ten years paying down debt the outlook for these markets looks muted.
In Europe, and cutting costs, companies directed strong free cash flow where capital discipline remains high and new growth towards new capital investment and higher dividend opportunities abundant, low expectations are likely to be returns to shareholders.
For the coming year we expect surpassed which should be positive for equity valuations.
productivity and returns on invested capital to improve Although the Japanese economic recovery is unlikely to be further as economic momentum builds, hence we remain spectacular, solid progress will enable the Bank of Japan to optimistic for future financial returns in Japan.
continue the process of normalising monetary policy and restoring real interest.
Perhaps this may even prompt the Asia and Emerging Markets Yen to finally strengthen.
What will be very interesting is Twelve months ago the rhetoric towards Asia and how corporate Japan responds to rising interest rates in Emerging Markets was extremely cautious.
The main terms of dividend growth.
With cash rich balance sheets concerns centred around potential negative impacts on and pay-out ratios below 20%, plenty scope exists for growth from rising US interest rates, fears that commodity superior dividend growth if the will is there to do it.
The prices might decline and uncertainty over numerous case for Asian and the emerging world stays as compelling presidential elections in Latin America.
In the event, apart as ever as the sheer size of these nations now exerts much from a temporary bout of heightened risk aversion in greater influence on global capital flows.
The asset class May June, most concerns failed to materialise.
Export has proved it can flourish despite rising US interest rates growth in Asia did slow slightly, but this was more than and upgraded sovereign credit ratings demonstrate offset by accelerating domestic activity in countries such enormous progress along the road to economic autonomy.
as India, China and Malaysia.
More significantly, economic The fact that companies still sell at large discounts to their strength continued to translate in double digit profit and global peers serves only to reinforce the opportunity.
dividend growth for the majority of Asian companies held Above all, the Manager will continue to focus on in the portfolio.
During the year, periods of market diversification throughout the portfolio, focusing on high weakness were used to commit additional investment to quality companies with strong free cash flow and abovethe region.
New positions were established in China Light average dividend growth.
Four years of rising equity & Power Holdings, a leading power provider based in Hong markets have undoubtedly left some markets now looking Kong, and Malayan Banking, one of the strongest banks in fully-valued, but our flexible mandate allows us to seek the region.
In Latin America, presidential elections in Brazil opportunities throughout the world.
We will continue to and Mexico passed without incident, once again use this in pursuit of adding value for our shareholders.
demonstrating evolving political maturity in both countries.
Indeed for the fourth consecutive year Latin Bruce Stout America provided the highest market returns in Sterling of 8 March 2007 Investment Manager Murray International Trust PLC 23
