Directors Report The Directors submit their Annual Report together with the financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2006. Business Review A review of the Companys operations is given in the Corporate Summary on pages 1 to 3, the Chairmans Statement on pages 12 and 13 and the Managers Report on pages 21 to 23.
This includes a review of the business of the Company and its principal activities, likely future developments of the business, recommended dividends and details of the issue of new shares during the year by the Company.
The major risks associated with the Company are detailed in the Corporate Summary on page 2 and in Note 18 to the Financial Statements.
Further details of the risk management objectives and policies are provided in the Corporate Governance Statement internal controls report on pages 41 and 42.
The Key Performance Indicators for the Company including NAV and share price information are detailed on page 7.
Each Director confirms that, so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and he or she has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Additionally there are no important events since the year end.
The current Directors, Messrs J F H Trott, D H Benson, J D Best, and A C Shedden and Lady Balfour of Burleigh were the only Directors who served during the year.
The Company does not make political donations or expenditures and has not made any donations for charitable purposes during the year and, in common with most investment trusts, the Company has no employees.
Directors & Officers liability insurance cover has been maintained throughout the year at the expense of the Company.
Principal activity and status The Company is an investment company within the meaning of Part VIII of the Companies Act 1985 and carries on business as an investment trust.
In the opinion of the Directors of the Company, its affairs have been conducted in a manner to satisfy the conditions to enable it to continue to obtain approval as an investment trust under Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
HM Revenue & Customs will grant Section 842 status, if requested, provided that the Companys affairs have been conducted in such a manner as to satisfy the conditions of that section.
Approval for such status has been given by HM Revenue & Customs for the year ended 31 December 2005.
Results and dividends The total return attributable to equity Shareholders for the year amounted to 71,259,000.
A final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2005 of 6.65p per Ordinary share was paid on 19 May 2006.
Interim dividends of 3.80p each were paid on 14 August 2006, 15 November 2006 and 14 February 2007 making a total distribution to Ordinary Shareholders of 15,623,000.
The Directors recommend a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2006 of 7.6p per Ordinary share payable on 18 May 2007 to holders of Ordinary shares on the register at close of business on 20 April 2007.
In line with the changes to the dividend procedures approved at last years Annual General Meeting, wherever a cash dividend is paid on the Ordinary shares, a bonus issue of B Ordinary shares is made to the holders of B Ordinary shares.
The Directors will capitalise a sum of 3,143 being part of the sum outstanding at credit of the realised gains reserve and issue to B Ordinary Shareholders 1.15043 B Ordinary shares credited as fully paid for every 100 B Ordinary shares held at close of business on 20 April 2007.
This capitalisation issue is equivalent in asset value to the final dividend now recommended on the Ordinary shares but excluding any tax credit thereon.
Subject to the approval of Shareholders of the final dividend, definitive certificates in respect of the capitalisation issue will be posted on 18 May 2007.
Fractional entitlements will be sold for the benefit of shareholders.
The new B Ordinary shares will rank equally with the existing B Ordinary shares.
Applications will be made to the UK Listing Authority and London Stock Exchange plc for 12,575 B Ordinary shares of 25p each to be admitted to the Official List and to the London Stock Exchange for admission to trading.
Dealings are expected to commence on 21 May 2007.
7 to approve the above distribution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting, as printed in the Notice of Meeting contained in the circular accompanying the Annual Report.
The Net Asset Value per Ordinary and B Ordinary share at 31 December 2006 was 660.7p 2005 597.5p.
30 Murray International Trust PLC Share Repurchases and Issue of shares At the Annual General Meeting held on 27 April 2006, Shareholders approved the renewal of the authority permitting the Company to repurchase its Ordinary shares.
The Directors wish to renew the authority given by Shareholders at the previous Annual General Meeting.
The principal aim of a share buyback facility is to enhance Shareholder value by acquiring shares at a discount to Net Asset Value, as and when the Directors consider this to be appropriate.
The purchase of shares, when they are trading at a discount to Net Asset Value per share, should result in an increase in the Net Asset Value per share for the remaining Shareholders.
This authority, if conferred, will only be exercised if to do so would result in an increase in the Net Asset Value per share for the remaining Shareholders and if it is in the best interests of Shareholders generally.
Any purchase of shares will be made within guidelines established from time to time by the Board.
It is proposed to seek Shareholder authority to renew this facility for another year at the Annual General Meeting.
Under the Listing Rules, the maximum price that may be paid on the exercise of this authority must not be more than the higher of i an amount equal to 105 per cent.
of the average of the middle market quotations for a share taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the 5 business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is purchased: and ii the higher of the last independent trade and the current highest independent bid on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out.
The minimum price which may be paid is 25p per share.
It is currently proposed that the purchase of shares by the Company will be made from the realised capital reserve of the Company.
The purchase price will normally be paid out of the cash balances held by the Company from time to time.
The Resolution seeking authority to buy back shares will permit the Company to hold shares bought back as treasury shares rather than cancel them immediately.
The benefit of the ability to hold treasury shares is that such shares may be resold.
This should give the Company greater flexibility in managing its share capital and improve liquidity in its shares.
The Company would only sell on treasury shares at a premium to net asset value.
When shares are held in treasury, all voting rights are suspended and no distribution either by way of dividend or by way of a winding up is permitted in respect of treasury shares.
If the Directors believe that there is no likelihood of reselling shares bought back, such shares would be cancelled.
10 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting will renew the authority to purchase in the market a maximum of 14.99% of shares in issue at the date of the Annual General Meeting amounting to 12,978,940 Ordinary shares and 163,811 B Ordinary shares as at 8 March 2007.
Such authority will expire on the date of the next Annual General Meeting or after a period of 15 months from the date of passing of the Resolution, whichever is earlier.
This means in effect that the authority will have to be renewed at the next Annual General Meeting or earlier if the authority has been exhausted.
During the year ended 31 December 2006 and from the date of renewal of the authority on 27 April 2006 to 31 December 2006, no share repurchases have taken place.
Issue of shares In terms of the Companies Act 1985 the Act the Directors may not allot unissued shares unless so authorised by the Shareholders.
8 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting, if passed, will therefore give the Directors the necessary authority to allot the unissued share capital up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,095,959 equivalent to 4,329,199 Ordinary shares and 54,640 B Ordinary shares or 5 per cent of the Companys existing issued share capital at 8 March 2007, the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this Annual Report.
Such authority will expire on the date of the next Annual General Meeting or after a period of 15 months from the date of the passing of the resolution, whichever is earlier.
This means that the authority will have to be renewed at the next Annual General Meeting.
When shares are to be allotted for cash, Section 89 1 of the Companies Act provides that existing Shareholders have pre-emption rights and that the new shares must be offered first to such Shareholders in proportion to their existing holding of shares.
However, Shareholders can, by special resolution, authorise the Directors to allot shares otherwise than by a pro rata issue to existing Shareholders.
9 will, if passed, also give the Directors power to allot for cash, equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,095,959 equivalent to 4,329,199 Ordinary shares and 54,640 B Ordinary shares or 5 per cent of the Companys existing issued share capital at 8 March 2007, the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this Annual Report, as if Section 89 1 of the Companies Act does not apply.
This is the same nominal amount of share capital which the Directors are seeking the authority to allot pursuant to Resolution No.
This authority will also expire on the date of the next Annual General Meeting or after a period of 15 months, whichever is earlier.
This authority will not be used in connection with a rights issue by the Company.
Murray International Trust PLC 31 Directors Report continued The Directors intend to use the authority given by Resolutions No.
8 and 9 to allot shares and disapply pre-emption rights only in circumstances where this will be clearly beneficial to Shareholders as a whole.
As such, issues will only be made where shares can be issued at a premium of 0.5 per cent or more to Net Asset Value.
At present, shares are available under the savings plans operated by the Manager.
In circumstances where the share price of the Company stands at a premium of 0.5 per cent or more to Net Asset Value, it may be advantageous for the Company to allot new shares directly to participants in the savings plans or to other prospective purchasers.
Such issues would only be made at prices greater than Net Asset Value, and would involve no dilution for existing Shareholders.
The issue proceeds would be available for investment in line with the Companys investment policy.
No issue of shares will be made which would effectively alter the control of the Company without the prior approval of Shareholders in general meeting.
Resolution 9 will also disapply pre-emption rights on the sale of Treasury shares as envisaged above.
Once again, the pre-emption rights would only be disapplied where the Treasury shares were sold at a premium to net asset value of 0.5 per cent.
The Directors consider that the above authorities are in the interests of the Company and Shareholders taken as a whole and recommend that all Shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions, as the Directors intend to in respect of their own beneficial holdings of Ordinary shares amounting in aggregate to 40,727 shares, representing approximately 0.05% of the Companys issued share capital.
Circular Accompanying the Annual Report, shareholders will receive a circular which incorporates the Notice of Meeting.
The Directors are proposing certain amendments to the Articles of Association in respect of Directors indemnities and electronic communications and further details of the changes are contained in the letter from the Chairman contained in the circular.
Share Capital The issued Ordinary share capital at 31 December 2006 and 8 March 2007 amounted to 86,583,992 Ordinary and 1,092,806 B Ordinary shares.
Share Interests At 8 March 2007 the following share interests in the Company had been notified: Ordinary shares of 25p Percentage of Ordinary capital Aberdeen Asset Managers Savings Plans non discretionary 5,765,553 6.7 D C Thomson Pensions of which the undernoted has a holding of 3% or over: 3,990,000 4.6 D C Thomson & Company Limited 2,780,000 3.2 Legal & General Investment Management 3,140,868 3.6 B Ordinary shares of 25p Percentage of B Ordinary capital T C Nominees Ltd of which the undernoted has a holding 457,444 41.9 of 3% or over: Carol Barrie Trust 247,990 22.7 The Hon Mrs C Baillie Hamilton Trust 207,501 19.0 Directors The Directors, who held office during the year under review, are shown on pages 4 to 6 of the Annual Report and their interests are shown overleaf.
All the Directors held office throughout the year under review.
Mr J F H Trott, whose biography appears on page 4, retires by rotation at the Annual General Meeting, and being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
Lady Balfour of Burleigh, whose biography also appears on page 4, retires by rotation at this time and, being eligible, offers herself for re-election.
Resolutions 3 and 4 to this effect will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
32 Murray International Trust PLC In accordance with the Articles of Association, Directors must offer themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
For those Directors who are not seeking re-election at this time, it has been less than three years since their previous re-election.
No contract or arrangement significant to the Companys business and in which any of the Directors is interested has subsisted during the year.
The interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company were as follows: 31 December 2006 31 December 2005 Beneficial Beneficial J F H Trott 15,000 15,000 The Lady Balfour of Burleigh 1,300 1,300 D H Benson 4,000 4,000 J D Best 15,200 15,200 A C Shedden 5,139 3,666 Mr A C Sheddens beneficial holding increased to 5,227 Ordinary shares by the acquisition, through the Aberdeen Share Plan, of 32 Ordinary shares, 25 Ordinary shares and 31 Ordinary shares on 22 January 2007, 14 February 2007 and 22 February 2007 respectively.
With the exception of the interest of Mr A C Shedden, the above holdings were unchanged at 8 March 2007, being the nearest practicable date prior to the signing of this Annual Report.
Directors Fees A report on the Directors Remuneration is set out on pages 35 and 36.
Manager and Company Secretary Investment management services are provided to the Company by Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited.
Company secretarial, accounting and administrative services are provided by Aberdeen Asset Management PLC.
For the year ended 31 December 2006, the management and secretarial fees payable to the Manager were calculated and charged on the following basis: a an investment management fee payable to the Manager, Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited, of 0.5% per annum of the value of total assets, less unlisted investments and all current liabilities excluding monies borrowed to finance the investment objectives of the Company, averaged over the six previous quarters.
A fee of 1.5% per annum is charged on the value of unlisted investments.
The investment management fee is chargeable 30% against revenue and 70% against realised capital reserves: and b included in the charge of 0.5% in part a above is a secretarial fee of 100,000 per annum which is chargeable 100% to revenue.
In addition, the Manager was entitled to a performance fee on the following basis: a a fee of 5% of the first 2% of any outperformance of the Companys net asset total return over that of its benchmark.
b a fee of 10% of any additional outperformance against the benchmark.
The total amount of the fee earned by the Manager in any one year comprising the basic management fee and the performance fee is capped at 0.8% of the average value of the Companys total assets less current liabilities.
Any performance fee is paid in equal instalments over a four year period with any future underperformance offset against the fee payable.
No fees have been charged in the case of investments managed or advised by Aberdeen Asset Management Group.
The management agreement may be terminated by either party on the expiry of one years written notice.
On termination the Manager would be entitled to receive fees which would otherwise have been due up to that date.
The Board considers the continued appointment of the Manager on the terms agreed to be in the interests of the Shareholders as a whole because the Aberdeen Asset Management Group has the investment management, secretarial, marketing and administrative skills required for the effective operation of the Company.
Murray International Trust PLC 33 Directors Report continued Corporate Governance The Statement of Corporate Governance is shown on pages 37 to 42.
Audit Committee Details of the Audit Committee are contained in the Statement of Corporate Governance under the heading Audit Committee on page 39.
Directors and Officers Insurance The Company purchases and maintains liability insurance covering the Directors and officers of the Company.
PEP and ISA Status The Company intends to manage its affairs so as to be a fully qualifying investment trust for inclusion in a general PEP and also so that the Companys shares will be qualifying investments for the stocks and shares component of an ISA.
Going concern The Directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The Company has adequate financial resources to enable it to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Creditor payment policy The Companys payment policy is to agree terms of payment before business is transacted, to ensure suppliers are aware of these terms and to settle bills in accordance with them.
The Company did not have any trade creditors at the year end.
Annual General Meeting The Notice of Annual General Meeting which will be held on 26 April 2007 is contained in the accompanying circular to shareholders.
Financial Instruments The Companys financial instruments comprise its investment portfolio, cash balances, loans and debtors and creditors that arise directly from its operations such as sales and purchases awaiting settlement and accrued income.
The main risks that the Company faces arising from its financial instruments are disclosed in Note 18 to the financial statements.
Auditors The Auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, have expressed their willingness to continue in office.
5 to appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys Auditor will be put to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, along with Resolution No.
6 to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
It should be noted that the only fees paid to the Auditors over the past five years have been in respect of audit services.
123 St Vincent Street By order of the Board Glasgow G2 5EA Aberdeen Asset Management PLC 8 March 2007 Secretaries 34 Murray International Trust PLC
