Marketing Strategy Murray International Trust contributes to the Marketing Newsletter Programme run by Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited AAM, on The Bulletin newsletter, an informed commentary on markets behalf of a number of investment trusts under its management.
and investment trusts managed by AAM is distributed free of This agreement sees the Companys contribution matched by charge.
AAM and is now 450,000 plus VAT a year, reviewed on an Public relations annual basis.
The Manager undertakes to brief journalists, write regularly The purpose of the Programme is to communicate effectively with through placed articles and ensure Company results and any existing Shareholders and gain more new Shareholders, thus corporate activity are brought to public attention.
improving liquidity and thereby enhancing the value and rating of the Companys shares.
AAMs experience has also shown that Shareholder services well-targeted marketing of the Companys investment merits AAM runs an investment help desk for retail enquirers and through packaged products, whether singly, or in conjunction with investors.
Enquirers or investors will be sent any relevant literature other trusts run by AAM, can be a cost-effective way of gaining on request and have queries answered immediately.
Marketing Programme is under the direction of AAMs Investment Trust Marketing Director, who has nineteen years experience in These aims can be met in several ways: the marketing and communications of investment products.
He is Investor relations programme supported by a team of marketing professionals.
AAM runs an investor relations programme to existing and prospective institutional investors in investment trusts.
Each Internet month, institutional investors and prospects receive a Managers Murray International Trust has its own dedicated website: report on your Company that includes detailed performance www.
This allows web users to access analysis.
information on the Companys share price performance, capital structure, stock exchange announcements and monthly reports.
Group Schemes The site is continuously being evaluated for improvement.
AAM runs a group Share Plan, PEP and ISA.
These schemes allow investment free of dealing costs and with only nominal exit Investors in the Share Plan, PEP and ISA can now use our secure charges, have proved popular with private investors.
system to view their valuations and transact on their Plan accounts.
Direct response advertising The Manager advertises the packaged product availability of the The Company is committed to a close monitoring of the Trust in selected national press as well as the specialist financial Marketing Programme.
The Marketing Director provides a written titles summary quarterly to the Board.
Direct mail Periodic mail shots of information packs inviting named If you have any questions about your Company, the Manager or addressees to respond is a low-cost method of building awareness performance, please telephone our Investor Services Department and investor databases.
Target groups include existing holders of on 0500 00 00 40.
Alternatively, internet users may e-mail us on other AAM investment trusts as well as known buyers of inv.
com or write to us at 10 Queens investment trusts.
Murray International Trust PLC 65 Other ways to Invest in Murray International Trust PLC Aberdeen Investment Trust Share Plan AAM runs a Share Plan the Plan through which shares in Murray International Trust can be purchased.
There are no dealing charges on the initial purchase of shares, although investors will suffer the bid-offer spread, which can, on some occasions, be a significant amount.
Lump sum investments start at 250, while regular savers may invest from 100 per month.
Investors simply pay Government Stamp Duty currently 0.5% on entry.
There is no restriction on how long an investor need invest in a Plan, and regular savers can stop or suspend participation by instructing AAM in writing at any time.
In common with other schemes of this type, all investments are held in nominee accounts.
Investors have full voting and other rights of share ownership.
AAM offers both a Mini and Maxi stocks and shares ISA, through which shares in Murray International Trust can be purchased.
Maxi ISA An investment of up to 7,000 in Murray International Trust can be made in the tax year 2006 2007 and 2007 2008.
Mini ISA AAM offers a Mini ISA which will enable investors to invest up to 4,000 in the tax year 2006 2007 and 2007 2008.
There are no brokerage or initial charges for the ISA, although investors will suffer the bid-offer spread, which can be a significant amount.
Investors only pay Government Stamp Duty currently 0.5% on purchases.
The annual ISA management charge is 24 VAT, calculated monthly and deducted from income half yearly.
Under current legislation, investments in ISAs can grow free of capital gains tax.
PEP Transfer PEPs are an easy way to make medium and long term tax efficient investments in the stock markets.
All capital gains are free of tax.
Since 5 April 1999 no further subscriptions can be made into a PEP.
You can however transfer existing PEPs to AAM.
The minimum lump sum for a PEP transfer is 1,000 and is subject to a minimum per trust of 250.
Aberdeens Investment Plan for Children Aberdeen Asset Managers runs an Investment Plan for Children the Childrens Plan which covers a number of investment companies under its management including Murray International Trust PLC.
Anyone can invest in the Childrens Plan, including parents, grandparents and family friends.
All investments are free of dealing charges on the initial purchase of shares, although investors will suffer the bid offer spread, which can, on some occasions, be a significant amount.
Lump sum investments start at 150 per trust, while regular savers may invest from 30 per month.
There is no restriction on how long an investor need invest in a Childrens Plan, and regular savers can stop or suspend participation by instructing Aberdeen Asset Managers in writing at any time.
Trust Information If investors would like details of Murray International Trust or information on the Share Plan or ISA please telephone 0500 00 00 40 or write to Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited, 10 Queens Terrace, Aberdeen AB10 1YG or e-mail at inv.
Details are also available on the Companys website: www.
co. uk 66 Murray International Trust PLC
