BOArD OF DireCTOrS 4 9 11 6 5 Sir Bill Gammell, Chief Executive 54 3 Jann Brown, Finance Director 5 Sir Bill Gammell holds a BA in economics and Accountancy from Jann Brown was appointed Finance Director of Cairn with effect Stirling University.
He founded Cairn and was appointed Chief from 17 November 2006.
She holds an mA from edinburgh executive on its initial listing in 1988.
Sir Bill has over 25 years University and joined Cairn in 1998 after a career in the experience in the international oil and gas industry.
He is accountancy profession, mainly with KPmG.
Prior to her Chairman of the Scottish institute of Sport Foundation, a director appointment as Finance Director, she served on the Group of the Scottish institute of Sport and a director of Artemis Aim management Board for seven years.
She is a member of the VCT plc.
in the 2006 New year Honours List he was awarded a institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland and the knighthood for services to industry in Scotland.
He is also the Chartered institute of Taxation.
non-executive Chairman of Cairn india Limited.
4 Malcolm Thoms, Chief Operating Officer 5 2 Dr Mike Watts, Exploration Director 5 malcolm Thoms holds a BSc Hons in Physics from Dr mike watts holds a First Class Hons degree and a PhD in edinburgh University and an mBA from Heriot-watt University.
He joined Shell in 1980, Burmah in 1985 and Premier He started his career as a field engineer with Schlumberger and in 1986. in 1991 he was appointed managing Director of the subsequently became manager of their businesses in Qatar and Amsterdam listed Holland Sea Search, becoming CeO in 1993.
He joined Cairn in 1989 where he held a number of senior At this time he also carried out new ventures in india, yemen and management positions prior to his appointment as an executive Vietnam for Command Petroleum and SOCO international, who director in 2000. malcolm is also a non-executive director of were major investors in HSS.
in 1996, HSS was acquired by Cairn revus energy AS.
and mike was appointed exploration & New Business Director of Cairn in 1997.
He has been closely associated with numerous oil 5 Phil Tracy, Engineering & Operations Director 56 and gas discoveries in the North Sea, Pakistan, myanmar, Phil Tracy holds an mSc in Petroleum engineering from Thailand, Bangladesh and india, the south Asian strategy at imperial College and a BSc in Chemical engineering from Holland Sea Search Command Cairn, the acquisition of Leeds University.
He is a Chartered engineer with over 30 years Command by Cairn, the Bangladesh and rajasthan transactions experience in the international oil and gas industry.
He originally with Shell and the emergence of Cairn as the pre-eminent joined Cairn in 1988 and served as an executive director from foreign-owned oil and gas company in india.
He subsequently became managing director of Providence resources P. l. c. before re-joining Cairn in 2002.
He was appointed engineering & Operations Director in 2004 and served as rajasthan Project Director until December 2006.
Phil is also a non-executive director of Vienco Oil & Gas Limited.
34 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 7 10 3 8 12 6 Simon Thomson, Legal & Commercial Director 42 9 Ed Story, Non-Executive Director 63 Simon Thomson was appointed Legal & Commercial Director of ed Story was appointed an independent non-executive director Cairn with effect from 17 November 2006.
He holds an LLB Hons of Cairn in 1997.
He is President, Chief executive and founder of from Aberdeen University and a Diploma in Legal Practice from SOCO international plc and has over 40 years experience in the Glasgow University.
He joined Cairn in 1995 as a lawyer before international oil and gas industry.
He also serves as the Honorary becoming Group Commercial manager.
Prior to his appointment Consul of mongolia in Houston.
as Legal & Commercial Director, he served on the Group management Board for six years.
0 Todd hunt, Non-Executive Director 54 Todd Hunt was appointed an independent non-executive 7 Norman Murray, Non-Executive Chairman 59 director of Cairn in 2003.
He is President and joint owner of Norman murray was appointed an independent non-executive Atropos exploration Company and Atropos Production Company director of Cairn in 1999 and Chairman in 2002.
He was a based in Dallas, Texas.
He has over 30 years experience in the oil co-founder and former chairman of morgan Grenfell Private and gas industry.
equity Limited and was also a director of morgan Grenfell Asset management Limited and a non-executive director of Bristow Mark Tyndall, Non-Executive Director 49 Helicopter Group Limited.
He is a past chairman of the British mark Tyndall was appointed an independent non-executive Venture Capital Association and is currently President of the director of Cairn in 2003.
He is Chief executive of Artemis institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland and a noninvestment management Limited and a director of Standard Life executive director of Greene King PLC and robert wiseman european Private equity Trust PLC.
He is also the non-executive Deputy Chairman of Cairn india Limited.
2 Andrew Shilston, Non-Executive Director 5 Andrew Shilston was appointed an independent non-executive 8 hamish Grossart, Non-Executive Deputy Chairman 50 director of Cairn in 2004.
He is a Chartered Accountant and has Hamish Grossart was appointed an independent non-executive been Finance Director of rolls-royce plc since 2003.
Prior to that director of Cairn in 1994 and became Deputy Chairman in 1996. he was the Finance Director of enterprise Oil plc from 1993 to He has over 20 years experience on public company boards in a 2002.
He has over 20 years experience in the oil and gas industry.
wide range of industries, both in an executive and non-executive capacity.
He is currently also Deputy Chairman of British Polythene industries PLC, Chairman of indigo Vision Group plc and a non-executive director of Artemis investment management Limited and Cairn india Limited.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 35
