DIRECTORS REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2006 The Directors are pleased to present their Sir George Russell retired from the Board on CREDITOR PAYMENT POLICY report and the audited financial statements 25 April 2006.
Mr RF Bennett retired from The Companys policy with regard to the for the year ended 31 December 2006. the Board on 31 January 2007.
Mr DA payment of suppliers is to negotiate and Jones was appointed to the Board as Group agree terms and conditions with all its PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES Finance Director on 1 February 2007. suppliers, which include the giving of an The principal activities of the group are undertaking to pay suppliers within an Mr DA Jones, having been appointed since discussed in the Operating and Business agreed payment period.
the last Annual General Meeting, retires at Review on pages 34 to 54. the Annual General Meeting and offers The average creditor payment period at himself for election.
Details of the service 31 December 2006 was 29 days REVIEW OF BUSINESS, FUTURE contract for Mr DA Jones are set out on 2005 32 days.
DEVELOPMENTS, PRINCIPAL RISKS AND pages 22 and 23.
UNCERTAINTIES EMPLOYEES A review of the business, future developments, Ms N Pease, Mr NAH Fenwick, Employee communications are vital to the principal risks and uncertainties is given in the Mr KM Currie and Mr AM Kuipers retire by success of the Company, and good staff Operating and Business Review.
rotation at the Annual General Meeting relations are a key part of management and, being eligible, offer themselves for responsibility at all levels.
Details of the service contracts consultation takes place with the national Details of dividends paid and proposed in for Mr KM Currie and Mr AM Kuipers are committee of AMICUS.
The Company also respect of the year ended 31 December set out on pages 22 and 23.
There are no issues a bi-monthly staff magazine and 2006 are included in note 13 to the service contracts in respect of the other weekly news bulletins.
The Company is committed to equal TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS The interests of Directors in the shares of employment opportunities for everyone, Land and buildings, which are included in the Company at 31 December 2006 and and treats applicants for work solely on the balance sheet at cost less accumulated 27 February 2007 are set out on page 29. their ability to do the job.
depreciation, amounted to 101.4 million at 31 December 2006.
In the Directors SHARES Details of employees participation within opinion, based on valuations carried out by The authorised and issued share capital are share schemes in the year are included the Groups qualified chartered surveyors, set out in note 34 to the accounts.
within the Operating and Business Review.
the total market value of these assets was At the Annual General Meeting on 25 April not significantly different.
CHARITABLE CONTRIBUTIONS 2006, a resolution was passed giving the Details of charitable contributions relating Details of changes to tangible fixed assets Company the authority to make market to 2006 are included in the Operating and are included in note 24 to the accounts.
purchases of Ordinary Shares up to a Business Review.
maximum of 10% of the issued share capital.
POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS A further resolution was passed providing AUDITORS AND DISCLOSURE OF On 24 January 2007, the Group issued a for the Company to enter into a contingent INFORMATION TO AUDITORS further 6.1 billion of securitised notes, purchase contract with The Northern Rock So far as every Director is aware, there is no secured against loans and advances on Foundation to repurchase Foundation Shares relevant information needed in preparation residential properties, from the Granite in the same proportion and at the same of their report of which the auditors are not Master Issuer programme.
price as the Ordinary Shares repurchased.
Each Director has taken the steps These authorities expire at the Annual The Directors are of the opinion that there that they need to take as a Director to General Meeting in 2007 when a resolution have been no other significant events which make themselves aware of any relevant audit will be proposed for their renewal.
have occurred since 1 January 2007 to the information and to establish that the date of this report that are likely to have a auditors are also aware of that information.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS material effect on the Groups financial As at 27 February 2007, the following The auditors,  LLP, position as disclosed in these accounts.
notifiable interests in the Companys Ordinary have indicated their willingness to continue Shares had been reported to the Company: in office and a resolution to reappoint DIRECTORS them will be proposed at the Annual The current composition of the Board of Baillie Gifford & Co 6.9% General Meeting.
Directors together with brief biographical Bank of America Corporation 3.1% details of each Director is shown on page Lazard Asset Management LLC Group 3.0% By order of the Board 12.
With the exception of the Directors Legal & General Group plc 3.5% C Taylor, Company Secretary noted below, all Directors have served on Lloyds TSB Group plc 5.8% 27 February 2007 the Board throughout the year ended 31 December 2006.
