Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 2 2 1 Christopher Collins 67 2 Jim Sutcliffe 50 FCA, has been non-executive Chairman since May 2005, having BSc, FIA, became Chief Executive in November 2001, having been been a non-executive director since March 1999.
He also chairs the appointed to the Board as Chief Executive of the Groups life Nomination Committee.
He was formerly Chairman of Hanson PLC assurance businesses in January 2000.
He is also Chairman of from 1998 until April 2005.
He is Chairman of Forth Ports plc  Skandia publ, a non-executive director of and a non-executive director of Go-Ahead Group plc and of Nedbank Group Limited and of Nedbank Limited and a director of Alfred McAlpine plc.
The Nelson Mandela Legacy Trust UK.
Before joining the Group, he was Chief Executive, UK, of Prudential plc and Chief Operating Officer 3 Jonathan Nicholls 49 of Jackson National, Prudentials US subsidiary BA, ACA, FCT, joined the Board as Group Finance Director on 1 November 2006, having previously been Finance Director of 4 Julian Roberts 49 Hanson plc since 1996.
Prior to that, he held various roles at BA, FCA, MCT, has been Chief Executive of Skandia since February Abbey National from 1985.
During his period at Hanson plc he 2006.
He was previously Group Finance Director of Old Mutual plc, a initiated continuous improvement at its operations in over 14 countries position he had held since joining the Group in August 2000.
He was and the introduction of more rigorous capital appraisal and strategic formerly Group Finance Director of Sun Life & Provincial Holdings plc.
He was formerly a non-executive director of Before joining Sun Life & Provincial Holdings plc, he was a director Man Group plc, a role he resigned from on joining the Company.
and Chief Financial Officer of Aon UK Holdings Limited.
1,2, 3 1,2, 3 5 Nigel Andrews 59 6 Rudi Bogni 59 BSc, MBA, has been a non-executive director of the Company D. Econ.
Bocconi, has been a non-executive director of the Company since June 2002.
He is non-executive Chairman of the Companys since February 2002 and he chairs the Remuneration Committee.
He principal US holding company, Old Mutual US Holdings, Inc.
He is is Chairman of Medinvest International SCA, Luxembourg.
He is also a a non-executive director of Chemtura Corporation, a governor of the member of the boards of the LGT Foundation, Common Purpose London Business School and a trustee of the Victory Funds.
Previously International Limited and Prospect Publishing, and of the governing he was an Executive Vice President and member of the office of the council of the Centre for the Study of Financial Innovation.
He served CEO of GE Capital, having spent 13 years with The General Electric previously as a member of the Executive Board and Chief Executive, Company Inc.
Private Banking, of UBS AG, and before that he was Group Treasurer and a member of the Executive Committee of Midland Bank plc.
Key: 1 Member of the Group Audit and Risk Committee 2 Member of the Nomination Committee 3 Member of the Remuneration Committee Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 44 7 8 9 10 10 11 12 1,2, 3 1,2 7 Norman Broadhurst 65 8 Russell Edey 64 FCA, FCT, has been a non-executive director of the Company since FCA, has been a non-executive director of the Company since June March 1999 and became senior independent non-executive director 2004.
He is Chairman of Anglogold Ashanti Limited, deputy chairman in May 2005.
He chairs the Group Audit and Risk Committee and of N M Rothschild Corporate Finance Limited and a member of the also joined the Board of Skandia in February 2006.
He was Group Conseil fide Surveillance of Paris-Orlans, SA.
He previously served on Finance Director of Railtrack plc from 1994 to 2000.
He is Chairman the boards of English China Clays plc, Wassall plc, Northern Foods plc of Freightliner Limited, Chloride Group plc and Cattles plc.
He is also and Express Dairies plc.
His career began in the Finance Division of a non-executive director of United Utilities plc.
the Anglo American Corporation of South Africa Limited in Johannesburg.
In the 1970s he was General Manager Corporate 9 Reuel Khoza 57 Finance of Capel Court Corporation in Melbourne.
D, MA, was appointed as a non-executive director of the in 1977 and was Head of Corporate Finance from 1991 to 1996.
Company in January 2006 and has also been Chairman of Nedbank 2,3 Group since May 2006.
Mr Khoza is Chairman of Aka Capital, which 10 Michael Marks 65 is 25% owned by Old Mutual South Africa and is the single largest CBE, has been a non-executive director of the Company since participant in Nedbanks Corporate Client Scheme established as part February 2004.
He is one of the founding partners of New Smith of its BEE ownership arrangements.
He is also a non-executive Capital Partners LLP and is also a non-executive director of RIT Capital director of the Nampak, Protea Hospitality Holdings and Corobrik.
Until February 2003 he had held a number of senior previous appointments include Chairmanship of Eskom and nonroles with Merrill Lynch, including Executive Chairman of Merrill Lynch executive directorships of Glaxo Wellcome SA, IBM SA, Vodacom, the Europe, Middle East and Africa, and Executive Vice-President of Merrill JSE, JCI, Standard Bank and Liberty.
Prior to joining Merrill Lynch in 1995, he had been Chairman of Smith New Court plc, having earlier been responsible for 11 Lars Otterbeck 64 the international operations of that company in New York, Hong Kong, Dr. Econ.
was appointed as a non-executive director of the Company Singapore and South Africa.
He was also formerly a non-executive in November 2006.
He is also a non-executive director and Chairman director of the London Stock Exchange, Chairman of the London of the Audit Committee of Skandia.
Mr Otterbecks external roles Investment Banking Association and Vice-President of the British include Chairman of Hakon Invest AB and non-executive director of Bankers Association.
AB Lindex, both listed on the Stockholm Stock Exchange.
He is Chairman of the SSE-MBA Foundation at the Stockholm School of 12 Bongani Nqwababa 40 Economics, Vice Chairman of the Third AP Fund, Chairman of B. Acc, CA, MBA, will be joining the Board as a non-executive director Naringslivets Borskommittee Industry and Commerce Stock on 1 April 2007.
He has been Finance Director of the South African Exchange Committee and Vice Chairman of the Swedish Corporate electricity utility group, Eskom Holdings Limited, since 2004.
joining Eskom, he had been Treasurer and CFO of Shell Southern Africa and, before that, he had worked in the Treasury Departments of Fortis Bank in the Netherlands and FBC Fidelity Bank in South Africa.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 45
