Directors Report on Corporate Governance and Other Matters Introduction and Combined Code compliance Index to this section of the Report The Group is committed to achieving high standards of corporate governance, which are designed to provide assurance that the Introduction and Combined Code compliance 46 organisation is directed and controlled by its Board of Directors and through systems of delegation and escalation so as to be able to Board of Directors 46 achieve its business objectives responsibly and in accordance with Membership and directors interests high standards of accountability and integrity.
Rotation and re-election of directors Skills, experience and review The principal governance rules that apply to UK companies listed on Mandate, governance and Scheme of Delegated Authority the London Stock Exchange are set out in the Combined Code Executive and non-executive roles appended to the Listing, Prospectus, Disclosure and Transparency Independence of non-executive directors Rules of the Financial Services Authority, as most recently updated in 2006 operations June 2006 the Combined Code.
As the Companys primary listing is on the London Stock Exchange, this report mainly addresses the Old Mutual Executive 50 matters covered by the Combined Code, but the Company also has regard, where appropriate, to governance expectations in the five other Board Committees 50 territories where its shares are listed South Africa, Sweden, Namibia, Group Audit and Risk Committee Zimbabwe and Malawi.
Actuarial Review Committee Remuneration Committee In the year ended 31 December 2006 and in the preparation of this Nomination Committee Annual Report and these Accounts, the Company has complied with Executive Committee the main and supporting principles and provisions set out in the Group Capital Management Committee Combined Code as described in the following sections of this Report.
Terms of reference The Companys compliance with Combined Code provisions C1.1, C2.1, C3.1 to C3.7, and the statement relating to the going concern Attendance record 52 basis adopted in preparing the financial statements, have been reviewed by the Companys auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, in accordance Auditors 53 with guidance published by the Auditing Practices Board.
General Meetings 53 Board of Directors Results of the Annual General Meeting 2006 Membership and directors interests The Board currently has eleven members, consisting of three executive Internal control environment 55 and eight non-executive directors.
All of the current directors except Approach to risk management for Mr Khoza, Mr Nicholls and Mr Otterbeck who were appointed to Risk governance the Board on 27 January, 1 November, and 14 November 2006 Internal audit respectively served throughout the year ended 31 December 2006.
Risk appetite Mr Clewlow retired from the Board as a non-executive director at the Group risk principles end of the Annual General Meeting on 10 May 2006 and Professor Risk methodologies Nkuhlu resigned as a non-executive director and as a member of the Management of specific risks Group Audit and Risk Committee with effect from 31 October 2006 Treasury management as a consequence of his prospective appointment as Chairman of Kagiso Trust Investments, a company that had potentially conflicting Other Directors Report matters 56 interests in the South African life assurance sector.
Relations with shareholders and analysts Employment matters On 26 February 2007, the Company announced that Mr Nqwababa Directors shareholdings and share dealings would be joining the Board as a non-executive director with effect from Directors indemnities 1 April 2007 and that Mr Marks would be retiring by rotation at the Supplier payment policy Annual General Meeting on 24 May 2007 and, because of his other Charitable contributions business commitments, not seeking re-election.
Environmental matters Political donations Details of the directors interests within the meaning of section 346 Share capital of the Companies Act 1985, including interests of connected persons Substantial interests in shares in the share capital of the Company and quoted securities of its Going concern subsidiaries at the beginning and end of the year under review are set Disclosure of information to the auditors out in the following tables, while their interests in share options and restricted share awards are described in the section of the Governing law 59 Remuneration Report entitled Directors interests under employee share plans.
There have been no changes to any of these interests between 31 December 2006 and 26 February 2007.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 46 Nedbank Old Mutual plc Group Limited Number of shares Number of shares At 31 December 2006 N D T Andrews 7,000 R Bogni 19,000 N N Broadhurst 2,416 C D Collins 50,000 R P Edey 25,000 2,550 1 R J Khoza 2,062 M J P Marks 2 J C Nicholls L H Otterbeck 2 J V F Roberts 562,543 2 J H Sutcliffe 1,318,971 Mutual & Federal Nedbank Insurance Old Mutual plc Group Limited Company Limited Number of shares Number of shares Number of shares At 1 January 2006 or date of appointment as a director, if later N D T Andrews R Bogni 19,000 N N Broadhurst 2,416 C D Collins 5,541 R P Edey 2,500 R J Khoza 2,062 M J P Marks 2 3 J V F Roberts 452,375 500 2 J H Sutcliffe 1,069,317 Former directors at 1 January 2006 and dates of resignation W A M Clewlow 30,700 2,849 W L Nkuhlu 12,600 Notes: 1 This figure does not include shares in the Aka-Nedbank Eyethu Trust, one of Nedbanks Eyethu BEE trusts.
2 These figures do not include rights to restricted shares that have not yet vested, which are described in the Remuneration Report.
3 Mr Roberts interest in 500 shares in Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Limited was held non-beneficially as directors qualification shares and ended upon his resignation as a director of that company on 1 October 2006.
Save for the interest of Mr Khoza in the Aka Capital transaction referred to in note 46 v to the Accounts, no director had a material interest in any significant contract with the Company or any of its subsidiaries during the year.
Additional details of various non-material transactions between the directors and the Group are reported, on an aggregated basis along with other transactions by senior managers of the Company, in note 46 to the Accounts.
Rotation and re-election of directors Skills, experience and review The Articles of Association of the Company require that any newlyPlans for refreshing and renewing the Boards composition are appointed directors should be subject to election at the next following managed proactively by the Nomination Committee so as to ensure Annual General Meeting and also that at least one-third of the that changes take place without undue disruption and that there directors excluding those appointed by the Board during the year is an appropriate balance of experience and length of service.
That should retire by rotation each year.
These provisions are applied Committee also has regard, in making recommendations, to in such a manner that each director submits himself for election independence of candidates and their suitability and willingness or re-election at regular intervals and at least once every three years.
to serve on other Committees of the Board.
All of these aspects are currently believed by that Committee to be satisfactory and appropriate The Nomination Committee considered the candidates who are for the requirements of the Groups business.
While there are currently standing for election or re-election at this years Annual General only three executive directors, members of the Board have regular Meeting as referred to in Ordinary Resolutions 3 i to v in the contact with the other most senior executive management including Notice of Annual General Meeting on pages 224 and 225 of this the regional heads of the most significant business units of the document at its meeting in February 2007.
In accordance with its Group, through the periodic participation in Board meetings and findings, it recommends to shareholders the election of Mr Nicholls, other briefing sessions by those executives.
Mr Nqwababa and Mr Otterbeck and the re-election of Mr Collins and Mr Roberts as directors based upon their respective professional qualifications, prior business experience and contribution to the Board.
Biographical details of each of the candidates are contained in the descriptions accompanying their photographs on pages 44 and 45 of this document.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 47 Directors Report on Corporate Governance and Other Matters continued Mandate, governance and Scheme of Delegated Authority On appointment, new directors receive induction, including The Boards role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership to the information about matters of immediate importance to the Group, Company within a framework of prudent and effective controls that such as the current budget and strategy documents, management enable risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board sets the accounts, the Scheme of Delegated Authority and details of the Companys strategic aims, ensures that the necessary financial and Companys directors and officers liability policy.
They also have a human resources are in place for it to meet its objectives and reviews series of meetings with other directors, senior management and management performance.
It regularly reviews strategic issues through external advisers such as the auditors.
the Chief Executives report and also holds a strategy session each year at which high-level strategic matters are debated.
The Board sets Processes are in place for any potential conflicts of interest to be the Companys values and standards, and ensures that its obligations disclosed and for directors to recuse themselves from participation in any to shareholders and others are understood and met.
decisions where they may have any such conflict or potential conflict.
The Board receives a wide array of information on the Groups The directors may take independent professional advice at the businesses on a regular basis.
Monthly management accounts are Companys expense for the furtherance of their duties, whether as circulated to each member of the Board within three weeks of the members of the Board or of any of its committees.
These contain detailed analysis of the businesses financial performance, including comparisons against budget.
Any The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance in issues arising from these are addressed at Board Meetings or can be respect of legal action against its directors.
The Board calendar ensures that all key matters are dealt with on a scheduled basis over the course of the All directors have access to the Company Secretary, who is responsible year, including presentations on each of the Groups major businesses.
to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with.
Board meetings are held regularly in the principal overseas territories There is an agreed list of matters reserved for the Boards decision.
where the Group operates, at which local management makes detailed presentations of business and strategic issues affecting those These are set out in the Companys Scheme of Delegated Authority businesses.
and currently include, among other things, the following: The Board has oversight of the Groups wholly-owned businesses, payment or recommendation of dividends: but also: i delegates specific responsibilities for certain matters to approval of results announcements, annual reports and any other its committees Executive, Group Capital Management, Nomination, public statements relating to the Groups financial position likely Remuneration, and Group Audit and Risk, subject to their respective to have a material impact on the Groups reputation: terms of reference: and ii receives assurance from boards and their approval of the Groups budgets and the formulation of medium respective committees at the Groups principal subsidiaries.
and long-term direction and strategy for the Group: establishment of committees of the Board, their constitution and The governance relationships with the Groups majority-owned terms of reference: subsidiaries, Nedbank Group Limited and Mutual & Federal Insurance monitoring of compliance with the Groups environmental policies: Company Limited, are somewhat different, in recognition of their own approval of the acquisition or disposal of any business or governance expectations as separately-listed entities on the JSE and investment for a consideration of 25 million or more: the fact that they each have minority shareholders.
approval of expenditure by a principal subsidiary in excess of its respective delegated expenditure authority: With respect to Nedbank Group, the Company entered into a approval of significant changes to the accounting policies or relationship agreement in February 2004 setting out the Companys practices of the Group: requirements and expectations as its majority shareholder.
The full text approval of any proposal as a result of which either Nedbank of that relationship agreement is available on the Companys website.
Group Limited or Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Limited Among the matters covered are: i transactions involving members of would cease to be a majority-owned subsidiary of the Company: the Nedbank Group that require prior consultation with or agreement approval of appointments to the Board and renewal of by the Company: ii provision of information, including that required non-executive directors appointments, following prior review by the for assuring the Company about various aspects of corporate Nomination Committee: governance: iii consultation over senior appointments: and iv approval of any major decision relating to the conduct or settlement business co-operation.
of any material litigation involving the Company or its subsidiaries: appointment and removal of the Company Secretary: The policyholders funds of the Groups African life assurance appointment or termination of appointment of key professional operations have holdings representing in aggregate in excess of 20% advisers to the Group: and of the issued share capital of companies listed on the stock exchanges any other matters that are likely to have a material effect on the of the countries in which those businesses operate.
These are held Groups financial position, future strategy or reputation.
purely as investments, and the companies concerned are not subject to the governance or control structures of the Group.
Executive and non-executive roles The executive element of the Board is balanced by a strong The Chairman and Company Secretary are both involved in ensuring independent group of non-executive directors.
so that no individual or good information flows within the Board and its committees and small group of individuals can dominate the Boards decision-making.
between senior management and the non-executive directors, as well as in facilitating induction and encouraging non-executive directors to The non-executive directors scrutinise the performance of attend courses at the Companys expense to update their skills and management in meeting agreed goals and objectives, and monitor the knowledge.
Procedures are in place to enable them to satisfy themselves on the integrity of the Groups financial information and that financial controls and systems of risk management are robust and defensible.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 48 Those non-executive directors who are members of the Remuneration The Board has determined that, in the absence of exceptional Committee are responsible for determining appropriate levels of circumstances, no non-executive directors three-year cycle of remuneration for the executive directors.
Members of the Nomination appointment which is itself subject to re-election and to Companies Committee have a primary role in recommending the appointment Act provisions relating to the removal of a director should be renewed and, where necessary, removal of executive directors.
The Board as a more than twice, i. e. that non-executive directors should serve a whole receives and considers regular reports on talent management maximum of nine years in that role.
The renewal of non-executive and succession planning.
directors terms for successive three-year cycles is not automatic and the continued suitability of each non-executive director is assessed by Separately from the formal Board meeting schedule, the Chairman the Nomination Committee before renewal of his appointment takes holds meetings with the other non-executive directors, without any place.
A particularly searching review is carried out at the end of six executives being present, in order to provide a forum for any issues to years.
The section of the Remuneration Report entitled Non-Executive be raised.
He also conducts an annual performance evaluation of each Directors Terms of Engagement describes the current position of each of the other non-executive directors, the results of which are reported of the non-executive directors with respect to their maximum three to the Nomination Committee.
These are designed to ensure that each terms of three years and how the extension process has been applied director is continuing to contribute effectively and to demonstrate to the directors concerned.
commitment to the role including commitment of time for Board and Committee meetings and any other duties.
The outputs from these The Board conducts an annual self-assessment exercise to evaluate performance evaluations are taken into account by the Nomination the effectiveness of its procedures.
In 2006, this process was carried Committee in deciding whether to recommend to the Board the out through a detailed questionnaire, with returns being submitted to extension of engagement of non-executive directors and also whether the Company Secretary, who collated a report on the outputs for the to recommend to shareholders the re-election of any non-executive Chairman and the Board.
The Chairman took these into account in directors who are due to retire by rotation at the Annual General one-to-one meetings between himself and the other directors, so as to Meeting.
They would also form the basis, if the need arose, for the ensure that any concerns about Board processes or capabilities were Chairman to act to address any weaknesses identified in the Board identified and aired.
As a consequence of the 2006 survey, various by seeking the resignation of underperforming directors or proposing, action points were identified.
through the Nomination Committee, that additional directors should be appointed.
Independence of non-executive directors Six of the seven current non-executive directors other than the Informal meetings among the non-executive directors, without the Chairman Messrs Andrews, Bogni, Broadhurst, Edey, Marks and Chairman or any executive being present, are also facilitated by the Otterbeck are considered by the Board to be independent within the Company.
Among the activities carried out at such meetings is the meaning of, and having regard to the criteria set out in, paragraph annual review of the Chairmans own performance, under the aegis A.
3.1 of the Combined Code i. e. independent in character and of the senior independent non-executive director, who also obtains judgement and there being no relationships or circumstances which such input as he considers appropriate for such purpose from the are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement.
Mr Nqwababa, who will be joining the Board as a non-executive director from 1 April 2007, is also considered by the Board to be Where directors have concerns that cannot be resolved about the independent.
The Board decided in February 2006, following a review running of the Company or a proposed action, they are encouraged to by the Nomination Committee, that it was not appropriate to classify make their views known and these are recorded in the Minutes of the Mr Khoza as independent, in view of the business interests between Board meeting.
No written statements on resignation containing his company, Aka Capital, and the Companys banking subsidiary, matters of concern, such as are referred to in paragraph A.
Combined Code, were received by the Chairman during 2006.
Mr Broadhurst has been the senior independent non-executive director The division of responsibilities between the current Chairman, Mr since May 2005.
The senior independent non-executive director is Collins, and the Chief Executive, Mr Sutcliffe, is documented so as to available to shareholders if they have concerns that are unresolved ensure that there is a clear division of responsibilities between the after contact through the normal channels of the Chairman, Chief running of the Board and executive responsibility for running the Executive or Group Finance Director or where such contact would be Companys business.
This, together with the Scheme of Delegated inappropriate.
His contact details can be obtained from the Company Authority and the matters reserved for decision by the Board, ensures Secretary martin.
that no one individual has unfettered powers of decision.
The terms and conditions of engagement of each of the non-executive Responsibilities of Mr Collins as Chairman include those contained in directors are available in the Corporate Governance section of the the Supporting Principle to paragraph A.
2 of the Combined Code, Companys website.
These include details of the expected time namely leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness in all commitment involved which each of the non-executive directors has aspects of its role and setting its agenda: ensuring that the directors accepted.
Other significant commitments of potential appointees are receive accurate, timely and clear information: ensuring effective considered by the Nomination Committee as part of the selection communication with shareholders: facilitating the effective contribution process and are disclosed to the Board when recommendation of an to the Board of non-executive directors in particular: and ensuring appointment is submitted.
Non-executive directors are also required to constructive relationships between the executive and non-executive inform the Board of any subsequent changes to such commitments, directors.
which must be pre-cleared with the Chairman if material.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 49 Directors Report on Corporate Governance and Other Matters continued The executive directors are permitted to hold one external i. e. nonAll of the members of the Committee are independent non-executive Group non-executive directorship but not a chairmanship of another directors.
The Chairman, Mr Broadhurst, is a Chartered Accountant listed company, subject to prior clearance by the Board and the and has recent and relevant financial experience, having been Finance directorship concerned not being in conflict or potential conflict with Director of Railtrack plc until 2000.
He also has continuing experience any of the Groups businesses.
None of the executive directors as Chairman or as a non-executive director of a number of other major currently holds such a directorship.
UK companies that provide him with valuable insight into financial and accounting matters.
All members of the Committee are expected to be 2006 operations financially literate and to have relevant corporate finance experience.
The Board meets on a scheduled basis regularly during the year and met nine times on this basis during 2006.
Meetings are co-ordinated The Committee: with the Companys reporting calendar to allow for detailed consideration of quarterly, interim and preliminary results.
Sessions monitors the integrity of the financial statements of the Company are also devoted specifically to strategy and business planning.
In and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial addition, the Board meets ad hoc, as and when required, to deal with performance, including reviewing significant financial reporting specific matters requiring its consideration.
It met ad hoc six times judgements contained in them: during 2006. reviews the Companys internal financial controls: monitors and reviews the independence and effectiveness of the The scheduled Board meetings in 2006 included visits to the Groups Companys internal audit function and its activities.
An internal businesses in Sweden, the USA and South Africa, which included audit charter, reviewed and approved by the Committee, governs presentations to the Board by the senior management teams of the internal audit activity within the Group and is conducted in local businesses in those countries.
The visit to Sweden also included accordance with an annual audit plan.
Progress against that plan is a training session for members of the Board on the listing and reported regularly to the Committee: governance requirements of the Stockholm Stock Exchange.
receives and reviews reports on risk: makes recommendations to the Board, for it to put to shareholders Old Mutual Executive for their approval in general meeting, in relation to appointment, Following the acquisition of Skandia, the Management Board was re-appointment and removal of the external auditors and approving replaced during 2006 by the Old Mutual Executive as the executive their remuneration and terms of engagement: management committee through which the Company exercised reviews and monitors the external auditors independence and its co-ordination and stewardship of the Group.
objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory In addition to the executive directors of the Company Mr Sutcliffe, requirements: Mr Nicholls and Mr Roberts, the other members of the Old Mutual develops and implements policy on the engagement of the external Executive at 31 December 2006 were the Company Secretary auditors to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant Mr Murray, the Director, Group Corporate Development Mr Deane, ethical guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the Director of the CEOs Office Mr Bicket, the Director, Group the external audit firm, reporting to the Board any matters in Development Mr Newman, the Director, Corporate Affairs Ms Bell respect of which it considers that action or improvement is needed and Messrs Askari, Head and Powers as the regional heads of Asia and making recommendations as to the steps to be taken: and Pacific, South Africa and the USA respectively.
Mr Deane ceased to be reviews the Groups whistleblowing arrangements.
a member of the Old Mutual Executive in January 2007 ahead of his departure from the Group at the end of February 2007.
At its meetings in 2006, the Committee received reports covering, among other things: Board Committees the accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in the The Board has a number of standing committees or sub-committees, Groups accounts, including on the fair value balance sheet for to which various matters are delegated in accordance with their Skandia following its acquisition by the Group: respective terms of reference.
The Board also establishes committees significant accounting and actuarial issues the latter by way of on an ad hoc basis to deal with particular matters as and when escalation from its special purpose sub-committee, the Actuarial thought fit.
In doing so, it specifies a remit, quorum and appropriate Review Committee, described below : mix of executive and non-executive participation.
Further information tax, litigation and contingent liabilities affecting the Group: on the main standing committees and sub-committees of the Board is any significant findings or control issues arising from internal audits set out below.
carried out around the Group: and environmental and corporate social responsibility matters.
Group Audit and Risk Committee Members and years of appointment: N N Broadhurst Chairman 1999, N D T Andrews 2003, R Bogni 2002, R P Edey 2004.
Other member during part of the year: Prof W L Nkuhlu appointed 2005, ceased 31 October 2006.
Secretary and year of appointment: M C Murray 1999 The Group Audit and Risk Committee was formerly known as the Group Audit Committee, but its name was changed at the beginning of 2007.
It is referred to by its new name in this Report.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 50 A number of audit or audit, risk and compliance committees operated Based on its satisfaction with the results of the activities outlined at subsidiary level during 2006, including at Old Mutual Life above, the Committee has recommended to the Board that the Assurance Company South Africa Limited, Old Mutual US external auditors should be re-appointed for 2007.
Holdings, Inc. Skandia AB, Nedbank Group Limited and Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Limited, with terms of reference in In relation to internal audit, the Committee reviewed: relation to the businesses under their respective remit broadly internal audits terms of reference, reporting lines and access to the equivalent to those of the Committee.
The Committee received Committee and members of the Board: minutes of the proceedings and reports from subsidiary audit internal audits plans and resources and its achievement of the committees on a regular basis and Chairmen of these subsidiary audit activities planned as part of its agreed programme for the year: committees were invited to attend meetings of and report to the the results of key audits and other significant findings, the Committee periodically.
A planning meeting was held between the adequacy of managements responses and the timeliness of Chairman of the Committee and the Chairmen of the main subsidiary resolution: and audit committees, the regional heads of internal audit and statistics on staff numbers, qualifications and experience and representatives of the Groups auditors in November 2006 to cotimeliness of reporting.
ordinate the audit committees activities and to review and approve the scope of internal audit plans for 2007.
Such planning meetings now The Groups whistleblowing arrangements enable employees of the take place annually.
Group and others to report, in confidence, via a dedicated hotline operated by an independent firm of accountants, complaints on The Committee is responsible for the development, implementation accounting, risk issues, internal controls, auditing issues and related and monitoring of the Groups policy on external audit.
Any matters so reported are investigated and escalated to the assigns overall responsibility for monitoring the independence and Committee as appropriate.
Efforts are also made to educate staff objectivity of, and compliance with ethical and regulatory requirements around the Group about the existence of the whistleblowing facility by, the external auditors to the Committee and day-to-day and to help them detect the possible signs of fraudulent or improper responsibility to the Group Finance Director.
The Groups policy on external audit sets out the categories of nonThe Committee holds private meetings with the external auditors twice audit services that the external auditors are and are not allowed to yearly or more often, if requested by the auditors to review key provide to the Group.
Further details of this policy are set out under issues.
The Chairman of the Committee also has regular interaction the heading Auditors later in this report.
with the external auditors and Group Internal Audit Director, as well as with the Chairmen of subsidiary audit committees and the Group To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of the external Finance Director, so as to remain abreast of issues as they arise during auditors, the Committee reviewed: the year.
changes in key external audit staff in the external auditors plan for Actuarial Review Committee the year: Members and years of appointment: R Bogni Chairman 2002, the arrangements for day-to-day management of the audit N N Broadhurst 2005, J H Sutcliffe 2005.
Secretary and year of relationship: appointment: Ms M Carey 2002 a report from the external auditors describing their arrangements to The Actuarial Review Committee operated during 2006 as a subidentify, report and manage any conflicts of interest: and committee of the Group Audit and Risk Committee, covering the the overall extent of non-audit services provided by the external Groups life operations worldwide.
The role of the Committee was: auditors, in addition to their case-by-case approval of the provision i to review the actuarial content of the life assurance figures included of non-audit services by the external auditors.
in the Groups externally published financial statements: ii to verify the appropriateness of the actuarial methods and assumptions used To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the Committees and changes thereto and the appropriateness of the financial results reviewed: that depend on actuarial calculations: and iii to review the financial soundness of each of the life assurance companies within the Group.
the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed auditor plan and The Committee met six times during 2006.
It has been decided that variations from the plan: and the governance functions of the Actuarial Review Committee should be the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditors in their handling reincorporated into the Group Audit and Risk Committee from 2007. of the key accounting and audit judgements.
Remuneration Committee To fulfil its responsibility for oversight of the external audit process, the Members and years of appointment: R Bogni Chairman 2005, Committee reviewed: N D T Andrews 2002, N N Broadhurst 1999, M J P Marks 2004.
Secretary and year of appointment: M C Murray 1999 the terms, areas of responsibility, associated duties and scope of Details of the role and activities of the Remuneration Committee and the audit as set out in the external auditors engagement letter for how the Remuneration Committee and the Board have applied the the year: main and supporting principles and the Code Provisions in Section B the external auditors overall work plan for the year: of the Combined Code relating to remuneration matters are provided in the external auditors fee proposal: the Remuneration Report.
any major issues that arose during the course of the audit and their resolution: the key accounting and audit judgements: the levels of errors identified during audit: and any recommendations made by the external auditors in their management letter and the adequacy of managements response.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 51 Directors Report on Corporate Governance and Other Matters continued Nomination Committee Executive Committee Members and years of appointment: C D Collins 1999, became Members: J C Nicholls, J V F Roberts, J H Sutcliffe Chairman in May 2005, N D T Andrews 2005, R Bogni 2003, The Executive Committee is a committee comprising the executive N N Broadhurst 1999, R P Edey 2005, M J P Marks 2005, directors of the Company, to which executive control and decisionJ H Sutcliffe 2003.
Other members during part of the year: W A M making are delegated, subject to reservation of matters that require Clewlow appointed 1999, ceased 10 May 2006, Prof W L Nkuhlu approval by the Board itself.
A quorum comprises two of the executive appointed 2005, ceased 31 October 2006.
Secretary and year of directors.
The Committee met 18 times during 2006. appointment: M C Murray 1999 The Nomination Committee makes recommendations to the Board in Group Capital Management Committee relation to the appointment of directors, the structure of the Board and Members and years of appointment: J C Nicholls Chairman 2006, membership of the Boards main standing committees.
It also reviews A Duncan 2006, D I Hope 2002, M Mittal 2006, J H Sutcliffe development and succession plans for the most senior executive 2002.
Other members during part of the year: A Patterson management of the Group and proposed appointments to the boards appointed 2003, ceased 25 August 2006, J V F Roberts and standing committees of principal subsidiaries where these are appointed 2002, ceased 4 December 2006.
Secretary and year material in the context of the Group as a whole.
It is chaired by the appointment: J L Cowburn 2006 Chairman of the Board, Mr Collins, and a majority of its members five The Group Capital Management Committee is a sub-committee of the out of seven are independent non-executive directors.
Its role is: i to set an appropriate framework and guidelines to ensure the appropriate management of the Groups The Nomination Committee seeks to ensure that its process for capital: ii to support the business planning and quarterly business identifying candidates for recommendation to the Board as new review process in terms of allocating capital to the Groups businesses: directors is formal, rigorous and transparent.
Vacancies generally arise and iii to monitor the return based on allocated capital per business in the context of either planned refreshing and renewal of the Board, relative to the hurdle rate and limit the allocation of capital to replacing directors who are due to retire, or rebalancing the balance of underperforming businesses, as appropriate.
knowledge, skills or independence of the Board.
In addition, it is tasked: i to ensure that the strategic investment Mr Khoza was appointed as a non-executive director of the Company goals of the Group are clearly disseminated: ii to consider and in January 2006 in anticipation of his succession to Mr Clewlow as approve the overall investment strategy of the Groups shareholders Chairman of Nedbank Group and to ensure continuity of funds, including those supporting regulatory and solvency capital, in communication of Nedbank-related matters at Company Board level.
order that the shareholders assets are managed prudently having Mr Nicholls was appointed as Group Finance Director following a regard to risk, liquidity, tax and the need to support the Groups search by recruitment consultants and review by the Committee that businesses: and iii to consider projects referred to it and to approve also covered possible internal candidates.
Mr Otterbeck had already or, where appropriate, refer up for approval those deemed most likely served as an independent non-executive director of Skandia for some to support the Groups core strategies and to build shareholder value.
months before being appointed to the Board, but the Committee The Committee met twice during 2006. commissioned and reviewed the results of an external benchmarking of his suitability before recommending his appointment.
Mr Attendance record Nqwababas appointment which is to take effect from 1 April 2007 The table at the foot of this page sets out the number of meetings held was recommended by the Committee to replenish South African and individual directors attendance records at the Board and its representation on the Board following the resignation of Prof Nkuhlu, principal standing committees based on membership of those and his candidature was established through a shortlisting of potential committees, rather than attendance as an invitee during 2006. suitable appointees against a job specification with assistance from external advisers.
Messrs Collins, Nicholls from November 2006, Roberts until February 2006 and Sutcliffe attended all of the Group Audit and Risk In identifying candidates, appropriate regard is paid to ensuring that they Committee Meetings held during the year, at the invitation of the will have sufficient time available in the light of their other commitments Chairman of that Committee but members of management were to devote to discharging their duties as directors of the Company.
Group Board Audit and Risk Remuneration Nomination scheduled Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held 9775 N D T Andrews 9 9 6 7 7 7 5 5 R Bogni 9 9 7 7 7 7 5 5 N N Broadhurst 9 9 7 7 7 7 5 5 C D Collins 9 9 5 5 R P Edey 9 9 6 7 5 5 R J Khoza 8 9 M J P Marks 6 9 6 7 3 5 J C Nicholls 2 2 L H Otterbeck 2 2 J V F Roberts 9 9 J H Sutcliffe 9 9 5 5 Former directors W A M Clewlow 3 4 2 2 W L Nkuhlu 7 7 5 5 2 3 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 52 absent for the private sessions between members of that Committee Where it is assessed that it is probable that an informed party and the auditors.
The Acting Group Finance Director, Mr Richard would regard the objectives of the proposed service as being Hoskins, attended all of the Group Audit and Risk Committee inconsistent with the objectives of the firm as auditors, the firm will Meetings as an invitee during the period from March to October 2006. not be permitted to undertake the non-audit service.
Messrs Collins and Sutcliffe also attended all of the Remuneration Reports are tabled quarterly at Group Audit and Risk Committee Committee Meetings at the invitation of the Chairman of that meetings setting out the details of the non-audit services being Committee, but absented themselves for any matters relating to their provided by the Groups auditors.
These include a comparison of own respective remuneration arrangements.
No one, other than the fees paid for audit services and fees paid to other accounting firms Chairman and members of the Group Audit and Risk Committee, engaged for similar services.
Nomination Committee or Remuneration Committee, has a right to be The Company and its auditors have agreed that they will not, present at their respective meetings.
Attendance by others is always at directly or indirectly, solicit the employment of key senior staff and the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee concerned.
management of the respective organisations without prior written mutual consent.
Partners and directors of the audit firm who have Terms of reference acted as lead partner or as a key audit partner for the Group will The terms of reference of each of the principal committees of the not be permitted to join Old Mutual Group as a director or in a Board are available in the Corporate Governance section of the senior management position until at least two years have passed Companys website.
since the partner director ceased to be associated with the audit.
The membership and chairmanship of the Boards standing The following process governs the provision of non-audit services committees are regularly reviewed by the Nomination Committee so as provided by the auditors: to ensure that they are refreshed and that undue reliance is not placed on particular individuals.
There is a schedule of non-audit services that need to be approved in principle on an annual basis and are reported, as and when Each of the Group Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Nomination provided, on a regular basis.
This is in line with the SECs Committees conducted a self-assessment exercise during 2006 to guidelines on auditor independence: address, inter alia, whether their respective terms of reference had All non-audit work costing less than 50,000 placed with the been satisfactorily fulfilled during the year, whether the Committees external auditors is to be approved by the Head of Group Finance had the necessary skills and resources and were receiving a or Business Unit Chief Financial Officer: satisfactory level of information in order to discharge their All non-audit work in excess of 50,000 placed with the external responsibilities, and whether their processes and methods could be auditors is to be agreed by the Group Finance Director or improved.
These were each conducted by questionnaires to members designate: of the Committee concerned and other key participants in the All non-audit work in excess of 300,000 placed with the external Committees activities including the external auditors, in the case of auditors is to be subject to competitive tender and agreed by the the Group Audit and Risk Committee.
The results were collated by the Group Finance Director and Group Chief Executive: Company Secretary and reported to the Committees for consideration.
All non-audit work in excess of 1.0 million placed with external auditors is to be approved by the Group Audit and Risk Committee: Auditors Cumulative fees in respect of non-audit services for any financial During the year ended 31 December 2006, fees paid by the Group to quarter should not exceed 250,000 without approval of the KPMG Audit Plc, the Groups auditors, and its associates KPMG Group Audit and Risk Committee or its Chairman: and totalled 9.9 million for statutory audit services 2005: 6.0m, 0.3 Cumulative fees in respect of non-audit work for the Group should million for other audit and assurance services relating to European not exceed total statutory audit and audit-related fees in any one Embedded Value reporting 2005: 0.4 million, and 3.4 million for year without the approval of the Group Audit and Risk Committee.
tax and other services 2005: 4.6 million.
In addition to the above, Nedbank Group paid a further 2.9 million 2005: 2.8 million to KPMG Audit Plc has expressed its willingness to continue in office as Deloitte in respect of joint audit arrangements.
auditors to the Company and, following a recommendation by the Group Audit and Risk Committee to the Board, a resolution proposing The following guidelines have been approved by the Group Audit and its re-appointment will be put to the Annual General Meeting Risk Committee as part of the Groups policy on non-audit services: Resolution 4 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Prior to accepting a proposed non-audit engagement, the lead audit Arrangements have been made, in conjunction with KPMG, for engagement partner and management will assess the threats to appropriate audit partner rotation in accordance with objectivity and independence and consider safeguards to be recommendations of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England applied.
Such assessment will be undertaken whenever the scope and Wales.
The current lead audit partner in the UK, Mr Alastair and objectives of the non-audit service change significantly.
Before Barbour, has been in place since 2005. accepting a proposed engagement to provide a non-audit service to the Group and its subsidiaries, the audit engagement partner and General Meetings management will: The Board uses the Annual General Meeting AGM to comment on consider whether it is probable that a reasonable and informed the Groups first quarters results.
A record of the AGM proceedings is third party would regard the objectives of the proposed made available on the Companys website as soon as practicable after engagement as being inconsistent with the objectives of the audit the end of the Meeting.
All items of formal business at the AGM are of the financial statements: conducted on a poll, rather than by a show of hands.
The Company identify and assess the significance of any related threats to the has arrangements in place through its registrars, Computershare firms objectivity including any perceived loss of independence: Investor Services, to ensure that all validly submitted proxy votes are and counted, and a senior member of Computershares staff acts as identify and assess the effectiveness of the available safeguards scrutineer to ensure that votes cast are properly received and recorded.
to eliminate or reduce threats to an acceptable level.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 53 Directors Report on Corporate Governance and Other Matters continued Each substantially separate issue at the AGM is dealt with by a Resolution 4 separate resolution and the business of the AGM always includes a Re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors to the Company resolution relating to the approval of the Report and Accounts.
The In favour Against % in favour Votes withheld Chairmen of the Group Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are available to answer any questions on the matters 2,871,933,601 42,513,963 98.54 80,317,845 covered by these Committees at AGMs.
All of the directors attended the AGM in 2006.
Resolution 5 Authority to the Audit Committee of the Company to settle the The notice of AGM and related materials contained in the Report and remuneration of the auditors Accounts or Summary Financial Statements are sent out to shareholders in time to arrive in the ordinary course of the post at In favour Against % in favour Votes withheld least 20 working days before the date of the AGM.
2,955,519,145 29,614,808 99.01 9,660,204 Results of the Annual General Meeting 2006 The results of the polls on the resolutions at the AGM held on 10 May Resolution 6 2006 were as follows: Approval of the Remuneration Report in the Companys report and accounts Ordinary resolutions Resolution 1 In favour Against % in favour Votes withheld To receive and adopt the directors report and accounts 2,922,116,619 28,491,164 99.03 44,186,373 In favour Against % in favour Votes withheld 2,958,839,799 19,643,649 99.34 16,275,255 Resolution 7 Authority to allot relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 53,563,000 Resolution 2 To declare a final dividend of 3.65 pence per ordinary share In favour Against % in favour Votes withheld In favour Against % in favour Votes withheld 2,851,279,788 132,889,245 95.55 10,632,620 2,968,201,267 17,827,234 99.40 8,773,152 Special Resolutions Resolution 8 Resolution 3 i Authority to allot equity securities up to maximum nominal aggregate Election of Mr R J Khoza as a director of the Company amount of 26,781,000 In favour Against % in favour Votes withheld In favour Against % in favour Votes withheld 2,954,727,774 16,955,929 99.43 23,113,950 2,817,338,254 53,414,168 98.14 124,049,231 Resolution 3 ii Resolution 9 Re-election of Mr N D T Andrews as a director of the Company Authority in accordance with section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 to purchase up to 535,630,000 Ordinary Shares of 10p each in the In favour Against % in favour Votes withheld Company by way of market purchase 2,979,144,033 1,363,760 99.95 14,291,235 In favour Against % in favour Votes withheld Resolution 3 iii 2,972,092,648 12,618,270 99.58 10,090,735 Re-election of Mr R Bogni as a director of the Company Resolution 10 In favour Against % in favour Votes withheld Approval of contingent purchase contracts to enable shares to be 2,978,257,527 2,857,465 99.90 13,686,661 bought back on the five overseas stock exchanges where the Companys shares have secondary listings Resolution 3 iv In favour Against % in favour Votes withheld Re-election of Mr N N Broadhurst as a director of the Company 2,974,946,725 2,288,275 99.92 17,566,653 In favour Against % in favour Votes withheld 2,963,322,611 17,983,257 99.40 13,495,785 A vote withheld is not a vote in law and is therefore not counted in the calculation of votes.
Each of the resolutions at the 2006 AGM was accordingly duly passed.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 54 Internal control environment Risk governance The Board acknowledges its overall responsibility for the Groups The Groups risk governance model is based on three lines of defence.
system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, whilst the This model distinguishes between functions owning and managing role of executive management is to implement Board policies on risk risks, functions overseeing risks, and functions providing independent and control.
Executive management has implemented an internal control system Under the first line of defence, the Board sets the Groups risk designed to facilitate the effective and efficient operation of the Group appetite, approves the strategy for managing risk and is responsible for and its business units and aimed at enabling management to respond the Groups system of internal control.
The Group Chief Executive, appropriately to significant risks to achieving the Groups business supported by the Management Board, has overall responsibility for the objectives.
It should be noted that the system is designed to manage, management of risks facing the Group and is supported in the rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the Groups management of these risks by management at the operating business objectives, and can only provide reasonable, and not subsidiaries.
Management and staff within each business have the absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
primary responsibility for managing risk.
They are required to take responsibility for the identification, assessment, management, This system of internal control helps to ensure the quality of internal monitoring and reporting of enterprise risks arising within their and external reporting, compliance with applicable laws and respective areas.
regulations, and internal policies with respect to the conduct of business.
The second line of defence comprises, firstly, the Group Chief Executive supported by the Old Mutual Executive and the principal The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal subsidiary and business unit management performing risk monitoring control during and at the end of the year.
This review covered all and oversight, and, secondly, the Group Finance Director, Group Head material controls, including financial, operational and compliance of Risk & Compliance, subsidiary Chief Risk Officers, supported by controls and the risk management framework.
their respective Finance and Risk functions, and other specialist inhouse functions at Company and subsidiary levels, who provide The Board is of the view that there is a sufficient ongoing process for technical support and advice to operating management to assist them identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the with the identification, assessment, management, monitoring and Group, and that this process has been in place for the year ended 31 reporting of financial and non-financial risks.
The Group risk function December 2006 and up to the date of approval of this Report.
The recommends Group Risk Principles to the Board for approval, provides process accords with the Turnbull guidance set out in Internal Control objective oversight and co-ordinates ERM activities in conjunction with Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code and is regularly other specialist risk-related functions.
Group Risk is not, however, reviewed by the Board.
accountable for the day-to-day management of financial and nonfinancial risks.
Approach to risk management Creating shareholder value is the Groups overriding business The third line of defence is designed to provide independent objective objective, and the Group therefore derives its approach to risk assurance on the effectiveness of the management of enterprise risks management and control from a shareholder value perspective.
This is provided to the Board through the Group result, the risk process is based on an Enterprise Risk Management internal audit function, the external auditors and the Group Audit and ERM concept, which takes a holistic approach to managing risks on Risk Committee, supported by audit committees at subsidiaries.
This involves focusing on the identification of the key risks that affect the achievement of Groups objectives.
Such Internal audit risks are firstly understood on an inherent basis, which involves The Group internal audit function operates on a decentralised basis, understanding the main drivers to such risks in the absence of any with teams established at all major businesses.
Thereafter there is an assessment of the residual level of directly to the Group Internal Audit Director, who in turn reports to the risks, taking into account the controls that are in place to manage Chairman of the Group Audit and Risk Committee and the Group such risks.
Where the residual level is outside the risk appetite, further Chief Executive.
Internal audit carries out regular risk-focused reviews controls and action are defined to bring the risks within the risk of the control environment and reports on these to local executive appetite.
An important aspect of this approach is the recognition that management.
It also enjoys unrestricted access to the audit risk management is not limited solely to the downside or risk committees of the Groups principal subsidiaries.
avoidance, but is about taking risk knowingly.
The internal audit function has recently moved to a single audit In order to meet its ERM objectives, the Group applies the ERM methodology, updated and aligned to current international standards framework issued in September 2004 by COSO Committee of by a Professional Practice Unit, which is a centralised function Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission.
This risk responsible for ensuring quality and consistency of internal audit framework contains the following components: i a robust risk working practices and staff competency around the Group.
The roll-out governance structure: ii risk appetites established at Group and of this methodology has coincided with the change to the TeamMate subsidiary level: iii Group-wide risk policies: and iv methodologies software, which is now used by all internal auditors across the Group.
that focus on risk identification, risk measurement, risk assessment, action plans, monitoring and reporting.
Each component is explained The next major review of internal audit by external experts is planned in more detail below.
for 2008, in keeping with the IIA Inc standards of professional practice.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 55 Directors Report on Corporate Governance and Other Matters continued Risk appetite The following are some of the other key processes of risk monitoring The fundamental purpose of the Groups risk appetite is to define how used around the Group: much risk the Group is willing to take.
Risks or events falling outside the agreed risk appetite are identified for immediate remedial action and The Group Finance Director provides the Board with monthly subjected to oversight by executive management and the Group Audit performance information, which includes key performance and risk and Risk Committee.
The Groups risk appetite encompasses: i indicators.
These are complementary to the monthly management volatility and quantum of returns to shareholders: ii value for money reports, which include a status report on key risks to the for customers: iii financial strength ratings: iv regulatory solvency: and achievability of business objectives: v how risks are monitored and controlled.
Compliance with the risk Items on risk logs and control logs which contain details of any appetite is monitored through the quarterly business review process.
control failures are reported pursuant to an escalation protocol to the appropriate level of management board or committee, where Group risk principles rectification procedures and progress are closely monitored.
Group risk principles have been established for each major risk Planned corrective actions are independently monitored for timely category to which the Group is exposed.
These are designed to completion by internal audit and, as appropriate, by the Group provide management teams across the Group with guiding principles Audit and Risk Committee and Board: and requirements within which to manage risks.
Business unit risk Exposure reporting, risk concentrations and solvency and capital policies expand on these principles and contain detailed requirements adequacy reports are submitted to the relevant credit and capital for the specific business concerned.
management committees in the normal course of business.
Where exposures are in excess of limits, they are treated in the same way Adherence to these principles provides the Board and the Companys as control breakdowns and reported on the relevant control log for stakeholders with assurance that high-level common standards are audit committee review.
consistently applied throughout the Group and also contributes to how the Group governs itself.
Reporting As part of the Boards annual review process, the Chief Executive of Risk methodologies each of the Groups major businesses completes a Letter of Risk identification Representation.
This letter confirms that there has been no indication Strategic objectives reflect managements choice as to how the Group of any significant business risk occurring, nor any material malfunction will seek to create value for its stakeholders.
Strategic objectives are in controls, procedures or systems during the reporting period, translated into business unit objectives.
Risks and risk events are resulting in loss or reputational damage, which impacts negatively on then identified that would prevent the achievement of both the the attainment of the businesss objectives during the year and up to strategic and business objectives, i. e. objective-setting is a prethe date of approval of the Annual Report.
Exceptions are noted and condition to the risk management process.
For this reason, risk reported.
In addition the letter confirms that the business unit will identification is part of the annual business planning process as well continue as a going concern for the year ahead.
The collated results of as an ongoing process.
The resultant risks are recorded in a risk log these letters are reported to the Group Audit and Risk Committee via a with details of risk owners, existing controls or actions to mitigate the Letter of Representation from the Group Chief Executive.
risks and any associated time frame, and a measure of the residual risk.
Monthly management reports, reports by the Group Finance Director, risk logs, control logs and exposure reports described under Risk assessment and measurement Monitoring and control above also form part of the reporting process.
Various means of assessing and measuring enterprise risks and risk events are used throughout the Group.
These include estimating the Management of specific risks financial impact and the likelihood of risk occurrence, trend and traffic Details of some of the principal risks arising in each key subsidiary are light assessments and high medium low assessments.
contained in the Directors Report Business Review earlier in this Annual Report.
Action plans Action plans to implement the risk management strategy in respect of Treasury management key risks or to remedy a material breakdown in control are recorded The Group operates a centralised treasury function, which is on risk and control logs maintained by each business grouping.
responsible for recommending and implementing the funding strategy for the Group, including the ongoing management of debt facilities, Monitoring and control managing relationships with banks and ratings agencies and The Board regularly receives and reviews reports on risks and controls managing Old Mutual plcs operational cash flow requirements.
These reviews cover all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management It is also responsible for the provision of capital to the Groups systems.
subsidiaries, as approved by the Old Mutual plc Board and the Group Capital Management Committee.
Management teams in each subsidiary and business unit have performed annual reviews of the control environment in their business Other Directors Report matters and have produced reports reflecting appropriate assurances.
Relations with shareholders and analysts The Company regards clear and direct dialogue with its shareholders Risk monitoring is undertaken at Group, principal subsidiary and and analysts as important in raising their understanding of the Groups business unit level by management, ERM functions, specialised risk strategy, operational and financial performance, management and management functions, internal audit and subsidiary audit committees.
Its Investor Relations department has a dedicated programme for facilitating regular communication between the executive management team and a wide range of institutions and investors worldwide within the constraints of the Listing, Prospectus and Disclosure Rules.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 56 A significant amount of the investor relations activity in the first half of clear goals are established, together with training and feedback on 2006 was focused on updating analysts and investors on the Skandia performance, to deliver the Group or business objectives: transaction and its subsequent integration, including a market a working environment is provided that at least meets the health presentation held in June in London.
The programme included a total and safety standards of the Group and local regulations and allows of over 100 meetings with institutional investors in the UK, South employees to work to the best of their abilities, free from Africa, the USA and Europe over the year, hosted by the Chief Executive, discrimination and harassment: occasionally in conjunction with the divisional management team.
employee involvement, consultation and communication are promoted through in-house publications, briefings, roadshows and Currently, eleven sell-side analysts actively provide coverage on the internet-based channels and relevant employee representative Company from both the UK and South Africa.
Further encouragement bodies: and is given to other sell-side analysts to cover the Companys shares, the efforts of employees in contributing to the success of the Group in order to assist investors in assessing the Groups valuation, its are appropriately recognised.
Compensation systems are structured performance and the business environment in which it operates, to recognise and reward both the efforts of individuals and the and in making meaningful comparisons with peers.
performance of the sector of the business in which they work.
In June, the Board commissioned Makinson Cowell, an independent We continue to monitor the degree to which our Group values are capital markets consultancy firm, to survey the opinions of its embedded in each of our businesses through an annual survey.
The major shareholders globally, and its findings were reported directly results for 2006 versus 2005 are shown below.
Skandia is in the to the Board.
process of adopting the Old Mutual Group values and will participate in the 2007 survey.
The Chairman makes contact with major investors during the year and Results of Group values survey arranges to meet them as required.
The Board is updated regularly by 2006 vs 2005 the Investor Relations department on key issues arising from any % shareholder communications and provided with reports to monitor 72 accurately changes in market or shareholder opinion.
70 Group activities, operational and financial performance and outlook are 68 communicated to financial markets through annual and interim reports, 66 regulatory news releases, speeches, transcripts and presentations, 64 using a wide range of internal and external communication channels.
62 The Company holds two results meetings a year, at the time of its 60 preliminary and interim results, which are hosted and webcast simultaneously in London and Johannesburg.
In addition, in May and 58 November the Company holds analyst teleconference calls to present 56 its quarterly results.
Following the acquisition of Skandia by Old Mutual plc and the resultant listing of Old Mutual plc shares on the Stockholm Group Values Integrity Respect Accountability Pushing Beyond Group Values Overall Boundaries General Stock Exchange, Old Mutual plc has adopted quarterly reporting with Questions Oct 2006 Feb 2005 effect from 30 September 2006.
In 2006 Skandia was included in the annual Group Talent Review, The Companys public announcements and statements are posted to which seeks to evaluate the extent to which we have the necessary the Companys website in a timely fashion.
The Companys website, resources to deliver our current business plan as well as our which has continued to receive accolades, is developed and updated anticipated future needs.
This review is now conducted on a regional regularly.
It provides a valuable source of both historical and current basis to enhance access to talent within each region and to increase information, as well as useful tools relating to share price and dividend the range of development opportunities available to all employees.
calculations, for use by all investors in all geographies.
In addition, Regional data is consolidated into a Group-wide view that drives all major announcements by the Company and its affiliates are resource and development planning for the organisation as a whole.
emailed to the Investor Relations departments investor database as they are made public.
International assignments are viewed as a means of building the breadth of business skills and experience required for Old Mutual to Employment matters become a premier international saving and wealth management The Groups employment policies are designed to promote a working group.
In 2006, 44 people were on active secondment outside their environment that supports the recruitment and retention of highly home country, and an additional eight people were transferred effective employees, improves productivity and fosters relationships that permanently to another region.
During 2006 we harmonised our build on the diversity of its workforce.
They are regularly reviewed and policies on mobility across the Group and in 2007 our plan is to updated to ensure their relevance for the locations to which they apply.
establish metrics that will enable us to track the benefit to individuals While local employment policies and procedures are developed by each and the business gained from international secondments on an business according to its own circumstances, the following key ongoing basis.
principles of employment are applied consistently throughout the Group: employees are recruited, retained, trained and promoted on the basis of their suitability for the job, without discrimination in terms of race, religion, national origin, colour, gender, age, marital status, sexual orientation or disability whether in existence at the commencement of employment or developing subsequently unrelated to the task at hand.
In South Africa this principle is balanced with the requirement to address issues of employment equity and transformation, and the local businesses practices take due account of this: Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 57 Directors Report on Corporate Governance and Other Matters continued Building our management capability at all levels in our organisation Supplier payment policy has been identified as an important lever in driving superior business In most cases suppliers of goods or services to the Group do so under performance through motivated people.
In 2006 we initiated a Groupstandard terms of contract that lay down terms of payment.
In other wide programme aimed at establishing an easily understood, practical cases, specific terms are agreed to beforehand.
It is the Groups policy and business-driven framework for identifying the knowledge, skills to ensure that terms of payment are notified in advance and adhered and attitudes necessary at different management levels, and guiding to.
The Company has signed the Better Payment Practice Code, an the delivery of management development across the organisation.
This initiative promoted by the Department of Trade and Industry in the UK programme was piloted at Nedbank as a precursor to implementing it to encourage prompt settlement of invoices.
across the rest of South Africa and subsequently the USA, Europe and Asia Pacific regions.
The programme is focused on continuously The total outstanding indebtedness of the Company and its service improving the practice of management so as to create a positive company subsidiary, Old Mutual Business Services Limited to trade working environment.
creditors at 31 December 2006 amounted to 3,411,000, corresponding to 29 days payments when averaged over the year In May 2006, around 100 of the senior team from around the Group then ended.
participated in our biennial Top Leadership Forum.
Delegates focused on identifying sources of current value within the organisation and, with Charitable contributions the help of A T Kearney, discussed the drivers of future value for the The Company, its subsidiaries in the UK, and the Old Mutual Group.
The work done at the Forum introduced the Skandia leadership Bermuda Foundation collectively made charitable donations of to the range of Old Mutuals businesses and provided a means to 359,000 during 2006 2005: 382,000.
In addition, the Group encourage cross-business collaboration.
The outcomes of this meeting made a wide range of other significant donations to charitable causes also contributed to the development of the Groups strategy.
and social development projects, as described in more detail in the Corporate Citizenship section of this document.
Directors shareholdings and share dealings The Remuneration Committee has established guidelines on Environmental matters shareholdings by executive directors of the Company.
Under these, A description of the Groups environmental policy and activities during the Chief Executive is expected to build up a holding of shares in the 2006 is contained in the Corporate Citizenship section of this Company equal in value to at least 150% of basic annual salary within document.
five years of appointment: the equivalent figure for other executive directors is 100% of basic annual salary.
The Board has considered Political donations whether to adopt a shareholding requirement for non-executive The Group made no EU or other political donations during the year.
directors, but does not consider this to be necessary or appropriate, in view of the importance of their being seen to be independent.
Dividend policy The Boards policy on dividends is to seek to achieve steadily increasing All directors of the Company, together with other persons discharging returns to shareholders over time, reflecting the underlying rate of managerial responsibilities in relation to the Company and other progress and the cash flow requirements of the Groups businesses.
The employee insiders of the Group, are restricted persons for the purposes Board anticipates declaring an interim dividend for the current year in of the Model Code annexed to Section LR9 of the Listing Rules of the August 2007, for payment at the end of November 2007.
That Code imposes restrictions on the periods when restricted persons may deal in affected securities which Share capital comprise shares and other listed securities of the Company and other The Companys issued share capital at 31 December 2006 was quoted entities within the Group.
Dealings by restricted persons 550,089,550.80 divided into 5,500,895,508 Ordinary Shares of during open periods must be pre-cleared through the appropriate 10p each 2005: 408,995,769 divided into 4,089,957,690 designated officer of the Company, and any dealings in affected Ordinary Shares of 10p each.
During the year ended 31 December securities by the directors or other persons discharging managerial 2006, a total of 1,389,361,918 shares in the Company were issued responsibilities are required to be publicly announced once they have as partial consideration for the Groups acquisition of Skandia, been notified to the Company.
The lists of persons discharging 11,241,182 shares were issued under the Companys employee managerial responsibilities and other employee insiders are regularly share option schemes other than shares issued as part of the reviewed.
Currently all members of the Old Mutual Executive, together Namibian BEE transactions at an average price of 84.6p each and with certain other heads of major businesses, are regarded as persons 10,334,718 shares were issued pursuant to the Companys Namibian discharging managerial responsibilities.
Directors indemnities The Namibian BEE-related shares were issued on 14 December 2006 Following a change in applicable UK law introduced by the pursuant to the general authority to allot shares for cash granted by Companies Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise Act Resolution 8 passed at the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2004, the Company has entered into formal deeds of indemnity in 2006.
The consideration for the issue of the 7,195,695 shares favour of each of the directors.
These are all dated 19 October 2005, allotted to eight special purpose vehicles referable to Namibian Black except for Mr Khoza, whose deed is dated 24 February 2006 and Business Partners was the nominal value of the shares i. e. 10p each, Messrs Nicholls and Otterbeck, whose deeds are dated 15 November together with cash undertakings to make further payments in 2006.
A specimen copy of the indemnities is available in the accordance with the Namibian BEE subscription agreements.
The Corporate Governance section of the Companys website.
2,234,800 shares allotted to the Old Mutual Namibia Management Incentive Trust and the 904,223 shares allotted to the Old Mutual Broad-Based Employee Share Trust were fully paid up by the subscription in cash of approximately N$21.33 per share.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 58 Out of the 5,500,895,508 shares in issue at 31 December 2006, Governing law a total of 291,370,574 shares were held by African life subsidiaries of The Directors Report Business Review and this Directors Report the Company, with 277,105,176 of these shares being held on books on Corporate Governance and Other Matters together comprise the for the benefit of the Groups South African life operations and related directors report for the purposes of section 463 i a of the Companies businesses.
These shares cannot be voted while they are held by Act 2006.
The Remuneration Report set out in this document is the subsidiaries of Old Mutual plc because of applicable provisions of UK directors remuneration report for the purposes of section 463 1 b company law.
Therefore the total number of voting rights in the of that Act.
English law governs the disclosures contained in and Companys ordinary share capital at 31 December 2006 was liability for the directors report and the directors remuneration report.
By order of the Board Subsequent to the year end, the Company has issued 12,535 shares under its share option schemes at a price of 86.25p each, increasing its Martin C Murray issued share capital at 23 February 2007 to 550,090,804.30 divided Group Company Secretary into 5,500,908,043 Ordinary Shares of 10p each.
The total number of 26 February 2007 voting rights at that date was 5,209,537,469.
Authorities from the shareholders for the Company to make market purchases of, and or to purchase pursuant to contingent purchase contracts relating to each of the overseas exchanges on which the Companys shares are listed, up to an aggregate of 535,630,000 of its own shares were in force at 31 December 2006.
No purchases of shares were made pursuant to any of those authorities during the year then ended.
Substantial interests in voting rights At 23 February 2007, the following substantial interests in voting rights had been declared to the Company in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: Number of % of voting rights voting rights Franklin Resources Inc. 330,214,835 6.34 Public Investment Corporation of the Republic of South Africa 295,318,156 5.67 Barclays plc 218,149,330 4.19 Legal & General Group plc 193,845,480 3.72 Old Mutual Investment Group South Africa Pty Limited for Employee Benefit Trusts of the Company 179,209,415 3.26 Going concern The Board has satisfied itself that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
The Groups financial statements have accordingly been prepared on a going concern basis.
Disclosure of information to the auditors The directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors were aware of that information.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 59
