Nicholas Keen Chairman Finance Director Age 67 Age 48 Jonathan Perry joined the Group as a non-executive Nicholas Keen joined the Group in May 1991 and became director in June 1991 and was appointed Chairman in Finance Director in June 1995 having previously held the January 1992.
He is a Chartered Accountant and between position of Treasurer.
Prior to joining the Group he worked 1997 and 1999 he was Vice-Chairman, Investment Banking in Corporate Banking, Treasury and Capital Markets.
He is Division, HSBC Investment Bank plc.
Previously he was a Chairman of the Paragon Credit Committee.
Director of Morgan Grenfell & Co Limited for 15 years.
John A Heron Chief Executive Director of Mortgages Age 46 Age 47 Nigel Terrington joined the Group in 1987 and became John Heron joined the Group in January 1986.
He was Chief Executive in June 1995, having held the positions of appointed as Marketing Director in 1990 and in 1994 Treasurer and Finance Director.
Prior to Paragon, played a pivotal role in re-establishing the Group's he worked in investment banking.
He is a Board member mortgage lending operations as Managing Director of of the Finance and Leasing Association and is also Paragon Mortgages.
As Director of Mortgages, he is Vice-Chairman of the FLA Consumer Finance division.
responsible for both Paragon Mortgages and Mortgage He previously held the position of Chairman of the Trust.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Bankers Intermediary Mortgage Lenders Association and was also and a member of the Executive Committee of the Council a member of the Executive Committee of the Council of of Mortgage Lenders.
10 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 5.
Robert G Dench Chief Operating Officer Non-Executive Director Age 42 Age 56 Pawan Pandya joined the Group in December 1988.
Robert Dench joined Paragon as a non-executive director He was appointed as Chief Operating Officer in July 2002, in September 2004.
He previously held various senior responsible for all operational and IT areas of the Group.
positions with Barclays, where, following a number of Prior to joining Paragon, he worked in foreign exchange, overseas appointments, he returned to the UK and served credit risk management, marketing and corporate finance.
on the boards of Barclays' Retail Financial Services and Private Client businesses.
He is also a non-executive director of AXA UK plc and of Clipper Ventures plc.
Christopher D Newell Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Age 65 Age 46 David Beever joined Paragon as a non-executive director Christopher Newell has been a director of Altium Capital in August 2003.
He is Chairman of KPMG Corporate Limited since 1990.
He was a director of Artemis Finance, Vice-Chairman of London & Continental Railways Investment Management Limited from its formation until Ltd and a non-executive director of JJB Sports plc and 2006.
He is a Chartered Accountant and joined the Board Volex Group plc.
He was previously a Vice-Chairman of of Paragon as a non-executive director in November 2001.
He is the Senior Independent He is Chairman of the Paragon Audit and Compliance Non-Executive Director.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 11
