PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 11 DIRECTORS Sir Patrick Sheehy # Chairman of the Main Mr William John Alexander CBE # Board and of the Management Engagement Aged 59, Mr Alexander has previously held and Nomination Committees senior positions at RWE Thames Water plc and Aged 75, Sir Patrick was Chairman of BAT was appointed Chief Executive between April Industries plc from 1982 to 1995 and has served 1996 and November 2005.
He is currently nonon the boards of a number of UK publicly listed executive chairman of Xansa plc.
He is currently a non-executive member of the Board of the CBI.
He has director of a North American resource company.
previously held non-executive appointments at RMC plc and Laporte plc.
Sir Martyn Arbib All Directors are non-executive.
Aged 66, Sir Martyn was the founder and Chairman of Perpetual plc which became part of Amvescap Group on 7 December 2000.
He is no longer an employee of Invesco Perpetual.
James Charles Robert DAlbiac # Aged 70, Mr DAlbiac is a director of Jupiter Primadona Growth Trust PLC and Jupiter Asset Management Limited.
He was previously a director of Jupiter Tyndall plc and Mercury Asset Management plc.
From 1968 to 1986, he was a partner in Rowe and Pitman.
Edward Burke Aged 48, Mr Burke is a Senior Fund Manager in the Invesco Perpetual UK equity investment team.
Before joining Invesco Perpetual in May 1999 he was a Director and Head of UK Equities at Robert Fleming Securities, following a number of years at James Capel.
Antony Scott Hardy # Chairman of the Audit Committee Aged 66, Mr Hardy is a director of Montanaro UK Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc, Investment Adviser to Essex County Council Pension Fund and South Yorkshire Pension Fund.
He is adviser to a number of endowed charities Member of the Audit Committee and trusts, a director of Sableknight Limited and was previously Investment Manager of the #Member of the Management Engagement Committee Church Commissioners for England.
Member of the Nomination Committee
