PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 07 MANAGERS REPORT Market and Economic Review The UK equity market had a strong 12-month period to 31 March 2006, generating total returns of 28.0% overall, according to the FTSE All-Share index.
This marks the third consecutive year of double digit returns for UK equities.
The primary drivers of the equity markets strong performance were attributed to positive earnings growth: takeover activity rumoured and actual : and a surge from oil, gas and mining stocks on the back of rising oil and commodity prices.
Notable mergers and acquisitions activity included Spanish telecommunications company Telefonicas purchase of O2: BOCs purchase by German rival Linde: P&Os sale to Dubai Ports: and Boots merger with Alliance Unichem.
In the latter part of the period, the markets performance accelerated as investors continued to anticipate a continuation of the positive global economic growth environment accompanied by low inflation.
On the economic news front, the Bank of England Monetary Policy Committee changed interest rates on one occasion during the year by reducing to 4.5% from 4.75% at the August meeting in a move that was widely anticipated by the market.
Reasons cited for the move included declining manufacturing output: sluggish industrial production: slowing consumer spending: and much slower growth in residential property prices.
Although inflation remained under control during the year, the unemployment rate continued to edge higher.
Portfolio Strategy and Review Over the 12-month review period, the net assets of the Company rose by 30.7% against the FTSE AllShare index, which increased by 24.0%.
Over the same period, the Companys share price rose 23.0%.
Performance during the review period was enhanced by holdings in the Utility and Tobacco sectors.
Specifically, in the Utility sector, electricity companies British Energy the best-performing company in the FTSE 100 index over the period, Scottish Power and Scottish & Southern Energy performed well due to the rise in energy prices, as well as a number of holdings in the Water sector.
In the Tobacco sector, BAT and Reynolds American were particularly strong for the Company.
Other noteworthy positive contributors to the Companys performance included airports operator BAA due to bid activity and airline company British Airways due to further success in exceeding cost-reduction targets as well as revenue growth in the premium-traffic market.
Portfolio activity was fairly limited over the review period.
The Manager introduced a new holding in electricity company Drax to reflect his view that in the current environment, energy prices are likely to stay high for longer.
This benefit will accrue to shareholders in the form of increased dividend payments, as Drax has stated its policy to distribute all free cashflow to shareholders.
In addition, the Manager initiated a new position in water company Severn Trent.
Capita Group, which supplies services to the public and private sector, was also purchased for the Company.
In the Managers view, Capita Group has excellent earnings visibility as a result of a large existing order book and the ability to win new business from an increasing number of business sectors which are turning to outsourced suppliers.
Moreover, the Capita Group has scope for further dividend increases following a 30% increase in the last financial year.
In terms of disposals, telecommunications company Cable & Wireless was sold from the Company.
When the Manager initially purchased the stock, little value was attached to Cable & Wireless UK business and focus was more on its dominant position in the Caribbean.
The Managers decision to take profits was driven by a strong share-price performance surrounding Cable & Wireless bid for UK telecoms company Energis and on concern over mounting competition to its dominant position in the Caribbean.
Other disposals included energy company International Power: life insurance company Legal & General: and food producer Associated British Foods, where the Manager felt that the strong recent performance of the Primark clothing division was largely discounted in the valuation and that better opportunities lay elsewhere.
Outlook The Manager is mindful that the UK stockmarket has performed well in the past few years and that further gains of this nature should not automatically be expected in the future.
The Manager is concerned that some of the better performing areas of the market no longer appear attractively 08 MANAGERS REPORT continued valued.
Nevertheless, he remains cautiously optimistic for the market in 2006.
The level of undervaluation within the largest and often more defensive companies has increased as investors have favoured the cyclically-biased midand small-cap areas more aggressively.
The Manager believes that this area offers some of the best opportunities in the market going forward.
The Manager is maintaining a defensively positioned portfolio in response to a belief in a continued subdued level of UK economic growth in 2006.
Specifically, he continues to avoid consumer cyclicals while maintaining a significant exposure in defensive sectors, such as Utilities, Tobacco, Pharmaceuticals and Telecoms.
Being positioned in these areas will, he believes, allow scope for the Company to make further gains for investors going forward.
Mark Barnett Investment Manager 15 June 2006
