16 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS incorporating the Business Review FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2006 Introduction The Directors have pleasure in presenting their report together with the audited financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2006.
Nature, Objective and Strategy of the Business Nature The Company was incorporated and registered in England and Wales on 2 February 1996 under the Companies Act 1985, registered number 3156676.
The Company is an Investment Company as defined by section 266 of the Act and operates as an Investment Trust within section 842 of the Income and Taxes Act 1988.
The Inland Revenue has approved the Companys status as an investment trust, subject to there being no subsequent enquiry under corporation tax self assessment, in respect of the year ended 31 March 2005 and this status is expected to continue.
Objective and Strategy The Companys objective is to generate capital growth with a higher than average income from investment in the UK equity market.
Performance is measured against the FTSE All-Share Index.
It is intended that the Company will provide real dividend growth over the medium term.
During the financial year under review the Company has not changed its investment objective.
The Company invests mainly in above average yielding UK equities.
However, a portion of the portfolio may be invested in equities with a lower initial yield which are considered to have good potential for income growth.
In addition up to 5% of the portfolio may be invested in bonds and up to 10% may be invested in non-UK equities.
Share Capital Ordinary Shares At the year end the Companys share capital consisted of 192,481,550 ordinary shares.
During the year 6,692,784 ordinary shares were issued following the exercise of warrants for 100p.
Bonus Issue of Subscription Shares Shareholders were entitled to subscription shares pursuant to a bonus issue following an announcement on 11 May 2005.
As a result, 3,168,472 warrants were exercised by warrant holders, the number of ordinary shares of 10p in issue rose to 188,957,238 and 18,895,253 subscription shares were issued on the basis of one subscription share for every 10 ordinary shares held at the close of business on 11 May 2005.
Each subscription share carries the right to subscribe for one ordinary share at a price of 218.94p on 31 August in each of the years 2006 to 2013.
Warrants Holders of warrants are entitled to subscribe for one ordinary share for every warrant held on 31 August in any of the years 2002 to 2006 inclusive at a price of 100p per share.
During the year 6,692,784 warrants 2005: 3,423,189 were exercised.
At the year end 13,620,201 warrants were outstanding.
Holders of warrants will have a final opportunity to exercise their warrants in 2006, beyond which warrants will lapse.
Key Performance Indicators The Board reviews performance by reference to a number of Key Performance Indicators which include the following: l Relative asset performance l Dividend policy l Peer group performance l Discount l Total Expense Ratio PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 17 Relative Asset Performance In reviewing the performance of the assets of the Companys portfolio the Board monitors the diluted net asset value in relation to the FTSE All-Share Index.
However, the Managers aim is to achieve absolute return through a genuinely active fund management approach.
It is not the fund management teams philosophy to regard the FTSE All-Share Index as a benchmark for portfolio construction for the Company.
This approach can therefore result in a portfolio that is from time to time substantially different from that index but has historically achieved significant outperformance of the Companys benchmark.
During the course of the year the diluted net asset value of the Company rose by 26.1% compared with a rise of 24% by the FTSE All-Share Index.
Dividend Policy It remains the Directors intention to distribute by way of dividend substantially all of the Companys net income after expenses and taxation.
The Manager aims to maximise total return from the portfolio.
The Manager believes in strong earnings growth and in the importance of dividends to total return.
The portfolio will typically command a yield premium to the market.
However, the pursuit of income is not a prime objective and dividend yields are not permitted to constrain investment decisions.
The final dividend declared for the year is 3.6p per ordinary share which brings the total for the year to 6.0p per ordinary share, an increase of 6%.
This increase exceeds the RPI inflation of 2.4% by a comfortable margin.
Peer Group Performance There are currently some 300 investment trusts in the UK of which 29 form the UK Growth and Income category.
This group is quite diverse in its objectives and structures.
The Board monitors the performance of the Company in relation to both the sector as a whole and to those companies within it which most closely match its objectives and structure.
The Company has out performed both its benchmark and its peer group in each of the last five complete calendar years.
Discount The Board monitors the premium discount at which the Companys shares trade in relation to the assets.
During the year the shares traded at an average discount to NAV of 3.5%.
The Board and Manager closely monitor movements in the Companys share price and of dealings in the Companys shares.
In order to avoid significant overhang or shortage of shares in the market the Board ask shareholders to approve resolutions every year which allow for the buy-back of shares and also their issuance.
This may assist in the management of the discount.
Total Expense Ratio TER The expenses of managing the Company are reviewed by the Board at every meeting.
It is the intention of the Board to minimise the TER which provides a guide to the effect on performance of all annual operating costs of the Company.
At the year end, the TER was 2.0% compared to 2.2% the previous year.
Share Valuations On 31 March 2006, the mid-market price and the diluted NAV per ordinary share were 234.25p 2005: 190.50p and 249.4p 2005: 197.8p restated respectively.
Revenue and Dividends The results for the year are shown in the Income Statement and Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds on pages 34 and 35.
The interim dividend of 2.4p per ordinary share was paid on 30 December 2005 2005: 2.25p.
For the year ended 31 March 2006, the final dividend declared for the year is 3.6p 31 March 2005: second interim dividend of 3.4p and will be payable on 23 June 2006 to shareholders on the register on 2 June 2006.
18 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Current and Future Development and Performance Portfolio performance is substantially dependent on the performance of equities and equity related securities of UK companies.
These stocks are particularly influenced by the general health of the economy in the UK: interest rates, inflation and government fiscal policies and by the demand for income.
The Manager strives to maximise both capital growth and income from the stocks in which he invests, but these stocks are influenced by market conditions and the Board recognises the external influences on portfolio performance.
For a fuller discussion of the economic and market conditions facing the Company and the current and future performance of the portfolio of the Company, please see both the Chairmans Statement and Managers Report on pages 5 and 7.
As part of the Companys overall strategy, the Company will seek to manage its affairs so as to maximise returns for shareholders.
During the course of the year an offer was made for the shares of Securities Trust of Scotland plc on terms that would have provided an uplift in the net asset value of the shares of your Company.
The Board will continue to look for opportunities to enhance shareholder value.
Resources The Company is an investment trust and has no employees.
However, through the contractual arrangements in place, a full range of services are available to it.
The most significant contract is with the Manager, INVESCO Asset Management Limited, to whom responsibility for the management of the portfolio is delegated.
The Board reviews the performance of the Manager formally at every Board Meeting and when market conditions dictate.
The day-to-day responsibility for the management of the portfolio rests with the Fund Manager.
The Board has adopted guidelines within which the Manager is permitted wide discretion: decisions made outside these parameters are referred to the Board.
The Board has the power to replace the Manager and reviews the contract formally every year.
The outcome of this review is commented on on page 20.
Other contractual arrangements govern relationships with the Company Secretary and Administrator, Broker, Registrar and Custodian.
These contracts are also reviewed by the Board on a regular basis and more formally on an annual basis.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Companys investments are traded on the UK markets.
The principal risk for investors in the Company is, therefore, a significant fall in the stock markets and or a prolonged period of decline in the markets relative to other forms of investment.
Additionally, performance is geared by the bank loan and the Debenture whereby if the return on the portfolio is less than the costs of these forms of debt, the net asset value will be adversely affected.
Other significant risks include consistent underperformance by the Manager or the market rating of the Company failing to reflect good performance.
While the Board obviously cannot influence market movements, it is vigilant in monitoring and taking steps to mitigate the effects of falls in markets should they occur.
The performance of the Manager is carefully monitored by the Board, and the continuation of the Managers mandate is revisited each year.
The Board has established guidelines to ensure that the investment policy that it has approved is pursued by the Manager.
The Board and the Manager maintain an active dialogue with the aim of ensuring that the market rating of the Companys shares reflects the underlying NAV: and there are in place both buy-back and issuance facilities to help the management of this process.
The Risks and Risk Management Policies are also detailed in note 18 to the Accounts on page 47.
Relationships Through the annual and interim reports, the AGM, the publication of a daily NAV and other methods, the Board endeavours to ensure that shareholders understand the Companys investment objectives and policies and that the Board, both independently and through the Manager, reviews its objectives and policies in the light of feedback from shareholders.
The Board monitors and reviews shareholder communications on a regular basis.
The Companys main supplier of services is the Manager who provides both Investment Management Services and Company Secretarial and Administrative support.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 19 In addition the Company has relationships with UBS as Brokers, Ashurst as Solicitors, Deloitte & Touche LLP as Auditors, Citibank as Custodian and Capita Registrars as Registrars.
Financial Position Assets and Liabilities At 31 March 2006 the Companys total net assets were 506 million 2005: 387 million.
These comprised a portfolio of equity investments, non-equity investments and cash.
The Company has a 70 million overdraft facility of which 61.7 million was drawn down at the year end.
The Company has additional long term gearing provided by a 30 million 6.125% Debenture with amortised cost at the year end of 29.6 million 2005: 29.6 million.
Due to the readily realisable nature of the Companys assets, cash flow does not have the same significance as for an industrial or commercial company.
The Companys principal cash flows arise from the purchase and sales of investments and the income from investments against which must be set the costs of borrowing and management expenses.
The Companys use of financial instruments is disclosed in note 18 to the Financial Statements.
Gearing Policy Gearing policy is under the control of the Board which has established a gearing parameter of up to 25% of total net assets measured at the time new borrowings are incurred for investment in companies where there are stock specific opportunities.
The gearing is not an expression of confidence in the performance of the overall UK stockmarket, but rather an endorsement of the potential for selected stocks.
In this respect both the Board and the Manager are content that the flexibility which the overdraft facility provides offers the most appropriate means of gearing, supplementing the longer term gearing of the debenture stock.
30,000,000 6.125% Debenture 2014 The debenture was issued in July 1999, is secured by a floating charge over all the Companys assets and has a fixed rate of 6.125%.
Interest is payable on 31 January and 31 July.
New UK Accounting Standards Several new UK Accounting Standards became effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005, three of which had an impact on the financial reporting of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2006.
The main effects have been the valuation of investments on a fair value bid basis: the recognition of equity dividends on an approved as opposed to a proposed basis: and the amortisation of debenture costs on an effective interest basis.
Environmental and Social Policies As an investment trust company with no employees, property or activities outside investment management, environmental policy has limited application.
The Manager considers various factors when evaluating potential investments.
Some are financial ratios and measures, such as free cash flow, earnings per share and price to book value.
Others are more subjective indicators which rely on first hand research: for example, quality of management, innovation and product strength.
While a companys policy towards the environment and social responsibility is considered as part of the overall assessment of risk and the suitability of the company for the portfolio, the Manager does not necessarily preclude an investment being made on these grounds alone.
Substantial Holdings in the Company At 31 May 2006 the Company had been notified of the following holdings of 3% and over of the Companys ordinary share capital: % AMVESCAP non-discretionary PEPs and ISA Accounts 38.9 Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management 4.7 Rathbones 3.4 Legal & General Investment Management 3.4 Brewin Dolphin 3.0 20 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Directors Interests The interests of the Directors in the ordinary share capital of the Company at 31 March 2006 are set out below.
2006 2005 Subscriber Subscriber Ordinary shares Shares Warrants Shares Shares Warrants Shares Sir Patrick Sheehy 10,000 2,000 1,000 10,000 2,000 n a William Alexander appointed 28 March 2006 10,000 n a n a n a Sir Martyn Arbib 10,000 2,000 1,000 10,000 2,000 n a Edward Burke 15,000 1,500 15,000 n a James DAlbiac 12,000 1,200 10,000 2,000 n a Antony Hardy 11,000 1,000 10,000 1,000 n a There were no changes in the above interests between 31 March 2006 and 15 June 2006.
Disclosable Interests No Director was a party to or had any interest in any contract or arrangement with the Company at any time during the year.
Statement of Managers Responsibilities The Manager is generally responsible for the day to day investment management activities of the Company, seeking and evaluating investment opportunities and analysing the results of investee companies.
The Manager has full discretion to manage the assets of the Company in accordance with the Companys stated objectives and policies as determined from time to time by the Board.
The Manager also advises on currency and borrowings.
As Administrator to the Company, the Manager provides full company secretarial and administration services ensuring that the Company complies with all legal, regulatory and corporate governance requirements and attending on the Directors at Board meetings and shareholders meetings.
The Manager additionally maintains records of the Companys investment transactions and portfolio and all monetary transactions, from which the Manager prepares interim and annual financial statements on behalf of the Company and various statistical reports and information throughout the year.
Management Fees INVESCO Asset Management Limited is appointed Manager, Administrator and Company Secretary under an agreement dated 20 February 1996 and subsequently amended on 27 December 2001.
This agreement is terminable by either party giving not less than one years notice.
Under the agreement, the Manager receives a management fee of 0.1875% per quarter of the Companys funds under management.
A performance related fee is payable to the Manager annually in arrears, if the Companys performance exceeds the FTSE All-Share Index.
The performance related fee is equal to 10% of the value of any outperformance, but may not exceed 0.75% of the value of the Companys net assets at the relevant performance fee calculation date which is usually the Companys Balance Sheet date.
Any such performance related fee is based on the outperformance over the benchmark index after taking into account any previous underperformance.
Assessment of the Investment Manager A regular annual review of the management contract is undertaken by the Management Engagement Committee: however, the performance of the Manager in its role of Investment Manager, Company Secretary and Administrator is subject to continual review by the Board.
The objective of the Company is to generate capital growth with a higher than average income from investment in the UK equity market.
Overall the investment process is aiming to achieve absolute return through a genuinely active fund management approach.
As the Managers philosophy does not PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 21 seek to regard the FTSE All-Share Index the Index as the benchmark for portfolio construction, the portfolio may look substantially different from the Index.
This may lead to periods of under performance as well as periods of out performance.
The Board has reviewed the Managers performance and considers that the continuation of the management contract is in the best interests of shareholders.
Report of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee is responsible to the Board for reviewing each aspect of the financial reporting process: the systems of internal control and management of financial risks: the audit process: relationships with the external auditors: the Companys processes for monitoring compliance with laws and regulations: its code of business conduct: and for making recommendations to the Board.
The Companys internal financial controls and risk management systems have been reviewed with the Manager against risk parameters approved by the Board.
The Audit Committee has also received a satisfactory report on the Managers internal operations from the Managers Compliance and Internal Audit Officer.
The audit programme and timetable are drawn-up and agreed with the Auditors in advance of the Companys financial year end.
At this stage, matters for audit focus are discussed and agreed.
These matters are given particular attention during the audit process and among other matters they are reported on by the Auditors in their audit review to the Audit Committee.
The audit review is considered by the Audit Committee and discussed with the Auditors and the Manager prior to approving and signing the Financial Statements.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2006 with the Manager and the Auditors at the conclusion of the audit process.
Auditors Details of the audit fee and fees for auditors non-audit services are shown in Note 4 to the Financial Statements on page 41.
Audit work is conducted by Deloitte & Touche LLP and non-audit work covering taxation services by RSM Robson Rhodes LLP.
A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Companys auditor will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Auditors information Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this report confirms that: 1 so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the company's auditors are unaware: and 2 the director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the company's auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
Individual Savings Account ISA and Personal Equity Plan PEP Eligibility The ordinary shares, warrants and subscription shares of the Company are qualifying investments under both ISA and PEP regulations.
Creditor Payment Policy It is the Companys policy to obtain the best terms for all business including purchases of investments, and to abide by those agreed terms.
There were no trade creditors at 31 March 2006 2005: nil.
Special Business at the AGM Shareholders will find on pages 52 to 55 the Notice of the forthcoming AGM of the Company to be held on 19 July 2006.
In addition to the ordinary business of the meeting, six resolutions are proposed as special business, five will be proposed as Special Resolutions and one will be proposed as an Ordinary Resolution.
22 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Special Resolution 10 seeks the renewal of the Directors authority to allot up to an aggregate nominal amount of 7,189,665 representing one third of the issued share capital new ordinary shares.
Special Resolution 11 seeks the renewal of the Directors authority to allot equity securities for cash disapplying pre-emption rights up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,078,449 representing 5% of the issued share capital new ordinary shares.
Special Resolution 12 seeks the renewal of the Directors authority to purchase up to 28,852,984 representing 14.99% of the issued share capital of the Companys own ordinary shares.
Special Resolution 13 seeks to authorise the Directors to hold up to 10% of the issued share capital in treasury.
Special Resolution 14 seeks to amend the Companys Articles of Association to widen the Companys right to indemnify its Directors.
These amendments will widen the scope of the indemnity available to an individual Director in respect of liabilities incurred to third parties in the course of discharging his or her duties, including the provision by the Company of funds to cover costs incurred in defending legal proceedings brought against him or her, as they are incurred.
The grant of an indemnity for the benefit of Directors will be included in the Companys Articles of Association as an additional matter in relation to which a Director will be entitled to count in the quorum and vote, notwithstanding his or her material interest in the matter discussed.
Ordinary Resolution 15 seeks to authorise the Directors to be released from their obligation pursuant to Article 155 of the Articles of Association to convene an Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company to be held before 19 November 2006 at which a special resolution for the reconstruction of the Company was to be proposed.
Such a reconstruction would offer shareholders to elect either to continue their investment in a closed-ended company or receive a cash alternative.
By order of the Board INVESCO Asset Management Limited Company Secretary 30 Finsbury Square London EC2A 1AG 15 June 2006
