58.31 PF AR06 JD P11:Layout 1 16 3 07 15:41 Page 10 10 Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 Business review continued UK The original home credit business was started in Bradford in 1880 by Sir Joshua Waddilove, a philanthropist who sought to provide affordable credit for working-class households in industrial West Yorkshire.
Now serving 1.5 million customers, Provident Financial is the oldest and largest home credit business in the UK.
Provident succeeds by offering simple, transparent financial services to customers on average or below-average incomes often referred to as the non-standard market some of whom may nd it difficult to obtain other forms of credit.
The service is popular for very clear reasons.
Its personal, friendly and exible, and is well-suited to the needs of its customers.
The combination of a growing non-standard market in the UK and a tightening of lending criteria by mainstream credit providers presents an increasing opportunity for Provident in the UK.
In response, the business is pursuing a strategy of recruiting new customers, retaining profitable customers, rolling out new products, improving its lending decision processes and streamlining its costs.
58.31 PF AR06 JD P11:Layout 1 16 3 07 15:41 Page 11 11 Provident Financial plc Provident Financial plc Provident Financial 11 11 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 Home credit customers Karen, pictured here with her husband Customers like the Paul and their daughter Haley, is discipline of home typical of our 1.5 million home credit collection, but also customers in the UK.
Our customers the freedom to miss want to borrow small sums quickly Number of customers a payment from time and easily that they can repay in to time if things manageable amounts each week at a time and place convenient to them.
Customers like the discipline of home collection, but also the freedom to miss a payment from time to time if things Number of employees dont go to plan.
The personal service that comes with the weekly agent visits and the fact that there are never any 2,600 extra charges no matter how long customers take to repay their loan help us achieve consistently high customer satisfaction rates.
Number of agents 11,500 Home credit agents Home credit agents, 74% of whom are Home credit agents, Credit issued women, play a huge role in the success 74% of whom are of the business.
The 11,500 agents in women, play a huge the UK typically come from the same 940.8m role in the success communities as their customers and of the business.
many were customers themselves before becoming agents.
The weekly Operating since visit from the agent encourages customers to put aside the repayment every week and the regular face to 1880 face contact helps customers to stay in control of their credit.
In an age of internet banking and telephone call centres, this personal service is highly valued.
Customers know theyll get a sympathetic response if they get into difficulties.
10 facts about UK home credit 1 Home credit is a manageable way of taking out 6 74% of agents and 69% of customers are women.
7 Providents customers are fairly evenly split 2 The service is friendly and convenient.
Customers between the C, D and E socio-economic groups.
appreciate the personal, face to face relationship 8 The average home credit loan is for 390, with their agent.
3 For people on modest incomes, home credit is 9 Customers often take more than one loan each a way of affording treats on special occasions year.
The average credit issued per customer over or spreading household expenses.
4 Of all forms of borrowing, home credit is the 10 93% of customers say they are satisfied with the easiest to control, with predictable payments Provident home credit service and 83% would and the guarantee that customers will not face recommend it to family or friends.
extra charges if they miss a payment.
5 Each week, Providents 11,500 agents visit 1.5 million customers around one in 25 UK households.
58.31 PF AR06 JD P11:Layout 1 16 3 07 15:41 Page 12 12 Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 Over the last couple of years we have won many new customers through direct marketing channels.
Direct mail Not only have we increased the amount of direct mail we send out,  sending it to the right people.
A lot of time has been spent gaining a good understanding of our customers and the key triggers of their lending requirements.
We then use this information to decide how best to recruit new business.
Hand-held technology Provident agents in the UK are expected to start using hand-held computers essentially mobile smartphones from 2007.
These will offer two enormous benefits.
The first benefit is greater efficiency.
With information transmitted to and from the agent electronically, much of the current paperwork will be unnecessary and agents will Sarah, Digital Marketing Manager, be able to use their time more productively.
and Caroline, Senior Marketing Website Manager, Bradford Secondly, agents will be more Three years ago we launched effective.
Instead of carrying customer-facing websites for our Sarah and Caroline are part of the team responsible for sheaves of paper on their rounds, two home credit brands.
The customer recruitment marketing activity.
Significant theyll have all their customer websites have become our most investment has been put into marketing over the past information stored on the cost effective channel for recruiting few years which is now beginning to bear fruit with an device along with prompts and new customers and have exceeded increase in UK customer numbers.
recommendations on serving all targets to date.
Theyll also With the continued global growth of internet be able to make computeraccess and online transactions, its important aided lending decisions for new we give our customers the best possible online customers on the spot.
experience and the ability to apply for a loan 24 hours a day.
