58.31 PF AR06 JD P11:Layout 1 16 3 07 15:41 Page 13 Provident Financial plc 13 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 Business review continued UK home credit Home credit loans can be offered in a variety of forms.
Alongside the traditional loan for example 300 cash, repayable over 55 weeks, Provident offers a number of other options: How home credit works Longer, larger loans of up to 2,500, repayable over two years.
Under the home credit service, These were introduced in 2005 Provident provides small, unsecured and have been well-received.
cash loans, typically for sums of UK home credit now sees between 100 and 500.
These are A Visa debit card where the loan is delivered to the customers home loaded onto a plastic card often opportunities to grow.
by a Provident agent who then calls more convenient than cash.
This every week to collect the repayments.
In recent years, rising levels of affluence have meant less demand Unlike other forms of lending, home The Easy Shop card for use at for home credit among our credit includes all the costs up front.
Some have traditional customer base.
At the There are no extra fees or penalty an interest-free period so that same time, many other lenders charges, even if a customer misses repayments start when the whose own markets have become a payment.
For people managing on customer first uses the card rather saturated have taken a greater a tight budget, its important to know than when the agent hands it over.
interest in the non-standard that the amount they owe is fixed at segment.
As a result, more people the start and will never go up.
Shopping vouchers a wellhave been able to use bank loans established version of home and credit cards as an alternative Another advantage of home credit is credit and the original alternative to home credit.
the part played by the agent.
are paid commission on what they The picture is changing, however.
collect, not what they lend, so have Trends such as higher utility bills have every reason not to lend more than The marketplace made it harder for some people to their customers can afford to repay.
Faced with rising Thats good for the customer and There are over nine million people bad debts, many other credit a valuable check on bad debt for in the UK who have limited access providers have had to tighten their Provident.
Furthermore, the agents to many other forms of credit.
As other sources weekly visit is not only convenient, Known as non-standard customers, become harder to access, more its a useful reminder to put the they may be on low incomes, have customers are returning to a form money aside.
If customers get into little or no credit history or have of credit better suited to their needs difficulty, they know theyll get a had problems with credit in the past.
After several sympathetic response and every Of this total, the home credit years of gradual decline in customer possible assistance from their agent.
numbers, UK home credit now sees , Provident opportunities to grow.
In preparing The product is one that customers has approximately a 60% share of for growth, the business is building trust and positively want to use the market.
It is a which helps to explain why our long-established, cash-generative customer satisfaction rates are business with products well-suited consistently high.
Over 93% of to the non-standard market customers say they are satisfied and a good reputation among its with the Provident home credit customers.
A nationwide force of service and 83% would recommend 11,500 self-employed agents Provident to family or friends.
provides an excellent, professional service to customers they know extremely well and who value the personal nature of the home credit service.
58.31 PF AR06 JD P11:Layout 1 16 3 07 15:41 Page 14 14 Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 Business review continued UK home credit 1 2 Better credit decisions In the past, the task of assessing a customers credit rating has been largely up to the agent.
This continues to be the case, on the basis that a skilled human being has always been able to assess a customer better than a computer.
Nevertheless and especially with more customers being recruited by routes other than through the agent its important to have good 34 systems for analysing an individuals previous record and predicting the likelihood of a future default.
To support the agents in their lending decisions, the business is refining its credit scoring to play an increasing role in determining whether to accept new customers or extend further credit to existing ones.
As well as filtering out the higher risks, the system can also help agents to spot the good payers 1 Over 11,500 agents in the UK visit their 5 customers in their homes each week, Initiatives during the year earlier in the relationship and so come rain or shine.
offer more credit sooner when thats Against this background, UK home the right choice for the customer.
2 Rosemary and her daughter Angela, credit has undertaken a series of The same systems are also proving two of our UK home credit customers.
initiatives to renew and modernise valuable in managing arrears.
3 Christian, one of 400 employees the business.
They include: at our head office in Bradford.
Given the cost of acquiring each new Recruiting new customers customer, UK home credit is working 4 Jac in the contact centre in Bradford, UK home credit has traditionally hard to develop the relationship helping to turn initial contacts into satisfied customers.
relied on its agents to recruit most and encourage profitable customers of its new customers.
While this to remain loyal.
Instead of sending 5 We depend on good people doing approach continues, the business is out blanket mailings, for example, their jobs well at every level of the now making more and better use of the business is getting better business.
Its also adopting other at segmenting its customer base techniques such as canvassing in and making its communications shopping centres and seeking to form more relevant to different groups.
partnerships with mail order houses As described below, it is also and finance companies to take on restructuring its product range to customers whose credit applications match its customers requirements have been declined.
There are also links with retailers to Developing new products provide credit to their customers Within the definition of home credit, along with greater use of the internet theres an opportunity to offer a to advertise the service.
range of products to meet the needs of more customers or to keep them The results have been positive.
While with Provident for subsequent loans.
the number of customers recruited Product innovation is therefore by agents has risen slightly over the an important part of the strategy.
year, a greater increase has come about through direct contacts via these new methods.
58.31 PF AR06 JD P11:Layout 1 16 3 07 15:41 Page 15 Provident Financial plc 15 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 Credit issued grew a little more UK home credit slowly, up 1.5% on 2005 to 2006 2005 Change 940.8 million 2005 926.5 m m % million.
However, this was achieved Customer numbers 000 1,518 1,488 2.0 against 2005 volumes which Credit issued 940.8 926.5 1.5 benefited from the increased issue Average customer of larger loans repayable over receivables 601.3559.0 7.6 18 months to two years.
Reported Revenue 576.7 578.9 0.4 revenue declined by 0.4%, but after Impairment 178.8 171.8 4.1 adjusting for the 53rd week included Revenue less impairment 397.9 407.1 2.3 in the 2005 financial year, grew by Impairment % revenue 31.0% 29.7% 1.8% on a like-for-like basis.
Costs 240.0 247.6 3.1 Revenue growth was lower than the Interest 30.4 29.5 3.1 growth in average receivables of Profit before tax 127.5 130.0 1.9 7.6% because of the increased issue Interest charges have been restated to reflect revised borrowings based during 2005 of larger loans which on an average ratio of borrowings to receivables of 80% see note 1 to Over the last couple of years weve are repayable over a longer period the financial statements.
developed longer, larger loans up and so carry a lower effective to 2,500 over two years compared interest rate.
Customer numbers and credit issued with the more typical 300 over one Customer numbers 000 year.
This has proved very successful.
Statistical credit 883.9 893.8 1,207 846.9 804.9 1,134 1,093 1,076 733.3 credit loan in that the agent collects management techniques and 670.1 584.9 528.9 481.1 repayments every week: it simply arrears management processes 448.9 comes as a ready-loaded plastic have been enhanced in order to card rather than as cash, so that balance growth and credit quality customers can use it over the phone as the business pursues profitable or on the internet.
It is estimated that Along with our shop cards and since May 2006, the enhanced shopping vouchers recently updated credit management processes have Improving cost efficiency remains to make them more like high street declined over 50,000 customer a priority and the integration of the shop gift vouchers the new products applications which would otherwise Greenwood Personal Credit field offer attractive variations on the have been accepted.
management and administration home credit theme.
into Provident Personal Credit was Despite additional marketing completed in the first half of the expenditure of approximately year.
In addition, the Insight Results 4.0 million, operating costs reduced programme to develop hand-held by 3.1% to 240.0 million 2005 personal computers for agents In the UK, customer numbers 247.6 million, including the benefit and field staff is expected to begin increased by 2.0% to 1.52 million: from a one-off 5.5 million pension roll-out during 2007.
As well as the first increase for three years.
credit in respect of changes to increasing efficiency through This was an encouraging result in members commutation rights the replacement of paper-driven a competitive market, particularly together with tighter cost controls.
processes, the technology will given the tighter credit controls also increase agent effectiveness being applied to the acceptance through, for example, more of new customers.
It reflects the flexible agent working and on-line success of increased marketing credit checks.
expenditure in new sales channels including direct mail, direct response Overall, profits reduced by 1.9% advertising, the internet and to 127.5 million 2005 130.0 affinity relationships with retailers.
million mainly as a consequence of investment in new sales channels and higher impairment charges.
58.31 PF AR06 JD P11:Layout 1 16 3 07 15:41 Page 16 16 16 16 Provident Financial plc Provident Financial Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 The strength of home credit lies in the 11,500 agents who call weekly at our customers homes.
Johanna, Product Development Manager, Bradford Recent innovations are helping the UK business to broaden its range of home credit products and so meet the needs of different groups of customers.
Those with a good Christine and Pam, repayment record can now be customer and agent, offered longer, larger loans up to Wakeeld 2,500 repayable over two years.
Other loans come in the form of In the age of internet banking and a pre-loaded debit card so that call centres, the personal agent customers can enjoy the benefits service is highly valued.
83% of of having plastic rather than cash.
customers would recommend Provident home credit to family We have a dedicated team working and friends.
on new product developments to ensure we develop new products that match our business strategy and offer customers and agents something different.
Pam Wright Home credit agent, Wakeeld Diane and Nichola, agent and customer, Bradford 74% of UK home credit agents are women.
Many enjoy the flexibility and face to face customer Nichola appreciates her weekly contact that the work offers.
visit from her agent, Diane.
I know if I ever have to miss a payment, My customers like the weekly visits Diane will be understanding.
theyre convenient and help them remember to put the money aside and keep payments up to date.
58.31 PF AR06 JD P11:Layout 1 16 3 07 15:41 Page 17 Provident Financial plc 17 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 Business review continued UK home credit We estimate that the financial UK home credit has impact of these measures will be to reduce our profits by about 5 million undertaken a series of in 2007 and 10 million a year thereafter largely as a result of the initiatives to renew and new rebate terms.
Whilst we support the majority of the Commissions modernise the business.
findings, we continue to reject its Regulation in the UK analysis of profitability.
Evidence 1 2 presented to the Commission from Regulatory authorities have broad two independent experts, Sir Bryan jurisdiction over many aspects of Carsberg and Professor Colin Mayer, Providents UK operations including is consistent with our position.
marketing and selling practices, The Commission itself noted that advertising and terms of business.
its profitability estimates may be imprecise and that its analysis did not The Competition necessarily indicate that prices in the Commission inquiry home credit market are too high.
The main regulatory development in 2006 was the publication by the The Commission also took account Competition Commission of the final of the vast body of evidence report of its inquiry into home credit that rate caps do more harm than The Consumer Credit Act 2006 in the UK.
good to the people theyre intended The Consumer Credit Act 2006 to help and decided against imposing became law in March 2006.
It Issued in November 2006, the report one.
All mainstream opinion now updates and adds to the Consumer followed a two-year investigation supports the industrys view that a Credit Act 1974, modernising and came up with four remedies for rate cap would be bad for consumers consumer protection and enhancing ensuring increased competition in by making home credit less available.
fairness and transparency in the the home credit market.
We welcome its terms companies will be required to share Most of all, were pleased that two and support the governments data with credit reference agencies, years of intense scrutiny have moves in this direction.
to publish their prices on an endorsed many of the benefits of independent website, to provide home credit that we in the industry The EU Consumer Credit Directive 3 statements for customers on have always sought to communicate.
The Directive on Consumer Credit request, and to adjust their early The inquiry found high levels of proposed by the European settlement rebates more in favour satisfaction among our customers, Commission is proceeding through of the customer.
that home credit products are its various legislative stages which well-suited to customers needs, are likely to take some time.
We The overall effect of these remedies that relationships between agents continue to monitor its progress.
will be more information for the and customers are appropriate and customer and therefore greater businesslike, and that home credit transparency.
To this extent, we companies continue to innovate to support the Commissions findings.
keep ahead of their competitors.
We disagree that early settlement rebates need to be altered, but will 1 Like Peter, 2,600 people work for UK home credit.
nevertheless co-operate fully in putting the remedies into effect 2 The Vanquis Bank credit card offers the during 2007. benefits of plastic with the reassurance of a relatively low credit card limit.
3 Kirstie, on her way to work at our head office in Bradford.
