Directors report: Operating and financial review Business unit review: Insurance operations The variable annuity new business margin decreased slightly At 31 December 2006, Jackson had more than US$74 billion from 50 per cent in 2005 to 49 per cent in 2006.
The fall in 38 billion in GAAP assets.
Of this total, US$22 billion related margin primarily reflects changes in assumptions for expenses to separate account assets, an increase of more than US$7 billion and utilisation of lifetime guaranteed minimum withdrawal compared to 2005 year end, further diversifying Jacksons earnings benefits, offset by economic assumption changes and a more toward fee-based income.
favourable mix due to the increased election of guaranteed NPH had a strong year with pre-tax profits up 51 per cent to minimum withdrawal benefits.
NPH, which is a network of four independent brokerThe fixed annuity new business margin fell from 23 per cent to dealers, increased gross product sales through the network to 16 per cent reflecting changes to expense and cash withdrawal US$11.9 billion 6.5 million in 2006, an increase of 26 per cent assumptions partly offset by economic assumption changes.
NPH has also increased the number of registered advisors in its network to more than 2,600 at year end, The new business margin on institutional business improved due further extending Jacksons footprint in broker-dealer distribution.
to the larger average duration contracts written during 2006.
Curian recorded improved results with pre-tax losses of 8 million The average IRR on new business was 18 per cent compared to in 2006, improving from losses of 10 million in the prior year, 15 per cent in 2005. as it continues to build scale in assets under management.
At While product IRRs are generally in line with returns reported for 31 December 2006, Curian had US$2.4 billion 1.2 billion 2005 new business, the aggregate returns are higher due to a larger of assets under management compared with US$1.7 billion proportion of variable annuity sales in 2006 64 per cent as compared 853 million at CER at the same point in the prior year.
For variable annuities, the IRR has increased to Jackson continues to maintain a strong capital position through 25 per cent in 2006 from 24 per cent last year due to higher interest capital conservation and strong earnings.
At 31 December 2006, rates and therefore a higher separate account return assumption.
Jacksons capital was well in excess of regulatory requirements with sufficient available capital to fund future bolt-on acquisitions.
Total EEV basis operating profit for Jackson for 2006 was During 2006, Jackson increased the capital remittance to the 708 million compared to 731 million in the prior year.
In-force EEV profits of 449 million were 14 per cent below prior year Group to US$200 million, with future increases expected with profit of 523 million, primarily reflecting the inclusion in 2005 continued growth.
of an operating assumption change relating to price increases 4.
Outlook and forthcoming objectives introduced on two older books of term life business representing Jackson continues to deliver growth in the attractive US market 140 million.
This was partially offset by an increase in the unwind and has further enhanced its competitive advantage in the variable of the in-force business during 2006 as a result of a higher opening annuity market, offering the product and service solutions that embedded value and a higher risk discount rate as long-term both customers and advisors desire.
With its continued focus interest rates increased.
On a normalised basis, the EEV basis on product innovation, a proven relationship-based distribution operating profit was up by 19 per cent.
One-off items affecting model, award-winning service and excellence in execution, the spread income variance totalled 46 million.
Jackson is well positioned to take advantage of the changing The growth in IFRS operating profit for total US operations of demographics and resulting opportunities in the US market.
14 per cent from the prior year to 408 million primarily reflects an increase in fee and spread income over 2005.
The improved spread Asia income primarily reflects higher net average invested assets.
Higher fee income was primarily driven by higher separate account assets 1.
The Asian opportunity given the growth in variable annuity sales, and an improvement in Asia remains a very attractive region for growth opportunities due the average fees generated from those assets given the increase to its high levels of economic activity translating into higher levels in election of high-margin guaranteed optional benefits.
In 2006, of personal wealth, greater disposable incomes and a growing spread income included a number of non-recurring items including appetite for good quality protection and savings products.
Within mortgage prepayment fees, make-whole payments and total return this environment, ageing demographics are also beginning to swap income which together represent 33 million of spread, drive increased household savings rates and an emerging need compared to 44 million in 2005, both net of DAC amortisation.
CER RER 2006 2005 Percentage 2005 Percentage Asia m m change m change APE sales 956 734 30% 731 31% NBP 514 418 23% 413 24% NBP margin % APE 54% 57% 56% NBP margin % PVNBP 10.0% 10.3% 10.2% Total EEV basis operating profit 829 585 42% 576 44% Total IFRS operating profit 189 201 6 % 195 3 % Based on longer-term investment returns and excluding fund management operations, development and Asia regional head office expenses.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 37 Directors report: Operating and financial review Business unit review: Insurance operations Business unit review continued Insurance operations Within Asia, each country typically has incumbent life insurers and powerful brand, embodied by the Prudence icon, over 150 years asset managers and the majority of market share is concentrated experience as a market leader, and the governance and compliance in the top five players.
For many years, these incumbents have infrastructure associated with a leading international business.
used predominantly lower quality tied agency distribution and Today, Prudential has life operations in 12 countries, including joint life products have tended to be simple, often with some form ventures with CITIC in China and ICICI in India.
Prudential is a of guarantee that may be based on higher interest rates than the regional force in the life insurance and fund management business, current prevailing ones.
and, at 31 December 2006 had 7.2 million customers in Asia and 14,000 staff.
Brand recognition is high and Prudentials customer The country markets within Asia are extremely diverse and a centric delivery has been acknowledged through a number of one size fits all business model does not work.
Regional players awards, including second most trusted life insurance and asset must accommodate different stages of economic development, management brand in India.
Life insurance new business APE has varying cultures, multiple languages, differing legal and regulatory grown at a compound annual growth rate CAGR of 22 per cent regimes and competitors with different objectives and standards.
since 2001 and funds under management, including Prudentials Joint venture with local companies is also mandated in some market leading retail mutual fund business has grown at a CAGR of markets and there is a limited pool of attractive partners.
Regional 25 per cent over the same period.
For the first time this year, Asia players such as Prudential Corporation Asia have had considerable also became a net contributor of cash to the Group, demonstrating success across multiple Asian markets but, to date, this has been the growing scale of the business.
the exception rather than the rule with local players tending to stay within their markets and other international players, whilst 3. Business priorities successful in one or two markets, have not developed their An ongoing priority for Prudential is to continue building businesses across the region.
The agency strategy is tailored Opportunities for foreign players to access the Asia protection to each market, with the more developed markets typically and savings markets have been increasing steadily and regulators focused on enhancing agency productivity and the newer in the region are becoming more accommodating regarding markets emphasising increased distribution reach through product and distribution innovation.
These include unit-linked growth in agent numbers.
In China and India particularly, this products, more professional non-agency channels and mandatory means increasing geographic coverage through entering new licensing of agents.
Most notably, the significant markets of China cities and opening more branches.
and India have greatly opened up within the last few years.
2006 was a very successful year for the agency distribution channel with year-end 2006 agent numbers increasing by Despite the increasing opportunities in Asia, there are also 114,000 in India, 11,000 in Indonesia and 5,000 in China challenges to expansion.
Experienced staff and agents are very compared to 2005.
Agency productivity measured by APE much in demand, particularly in markets such as China and India per average agent also improved strongly during the year with where the rapid growth of the industry has resulted in limited pools Prudentials more developed markets of Singapore, Hong Kong of resources.
There is also the potential for mis-selling where there and Malaysia all showing double-digit improvement over 2005 can often be a difference between the customers perception of of 23 per cent, 30 per cent and 32 per cent, respectively.
product features and the reality which may take several years to become apparent.
These challenges can be exacerbated by a media Distribution from non-agency channels also grew strongly in that is becoming more consumer focused as deregulation continues.
Strong growth from bank distribution included record During 2006, economic activity in the region remained strong new business volumes from Standard Chartered Bank SCB and equity market performance was robust.
We anticipate the in Hong Kong, an increasing proportion of new business from Asian economic outlook will remain strong with domestic ICICI Bank in India and encouraging growth from Maybank and demand and foreign investment and capital inflow expected Singpost in Singapore.
In addition, a new direct distribution to increase, resulting in average GDP growth across Asia being initiative, PRUcall, was launched in Thailand during 2006, posting around seven per cent for the next few years.
Prudentials product strategy has been a key driver of its success.
Prudentials Asian strategy From the outset, the focus has been on predominantly regular Since 1994 Prudential has implemented a strategy designed to premium products designed and targeted to meet customer build an Asian platform with the breadth and depth to deliver needs.
In the more emerging markets this is illustrated by the material shareholder value that is sustainable over the long term.
success of products that focus on providing for children and their This strategy has been executed by securing early access to education such as PRUkid in Vietnam.
However, in an older and countries with high potential customer bases, building and professionalising core tied agency distribution that is more developed market such as Korea,  complemented by alternative channels such as bank partnerships, unit-linked products such as PRUretire are proving popular.
launching capital efficient consumer orientated products and Prudential has led product innovation in a number of markets supporting the entire structure with a sharp focus on excellent often working closely with the regulators.
As a result, Prudential customer service.
has been first to market with unit-linked products in Singapore, Underpinning the strategy is an investment in recruiting and Malaysia, Taiwan, Indonesia, India, the Philippines and Korea.
training with the objective of retaining the best people in the Unit-linked products are now a well established part of the overall industry.
Prudential also continues to leverage the significant portfolio generating 61 per cent of total new business APE in 2006 advantages from its well respected UK heritage including a and, within the regulatory driven investment guidelines in each 38 Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 Directors report: Operating and financial review Business unit review: Insurance operations market, Prudential continues to expand the choice of investment During 2006, Hong Kong successfully focused on recruiting and funds available to customers, including third-party funds in training agents with average agent numbers and productivity up markets where it makes sense.
seven per cent and 15 per cent, respectively.
Another priority for the business is to continue leveraging its strong partnership During 2006, Prudential launched a new universal life product with SCB, and new business APE from this channel increased by in Malaysia to give customers more choice and in India, ICICI 32 per cent in 2006.
Prudential launched a ground-breaking new diabetes care product.
NBP margins on APE increased from 60 per cent to 69 per cent Prudential has also made its first move into the takaful market during 2006 reflecting improving experience.
Hong Kong also by forming a joint venture with Bank Simpanan Nasional BSN generates material IFRS profits and is a net remitter of capital to in Malaysia and successfully launching its first linked product the Group.
As a result of this strategic focus on regular premium policies, As in Singapore and Korea, there are significant opportunities in capital efficient linked products and the high proportion of A&H the retirement sector in Hong Kong and Prudential is well placed riders, new business profit margins as a percentage of weighted with a marketing campaign already underway.
sales tend to be higher in Asia than are seen elsewhere.
India Prudentials strategy of working with top quality joint venture The focus on effective distribution and profitable life products partners has been very successful in India, where ICICI-Prudential has proven more difficult to deliver in Japan.
Neither tied agency Life is the clear leader amongst the private sector insurers and, with nor general agency distribution were found to be economically its nine per cent market share, is really making headway.
This is a viable and, whilst a profitable variable annuity product has been approved by the regulators, it has not been commercially attractive remarkable achievement given it has only been operating for six years.
when compared to some competitor products.
The business As reflected by the over 280 new branches opened during the remains subscale and we continue to look for profitable growth year and the 165 per cent increase in agent numbers, the strategy opportunities in the market.
in India has been to build scale rapidly.
Bancassurance is also well Further demonstrating the benefits of scale that Prudential is established in India and generated 27 per cent of ICICI-Prudentials beginning to realise in Asia, costs as a proportion of gross written new business in 2006.
At 31 December 2006, ICICI-Prudential had premiums have been decreasing steadily from 16 per cent in 2.6 million policies in force.
However, continuing to increase Whilst 96 per cent of Indias 2006 new business is made up efficiencies through greater use of common systems, platforms of unit-linked products, margins are lower than in other Asian and processes across the region and the Group remains a priority.
This is driven primarily by relatively higher discount Prudential is committed to delivering material shareholder value rates and more aggressive pricing.
The margin of 23 per cent from its Asian business and, during 2006, a number of steps were in 2006 is lower than the 29 per cent reported for 2005 primarily taken to strengthen the Asia regional management team with due to product mix and expense assumption changes.
Barry Stowe becoming the new CEO in November 2006.
Prudentials ownership of this venture is capped at 26 per cent Major market overviews by law and, although there is much speculation that this limit may China be increased to 49 per cent in the future, there is no firm timetable Prudential, with its joint venture partner CITIC, continues to in place.
Prudential will consider an increase in its stake as and be very well placed amongst the foreign players establishing when this becomes a feasible option.
Resulting from the fast pace themselves in this very attractive market.
In 2006, CITIC-Prudential of expansion, the business currently makes a loss under the IFRS retained its position as the number two foreign player with new basis and requires net capital injections.
business APE growth of 56 per cent to 39 million and continued Indonesia to successfully implement its strategy of geographic expansion Indonesia is a very attractive market with a population of 240 million receiving six new city licence awards from the regulators.
and an increasingly stable and productive economy.
Prudential is New business profit margins of 43 per cent remain attractive but already a well established market leader and during 2006 has as would be expected, the business is currently making IFRS losses continued to aggressively expand its agency distribution with and consuming capital as it invests in new cities.
The reduction in numbers up 49 per cent in the year.
In addition to continuing to margin from 51 per cent in 2005 is primarily due to product mix expand the agency force, Indonesia is expected to begin working and persistency assumption changes in 2006. with Citi in 2007 as announced at the time of the Egg sale.
Hong Kong In 1997, Prudential successfully introduced unit-linked products The Hong Kong market grew strongly between 2000 and 2005 in Indonesia, which now account for virtually all new business sold.
with a CAGR of 18 per cent and Prudential has consistently The business is profitable under the IFRS basis and remitted outperformed the market with a CAGR of 22 per cent over surplus capital to the Group in 2006. the same period.
One reason for this is Prudentials successful Japan multi-channel model while most of the top five players in the Prudentials Japanese life insurance operation remains subscale, market choose to focus on only one distribution channel.
In 2006, although 2006 saw new business double.
A review of opportunities 55 per cent of distribution came from agency and 45 per cent in Japan is underway.
from bank distribution with SCB.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 39 Directors report: Operating and financial review Business unit review: Insurance operations Business unit review continued Insurance operations Korea operationalisation of a sophisticated sales force automation tool Prudentials Korean life operation has an impressive growth track to simplify the application process.
Third-party distribution through record with a CAGR of 82 per cent since its acquisition in 2001 and Maybank and Singpost is also beginning to make meaningful is the fastest growing company in the industry.
This has resulted contributions to new business.
primarily from successful implementation of a multi-channel Prudential Singapore continues to sell a higher proportion of distribution and product innovation strategy that has differentiated unit-linked business than the market supported by the strategy Prudential from the market.
of enhancing the fund range.
New business APE in 2006 of 218 million was driven principally Given the size, longevity and quality of its in-force book, Singapore by the tied financial consultant channel 49 per cent and the GA is a major contributor to Prudential Corporation Asias IFRS profits broker channel 38 per cent.
Bancassurance volumes are limited and generates material surplus operating cash which is remitted by regulatory constraints which prescribe a maximum 25 per cent back to the Group.
of banks sales volume from any one life insurer.
This has negatively Looking ahead, growth opportunities in Singapore remain impacted bank distribution in Korea as Prudential reached this promising, particularly in the retirement space both accumulation limit early on in the year with all its major bank partners.
distribution accounted for five per cent in 2006 and this reflects the more competitive environment at present.
In 2007 Prudential will Taiwan continue building on its advantaged distribution model, including Taiwan now has the highest life insurance penetration rate in the new bank partnerships with Korea Bank and Shinhan Bank.
world measured by premiums as a percentage of GDP.
To a large Prudential Korea has benefited significantly from its innovative extent, however, this has been driven by competitors launching stance in the retirement space: and has been hugely successful low-margin tactical products which capitalise on the current low with its Whats your number campaign.
Prudential has deliberately avoided this tactic and its strategic priority continues to be to position the Whilst lower than some other markets, new business profit business for the long-term with quality, multi-channel distribution margins in Korea remain attractive at 35 per cent and are driven by and profitable products.
the high proportion of unit-linked products at 84 per cent of APE.
2006 new business volumes decreased slightly compared to As a result of its rapid growth, investment in building scale and 2005 with agent numbers reducing by nine per cent reflecting the comparatively small size of the acquired in-force book, the the focus on quality as non-performers were terminated.
There business currently makes a loss under the IFRS basis and receives are also good opportunities for bancassurance in Taiwan and capital injections from the Group.
Prudential has five agreements in place with the intention to expand these further.
Malaysia Prudential Malaysia had a challenging year in 2006 in part due Prudential continues to sell a higher proportion of unit-linked to regulatory driven changes on illustrations which unsettled the business than the market and for 2006 this was 58 per cent industry.
Against this backdrop Prudential Malaysia was able to compared to 39 per cent.
NBP margins at 55 per cent, are up from grow by six per cent.
Distribution in Malaysia is predominately tied 51 per cent in 2005, at RER, primarily due to product mix changes.
agency as the current bank distribution regulations limit insurers to The Taiwan business continues to receive capital support from the one bank partner.
In 2007 the focus in Malaysia will be to continue Group to maintain solvency resulting from current negative spread expanding the agency force and further broaden the product on the back book acquired in 1999. range with a universal life product.
For some time Prudential has seen the potential for takaful During 2006, interest rates did not increase from their current low products in Malaysia and in 2006 formed a takaful joint venture levels as expected, although the long-term assumption remains with BSN, Prudential BSN Takaful.
This launched in November and that these will rise.
has started selling Shariah compliant linked life products through Looking ahead, priorities for the Taiwan life business include Prudential Malaysias tied agency force.
driving greater rider attachments and direct marketing with A&H products.
Malaysia generates significant IFRS profits and makes material contributions of surplus capital to the Group.
Thailand The Philippines For many years, Prudential has struggled to make headway with Although it is a top 5 player in the Philippines, Prudentials agency distribution in Thailand: however, during 2006 it launched operation is small: during 2007 a major revamp of the agency a call centre in support of its direct marketing operation.
Although channel and product portfolio will begin.
still small, the results to date have been very encouraging contributing to new business APE growing 81 per cent in 2006.
Singapore Prudential is a leading player in Singapore and, over the five-year Vietnam period 2001 to 2005, consistently outgrew the market.
In Vietnam, Prudential has retained its market leading position but the market continues to be depressed following the initial During 2006, Prudential Singapore delivered strong APE growth post-liberalisation boom.
The longer-term potential remains of 23 per cent driven by its strategy of growing and rejuvenating excellent and Prudential continues to develop and build its the agency force against the industry trend and implementing agency distribution.
a number of agency productivity initiatives, including the 40 Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 Directors report: Operating and financial review Business unit review: Insurance operations 4.
Financial results and performance Total EEV shareholders funds at 31 December 2006 were In financial terms, 2006 was another strong year.
Prudential 2.5 billion, up 28 per cent on 31 December 2005.
Corporation Asias new business APE grew by 30 per cent to IFRS operating profits increased 11 per cent to 189 million, 956 million.
New business profit margins remain robust at compared to 2005, excluding 2005 net exceptional items of positive 54 per cent with the net two per cent change from 56 per cent 30 million.
This reflects the steady increase in profits from the in 2005 at RER, principally attributed to higher proportion of new established markets of Singapore, Malaysia and Hong Kong with business in the mix from lower margin geographies.
The percentage total IFRS operating profits of 139 million, and the emergence of unit-linked products, which are more capital efficient, remained of profits on the IFRS basis from some of the newer operations high at 64 per cent compared to 63 per cent in 2005. as they build scale.
Total shareholders funds on the IFRS basis, of 1.29 billion, increased by 12 per cent compared to 2005.
APE new business premiums m IRRs for Asia were in excess of 20 per cent for 2006.
In Asia, Prudential has target IRRs on new business at a country level 1,000 of 10 percentage points over the country risk discount rate.
Risk 956 discount rates vary from five per cent to 18 per cent depending 800 upon the risks in each country market.
These target rates of return 734 are average rates and the marginal return on capital on a particular 600 product could be above or below the target.
As expected, overall Prudential Asia became a net contributor 400 of cash to the Group with a net remittance of surplus capital of 28 million during 2006.
Outlook for 2007 0 The opportunities for profitable growth in Asia remain compelling 2005 2006 and Prudential is very well placed with an excellent platform.
The focus going forward will be continuing to focus on developing EEV basis new business profit m its existing strengths in terms of growing agency scale and productivity, improving and expanding partnership distribution 600 and continuing product innovation.
514 There is also the opportunity to deepen and strengthen relationships with the over nine million customers already on the 400 418 books with a disciplined and systematic approach.
The retirement opportunity is clear and Prudential is developing a comprehensive approach to this in terms of accumulation, drawn down and 200 associated protection needs.
Prudential Asia will be leveraging its very successful Korean media campaign Whats your number to other markets during 2007.
0 Prudential has not leveraged its strengths to building scale direct 2005 2006 distribution as yet and this will be a priority in the future.
Prudential will also be re-examining its approach to health Long-term EEV operating profits of 829 million are up 42 per cent products as there are significant opportunities to create value over 2005 and are principally driven by new business profits of for shareholders and customer above and beyond what is already 514 million and an 89 per cent increase in in-force profits, from being done.
This includes the increase in unwind across all countries, positive operating Prudential remains committed to the target of at least doubling assumption changes of 45 million together with positive its 2005 new business profit by 2009, and expect to generate experience and other variances of 16 million.
increasing levels of cash from the region.
Operating assumption changes include positive mortality and In summary, the outlook for the life insurance business in 2007 persistency assumption changes which are the net result of a remains very positive.
number of small movements in countries across the region.
In addition, there are positive expense assumption changes, primarily the result of uplifting the Prudential Asset Management PAM profit assumptions across Asia.
Within experience variances, there is a positive persistency experience variance which is the net result of a number of small variances in countries across the region.
There is negative expense experience in China and India, as expected, as these operations expand rapidly.
