Directors report: Corporate governance Board of directors Board of directors Chairman Executive directors 1234 5 6 7 1.
Sir David Clementi FCA MBA Przezornosc Charitable Foundation, which has been the Reconstruction and Renewal process, which Chairman and Chairman of the Nomination established in Poland in recognition of former reorganised Lloyds after the losses of the late Committee policyholders with whom the Company lost contact.
Following the successful Sir David Clementi has been Chairman of Prudential Previously, he was with the UK firm of Arthur completion of the reorganisation in 1996, he since December 2002.
In 2005, he was appointed Andersen, where he became a partner in 1993. became Managing Director of Lloyds Business as President of the Investment Property Forum.
Development Unit and in 1998 he also assumed 4.
Clark Manning FSA MAAA In 2003, he joined the Financial Services Authoritys responsibility for Lloyds North America business Executive director Financial Capability Steering Group, and was unit.
Prior to his appointment to Lloyds, he was Clark Manning has been an executive director of appointed by the Secretary of State for Constitutional responsible for corporate strategy at National Freight Prudential since January 2002.
He is also President Affairs to carry out a review of the regulation of Corporation plc, and prior to that he was a partner and Chief Executive Officer of Jackson National Life legal services in England and Wales, which was at management consultants Bain and Co and a Insurance Company.
He was previously Chief completed in 2004.
In 2003, he also joined the director of private equity company Apax Partners.
Operating Officer, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Reporting Council, and became a nonActuary of Jackson National Life Insurance 7.
Barry Stowe executive director of Rio Tinto plc.
He is also a Company, which he joined in 1995.
Prior to that, Executive director board member of the Royal Opera House.
From he was Senior Vice President and Chief Actuary Barry Stowe has been an executive director of 1997 to 2002 he was Deputy Governor of the for SunAmerica Inc, and prior to that Consulting Prudential since 1 November 2006, and Chief Bank of England.
During this time, he served as Actuary at Milliman & Robertson Inc.
He has more Executive, Prudential Corporation Asia since a member of the Monetary Policy Committee and than 25 years experience in the life insurance 9 October 2006.
Previously, he was President, as a non-executive director of the Financial Services industry, and holds both a bachelors degree in Accident & Health Worldwide for AIG Life Authority.
From 1975 to 1997 he worked for the actuarial science and an MBA from the University Companies.
He joined AIG in 1995, and prior to that Kleinwort Benson Group, latterly as Chief Executive.
He also holds professional designations of was President and CEO of NISUS, a subsidiary of 2.
Mark Tucker ACA Fellow of the Society of Actuaries FSA and Member Pan-American Life, from 1992-1995.
Prior to NISUS, Group Chief Executive of the American Academy of Actuaries MAAA.
Barry spent 12 years at Willis Corroon in the US.
Mark Tucker was re-appointed as an executive 5.
Keki Dadiseth FCA director in May 2005, when he also became Group Executive director Independent non-executive director and member Chief Executive.
From May 2004 to March 2005 he Michael McLintock has been an executive director of the Audit and Remuneration Committee was Group Finance Director, HBOS plc and director of Prudential since September 2000.
He is also Keki Dadiseth has been an independent nonof Halifax plc.
Previously, he was an executive Chief Executive of M&G, a position he held at the executive director of Prudential since April 2005. director of Prudential from 1999 to 2003, and from time of M&Gs acquisition by Prudential in 1999.
During 2006, he was appointed as a non-executive 1993 to 2003 he was Chief Executive of Prudential He joined M&G in 1992.
He is also a non-executive director of ICICI Prudential Life Assurance Company Corporation Asia, and also held senior positions in director of Close Brothers Group plc.
Limited and Prudential ICICI Trust Limited.
He is Prudentials businesses in the UK and the US.
He also a member of the Advisory Board of Marsh & first joined Prudential in 1986, having previously 6.
Nick Prettejohn McLennan Companies Inc. and an International been a tax consultant at PriceWaterhouse UK Executive director Advisor to Goldman Sachs.
In addition, he is a in London.
Nick Prettejohn has been an executive director of director of Nicholas Piramal Limited, Siemens Prudential and Chief Executive, Prudential UK and 3.
Philip Broadley FCA Limited, Britannia Industries Limited and The Indian Europe since 1 January 2006.
He is also a board Group Finance Director Hotels Company Limited, all quoted on the Bombay member of the ABI, Deputy Chairman of the Philip Broadley has been an executive director of Stock Exchange.
He is also a director of the Indian Financial Services Practitioner Panel, and a board Prudential and Group Finance Director since May School of Business and acts as a trustee of a member of the Royal Opera House.
He is currently Chairman of the 100 Group number of Indian charities.
Before he retired from was Chief Executive of Lloyds of London from 1999 of Finance Directors and a member of the Insurance Unilever in 2005, he was Director, Home and until 2005.
He joined the Corporation of Lloyds in Advisory Group of the International Accounting Personal Care, responsible for the HPC business of 1995 as Head of Strategy, and played a key role in Standards Board.
He is also President of the Unilever worldwide, a Board member of Unilever 80 Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 Directors report: Corporate governance Board of directors Non-executive directors 8910 11 12 13 14 PLC and Unilever N. V. and a member of Unilevers 18 May 2006.
She is a non-executive director of 13.
He joined Hindustan Lever the Federal National Mortgage Association Fannie Senior independent non-executive director Ltd in India in 1973.
Mae, and from 1 April 2007 she will also serve as and member of the Audit and Nomination a non-executive director on the board of Scottish & Committee 9.
She was previously a non-executive James Ross has been an independent nonIndependent non-executive director and member director of J Sainsbury Plc.
Prior to that she spent 18 executive director since May 2004 and the Senior of the Remuneration Committee years at OppenheimerFunds Inc, a major New York Independent Director since May 2006.
He holds Michael Garrett has been an independent nonbased investment management company, the final non-executive directorships with McGraw Hill and executive director of Prudential since September 10 years of which she was Chief Executive Officer.
Datacard in the United States and Schneider 2004.
He worked for Nestl from 1961, becoming Electric in France.
He is also Chairman of the Head of Japan 1990 - 1993, and then Zone 11.
Roberto Mendoza Leadership Foundation for Higher Education.
Director and Member of the Executive Board, Independent non-executive director and member He was previously Chairman of National Grid plc responsible for Asia and Oceania, and in 1996 his of the Remuneration Committee and Littlewoods plc.
responsibilities were expanded to include Africa Roberto Mendoza has been an independent nonand the Middle East.
He retired as Executive Vice executive director of Prudential since May 2000.
He was also Chief Executive of Cable and Wireless President of Nestl in 2005.
In addition, he served He served as Chairman of the Remuneration plc and Chairman and Chief Executive of BP the Government of Australia as Chairman of the Committee from 2002 until 18 May 2006.
He is America Inc. and a Managing Director of the British Food Industry Council and as a Member of the also Chairman of the Trinsum Group, and a nonPetroleum Company plc.
Industry Council of Australia, and was also member executive director of Western Union Inc and of 14.
Lord Turnbull KCB CVO of the Advisory Committee for an APEC AsiaParis Re.
Previously, he was the non-executive Independent non-executive director and member Pacific Economic Cooperation Food System, a Chairman of Egg plc and a non-executive director of the Audit Committee Member of The Turkish Prime Ministers Advisory of The BOC Group plc, and prior to that he was Lord Turnbull has been an independent nonGroup and the WTO World Trade Organization Vice Chairman and director of JP Morgan & Co. executive director of Prudential since 18 May Business Advisory Council in Switzerland.
He Inc. a non-executive director of Reuters Group 2006, and a member of the Audit Committee since remains a director of Nestl companies in India and PLC, and a managing director of Goldman Sachs.
He entered the House of Lords as a Japan, and was appointed Chairman of the Evian 12.
Kathleen ODonovan ACA Life Peer in 2005.
In 2002 he became Secretary of Group in 2001, a think tank and forum for dialogue Independent non-executive director and the Cabinet and Head of the Home Civil Service promoting free trade.
He also serves as a nonChairman of the Audit Committee until he retired in 2005.
Prior to that, he held a executive director on the Boards of the Bobst Kathleen ODonovan has been an independent nonnumber of positions in the civil service, including Group Switzerland and Hasbro Inc. in the US, and is executive director of Prudential since May 2003.
Permanent Secretary at HM Treasury: Permanent a member of the Finance and Performance Review She has been a member of the Audit Committee Secretary at the Department of the Environment Committee of The Prince of Wales International since 2003 and became Chairman of the Audit later Environment, Transport and the Regions : Business Leaders Forum IBLF.
She is a non-executive Private Secretary Economics to the Prime Minister: 10.
Bridget Macaskill director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of and Principal Private Secretary to Margaret Thatcher Independent non-executive director, Chairman Great Portland Estates PLC and a non-executive and then John Major.
He joined HM Treasury in of the Remuneration Committee and member director of ARM Holdings plc.
Lord Turnbull is a non-executive director of of the Nomination Committee of the Invensys Pension Scheme.
Previously, she was Frontier Economics Ltd, The British Land Company Bridget Macaskill has been an independent nona non-executive director and Chairman of the Audit PLC and the Arup Group.
He also works part-time executive director of Prudential since September Committees of the EMI Group plc and the Court of as a Senior Adviser to the London partners of Booz 2003.
She rejoined the Board of Prudential having the Bank of England, and a non-executive director of Allen Hamilton UK.
previously resigned due to a potential conflict of O plc.
Prior to that, she was Chief Financial Officer 2 interest in 2001.
She has been a member of the of BTR and Invensys, and before that she was a Remuneration Committee since 2003 and became partner at Ernst & Young.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 81 Other report to shareholders 83 Directors remuneration report 82 Prudential plc Annual Report 2006
