Directors report: Operating and financial review Other corporate information Other corporate information Further information on the use of derivatives and hedge Explanation of balance sheet structure accounting by the Group is also provided in notes D3 and G3 The Groups capital on an IFRS basis comprises of shareholders on pages 155 and 156 and 195 to 197 respectively.
funds of 5,488 million, subordinated long-term and perpetual debt of 1,989 million, other core structural borrowings of Shareholders borrowings and financial flexibility 1,074 million and the unallocated surplus of with-profits funds of 13.6 billion.
Net core structural borrowings at 31 December 2006 were 1,493 million compared with 1,611 million at 31 December 2005.
Subordinated or hybrid debt is debt capital which has some This reflects the net cash outflow of 104 million, exchange conversion equity-like features and which would rank below other senior gains of 240 million and other adjustments of 18 million.
debt in the event of a liquidation.
These features allow hybrid debt to be treated as capital for FSA regulatory purposes.
All After adjusting for holding company cash and short-term of the Groups hybrid debt which qualifies in this way is held at investments of 1,119 million, core structural borrowings of the Group level and is therefore taken as capital into the parent shareholder-financed operations excluding Egg at the end solvency test under the FCD.
of 2006 totalled 2,612 million, compared with 2,739 million at the end of 2005.
This decrease reflected exchange conversion The FSA has established a structure for determining how much gains of 135 million and other adjustments of 8 million.
hybrid debt can count as capital which is similar to that used for banks.
It categorises capital as Tier 1 equity and preference Core long-term loans at the end of 2006 included 1,626 million shares, Upper Tier 2 and Lower Tier 2.
Up to 15 per cent of at fixed rates of interest with maturity dates ranging from 2007 Tier 1 can be in the form of hybrid debt and called Innovative to perpetuity.
Core borrowings of 890 million were denominated Tier 1.
At 31 December 2006, the Group held 763 million in US dollars, to hedge partially the currency exposure arising from of Innovative Tier 1 capital, in the form of perpetual securities, the Groups investment in Jackson.
250 million of Upper Tier 2 and 1,103 million of Lower Tier 2 Prudential has in place an unlimited global commercial paper capital.
Following the implementation of the FCD, it is advantageous programme.
At 31 December 2006, commercial paper of to the Group from a regulatory capital standpoint to raise its long-term 198 million, US$3,449 million and 85 million has been issued debt in hybrid form and it is the Groups policy to take advantage under this programme.
Prudential also has in place a 5,000 million of favourable market conditions as they arise to do so.
At 31 December 2006, The unallocated surplus of the with-profits funds represents subordinated debt outstanding under this programme was assets in the life fund which have not yet been allocated either 435 million and 520 million, and senior debt outstanding was to policyholders or shareholders.
They are not generally available US$18 million and 5 million.
In addition, the holding company to the Group other than as they emerge through the statutory has access to 1,600 million committed revolving credit facilities, transfer of the shareholders share of the surplus as it emerges provided by 16 major international banks and a 500 million from the fund over time.
committed securities lending liquidity facility.
These facilities have not been drawn on during the year.
The commercial paper programme, the MTN programme, the committed revolving credit Weighted average cost of capital WACC facilities and the committed securities lending liquidity facility are Prudentials commitment to its shareholders is to maximise the value available for general corporate purposes and to support the of Prudential over time by delivering superior financial returns.
liquidity needs of the parent company.
Prudentials weighted average cost of capital WACC is circa The Groups insurance and asset management operations are 9.6 per cent, which is based on the net core debt and shares funded centrally.
Egg, as a separate bank, is responsible for its own outstanding at the end of 2006, an equity market premium of financing.
The Groups core debt is managed to be within a target four per cent and a market beta of 1.4.
Prudentials WACC has level consistent with its current debt ratings.
At 31 December 2006, increased since the end of 2005 largely due to an increase in the gearing ratio debt, net of cash and short-term investments, as a interest rates and to equity forming a greater proportion of capital.
proportion of EEV shareholders funds plus debt was 11.2 per cent compared with 13.5 per cent at 31 December 2005.
Financial instruments Prudential plc enjoys strong debt ratings from both Standard & Poors and Moodys.
Prudential long-term senior debt is rated A The Group is exposed to financial risk through its financial assets, stable outlook, A2 stable outlook and AAfrom Standard & financial liabilities, and policyholder liabilities.
The financial risk Poors, Moodys and Fitch respectively, while short-term ratings factors affecting the Group include market risk, foreign exchange are A1, P-1 and F1.
risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
Information on the financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group and the Based on EEV basis operating profit from continuing operations exposure of the Group to the financial risk factors is given in and interest payable on core structural borrowings excluding Egg, Section C on pages 136 to 138. interest cover was 12.2 times in 2006 compared with 10.8 times in 2005.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 47 Directors report: Operating and financial review Other corporate information Other corporate information continued Treasury policy Regulatory capital requirements The Group operates a central treasury function, which has overall The FCD, which affects groups with significant cross-sector activities responsibility for managing its capital funding programme as well in insurance and banking investment services, came into force for as its central cash and liquidity positions.
Prior to this, since 1 January 2001 Prudential was required to meet the solvency requirements of the The aim of Prudentials capital funding programme, which includes Insurance Groups Directive IGD, as implemented by the FSA.
the 5,000 million MTN programme together with the unlimited The FSA has implemented the FCD by applying the sectoral rules commercial paper programme, is to maintain a strong and flexible of the largest sector, hence a group such as Prudential is classified funding capacity.
as an insurance conglomerate and is required to focus on the Prudential UK and Prudential Corporation Asia use derivatives capital adequacy requirements of the IGD, the Consolidated to reduce equity risk, interest rate and currency exposures, Life Directive and the Insurance Company Accounts Directive.
and to facilitate efficient investment management.
In the US, The FCD requires a continuous parent company solvency test Jackson uses derivatives to reduce interest rate risk, to facilitate which requires the aggregating of surplus capital held in the efficient portfolio management and to match liabilities under regulated subsidiaries, from which Group borrowings are fixed index policies.
deducted, other than those subordinated debt issues which It is Prudentials policy that all free-standing derivatives are used qualify as capital.
No credit for the benefit of diversification is to hedge exposures or facilitate efficient portfolio management.
allowed for under this approach.
The test is passed when this aggregate number is positive, and a negative result at any point Amounts at risk are covered by cash or by corresponding assets.
in time is a notifiable breach of UK regulatory requirements.
Due to the geographical diversity of Prudentials businesses, Due to the geographically diverse nature of Prudentials it is subject to the risk of exchange rate fluctuations.
Prudentials operations, the application of these requirements to Prudential international operations in the US and Asia, which represent a is complex.
In particular, for many of our Asian operations, the significant proportion of operating profit and shareholders funds, assets, liabilities and capital requirements have to be recalculated generally write policies and invest in assets denominated in local based on FSA regulations as if the companies were directly currency.
Although this practice limits the effect of exchange rate subject to FSA regulation.
fluctuations on local operating results, it can lead to significant fluctuations in Prudentials consolidated financial statements upon The FCD position will be submitted to the FSA by 30 April 2007 conversion of results into pounds sterling.
The currency exposure but is currently estimated to be around 1.0 billion.
A further gain relating to the conversion of reported earnings is not separately of 0.3 billion is expected to arise in 2007 from the sale of Egg.
managed, as it is not in the economic interests of the Group to do so.
The sale of Egg implies that Prudential may again be designated The impact of gains or losses on currency conversions is recorded an insurance group rather than its current treatment as a financial as a component of shareholders funds within the statement of conglomerate, and thus will be required to meet the requirements recognised income and expense.
The impact of exchange rate of the IGD.
This should not have a significant impact on the fluctuations in 2006 is discussed elsewhere in this OFR.
Group, as the FSAs prudential requirements pertaining to insurance groups are very similar to those applying to insurance conglomerates, in particular because the FSA has decided to Unallocated surplus of with-profits make the continuous parent solvency test mandatory from During 2006, the unallocated surplus, which represents the excess 31 December 2006 for all insurance groups.
of assets over policyholder liabilities for the Groups with-profits The European Commission is continuing to develop a new funds on a statutory basis, grew from 11.3 billion at 1 January prudential framework for insurance companies, the Solvency II to 13.6 billion at 31 December.
This reflects an increase in the project that will update the existing life, non-life and insurance cumulative retained earnings arising on with-profits business that groups directives.
The main aim of this framework is to ensure have yet to be allocated to policyholders or shareholders.
The the financial stability of the insurance industry and protect change in 2006 predominantly reflects the positive investment policyholders through establishing solvency requirements return earned by the PAC with-profits fund as a result of better matched to the true risks of the business.
Like Basel 2, investment gains in the UK equity market.
the new approach is expected to be based on the concept of three pillars minimum capital requirements, supervisory review of firms assessments of risk and enhanced disclosure requirements.
However, the scope is wider than Basel 2 and will cover valuations, the treatment of insurance groups, the definition of capital and the overall level of capital requirements.
48 Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 Directors report: Operating and financial review Other corporate information A key aspect of Solvency II is the focus on risks and, for example, The table below shows the change in the investment mix capital requirements will be calibrated to a one year Value at of Prudential UKs main with-profits fund: Risk with a 99.5 per cent confidence level.
Companies will be 2006 2005 2004 % %% encouraged to improve their risk management processes and will be allowed to make use of internal economic capital models UK equities 36 40 33 to enable a better understanding of risks.
The emphasis on International equities 17 19 15 transparency and comparability would ensure a level playing field Property 15 15 18 but not delivering this remains one of the key risks for the project.
Bonds 25 21 29 Cash and other assets classes 7 55 Prudential is actively engaged in policy discussions mainly through Total 100 100 100 its participation in the Chief Risk Officer CRO Forum of major European insurance firms.
Prudential has been emphasising the United States importance of level playing fields, in particular in connection with The capital adequacy position of Jackson remains strong, having the treatment of operations outside the EU.
improved the capital ratio from 9.2 per cent in 2005 to 9.8 per cent The Commission intends to adopt proposals for a framework in 2006.
Jacksons statutory capital, surplus and asset valuation directive in mid-2007 which will contain high-level principles.
reserve position improved year-on-year by US$193 million, after These principles will be supplemented by implementing measures deducting the US$200 million of capital remitted to the parent that will be adopted by the Commission and EU member states.
Jacksons financial strength is rated AA by Standard & Solvency II is then intended to be implemented around 2010.
It is important that the EU policy makers keep up the progress Jacksons invested asset mix on a US regulatory basis excludes to enable implementation by the suggested date.
policy loans and reverse repo leverage is as follows: During 2006, the Committee of European Insurance and 2006 2005 2004 % % % Occupational Pensions Supervisors CEIOPS invited EU insurance industry to participate in the second quantitative impact study, Bonds: which provided useful input for supervisors and industry alike.
The Investment Grade Public 60 58 60 EU insurance industry will be participating in another quantitative Investment Grade Private 18 19 19 impact study during the first half of 2007 with a view to provide Non-Investment Grade Public 4 54 quantitative input into the calibration of the capital requirements.
Non-Investment Grade Private 1 22 Participation in these exercises involves a substantive commitment Commercial mortgages 12 11 11 and is expected to yield benefits by providing evidence leading to Private equities and real estate 3 33 a truly risk-based capital requirement.
Equities, cash and other assets 2 21 Total 100 100 100 Financial strength of insurance operations Asia United Kingdom Prudential Corporation Asia maintains solvency margins in each The PACs long-term fund remains very strong.
On a realistic of its operations so that these are at or above the local regulatory valuation basis, with liabilities recorded on a market consistent requirements.
Across the region less than 40 per cent of nonbasis, the free assets are valued at approximately 8.7 billion at linked funds are invested in equities.
Both Singapore and Malaysia 31 December 2006, before a deduction for the risk capital margin.
have discrete life funds, and have strong free asset ratios.
The The fund is rated AA by Standard & Poors, Aa1 by Moodys and Hong Kong life operation is a branch of Prudential Assurance AA by Fitch Ratings.
Company Limited and its solvency is covered by that business.
The with-profits sub-fund delivered a pre-tax return of 12.4 per cent Taiwan has Risk Based Capital regulatory solvency margins and in 2006, and over the last five years the fund has achieved a total Prudential ensures sufficient capital is retained in the business return of 63.8 per cent against 41.1 per cent for the FTSE 100 total to cover these requirements.
return and 50.2 per cent for the FTSE All-Share Total Return index figures are to 31 December 2006, before tax and charges.
Redress of mortgage endowment products Much of this excellent investment performance was achieved through the active asset allocation of the fund.
As part of its asset PACs main long-term business with-profits fund paid allocation process, Prudential UK constantly evaluates prospects compensation of 11 million in 2006 in respect of mortgage for different markets and asset classes.
During the year, Prudential endowment product mis-selling claims and held a provision UK decreased its exposure to equities while increasing its of 60 million at 31 December 2006 to cover further claims.
exposure to corporate bonds and alternative assets, reflecting These compensation payments and provisions have had no Prudential UKs view that increased diversification in the assets impact on policyholders asset shares.
As a result, policyholders of the with-profits sub-fund was appropriate.
bonuses and the shareholders share of these bonuses are unaffected, resulting in no impact on the Groups profit before tax.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 49 Directors report: Operating and financial review Other corporate information Other corporate information continued A provision of 5 million was held at 31 December 2006 by of surplus or deficit of assets over liabilities for defined benefit shareholders funds to cover potential compensation in respect schemes is currently measured in three ways: the actuarial of mis-selling claims for Scottish Amicable mortgage endowment valuation, FRS 17 for subsidiary accounting in the UK and products sold since the acquisition of Scottish Amicable in 1997.
In IAS 19 for the Group financial statements.
FRS 17 and IAS 19 addition, a provision of 45 million was held at 31 December 2006 are very similar.
As at 31 December 2006, the shareholders share for the closed Scottish Amicable Insurance Fund SAIF in respect of the 65 million surplus for PSPS and the deficits of the other of mortgage endowment products sold prior to acquisition.
This schemes amounted to an 8 million deficit net of related tax relief.
provision has no impact on shareholders.
No further Scottish Defined benefit schemes in Prudential UK are generally required Amicable mortgage endowment products were sold after April 2001. to be subject to full actuarial valuation every three years to assess In May 2006, the Group introduced a deadline for both Prudential the appropriate level of funding for schemes having regard to and Scottish Amicable mortgage endowment complaints.
These valuations include assessments of the customers have three years to lodge a mis-selling complaint in line likely rate of return on the assets held within the separate trustee with the time limit prescribed by the FSA and the ABI.
PSPS was last actuarially valued as at 5 April 2005 and this valuation demonstrated the Scheme to be 94 per cent funded, with a shortfall of actuarially determined assets to liabilities Inherited estate of Prudential Assurance of six per cent, representing a deficit of 243 million.
The assets of the main with-profits fund within the long-term The finalisation of the valuation as at 5 April 2005 was insurance fund of PAC comprise the amounts that it expects to accompanied by changes to the basis of funding for the Scheme.
pay out to meet its obligations to existing policyholders and an For 2006 and future years, deficit funding amounts designed to additional amount used as working capital.
The amount payable eliminate the actuarial deficit over a 10-year period have been over time to policyholders from the with-profits fund is equal to and are being made.
Total contributions to the Scheme for the policyholders accumulated asset shares plus any additional deficit funding and employers contributions for ongoing payments that may be required by way of smoothing or to meet service for current employees are expected to be of the order guarantees.
The balance of the assets of the with-profits fund is of 70-75 million per annum over a 10-year period.
However, called the inherited estate and has accumulated over many years in 2006, total contributions, including amounts in arrears for from various sources.
the scheme year to 5 April 2006, were 137 million.
The inherited estate represents the major part of the working Under IAS 19 the basis of valuation differs markedly from the capital of PACs long-term insurance fund.
This enables PAC to full triennial valuation basis.
In particular, it requires assets of the support with-profits business by providing the benefits associated Scheme to be valued at their market value at the year end, while with smoothing and guarantees, by providing investment flexibility pension liabilities are required to be discounted at a rate consistent for the funds assets, by meeting the regulatory capital with the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond.
requirements that demonstrate solvency and by absorbing the As a result, the difference between IAS 19 basis assets and costs of significant events or fundamental changes in its long-term liabilities can be volatile.
For those schemes such as PSPS, which business without affecting the bonus and investment policies.
The hold a substantial proportion of their assets in equity investments, size of the inherited estate fluctuates from year to year depending the volatility can be particularly significant.
For 2006, a 28 million on the investment return and the extent to which it has been pre-tax shareholder charge to operating results based on longerrequired to meet smoothing costs, guarantees and other events.
In addition, outside the operating result, but PAC believes that it would be beneficial if there were greater included in total profits is a pre-tax shareholder credit of 167 for clarity as to the status of the Inherited Estate.
As a result, PAC net actuarial gains.
These gains primarily represent the difference has announced that it has begun a process to determine whether between actual and expected investment returns for the schemes it can achieve that clarity through a reattribution of the inherited and the reduction in liabilities caused by an increase in the estate.
As part of this process, a Policyholder Advocate has been discount rate caused by increases in corporate bond returns.
nominated to represent policyholders interests.
This nomination In 2006, the PSPS asset allocation was altered away from equity does not mean that a reattribution will occur.
investments such that at 31 December 2006 the market value of Given the size of the Groups with-profits business any proposal is equities for the Groups defined benefit schemes represented likely to be time consuming and complex to implement and is likely 31 per cent 2005: 52 per cent of the total asset value, whilst the to involve a payment to policyholders from shareholders funds.
bond portfolio accounted for 43 per cent 2005: 34 per cent.
If a reattribution is completed the inherited estate will continue Surpluses and deficits on the Groups defined benefit schemes are to provide working capital for the long-term insurance fund.
apportioned to the PAC life fund and shareholders funds based on estimates of employees service between them.
At 31 December 2005, the deficit on the PSPS Scheme was apportioned in the ratio Defined benefit pension schemes 70 30 between the life fund and shareholder-backed operations.
The Group operates four defined benefit schemes, three in This ratio was determined following extensive analysis of the Prudential UK, of which the principal scheme is the Prudential Staff source of the cumulative funding for the scheme to that date.
Pension Scheme PSPS, and a small scheme in Taiwan.
The level This basis has been applied for 2006 to the assets and liability 50 Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 Directors report: Operating and financial review Other corporate information movements relating to the start position and also to the deficit subsidiary Prudential Annuities Limited PAL which is closed funding paid in the year.
However, the IAS 19 service cost for the to new business: profits from this business accrue to the year and employer contributions for ongoing service of current with-profits sub-fund.
employees have been apportioned in the ratio relevant to current United States activity.
At 31 December 2006, the total share of the surplus on Jacksons principal retail savings products are sold as single PSPS and the deficit on the much smaller Scottish Amicable premium fixed, variable or fixed index deferred annuities.
scheme attributable to the PAC life fund amounted to a net surplus of 66 million net of related tax relief.
Interest-sensitive fixed annuities are products which allow for tax-deferred accumulation of funds, with flexible payout options.
They are used for asset accumulation in retirement planning and Products and drivers of insurance operations profits for providing income in retirement.
The contractholder pays United Kingdom Jackson a premium, which is credited to the contractholders In common with other UK long-term insurance companies, account.
Periodically, interest is credited to the contractholders Prudential UKs products are structured as either with-profits account and administrative charges are deducted, as appropriate.
or participating products, or non-participating products including Jackson may reset the interest rate on each contract anniversary, annuities in payment and unit-linked products.
Depending upon subject to a guaranteed minimum, in line with state regulations.
the structure, the level of shareholders interest in the value of When the annuity matures, Jackson either pays the contractholder policies and the related profit or loss varies.
the amount in the contractholder account or begins making payments to the contractholder in the form of an immediate With-profits policies are supported by a with-profits sub-fund and annuity product.
This latter product is similar to a UK annuity in can be single premium for example, Prudence Bond or regular payment.
Fixed annuity policies are subject to early surrender premium for example, certain corporate pension products.
charges for the first six to nine years of the contract.
In addition, Prudentials UK primary with-profits sub-fund is part of PACs the contract may be subject to a market value adjustment at the long-term fund.
The return to shareholders on virtually all time of early surrender.
During the surrender charge period, the with-profits products is in the form of a statutory transfer to contractholder may cancel the contract for the surrender value.
PAC shareholders funds which is analogous to a dividend from Jacksons profits on fixed annuities arise primarily from the spread PACs long-term fund and is dependent upon the bonuses between the return it earns on investments and the interest credited or declared on policies in that year.
There are two types credited to the contractholders account net of any surrender of bonuses annual and final.
Annual bonuses are declared once charges or market value adjustment less expenses.
a year, and once credited, are guaranteed in accordance with the Fixed index annuities formerly referred to as equity-indexed terms of the particular product and are determined as a prudent annuities are deferred annuities that allow for tax-deferred proportion of the long-term expected future investment return accumulation of funds, with flexible payout options.
They are on the underlying assets.
Final bonuses are only guaranteed until used for asset accumulation in retirement planning and for the next bonus declaration and are primarily determined on the providing income in retirement.
The contractholder pays Jackson actual smoothed investment return achieved over the life of the a premium, which is credited to the contractholders account.
Prudentials UK with-profits policyholders currently receive Periodically, interest is credited to the contractholders account 90 per cent of the distribution from the main with-profits sub-fund and administrative charges are deducted, as appropriate.
Jackson as bonus additions to their policies and shareholders receive guarantees an annual minimum interest rate, although actual 10 per cent as a statutory transfer.
interest credited may be higher and is linked to an equity index over its indexed option period.
Jacksons profit arises from the The defined charge participating sub-fund DCPSF forms part investment income earned and the fees charged on the contract, of the PAC long-term fund and comprises the accumulated less the expenses incurred, which include the costs of the investment content of premiums paid in respect of the defined guarantees, and the interest credited to the contract.
Fixed index charge participating with-profits business issued in France, and annuities are subject to early surrender charges for the first five to the defined charge participating with-profits business reassured 12 years of the contract.
During the surrender charge period, the into PAC from Prudential International Assurance plc and Canada contractholder may cancel the contract for the surrender value.
Life Europe Assurance Ltd. All profits in this fund accrue to policyholders in the DCPSF.
Variable annuities are tax-advantaged deferred annuities where the The profits from almost all of Prudentials new non-participating rate of return depends upon the performance of the underlying business accrue solely to shareholders.
Such business is written portfolio, similar in principle to UK unit-linked products.
They in the non-profit sub-fund within PACs long-term fund, or in are also used for asset accumulation in retirement planning and various shareholder-owned direct or indirect subsidiaries, the most to provide income in retirement.
The contractholders premiums significant of which is Prudential Retirement Income Limited PRIL, are held apart from Jacksons general account assets, in a which also writes all new immediate annuities arising from vesting separate account, which is analogous to a unit-linked fund.
deferred annuity policies in the with-profits sub-fund of PAC.
The contractholder can allocate the premiums between a variety of variable sub-accounts with a choice of fund managers and or There is a substantial volume of in-force non-participating business guaranteed fixed-rate options.
The value of the portion of the in PACs with-profits sub-fund and that funds wholly-owned separate account allocated to variable sub-accounts fluctuates with Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 51 Directors report: Operating and financial review Other corporate information Other corporate information continued the underlying investments.
Variable annuity policies are subject where the basic sum assured can be enhanced by a profit share to early surrender charges for the first three to six years of the or bonus from the underlying fund as determined at the contract.
During the surrender charge period, the contractholder discretion of the insurer.
Non-participating products offer savings may cancel the contract for the surrender value.
Jackson offers with protection where the benefits are guaranteed or determined one variable annuity that has no early surrender charges.
by a set of defined market related parameters.
A&H products provide mortality or morbidity benefits and include health, Jackson offers a choice of guaranteed benefit options within its disablement, critical illness and accident covers.
A&H products variable annuity product portfolio which customers can elect and are commonly offered as supplements to main life policies but pay for.
These include the guaranteed minimum death benefit can also be sold separately.
GMDB, which guarantees on death the contractholder receives The profits from participating policies are shared between the a minimum value regardless of past market performance.
These policyholder and insurer typically in a 90:10 ratio in the same way guaranteed death benefits might be expressed as the return of as with-profits business in the UK.
Under unit-linked products the original premium, the highest past anniversary value of the profits that arise from managing the policy, its investments and the contract, or as the original premium accumulated at a fixed rate insurance risk accrue entirely to shareholders, with investment of interest.
In addition, there are two other types of guarantee, gains accruing to the policyholder within the underlying unitised guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits GMWB and fund.
The profits from A&H and non-participating products consist guaranteed minimum income benefits GMIB.
GMWBs provide of any surplus remaining after paying policy benefits.
a guaranteed return of the principal invested by allowing for periodic withdrawals which are limited to a maximum percentage Unit-linked products tend to have higher profits on the EEV basis of the initial premium.
One version of the GMWBs provides for of reporting than traditional non-linked products as expenses and a minimum annual withdrawal amount that is guaranteed for the charges are better matched and solvency capital requirements contractholders life without annuitisation.
GMIBs provide for are lower.
At the end of 2006, Prudential Corporation Asia a minimum level of benefits upon annuitisation regardless of the offered unit-linked products in 10 of the 12 countries in Asia value of the investments underlying the contract at the time of in which it operates.
In addition to the life products described above, Prudential As the investment return on the separate account assets is offers mutual fund investment products in India, Taiwan, Japan, attributed directly to the contractholders, Jacksons profit arises Singapore, Malaysia, Hong Kong, Korea, Vietnam and China, from the fees charged on the contracts, less the expenses allowing customers to participate in debt, equity and money incurred, which include the costs of guarantees.
It is also licensed in UAE.
Prudential Corporation Asia earns a fee based on assets under management.
Jackson also sells several types of life insurance including term life, universal life, survivorship universal life, and variable universal life.
Term life provides protection for a defined period of time and a Description of EEV basis reporting benefit that is payable to a designated beneficiary upon death of the insured.
Universal life provides permanent individual life Prudentials results are prepared on two bases of accounting, insurance for the life of the insured and includes a savings the supplementary EEV basis and the IFRS basis for the financial element.
Survivorship universal life is a form of permanent life statements.
Over the life of any given product, the total profit insurance that insures two people and pays the policy benefits recognised will be the same under either the IFRS or the EEV basis.
after the death of the last surviving insured.
Variable universal life However, the two methods recognise the emergence of that profit is a life insurance policy that combines death benefit protection differently, with profits emerging earlier under the EEV basis than and the important tax advantages of life insurance with the longunder IFRS.
This section explains how EEV differs from IFRS and term growth potential of professionally managed investments.
Asia In broad terms, IFRS profits for long-term business reflect the The life insurance products offered by Prudential Corporation Asia aggregate of statutory transfers from with-profits funds and profit include a range of with-profits participating and non-participating on a traditional accounting basis for other long-term business.
The term, whole life and endowment and unit-linked policies.
IFRS result, however, does not reflect the long-term benefits that Prudential also offers health, disablement, critical illness and arise in the future from current management initiatives and capital accident cover to supplement its core life products.
expenditure in the year under review, as it focuses instead on the Prudentials business in Asia is focused on regular premium amounts accruing to shareholders in the current year only from products that provide both savings and protection benefits.
In 2006, the new business profit mix was 60 per cent unit-linked, The products sold by the life insurance industry are by their nature 18 per cent non-linked and 22 per cent A&H products.
long-term, as it commits to service the products for many years into the future.
The profit on these insurance sales is generated Unit-linked products combine savings with protection and the cash over a significant number of years and IFRS basis profits do not, value of the policy depends on the value of the underlying unitised in Prudentials opinion, properly reflect the inherent value of funds.
Participating products provide savings with protection these future profit streams.
52 Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 Directors report: Operating and financial review Other corporate information From 1997, Prudential and other major UK quoted financial groups changes in economic assumptions, the time value of the cost adopted the achieved profits basis, a form of embedded value of options and guarantees and other short-term volatilities reporting, as a supplementary accounting measure in order to give caused through market movements: other items for example, a better reflection of the value attaching to the long-term insurance profit from other Group operations, tax, and the effect of business and the current performance.
In May 2004, the CFO Forum, representing the Chief Financial The value added from new business being the present value Officers of 19 European insurers, published the European Embedded of the future cash flows arising from new business written in the Value Principles Principles which are designed to improve the year is a key metric used in the management of the business.
transparency and consistency of embedded value reporting.
The change in value of business in force at the start of the year demonstrates how the existing book is being managed.
Together Member companies, of which Prudential is one, agreed to they provide management and shareholders with valuable adopt the Principles for supplementary reporting no later than information about the underlying development of the business the financial year end commencing 1 January 2005.
Prudential and the success or otherwise of management actions.
fully adopted the Principles for the first time in respect of full-year 2005 results.
EEV basis results are prepared by first of all setting best estimate assumptions, by product, for all relevant factors including levels of For Prudential, EEV reporting represents an evolution from future investment returns, expenses, surrender levels and mortality.
achieved profits reporting and it welcomes the improved clarity and consistency of information that it provides to investors although These assumptions are used to project future cash flows.
The there is still some way to go before achieving full consistency.
present value of the future cash flows is then calculated using a discount rate which reflects both the time value of money and Compared to achieved profits, the principal differences are the risks associated with the cash flows.
The risk discount rate is in respect of three areas: determined by adding a risk margin to the appropriate risk free inclusion of an explicit allowance for the impact of options and rate of return.
The actual outcome may be different from that guarantees.
This typically requires stochastic calculations, under projected in which case the effect will be reflected in the which a large number of simulations are performed that provide experience variances for that year.
a representation of the future behaviour of financial markets: The assumptions used for the EEV basis of accounting are set out on more active allowance for the combined impact of risk profile pages 260 to 264 in the notes that accompany the supplementary and encumbered capital in the selection of discount rates.
An indication of the sensitivity of the results This ensures that the risks to the emergence of shareholder to changes in key assumptions is provided on pages 278 to 280. cash flows are properly accounted for: and The EEV basis can be illustrated by considering a theoretical enhanced disclosure that enables informed investors to individual contract.
Using assumptions for the drivers of future understand better the key risks within the business and income and expenditure, a profile of future cash flows can be the basis of preparation of the results.
These cash flows are then discounted back to the point of sale to give a new business profit.
The EEV basis not only provides a good indicator of the value being added by management in a given accounting period but it The EEV basis profits emerging in each subsequent accounting also demonstrates whether shareholder capital is being deployed period will comprise the unwinding of the discount which arises to best effect.
Indeed, insurance companies in many countries from discounting future cash flows for one fewer period and the use comparable bases of accounting for management purposes.
profit or loss arising from any difference between the actual and expected experience, together with the effect of any changes of The EEV basis is a value based method of reporting in that it assumption where the directors believe a revision is required to reflects the change in value of the business over the accounting the original estimates of future experience.
This value is called the shareholders funds on the EEV basis which, at a given point in time, is the value of future cash flows expected to arise from the current book of long-term Post-balance sheet events insurance business plus the net worth of the Company.
In Important events affecting the Company after the end of the determining these expected cash earnings, Prudential makes financial year are detailed in note I8 on page 239. full allowance for the risks attached to their emergence and the associated cost of capital and takes into account recent experience in assessing likely future persistency, mortality and expenses.
Payment policy Economic assumptions as to future investment returns and It is the policy of the Group to agree terms of payment when inflation are based on market data.
The change in value is typically orders for goods and services are placed and to pay in accordance analysed into the following components: the value added from with those terms.
Trade creditor days, based on the ratio of new business sold during the year: the change in value from amounts which were owed to trade creditors at the year end to existing business already in place at the start of the year: the aggregate of the amounts invoiced by trade creditors during short-term fluctuations in investment returns: the effect of the year, were 22 days.
