Directors report: Operating and financial review Business unit review: Asset management Business unit review continued Asset management M&G is made up of three distinct and autonomous businesses Global Retail, Wholesale and Prudential Finance each with its own The Prudential Groups asset management businesses are very strategy for the markets in which it operates.
Not only do they provide value to the insurance The UK and European retail asset management industry has grown businesses within the Group, but also are important profit strongly during 2006 as rising stock markets have increased the generators in their own right, with low capital requirements value of existing funds under management and attracted investors and generating significant cash flow for the Group.
M&Gs retail strategy is to maximise the The asset management businesses are well placed to capitalise leverage of its strong investment performance, multi-channel on their leading market positions and strong track records in distribution and efficient operating platform.
investment performance to deliver net flows and profit growth The asset management sector has continued to benefit from the as well as strategically diversifying the Groups investment increasing shift by retail investors from opaque to transparent propositions in retail financial services RFS markets that are investment products, such as unit trusts, and M&Gs range of increasingly favouring greater product transparency, greater market leading funds has positioned it well to benefit from this cross-border opportunities and more open-architecture trend.
European cross-border distribution has accelerated and the investment platforms.
Wholesale profit streams are also growing.
trend in favour of Open Architecture in both the UK and Europe The Groups asset management businesses operate different has continued to open up significant bank and life company models and under different brands tailored to their markets and distribution opportunities.
Parallel to this, distribution of mutual strengths, but are increasingly working together by managing funds has become increasingly intermediated and has been money for each other with clear regional specialism, distributing accompanied by the rise of professional buyers who demand each others products and sharing knowledge and expertise, higher levels of service and investment information, areas in which such as credit research.
Each business and its performance in 2006 is summarised below.
Institutional markets are demanding increasingly sophisticated and tailored products and 2006 saw a rising awareness of asset liability matching and a continued shift from balanced to specialist M&G mandates.
These trends, plus the increased role of fixed income 1.
Market review and summary of strategy within portfolios, continue to play to the strength and scale of M&G is Prudentials UK and European fund management M&Gs wholesale business.
business and has 164 billion of funds under management, M&Gs wholesale strategy is twofold: to add value to its internal of which 119 billion relates to Prudentials long-term business clients through investment performance, liability matching and funds.
M&G aims to maximise profitable growth by operating investment in innovative and attractive areas of capital markets in markets where it has a leading position and competitive and to utilise the skills developed primarily for internal funds to advantage, including retail fund management, institutional fixed build new business streams and diversify revenues.
Examples income, pooled life and pension funds, property and private of new business streams include leveraged loans, collateralised finance.
M&G also manages Prudentials balance sheet for profit.
debt obligations CDOs, infrastructure finance and the Episode M&G is an investment-led business with a demonstrable focus global macro hedge fund.
Demand has increased for alternative on performance delivery and aims to offer attractive products investments and structured credit expertise, meaning that in a variety of macro-economic environments.
M&G has scale managers who offer value-adding skills, such as M&G, are able in all key asset classes: it is one of the largest active managers to command attractive margins.
With its strong track record and in the UK stock market, one of the largest bond investors in the market leading reputation, M&G remains well placed to continue UK and one of the UKs largest property investors.
to benefit from this trend.
CER RER 2006 2005 Percentage 2005 Percentage M&G m m change m change Gross investment flows 13,486 7,916 70% 7,916 70% Net investment flows 6,101 3,862 58% 3,862 58% Underlying profit before PRF performance-related fees 177 138 28% 138 28% Total IFRS operating profit 204 163 25% 163 25% Based on longer-term investment returns.
42 Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 Directors report: Operating and financial review Business unit review: Asset management Prudential Finance was set up to manage Prudentials balance IFRS basis operating profit based on longer-term investment sheet for profit.
In addition to acting as the internal banker to returns m the Prudential Group and its subsidiaries, Prudential Finances 250 strategy is to leverage Prudentials and M&Gs positioning and skills for profit.
Its activities include bridging transactions, property 200 financing and securities lending with a focus on deals which have 204 high profitability and capital velocity but low capital usage.
Current year initiatives M&G maintained its reputation for strong fund performance 100 and product innovation during 2006 and continued to expand its multi-channel distribution model.
50 In the retail market, the excellent fund performance of M&Gs fund range was recognised by M&G being named Best Equity 0 2005 2006 Group Large and Best Non UK Equity Group Large at the Lipper Fund Awards 2006.
M&G continued to innovate during Net investment flows m the year by extending its fixed income and property fund ranges with the launch of two new funds, the M&G Optimal Income Fund 7,000 and the M&G European Property Fund.
M&G expanded its retail distribution in 2006 by adding Spain to the European countries 6,000 6,101 in which it operates and in the UK significantly expanded its links 5,000 with life company platforms.
4,000 In the wholesale marketplace, M&G benefited from increasing 3,862 demand from clients for specialist mandates and liability matching, 3,000 both of which are core areas of expertise for M&G.
Strong fund 2,000 performance was maintained with 86 per cent of segregated funds beating their benchmark over one year and 90 per cent 1,000 over three years.
M&G continued to develop its market leading 0 positions in structured credit and leveraged loans and also its 2005 2006 position in infrastructure finance.
Utilising skills developed for the internal funds, M&G has built significant new business External FUM bn streams with external third parties over the past five years.
In structured credit, seven new CDOs were launched in 2006 and 50 M&G was named CDO manager of the year by the International Securitisation Report.
M&Gs infrastructure fund, InfraCapital, 45 made its first purchase as part of a consortium which made a 40 successful bid for Associated British Ports plc.
36 30 Following a soft launch in August 2005, M&G rolled out its Episode global macro hedge fund in February last year, a fund which again 20 uses investment expertise originally developed for internal funds.
Episode has been a notable success with external clients and by 10 year end had reached assets under management of US$1.5 billion.
Financial results and performance 0 2005 2006 M&G delivered significant profit growth during 2006 on the back of rising market levels, strong net inflows and continued business diversification.
Operating profits, which include performance related fees PRF, increased 25 per cent to 204 million.
Underlying In addition to adding significant value via the management of profits, excluding PRF, were 177 million, an increase of 28 per cent Prudentials internal funds, M&G remains an important generator compared to the previous year.
PRF increased by 11 per cent over of earnings and cash for the Prudential Group.
As a result, M&Gs cost has delivered strong profit growth which has seen underlying income ratio improved from 66 per cent to 64 per cent in 2006. profits more than triple.
