Directors report: Operating and financial review Business unit review: Insurance operations Business unit review continued Insurance operations annuities, which has increased advisor demand for providers United States to manufacture low-cost variable annuity options.
Market review and summary of strategy Companies with quality distribution relationships, strong product The United States is the largest retirement savings market in manufacturing and  cost structures are well the world, with 67 per cent, or US$12.9 trillion, of the worlds positioned to compete effectively and continue to grow profitably.
retirement assets concentrated in the US at the end of 2005 Significant convergence in the US financial services industry has Source: Cerulli Associates.
As 78 million baby boomers yet to occur.
As noted, the market remains fragmented with more Source: US Census Bureau, born between 1946 and 1964, business being consolidated organically among market participants approach retirement age, the ageing demographics of the US with significant scale and sophisticated risk management functions.
are expected to increase annual retirement distributions to more than US$1 trillion per year by 2012.
The combination of increasing During 2006 and 2005, the S&P index increased 13.6 per cent and average life expectancy and decreasing average retirement age 3.0 per cent, respectively, increasing the attractiveness of products in the US is leading to an increase in the average time individuals providing access to equity-based returns.
During the same will spend in retirement.
At the same time, the responsibility periods, interest rates trended upward.
However, the short end for providing income during retirement continues to shift away of the yield curve rose more dramatically than the long end of the from institutions, such as government and employers, toward curve, resulting in a flat to inverted yield curve.
These changes, coupled with historically low savings with low spreads over Treasury bonds, created a difficult rates in the US, have resulted in an increasing risk that individuals environment for the sale of properly priced fixed annuities.
finances will be insufficient to cover the cost of living through Jackson National Life Insurance Company Jackson provides retirement.
These consumers will have a growing need for retirement income and savings solutions in the mass and independent financial advice and increasingly seek guarantees and mass-affluent segments of the US market, primarily to near longevity protections from the financial products they purchase.
It offers tools that help people plan for their Despite favourable demographics, US life insurers face challenges retirement, and manufactures products with specialised features from both within and outside the industry.
The US life insurance and guarantees to meet customers needs.
By seeking to add industry remains highly fragmented the combination of all value to both the representatives who sell Jackson products, and annuity companies ranked below the top 20 annuity sellers have to their customers, Jackson has built a strong position in the US more than twice the market share of the top annuity provider retirement savings and income market with the fastest growing Source: LIMRA and competition for market share is expected to variable annuity franchise measured by new sales growth during intensify.
In addition to competing against each other, life insurers the past four years Source: VARDS and top-10 sales rankings are increasingly competing with other financial services providers, in fixed index annuities and individual traditional deferred fixed in particular mutual fund companies and banks, for a share of annuities Source: LIMRA.
retirement savings assets in the US.
Sales of annuities in the career Jacksons primary focus is manufacturing high-margin, capital-efficient agency distribution channel continue to decline to the benefit of products, such as variable annuities, and marketing these products independent agents broker-dealers due to increasing costs and to advice-based channels through its relationship-based distribution regulatory burdens, as well as a growing pool of sophisticated model.
In developing new product offerings, Jackson leverages investors increasingly seeking more independent investment advice.
a low-cost, flexible technology platform to manufacture innovative, The US insurance industry faces continued regulatory scrutiny, customisable products that can be brought to the market quickly.
particularly with respect to index and variable annuity products.
In 2006, 81 per cent of Jacksons retail sales were from products The National Association of Securities Dealers Inc. NASD has and features developed and launched in 2006 and 2005. issued guidelines requesting that its member firms provide stricter Jacksons product offerings include variable, fixed and fixed index supervision of the marketing and sales of index annuities.
In the annuities, as well as life insurance and institutional products.
Jacksons variable annuity market, regulators continue to focus on product annuity products are long-term personal retirement products, suitability in an effort to ensure that the products are sold which offer tax-deferred accumulation on the funds invested until appropriately to customers.
There has also been regulatory proceeds are withdrawn from the policy.
Fixed annuities offer pressure to reduce fees and costs associated with variable CER RER 2006 2005 Percentage 2005 Percentage United States m m change m change APE sales 614 508 21% 515 19% NBP 259 208 25% 211 23% NBP margin % APE 42% 41% 41% NBP margin % PVNBP 4.2% 4.1% 4.1% Total EEV basis operating profit 718 745 4 % 755 5 % Total IFRS operating profit 408 358 14% 362 13% Based on longer-term investment returns and including broker-dealer and fund management and Curian.
34 Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 Directors report: Operating and financial review Business unit review: Insurance operations customers a guarantee of principal and a minimum guaranteed In 1998, Jackson launched the National Planning Holdings NPH rate of return on their deposits.
Fixed index annuities also offer independent broker-dealer network with the formation of National these features, but vary from fixed annuities in that they offer the Planning Corporation.
Since its formation, NPH has grown through potential for additional interest to be credited based upon the acquisitions to comprise four broker-dealer firms: INVEST Financial, performance of an equity index over a specified period.
Variable Investment Centers of America, National Planning Corporation annuity products differ from the fixed annuity products in that the and SII Investments.
By leveraging technology, NPH provides its returns to the customer will depend upon the performance of the advisors with the tools they need to operate their practices more underlying fund portfolio.
Jacksons variable annuity products efficiently.
Through its relationship with NPH, Jackson has gained offer a range of protection options, such as death, income and an important distribution outlet, plus invaluable insight into the withdrawal benefits, which are priced separately by the company needs of financial advisors and their clients.
and can be elected by customers according to their individual Jacksons focus on current retirees and those approaching needs.
Jackson manages its exposure to equity market movements retirement age is not unique among US financial institutions.
As a result, competition in this segment is expected to continue as the baby boomer generation retires and their retirement Due to the increasing complexity of the retirement savings and savings assets are moved from pre-retirement accumulation income market and broad array of financial products being brought accounts into post-retirement income accounts.
Jackson believes to market, professional advice is vital for customers to understand that its specialised product offerings, advice-based distribution the choices available and to determine which products are best model, sophisticated risk management function and low cost for their particular financial situation.
Therefore, Jackson primarily structure will offer a significant competitive advantage.
markets its retail products through advice-based distribution channels, including independent agents, independent broker-dealer As competition and regulatory challenges intensify, Jackson firms, regional broker-dealers, banks and registered investment expects consolidation within the industry to continue at a advisors.
Beginning in 2005, Jackson also began marketing measured pace.
Further consolidation will provide an excellent products through its captive insurance agency, acquired through opportunity for Jackson to leverage its efficient information the purchase of Life of Georgia LOG.
technology platform and cost effective business model as an Jackson supports its network of independent agents and advisors aggregator of annuity and life portfolios, as demonstrated with with award-winning marketing support and award-winning Jacksons acquisition and integration of LOG in 2005. customer service.
In 2006, the Service Quality Measurement 2.
Current year initiatives Group recognised Jackson with a World Class Customer Jacksons focus on maximising its opportunities in the evolving Satisfaction Award, and Jacksons marketing campaigns won US market is embedded in the development of current and awards for achievement in graphic design, editorial content and future strategic initiatives.
These goals include a continued overall communications excellence.
Jackson complements its expansion of Jacksons share of the US annuities and retail award-winning marketing and customer service with value-added asset management markets.
services such as the Seminar Systems Unit, which helps advisors host educational seminars for clients on a variety of financial Expansion of Jacksons share of the US annuities market will be planning topics.
In addition, Jackson recently launched the largely contingent on continued expansion of existing product Retirement and Wealth Strategies Group, a unit dedicated to offerings, additional growth in new and existing distribution helping advisors better address their clients evolving retirement channels and opportunistic acquisition activity.
Innovation in product design and speed to market continue to be key drivers of Jacksons competitiveness.
In January, Jackson By manufacturing and distributing a broad suite of platform-based added a five per cent annual benefit increase option to its popular products that can be tailored to an individual customers needs, lifetime guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits GMWBs.
Jackson has positioned itself to compete effectively in all phases In February 2006, the company launched two new fixed index of the business cycle based upon the quality and value of the annuity contracts, Elite Choice and Elite Choice Rewards, which products and services it provides, rather than price alone.
expanded the number of FIA products Jackson offers to five.
In Jacksons institutional products division markets institutional May, Jackson added five new GMWB options that provide contract products such as traditional Guaranteed Investment Contracts holders with a guaranteed return of premium and lifetime income.
GICs, Funding Agreements and Medium Term Note MTN Additionally, Jackson expanded its variable annuity fund offering funding agreements.
Jackson distributes its institutional products during the year.
directly to investors, through investment banks or through funding agreement brokers.
This is a market in which Jackson continues In the near term, Jacksons product development strategy includes to participate on an opportunistic basis.
further enhancement of its variable annuity offerings and the introduction of new guarantees, including a Guaranteed Minimum In early 2003, Jackson entered the registered investment advisor Accumulation Benefit GMAB.
In early 2007, Jackson launched a channel with the launch of Curian Capital.
Curian provides simplified retirement annuity that will serve as a low-cost option for innovative fee-based separately managed accounts and investment financial advisors who are currently not participating in the variable products to advisors through a sophisticated technology platform.
Additionally, Jackson launched its first set of retail Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 35 Directors report: Operating and financial review Business unit review: Insurance operations Business unit review continued Insurance operations mutual funds for distribution by existing wholesalers.
Jacksons APE new business premiums m new mutual funds are marketed as an additional option for financial advisors currently selling variable annuity products.
800 Jackson will continue to build its relationship-based distribution advantage in the advice-based channels and explore additional 600 distribution opportunities, including expansion into the wirehouse 614 channel, as evidenced by the companys recently announced 508 distribution agreement with UBS.
400 Jacksons organisational flexibility and excellence in execution, coupled with its product innovation, successful distribution model 200 and strong service offering, increased Jacksons share of the US variable annuity market to 4.6 per cent in 2006 VARDS, up from 3.6 per cent in 2005.
Jackson also increased its share of variable 0 2005 2006 annuity sales through the independent broker-dealer channel to 10.8 per cent at the end of 2006, up from 9.2 per cent at the end of 2005.
Jackson delivered record variable annuity sales in 2006 of 3.8 billion, up 48 per cent on last year.
This reflects its distinct Jackson continues to seek opportunities to deploy capital through competitive advantages of an innovative product offering, an opportunistic, value-creating acquisitions.
Jackson demonstrated efficient and flexible technology platform, a relationship-driven its ability to efficiently consolidate annuity and life portfolios by distribution model and award-winning service.
Jacksons sales meeting or exceeding performance targets during the completion result was achieved in a market that grew 18 per cent year-on-year of its acquisition of LOG.
Jackson integrated more than 1.5 million in 2006. policies onto its platform within eight months of the acquisition date.
The IRR on the acquisition of LOG exceeded 13 per cent and Entry spreads for fixed annuities continued to be challenging the purchase resulted in a gain of US$8.9 million 4.8 million as during 2006, which limited the attractiveness of the market to the net assets acquired exceeded the purchase price paid.
APE sales of 69 million were down 12 per cent on the same period in 2005.
Jacksons continued expansion in the US retail asset management market will be led by the efforts of its independent broker-dealer Fixed index annuity sales continued to be affected by the network, NPH and Curian.
NPH was ranked the seventh largest uncertain regulatory environment in the US.
APE sales of independent broker-dealer network in the US source: Investment 55 million were 10 per cent down on 2005.
Jacksons market News magazine and generated nearly US$12 billion in gross share in 2006 was 3.7 per cent, compared to 3.8 per cent in product sales and nearly US$500 million in revenues in 2006. the prior year.
Curian continues to be one of the fastest growing third-party Institutional APE sales of 90 million were down eight per cent from separately managed account platforms in the US, with assets 2005.
Jackson participates in this market on an opportunistic basis.
under management of US$2.4 billion at the end of 2006.
Curian is expected to continue expansion of its product offerings and EEV basis NBP of 259 million was 25 per cent above the further improve efficiencies through planned improvements prior year, reflecting both a 21 per cent increase in APE sales to its core technology system.
Curian also continues to expand and an increase in margin from 41 per cent to 42 per cent its distribution relationships with key financial institutions, as year-on-year.
The increase in margin reflects a favourable evidenced in recently announced agreements with AIG and business mix, economic assumption changes, and positive Commonwealth Financial Group.
effects from the increase in election of high-margin guaranteed benefit options on variable annuity contracts, offset by more 3.
Financial results and performance prudent operating assumptions.
Jackson has a diversified earnings base derived from spread, fee and underwriting income.
Through strong growth in its variable annuity business during 2006, Jackson increased the share of EEV basis new business profits m revenue received from fee income and further diversified its revenue streams.
Underwriting revenue from life insurance 300 provides Jackson with stable cash flows to balance the volatility of cash flows from fixed annuities, thereby providing the company 259 with a more stable earnings base and greater flexibility in how 200 assets are invested.
208 Jackson achieved record APE sales of 614 million in 2006, representing a 21 per cent increase on 2005, driven by strong 100 growth in sales of variable annuities.
On a PVNBP basis, new business sales were 6.1 billion.
Retail APE sales in 2006 of 524 million were up 27 per cent.
APE sales in the fourth quarter of 2006 were 147 million, up 43 per cent compared to the fourth 0 2005 2006 quarter of 2005.
