Directors report: Operating and financial review Business unit review: Insurance operations Business unit review Insurance operations focused business model.
In addition, FPP will continue to benefit United Kingdom from distribution to financial intermediaries through Prudential UKs 1.
Market review and summary of strategy intermediary sales force.
The UK retirement market continues to remain attractive with an As of February 2007, PruHealth had 450 employees and over ageing population driving demand for pre and post-retirement products.
100,000 customers, and its customer base, in contrast to the rest of While many UK consumers remain overly indebted and are not the industry, has been growing at a rate of 15 per cent per month saving enough for retirement, with a backdrop of reduced state during 2006.
Product leadership through strong innovation and and employer provision, they increasingly need to take control of multi-channel distribution strategy is expected to continue to their financial affairs.
This positive demographic trend, together deliver a significant market presence with 200,000 customers with an increasing concentration of wealth in the hands of those by the end of the year.
PruHealths aim is to achieve breakeven approaching retirement or already retired, will continue to fuel the in 2008 and to be profitable thereafter.
opportunity for financial provision in, and preparing for, retirement.
Following the transfer of the protection business to the joint The impact of A-Day, the implementation of pensions simplification venture, the UK operations will be structured into three business legislation in April 2006, initially dampened new business in certain units: Wholesale, Retail Retirement and Mature Life and Pensions.
areas, particularly in the retail annuities market, but subsequently The strategy in Wholesale Retirement income is to participate led to considerable market growth in individual pensions, Self selectively in bulk and back book buyouts, where Prudential UK Invested Personal Pensions SIPPs and annuities.
Much of the is able to win business based on its financial strength, operational market growth in pensions savings reflected recycling of money capability and superior track record as well as its extensive as consumers consolidated existing pensions arrangements to annuitant mortality risk assessment capabilities.
Prudential UK will one provider.
maintain a strict focus on value, only participating in transactions The wholesale annuity and risk management market experienced that generate an acceptable rate of return.
In addition, Prudential increased competition over 2006, as short-term demand slowed UK provides pension management services including full or partial and several new entrants started to participate.
However, the buyouts to corporate clients looking to manage or close pension long-term potential in this market remains considerable, with deficits in cost-efficient ways.
While there is currently limited approximately 900 billion of funds held across a number of activity in this market, Prudential UK believes opportunities will market segments.
arise to help corporate clients manage significant amounts of pension assets, which are non-core to their operations.
During 2006, Prudential UK Insurance Operations Prudential UK has continued to target capital efficient returns through selective Retail Retirement will focus on savings and income for those participation within its chosen markets, Retirement Income, Wealth customers nearing or in retirement.
Retirement income will drive and Health and Wholesale.
Going forward, Prudential UK will profitable growth in the core annuities business, building on the specifically focus on maximising value for shareholders through significant pipeline of vestings business over the next 30 years taking a leadership position in the retirement income and savings from maturing policies in its individual and corporate pensions market.
This will be achieved by building on its longevity and asset books.
This is enhanced by a number of strategic partnerships allocation strengths, as well as utilising its brand strength with older with third parties, where Prudential UK is the default annuity customers, targeting their specific retirement needs.
This focus on provider for customers vesting their pension at the point of maximising value will be achieved alongside a programme of cost retirement.
The portfolio of retirement products also includes cutting initiatives for both new business and Prudential UKs back equity release products to provide more flexibility to customers book to ensure that greater operating efficiencies are achieved.
with assets invested in property.
Prudential will not participate directly in healthcare and protection Prudential UK has exited the unprofitable front end commission but will instead expand its joint venture with Discovery Holding markets for individual pensions and will transition from front end Limited Discovery, the leading South African insurance company.
commission unit-linked bonds, particularly moving away from It is expected that the Flexible Protection Plan FPP will be those areas of low persistency.
Instead, Prudential UK will focus incorporated into the 50:50 Discovery joint venture during 2007. on new low risk multi-asset products which utilise Prudential Both PruHealth and the FPP will utilise the successful Vitality UKs strengths in asset allocation and use factory gate pricing philosophy of a healthier lifestyle leading to lower protection negotiated between customer and adviser with separate advice premiums and have a dedicated sales force creating a more costs.
These products will target the significant number of retail CER RER 2006 2005 Percentage 2005 Percentage United Kingdom m m change m change APE sales 900 892 1% 892 1% NBP 266 243 9% 243 9% NBP margin % APE 30% 27% 27% NBP margin % PVNBP 3.4% 3.1% 3.1% Total EEV basis operating profit 686 426 61% 426 61% Total IFRS operating profit 500 400 25% 400 25% Based on longer-term investment returns.
30 Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 Directors report: Operating and financial review Business unit review: Insurance operations investors approaching retirement who have substantial assets Prudential UKs strength in retirement provision continued to be outside personal or corporate pension plans, or have investments well recognised as it won the Moneywise Best Annuity Provider in poorly performing funds, and require inflation protection.
Award for the third year running and was awarded the best lifetime mortgage provider at the 2006 Equity Release Awards Prudential UK remains committed to the corporate pensions for the Property Value Release Plan, together with awards from market but will move to a tighter focus on larger schemes with Moneyfacts and Mortgage Strategy.
better than average persistency and undertake a cost reduction In relation to its externally sourced annuity business, Prudential UK programme.
Together these are expected to deliver an IRR of has signed further partnership agreements in 2006, including with 14 per cent by 2009.
The corporate pensions book is an important Royal London which came into effect in September.
This agreement source of vestings for the retail annuity business.
allows Prudential UK to provide annuity quotes to all Royal London Prudential UK will continue to deliver embedded value through customers with maturing pensions which were originally written the Mature Life and Pensions Business.
It has an aggressive target under various brands within the Royal London Group.
In addition, to reduce per policy unit processing costs and is evaluating the Prudential UK signed an exclusive five-year agreement with best route for achieving this which will include one or all of internal Threadneedle as their supplier of annuities for their Stakeholder cost cutting, further off-shoring or outsourcing.
scheme, along with any future defined contribution schemes that Threadneedle acquires.
This is a new area for Prudential UK that Prudential UK distributes products through both direct and builds on its experience in providing annuities to the customers intermediated channels.
The direct channel will focus on capturing of life insurance companies.
With the future growth in defined internal pension vesting business and Prudential UKs equity contribution schemes within the UK, Prudential UK expects more release product via a specialist face-to-face direct sales force.
The indirect channel will distribute products through retail intermediaries, strategic partners and through Employee Benefit Prudential UK and Save & Prosper have also signed a direct Consultants EBCs and consulting actuaries.
Participation within marketing agreement under which Save & Prosper will offer the intermediary market will be selective, targeting those advisers Prudentials conventional annuity product on an exclusive basis to who focus on value and building client relationships.
customers with maturing Save & Prosper pensions.
The agreement Prudential UK continues to investigate the opportunity for wrap is expected to take effect from mid-2007 and will run for five years.
platform development and views this as an integral component Prudential UKs financial strength and continuing outstanding to ensure future access to distribution.
Any involvement is likely life fund investment returns have been well received by both to be in partnership with a third party.
customers and advisers, having a positive impact on with-profits product sales.
Prudential UK has also signed new distribution 2.
Current year initiatives agreements with National Australia Bank Group and Openwork for Over the course of 2006, Prudential UK has continued to PruFund, Prudential UKs unitised and smoothed investment plan.
deliver innovative new solutions to the market, building on the award-winning launches of PruHealth and the Property 3.
Financial results and performance Value Release Plan, Prudentials equity release product, in Prudential UK delivered a strong retail performance in 2006. previous years.
Total APE sales of 900 million increased one per cent on 2005 The new Flexible Protection Plan was launched in July 2006 and there was a nine per cent increase in NBP to 266 million, to the Direct channel and to a limited group of intermediaries reflecting the significant increase in new business margin from specialising in the protection market.
This innovative protection 27 per cent to 30 per cent.
This demonstrated the benefits of product is designed to pay critical serious illness claimants earlier the selective participation strategy focusing on value pursued and more often than traditional protection products with, on throughout 2006. average, four times as many serious illnesses covered.
Payments are based on severity levels and multiple claims for the same illness APE new business premiums m or new illnesses are possible.
Early results have been encouraging and as a result the product was rolled out nationally in February 1,000 2007 and is expected to be incorporated into the Discovery joint venture during 2007.
900 892 800 Towards the end of 2006, Prudential UK received four stars in both the Life & Pension Providers category and the Investment 600 Providers & Packages category at the FT Financial Adviser Practiv Services Awards.
In addition, Prudential UK was ranked number 400 one for service in the Life & Pension Annuities sector.
These awards are widely recognised throughout the industry as independent 200 recognition of a providers proposition, as they are voted on by intermediary financial advisers, who base the ratings on the level of 0 service they receive from providers for new business processing, 2005 2006 central processing, product support and commission payment.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 31 Directors report: Operating and financial review Business unit review: Insurance operations Business unit review continued Insurance operations The Retail life and pensions sales performance was primarily driven EEV basis new business profits m by strong individual annuity volumes, where Prudential UK has a 24 per cent market share source: Association of British Insurers, 300 together with increased sales of with-profits bonds and offshore bonds.
These increases were offset by a decline in unit-linked 266 bonds, protection and DWP rebate business.
243 200 Individual annuity sales grew by 22 per cent to 271 million as the annuity market experienced increased activity in the second half of 2006 following the removal of uncertainty around A-Day 100 pension changes.
Sales volume has been driven primarily by the continued strength of internal vestings which contributed around 50 per cent of individual annuity sales together with the cumulative benefit of partnership deals signed in previous years.
0 2005 2006 Individual annuity sales were also boosted by sales of with-profits annuities where sales have more than doubled to 37 million compared with 2005, and are expected to increase.
From February This performance was driven by underlying growth in the UK 2007, customers are able to start using their Protected Rights retail business excludes credit life, bulks and back books : Funds to buy with-profits annuities.
This new feature is the first Retail APE sales of 688 million were 14 per cent higher of its type and allows customers to combine 100 per cent of their than 2005 605 million : pension into an asset-backed annuity without having to buy two separate annuities.
Protected Rights is a term used to describe the Retail NBP of 190 million was 67 per cent higher than funds held in a money purchase scheme derived from National 2005 114 million : and Insurance rebates for those who contracted out of the State Retail New business margin has increased to 28 per cent Earnings Related Pension Scheme which was replaced by State 2005: 19 per cent.
With-profits sales were supported by the excellent with-profits Retail APE new business premiums m bonus announcements in 2006, in respect of 2005, which were well received by both customers and advisers.
This was reflected 800 in APE sales of with-profits bonds up 44 per cent to 26 million.
Corporate pension APE sales increased 23 per cent due in part to 688 the continuing shift from defined benefit to defined contribution 600 605 pension schemes but also due to the impact of A-Day.
The sales upturn is also a reflection of Prudential UKs re-engineered and 400 improved account management capability, where the company works in partnership with the major Employee Benefit Consultants.
Individual pension APE sales increased three per cent to 35 million 200 due to increased activity following A-Day.
PruHealth continues to grow strongly with full-year gross written 0 premiums GWP up 300 per cent at 36 million 2005: 9 million.
2005 2006 GWP from new lives which is equivalent to new business APE Retail EEV basis new business profits m was 28 million.
Contributing to this growth is the number of companies adopting PruHealth for their employee healthcare schemes, including the British Airways voluntary scheme, Smith 200 and Nephew and Norton Rose.
190 In the wholesale market, bulks and back book business APE 150 volumes of 143 million were 70 per cent of those achieved in 2005.
This reflected the selective participation strategy undertaken 114 100 by Prudential UK to ensure margins and profitability were maintained in a period when the market experienced increased competition.
50 Prudential UK completed two significant back book transactions in 2006.
In January, it reached agreement with Royal London to acquire the portfolio of in-payment pension annuities that had 0 been written primarily under the Royal London brand, but which 2005 2006 also included some annuities written under the Refuge Assurance brand.
The transaction generated premium income of 66 million on an APE basis.
In June, Prudential Assurance Company PAC agreed to reinsure the non-profit immediate pension annuity portfolio of the Scottish Amicable Insurance Fund SAIF to Prudential Retirement 32 Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 Directors report: Operating and financial review Business unit review: Insurance operations Income Ltd PRIL.
SAIF is a closed sub-fund established by for an annual fee paid by the shareholder business to the PAC a court-approved Scheme of Arrangement in September 1997, with-profits sub-fund for the use of the Prudential and Scottish in which Prudential shareholders have no economic interest.
Amicable trademarks: 16 million in respect of the tariff It contains a large proportion of the business originally written arrangement with SAIF, which is to be renegotiated in 2007: by the Scottish Amicable Life Assurance Society that was acquired 26 million for tax related items and 13 million in relation by PAC in September 1997.
The reinsurance premium for this other items.
transaction was 56 million on an APE basis.
Prudential continues to manage actively the retention of the In December, Prudential UK reached agreement with Save & Prosper in-force book.
During 2006, Prudential saw surrenders within to acquire its portfolio of in-payment pension annuities.
The book its personal pension and DWP rebate business run ahead covers approximately 16,900 policies weighted average age 72 of assumptions following A-Day resulting in a small negative with assets of around 135 million 13.5 million APE.
All other lines of business performed in the intention is for these annuity policies to transfer to Prudential, line with assumptions.
subject to legal and regulatory approvals, at which point Prudential IFRS operating profit before restructuring costs of 31 million will take over direct responsibility for the payment of all annuitants.
increased 25 per cent to 500 million in 2006.
This reflects a Total credit life APE sales of 69 million generated NBP of 26 million 22 per cent increase in profits attributable to the with-profits in 2006 83 million and 35 million respectively in 2005. Credit business, which contributed 368 million reflecting the strong life sales reduced in 2006 and will continue to do so in 2007 as investment performance of the Life-Fund and its impact on Prudential UKs credit life contract with Lloyds TSB, which in 2006 terminal bonuses.
In addition, the result benefited from contributed APE sales of 63 million and NBP of 20 million, has a 46 million positive impact of changes in FSA reserving not been renewed.
Prudential UK will continue to participate in requirements for protection and unit-linked products.
the credit life market, pricing on a case-by-case basis.
Outlook and forthcoming objectives In 2002, Prudential UK transferred its UK personal lines general While Prudentials retail APE sales volume growth may fall in insurance business to Winterthur, forming a strategic alliance with the short term, as it refocuses its retirement savings products, Churchill to offer Prudential-branded general insurance products Prudential expects the UK financial services environment to remain for which Prudential receives a commission payment that has favourable, and expects to achieve growth in line with the market been offset against an advance payment made by Winterthur at 5 to 10 per cent over the next five years.
completion resulting in a net payment to Prudential of 4 million in Prudential UK will continue to focus on profitable opportunities 2006.
From 2008, under the terms of the contractual arrangement, which deliver capital-efficient returns and will seek to maintain the advance payment will have been fully offset, therefore an aggregate 14 per cent IRR on new business.
It will continue Prudential UK is expected to receive approximately 30 million to pursue profitable opportunities in its chosen product areas a year from the commission payments, although this will depend and distribution channels in 2007. on the new business volumes and persistency rates.
As previously announced, Prudential UK has targeted 150 million Prudential UK allocates shareholder capital to support new of cost savings by 2008 through the integration of Egg and other business growth across a wide range of products in the UK.
shareholder cost saving initiatives at a cost of 110 million.
Of these The weighted average post-tax IRR on the capital allocated target savings and costs, 35 million and 25 million respectively to new business growth in the UK in 2006 was 15 per cent, were due to be realised by Egg.
Following the sale, the revised up by one percentage point from that achieved in 2005. target savings for Prudential is 115 million.
Prudential UK has, The NBP increased nine per cent to 266 million, primarily however, identified further cost saving initiatives which result reflecting an increase in margin from 27 per cent in 2005 to in target cost savings for the UK business being increased to 30 per cent in 2006.
This reflects an increase in profitability within 195 million, to be achieved by 2010.
The savings when achieved, the retail business, where the margin increased significantly, driven net of restructuring costs, will result in a small positive assumption principally by individual annuities offset by a change in business change on an EEV basis, estimated to be around 60 million.
The mix following the lower sales of more profitable bulk annuities, cost savings will be achieved through a combination of internal credit life business and DWP rebates.
cost saving, further off-shoring or outsourcing.
The work of approximately 3,000 people in the customer service, customer EEV basis operating profit based on longer-term investment operations and information technology areas will be in the core returns of 686 million, before restructuring costs of 34 million, scope of this review.
Prudential will comply with its legal were up 61 per cent on 2005.
The in-force operating profit of obligations to consult with unions and employee representatives 420 million was up 129 per cent on 2005, due to the increase in relation to these proposals.
The total cost of achieving the in profits arising from the unwind of discount from the in-force 195 million of savings is expected to be up to 165 million and book reflecting an increase in the risk discount rates together will depend upon the final detail of the cost reduction programme.
with an increased opening embedded value : and because there were no operating assumption changes required in 2006, in In connection with the sale of Egg, outline terms of a distribution comparison to 2005 when a charge of 148 million was made agreement have been agreed in principle with Citi through which in respect of persistency.
Prudential UK will provide life and pension products to Eggs customers for a five-year period.
Prudential UK sees Eggs direct Other charges of 110 million include 32 million of costs distribution capacity and access to its three million customers as associated with product and distribution development and powerful strategic assets, and this agreement enables it to preserve complying with regulatory requirements including Sarbanes-Oxley: these benefits while reducing the risk to its balance sheet.
9 million negative persistency experience variance: 14 million Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 33
