Directors report: Operating and financial review Business unit review: Asset management Business unit review continued Asset management Outstanding fund performance led to record fund inflows into Asia Fund Management M&Gs retail and wholesale businesses during 2006.
Gross fund inflows were 13.5 billion, an increase of 70 per cent on the 1.
Net fund inflows were their highest ever, increasing The mutual fund market in Asia has grown at a CAGR of 22 per cent by 58 per cent to 6.1 billion.
External funds under management from end 2003 to end 2006 with 720 billion of assets under grew significantly, up 24 per cent to 45 billion, and at this level management at 31 December 2006 with Japan and Korea represent over a quarter of M&Gs total funds under management.
accounting for over three quarters of the total FUM.
China and India have been the fastest growing markets over this period with In the retail marketplace, demand remained strong for M&Gs high annual growth rates of 57 per cent and 31 per cent respectively.
alpha equity and competitive fixed income and property offerings, with gross fund inflows increasing by 75 per cent to 6.7 billion Over the past few years, appetite for risk-based products has and net fund inflows more than doubling to 3.1 billion.
Product gradually been increasing and during 2006, Asian investors have innovation has remained key for opening up new markets for M&G shown increased interest in equity-focused funds.
Regulatory and 66 per cent of gross mutual fund inflows in 2006 through UK change has also continued to drive demand for Luxembourg based and European distribution channels were into funds launched or offshore products.
re-engineered within the past six years.
Prudentials strategy Sales were strong across all retail markets.
Excellent progress Prudentials fund management business serves both the life was made in the UK and across the European markets of Germany, companies in Asia by managing the life funds and by designing Austria, Switzerland, Luxembourg, Italy and Spain.
In Germany, the and managing the funds underlying the investment linked products first European market entered in 2002, M&G is now the number and third-party customers through a growing mutual fund business.
three foreign provider and in just four years has risen to number Given that the majority of individuals personal financial assets nine in net sales against all providers in the German marketplace.
currently reside in bank deposits in Asia Source: Citi Asia Pacific In an official FERI ranking of the best selling funds by UK fund Household Balance Sheets 2005, Prudential continues to grow its managers across the UK and Europe in 2006, M&G had three third-party mutual fund business by developing strong customer funds represented in the top 20.
In South Africa, M&Gs business propositions to cater to an estimated potential 450 million was last year ranked number one by net inflows in the market only customers for mutual fund products in Asia.
Prudentials strategy is five years on from launch.
underpinned by building local operating entities with local market M&Gs wholesale business also saw substantial growth, with gross knowledge and expertise and supporting these with strong fund inflows increasing by 66 per cent to 6.8 billion and net regional capabilities.
inflows rising 19 per cent to 3 billion.
M&Gs scale and market Given the significance of bank distribution, broadening distribution reputation in fixed income continued to position it very favourably reach involves developing strong relationships with regional and in both traditional areas of the market, such as segregated funds, local bank distributors and providing better servicing.
and alternative areas such as structured credit.
Continued delivery of strong and consistent fund performance 4.
Outlook and forthcoming objectives is essential in maintaining the credibility of the Prudential brand M&Gs priorities for the year ahead are to: in this market.
deliver investment outperformance to its clients: Today, Prudentials fund management business in Asia is the second largest retail fund management company in terms of distribute through existing channels and exploit new Asia ex Japan sourced retail FUM as of June 2006 Source: Asia opportunities: Asset Management Sept 2006 for survey participants.
Including leverage its scale and capabilities to develop innovative institutional and insurance assets, Prudentials fund management products for the retail and wholesale marketplaces: and business was ranked in June 2006 as the third largest asset manager in terms of overall assets sourced in Asia ex Japan, deliver attractive returns to Prudential.
compared with its fifth ranking in 2005.
CER RER 2006 2005 Percentage 2005 Percentage Asia m m change m change Net investment flows 2,532 1,321 92% 1,328 91% Total IFRS operating profit 50 11 355% 12 317% Based on longer-term investment results.
Asia here refers to the eight countries of China, India, Korea, Japan, Taiwan, Singapore, Malaysia Private Funds and Hong Kong Local retail funds Sources: Cerulli Associates, Monetary Authority of Singapore, Association of Mututal Fund in India, Securities Inv Trust Association, KITCA.
