h t w o r O G p p o r Directors report: Overview United Kingdom M&G United States Fast growth in Rapid sales growth Record variable Momentum health insurance and expansion into annuity sales growth and equity release new markets PruHealth celebrated In the retail marketplace, Jackson delivered record its second anniversary M&G delivered record variable annuity sales in 2006 and already fund inflows in 2006 in 2006 of 3.8 billion, covers around 100,000 with gross fund inflows up 48 per cent on the customers.
At the heart increasing by 75 per cent previous year.
This of PruHealth lies a totally to 6.7 billion and net reflects its distinct new approach to private fund inflows more than competitive advantages: medical insurance that doubling to 3.1 billion.
an innovative product recognises that the Product innovation has offering: an efficient healthier people are, the remained key for opening and flexible technology less likely they are to up new markets for M&G platform: a relationshipneed medical treatment.
and 66 per cent of gross driven distribution model: Prudential UK is also mutual fund inflows in and award-winning looking to grow the equity 2006 through UK and service.
Jackson release business it started European distribution increased its variable in 2006, having written channels were into annuity market share to over 100 million of new funds launched or 4.6 per cent in 2006, and business in its first year.
re-engineered within maintained its ranking of the past six years.
twelfth in total variable annuity sales.
Our strong positions in the markets in which we operate mean we are well placed to capture an increasing share of profitable growth in each 12 Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 t u n i t y e u l a V Directors report: Overview Asia Consistent outperformance in headline growth Life new business has grown at a CAGR of 22 per cent over the last five years and funds under management at a CAGR of 25 per cent.
In 2006, Prudentials funds under management ranking against international fund managers in Asia increased from fourth to second.
The bottom line is also growing, strongly reflecting our increasing scale and efficiency.
On a like-for-like basis operating IFRS profits for the life business were up 11 per cent and for the funds business up 85 per cent.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 13 h t w o r O G p p o r Directors report: Overview Asia United Kingdom M&G Well placed to Significant A fast-growing Momentum leverage proven opportunities in industry and platform for retirement savings increasingly long-term profitable and income accessible markets growth Prudential Corporation Prudential is strongly The asset management Asia has a productive, positioned to benefit sector continues to scale agency force, from the predicted benefit from the strong partnerships, growth in the UK increasing shift by retail innovative products retirement savings and investors from opaque to and a respected brand.
income markets, driven transparent investment Going forward, by increasing longevity products, such as unit Prudential will also be and the number of trusts, and M&Gs range exploring new initiatives baby boomers heading of market-leading funds in the retirement space, towards retirement has positioned it very developing more direct over the next few years.
strongly to benefit from distribution, launching Prudential will also be this trend.
European new health products looking to maximise cross-border distribution and implementing value from the steadily has accelerated and the a disciplined and increasing flow of trend in favour of Open systematic cross-sell vestings from its mature Architecture in both and up-sell programme pensions book over the the UK and Europe has with its over seven million coming years.
continued to open up existing customers.
significant bank and life company distribution opportunities.
As we look ahead, we see enormous opportunities in all three of our regions, and we feel confident we have the skills and resources to take advantage of them 14 Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 t u n i t y e u l a V Directors report: Overview United States 78 million baby boomers reaching retirement In the US, the first members of the 78 million baby boomer generation turned 60 the average retirement age in 2006.
The ageing demographics of the US are expected to increase annual retirement distributions from $0.5 trillion in 2004 to more than $1 trillion per year by 2012.
