Directors report: Operating and financial review Business unit review: Asset management 3.
Progress in 2006 PPM America In 2006, Prudential entered three new markets: China, Vietnam and the United Arab Emirates UAE.
Market review and summary of strategy venture with CITIC launched two retail mutual funds during the PPM America PPMA manages assets for Prudentials US, UK and year and raised 414 million Prudential share at 137 million.
PPMA also provides investment services to other In Vietnam, Prudential launched its first mutual fund and an affiliated and unaffiliated institutional clients including CDOs, offshore fund investing in Vietnam, together raising 163 million.
private investment funds, institutional accounts and mutual funds.
A licence was obtained for doing business in the UAE, with an PPMAs strategy is focused on effectively managing existing office in Dubai.
assets, maximising synergies with international asset management Prudential continued to build on its existing platform in Asia with affiliates and leveraging investment management capabilities specific focus on the markets of India, Korea and Japan.
In India, across the Prudential Group.
Prudentials joint venture with ICICI Bank grew assets under A summary of PPMAs year end 2006 assets under management management by 53 per cent: in Korea, Prudentials business grew follows: assets by 33 per cent and in Japan the regions largest market assets grew by 20 per cent.
PPMA funds under management US$ billions US UK Asia Total PRUPIM Singapore a joint venture with PRUPIM in the UK Insurance 45.5 16.3 0.5 62.3 was established with its first core fund with a gross asset value Retail 0.0 2.5 5.0 7.5 of US$616 million.
This gives the business an entry into the real Institutional 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.2 estate space which is a fast growing and attractive segment of CDOs 3.6 0.0 0.0 3.6 the business.
Financial results and performance Prudentials fund management business achieved record net 2.
Current year initiatives inflows for 2006, with 2.5 billion being almost twice that of 2005.
During 2006, PPMA executed several initiatives to improve This reflects the strengths of the Asian Fund Managements operational effectiveness and scalability, including the geographic and product diversification.
enhancement of fixed income analytical capabilities.
Initiatives designed to maximise synergies within the Group included Prudentials total FUM as at 31 December were 29.2 billion leveraging PPMAs capabilities to manufacture financial products and included 6.2 billion of assets from the Group, 10.6 billion distributed by affiliates.
from Prudential Corporation Asias life funds and 12.3 billion from the retail operations.
This is an increase of 22 per cent 3.
Financial results and performance from 31 December 2005, though mutual funds through the Investment performance was favourable in 2006, particularly retail operations grew by 33 per cent.
across US affiliate portfolios, the US public equity and fixed income components of the portfolios managed for UK affiliates IFRS profits from fund management operations were 50 million, and CDOs.
up 85 per cent on 2005, excluding 2005 exceptional items.
IFRS operating profit in 2006 was 12 million versus 20 million 5.
The 2005 results benefited from a 5 million positive The main focus for 2007 will be to continue to pursue profitable non-recurring item related to revaluation of a CDO.
opportunities in all markets but more specifically in the key growth markets of China and India and the large Japanese and Korean 4.
Outlook and forthcoming objectives markets.
The fund range will continue to be expanded through The 2007 outlook is positive driven by current momentum, expanding both onshore and offshore funds and developing real favourable economic and market conditions, and the growth estate and Islamic funds.
Distribution will be broadened and prospects of internal clients.
deepened through relationships with channel partners in the individual countries and regionally.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 45 Directors report: Operating and financial review Business unit review: Banking Business unit review continued Banking Non-interest income reduced by 36 per cent to 138 million Egg following a significant reduction in personal loan insurance income 1.
Market review and summary of strategy as Egg reduced its exposure to the unsecured loans business.
The high level of consumer indebtedness has led to a sharp Total new loan sales reduced to 83,000, which is approximately increase in the number of individuals seeking to restructure their 50 per cent of the new volumes achieved in 2005.
This has been observed through higher levels payment protection insurance PPI penetration rates were far of personal bankruptcies and individual voluntary arrangements: lower than that experienced in 2005.
Other non-interest card the number of personal insolvencies has risen at an annual rate of income is lower than 2005, reflecting consumer spend patterns over 50 per cent.
These factors have given rise to increased bad and continuing regulatory focus on the creditor insurance market, debt provisions across the UK banking industry.
resulting in reductions in commission revenue earned.
In January 2007, Prudential concluded that its current banking Eggs loan book performance reflects the industry-wide increase business does not represent the best opportunity for it to drive in consumers using individual voluntary arrangements, debt profitable growth in the future and it announced the sale of Egg management companies and in some cases bankruptcy to alleviate to Citi for 575 million, with the transaction expected to complete their debt burden.
Within the Egg personal loan portfolio, the later in 2007, subject to regulatory approvals.
Citi is the largest number of customers employing debt management companies in credit card issuer in the world and a group that is well placed to the last quarter increased 18 per cent on the prior quarter.
These develop and grow Eggs franchise.
As part of the transaction, arrangements typically result in lower recoveries from customers Prudential has agreed in principle outline terms of a five-year than have historically been achieved via Eggs collection strategies.
agreement to distribute life and pension products through Egg.
The overall deterioration in credit led to the total charge for bad Prudential has also been selected as a strategic provider to Citi debts increasing by 143 million to 382 million.
for the distribution of life insurance products to Citis consumer Restructuring costs of 12 million were incurred during 2006. banking customers in Thailand, Indonesia and the Philippines.
The transaction will improve Prudentials capital position and is expected to increase Prudentials solvency surplus under FCD by an estimated 300 million.
Financial results and performance Eggs total operating loss in 2006 was 145 million, compared with a profit of 44 million in 2005.
This result reflects a marked deterioration in industry-wide consumer behaviour.
This has resulted in a reduction of net borrowing on credit cards as consumers reduce their spending and borrowing.
In addition, bad debt experience is considerably worse than expected, particularly in relation to personal loans.
During 2006, Egg made a number of changes to its lending approach.
On unsecured loans, Eggs strategy was to tactically reduce its exposure and it tightened the acceptance criteria throughout the year.
This resulted in a significantly reduced level of sales, and associated insurance income.
Egg also changed its approach to the management of the credit card book, and it adopted the standard industry policy of charging variable interest rates in relation to a customers expected risk profile.
Throughout the industry, 2006 saw an increase in the application of balance transfer fees, therefore reducing the levels of balance transfer activity.
Eggs net interest income of 330 million increased six per cent in 2006.
Slightly lower customer balances were offset by the effects of a higher interest rate environment.
