Corporate strategy 8 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2006 5 KE 5 $ GI Overall objectives To provide investment management and trust, tax and pension services for private individuals, charities and trustees.
To provide shareholders with a growing stream of dividend income, delivered by steady and consistent growth in earnings per share as market conditions allow.
To provide staff with an interesting and stimulating career environment, involving a commitment for all staff to share in the equity and profits of Rathbones.
9 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2006 5 KE 5 $ GI Corporate strategy continued Rathbones services Rathbones approach to the investment of client funds seeks to manage risk imaginatively.
Each Rathbones core businesses are investment client is the responsibility of a named investment management and trust, tax and pension services.
professional who makes all investment decisions These are managed in three areas: in the light of his or her clients stated objectives, Investment management for private risk prole and circumstances, paying regard to individuals and trustees the Rathbone Investment Process.
Unit trusts Our Investment Process is constantly evolving and we continue to invest in the people and Trust and tax resources required to ensure it remains robust, Investment management for private exible and capable of meeting a variety of individuals and trustees needs.
Traditionally, our business has focused Discretionary investment management services on constructing investment portfolios from cash, for private individuals, charities and trustees, bonds and equities.
As new asset classes have as well as their advisers, are provided by Rathbone developed and become available to private clients, Investment Management in the UK and by we recognise that some clients may need us to Rathbone Investment Management International construct portfolios incorporating a broader range in Jersey.
Rathbone Investment Management of investments and the different risks and rewards is authorised as a bank under the Financial associated with them.
We believe that our independence allows us to We stress the importance of a fee-based investment select all investments in a portfolio on the basis management service.
Having full discretion, of the best available in the marketplace.
There is with securities held in our nominee and surplus participation in the investment process by all cash held by us as an authorised bank, allows investment professionals across Rathbones which our investment managers the maximum exibility also ensures that the investments selected are and enables us to provide quality services suitable for our clients.
efficiently and at a reasonable cost.
Advisory Our investment managers are able to make services are also provided.
Rathbone Investment the final asset allocation decisions as well as Management acts in the market as an independent investment selection but internal performance investment manager and continues to develop monitoring and risk control processes ensure its investment process.
that the quality of service and fullment of client Rathbones is actively seeking to expand its objectives is achieved.
Clients with more limited investment management activities, organically as sums to invest are directed, where appropriate, well as by appropriate acquisitions.
The critical to collectives on a best-of-breed basis.
criteria for such acquisitions are that the people The Board believes that it is appropriate joining us should share our commitment to that a minimum of 80 per cent of Rathbones provide investment management services of high business should be in investment management quality, that the acquisition should be earningsand unit trusts.
enhancing within a reasonable timeframe and or that the acquisition or recruitment should broaden The provision of banking services is limited or improve our range of services in keeping with to investment management or trust clients our overall corporate strategy.
Short-term loans are made on a secured basis but mortgages, cheque books, credit and debit cards are not offered.
Rathbone Pension & Advisory Services offers clients independent advice on pensions, life assurance arrangements and on the wider aspects of estate planning and savings.
It also provides selfinvested personal pension SIPP administration services for our clients, many of whom have their SIPP investment portfolios managed by Rathbone Investment Management.
10 10 Rathbone Brothers Plc Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 200 Report and accounts 2006 6 5 KE 5 $ GI Unit trusts duciary and corporate services for private Rathbone Unit Trust Management provides unit individuals, their families and their family trusts and ICVCs Investment Companies with ofces wherever they are based.
In addition Variable Capital to a wide range of investors.
it has specialist corporate trust expertise.
Funds under management have grown very Within the UK, Rathbones is able to provide signicantly, largely by distribution through advice on tax planning, including wills and financial advisers.
inheritance tax, family ofce services and trust Rathbone Unit Trust Management has established and estate administration.
Taxation services a major market share of sales of equity income include the preparation of tax returns for products, on the back of long-term performance.
individuals and trusts, income and capital tax Continuing success is dependent on delivering planning as well as the ability to assist with consistent long-term performance based on the tax investigations.
It has recently In an increasingly complex area, we are secured a foothold as a manager of investment committed to providing the highest possible mandates from major retailers of investment level of professional expertise to our existing products and this area represents a growing part and prospective clients.
The plan is to build on this success, mindful of the need to avoid complacency, given the very competitive environment in which Rathbone Unit Trust Management operates.
This will involve further strengthening our brand, attracting and retaining key employees and widening distribution both in the UK and overseas.
It will also involve growing distribution through intermediaries, life assurance companies and specialist mandates rather than in-house sales to clients of Rathbone Investment Management.
We may add funds to our range but only where we believe that we have the skills necessary to produce above average investment returns for unit holders.
Rathbones continues to be ambitious in its plans for Rathbone Unit Trust Management, acknowledging that unit trust sales are always dependent on market conditions, performance statistics, product demand and consumer confidence.
Trust and tax As with investment management, these services are provided to clients by named professionals, frequently qualied lawyers, accountants and pension specialists.
The individual services are intended to stand on their own as profitable units but cross-referrals between investment management and trust, tax and pension activities are greatly encouraged where they are appropriate and consistent with integrity and best advice.
Globally, Rathbone Trust International specialises in the provision of trustee, corporate and family ofce services, from ofces in Jersey, Geneva and the British Virgin Islands, afliated ofces in New Zealand and the Netherlands, and through partners and associates in other jurisdictions.
Rathbone Trust International prides itself on the provision of intelligent, pro-active and informed 11 11 Rathbone Brothers Plc Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 200 Report and accounts 2006 6 5 KE 5 $ GI Corporate strategy continued Rathbones infrastructure People The investment management business relies on As with all professional services businesses, three closely integrated systems, marketed together Rathbones greatest asset is its people.
by Rhyme Systems as RhymeSight, comprising The company is committed to the provision Rhymes core Quasar processing engine, the of stimulating career environments for internally developed Rathbone Investment Desk employees in all areas.
and Equipos STR client reporting package.
It Through our acquisitions and the operation is expected these will remain the core systems for of the Share Incentive Plan, we provide equity the foreseeable future.
participation and rewards that reect the success Rathbones aim to deploy robust and proven of the business.
Additional profit-related schemes industry standard hardware and IT infrastructure are in place in specic areas for fee-earners.
such as Microsoft software for enterprise These are designed to provide appropriate wide systems.
incentives and rewards for the profitable operation and development of our businesses.
Marketing Rathbones is aware of the need to provide Rathbones is justiably proud of the growth appropriate training for staff throughout the of its reputation as a very professional provider of business and is committed to acting as an equal investment management and wealth management opportunities employer.
It is recognised, however, that our is placed on the benets to individual members market places remain extremely competitive and of staff in the company by the development are constantly changing.
A variety of takeovers of the appraisal process.
have led to significant levels of change in our Any business providing services to private competitors and new businesses are constantly individuals relies on the integrity, quality and seeking to establish themselves.
Increased emphasis honesty of its staff.
Great stress is placed on has been placed on marketing and business compliance with all relevant regulation and development activities generally and through statutes and Rathbones will preserve and build intermediary audiences in particular.
upon its established culture of seeking the highest Our marketing will increasingly emphasise possible professional and ethical standards.
the rounded nature of Rathbones services This encompasses an active awareness to individuals, building on the strengths of of environmental and social concerns as well all parts of Rathbones.
as a commitment to the wider community.
12 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2006 5 KE 5 $ GI 13 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2006 5 KE 5 $ GI
