Non-executive directors Giles Coode-Adams Jamie Cayzer-Colvin Giles Coode-Adams, aged 68, has over 40 years Jamie Cayzer-Colvin, aged 41, is a director of Caledonia experience in the City.
In 1966 he became a partner Investments plc, Polar Capital Holdings Plc and India Capital in L. Messel & Co. which from 1986 was part of Lehman Growth Fund Ltd. After leaving the Army, he worked for Brothers.
He became a managing director of Lehman Whitbread and GEC before joining Caledonia in 1995.
Brothers in 1987 and has advised a number of leading He initially worked at Ambersil, an international speciality UK and US companies.
Additionally, from 1991 to 1997 chemicals subsidiary, before transferring to Caledonias he was chief executive of the Royal Botanic Gardens, head ofce in 1999.
He was appointed to the Board Kew Foundation.
He is also a director of Guardian Media in May 2002.
He joined the Board in June 1999 and Jamie is a director of a major shareholder, Caledonia is the senior independent director and chairman of the Investments plc, and it is recognised that he is not Audit Committee.
considered to be independent for the purposes of the James Barclay Combined Code.
James Barclay, aged 61, has many years experience Oliver Corbett in the financial services and banking sector.
As chairman Oliver Corbett, aged 42, is group finance director and chief executive of Cater Allen Holdings Plc, he was of Novae Group plc formerly SVB Holdings PLC.
He is a responsible for creating a market leader that was ultimately chartered accountant and worked for SG Warburg, Phoenix sold to Abbey National in 1998.
Currently, he is nonSecurities later Donaldson Lufkin Jenrette and Dresdner executive chairman of M&G Equity Investment Trust PLC Kleinwort Wasserstein now Dresdner Kleinwort, where he and a director of Thos.
Agnews and Sons Limited, a was managing director, emerging companies, before joining leading West End international art dealer.
He was appointed to the Board appointed as an adviser to the UK Debt Management on 7 March 2006 and is considered to be independent.
Ofce and was chairman of its audit committee for four years.
He was appointed to the Board in November Roy Morris 2003 and is considered to be independent.
Roy Morris, aged 65, was chief executive from 1997 until his retirement from this role in October 2004.
He Caroline Burton remains a non-executive director but is not considered Caroline Burton, aged 57, is a highly experienced gure to be independent and does not sit on Board Committees.
within the asset management industry.
She spent 26 years He is a Deputy Lieutenant of Merseyside and is chairman with Guardian Royal Exchange Plc where she was executive of the Mersey Partnership.
He is also a non-executive director in charge of investments from 1990 until 1999. director of Albany Investment Trust Plc and of the She was also a director of The Scottish Metropolitan Liverpool Culture Company Ltd. Property Plc until June 2000 and was a member of the service authority for the National Crime Squad and National Mark Robertshaw Criminal Intelligence Service until March 2006.
She is a Mark Robertshaw, aged 38, is chief executive officer of non-executive director of TR Property Investment Trust Plc.
The Morgan Crucible Company plc.
Prior to joining Morgan She was appointed to the Board in November 2003 and is Crucible in 2004 he was chief financial officer of Gartmore considered to be independent.
She is chairman of the Investment Management Plc for four years.
worked for the NatWest Group and also spent nine years as a management consultant with Marakon Associates.
He was appointed to the Board on 7 March 2006 and is considered to be independent.
Giles Coode-Adams James Barclay Caroline Burton Jamie Cayzer-Colvin Oliver Corbett Roy Morris Mark Robertshaw 28 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2006 5 KE 5 $ GI
