Executive directors who served during the year Mark Powell Sue Desborough Mark Powell, aged 61, is the executive chairman with Sue Desborough, aged 46, is finance director.
She joined principal responsibility for the strategy of the Group.
He has Rathbones as group financial controller in 2000 and became been involved in investment management for private clients finance director in October 2004.
Between 1987 and 2000 throughout his career.
From 1968 to 1989 he worked in she worked for Kleinwort Benson Private Bank where she what became Credit Lyonnais Securities and was chief was latterly head of financial and regulatory reporting, a role executive of CL-Alexanders Laing & Cruickshank Holdings.
which included a diverse range of projects including M&A In 1989 he joined Laurence Keen as chief executive and was and new product development.
She qualied as a chartered appointed to the Rathbones Board as managing director accountant in 1984 with Deloitte Haskins & Sells.
She is of the Group following its acquisition in March 1995. chairman of the Groups Business Continuity Committee.
He was appointed as chairman in May 2003.
He is also Ian Buckley non-executive chairman of SVM Active Fund Plc.
He is Ian Buckley, aged 56, is chief executive of the Groups a director of the Association of Private Client Investment trust division and chairman of the Groups IT Steering Managers & Stockbrokers APCIMS and a member of Committee.
He qualied as a chartered accountant with the Takeover Panel.
Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co. now KPMG in 1975.
Andy Pomfret He was chief executive of Smith & Williamson for ten years Andy Pomfret, aged 46, is the chief executive.
He is from 1985 to 1995, and subsequently chief executive chairman of the Executive Committee which manages the of EFG Private Bank Limited and Tenon Group Plc.
day-to-day affairs of the Group and of the Groups Social He was appointed to the Board in December 2001. and Environmental Committee.
He qualied as a chartered He is the senior independent director of NXT Plc.
accountant with Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co. now KPMG.
Prior to joining Rathbones in July 1999, he spent over 13 years with Kleinwort Benson now Dresdner Kleinwort as a corporate nancier, venture capitalist and latterly finance director of the investment management and private banking division.
He was appointed to the Board in August 1999 and became chief executive in October 2004.
He is also the senior independent director of Beazley Group plc.
Mark Powell Andy Pomfret Sue Desborough Ian Buckley 26 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2006 5 KE 5 $ GI Paul Chavasse Andrew Morris Paul Chavasse, aged 42, is the chief operating officer Andrew Morris, aged 42, is the director responsible for responsible for the Groups investment operations, IT Rathbones investment management business in Liverpool, infrastructure and facilities.
He started his career working Edinburgh and Kendal.
He also manages a large number for the institutional fund management arm of NatWest, of client portfolios.
He has spent his entire working career which was later merged with Gartmore.
After a period in at Rathbones in private client investment management and the private client businesses of NatWest and Coutts, his was appointed to the Board in November 2000.
He is final role before joining the Group in 2001 was as head chairman of the Groups Training and Competence of NatWest Portfolio Management in Bristol.
He was Committee and is the director responsible for marketing.
appointed to the Board in September 2001.
Peter Pearson Lund Richard Lanyon Peter Pearson Lund, aged 59, is the director responsible Richard Lanyon, aged 55, is the director responsible for for Rathbones unit trust business and is chief executive Rathbones investment management business.
Initially with of Rathbone Unit Trust Management Limited.
He was Laurence Prust, he moved to Framlington Group Plc in 1986 appointed to the Board in January 2005.
Before joining where he was the Board member responsible for pension Rathbones, Peter worked for Gartmore for 14 years funds.
Richard joined the Group in 1992 to concentrate where he was a group director and managing director on private client discretionary investment management and of Gartmore Fund Managers, the unit trust division.
Peter was appointed to the Board in March 1996. joined Rathbones in 1999 when the company decided to develop its unit trust activities and promote them externally.
James Lifford James Lifford, aged 58, was the director in charge of Richard Smeeton the regional investment management ofces and chairman Richard Smeeton, aged 42, has, as his principal of the Groups Social and Environmental Committee until responsibility, the management of the Groups investment his retirement from the Board on 31 December 2006. management business in London and Jersey.
He also He manages the investments of a significant portfolio manages a large number of client portfolios.
He joined of clients from the Winchester ofce and has worked for Laurence Keen in 1988 having been a graduate trainee Rathbones and predecessor companies for nearly 30 years, with County Bank.
He was appointed to the Board in during which period he was responsible for developing November 2000. the regional ofce network.
He was appointed to the Board Members of the Executive Committee.
Paul Chavasse Richard Lanyon James Lifford Andrew Morris Peter Pearson Lund Richard Smeeton 27 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2006 5 KE 5 $ GI
