Business review Governance Accounts 58 Who do we work with?
We deliver services on behalf of a wide variety of clients in both the public and private sectors.
Our clients look to us to improve processes, create new capabilities and transform back office and customer service operations.
We make measurable improvements in service efficiency and quality, reducing costs and adding real value to our clients operations.
The simplest way to explain is by illustration.
Here are some examples of how we deliver value to our clients The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business review Governance Accounts 59 Who do we work with?
D DS SG G i in nt te er rn na at ti io on na al l BBC C Cl li ie en nt t o ob bj je ec ct ti iv five e Client objective D To SG en ih sa cn uc se to tm he er ex cp oe nr tia ec ntcc eeo nftr ce us fa to cim lite yrs incS oh ne ta ff c ie tiln dg Reduce HR costs to release extra resources for p th ro ecD es Ss G eidco av llec re1 n 0 tm re, c to onm taa ck te s p itea r y ke ea yrd.
H iffo ew ree nv te ia r, to w rith programmes as part of radical plans to make the c in ald lra iv bia nn gdso an le m se an nt drc au te st so a m t 1 e9 r% loy a a n lt d yu.
W nsia tt hisc fa alc ltory BBC a simpler and more creative digital broadcaster.
s aa bla en sd co on nm five e rn sit or n at fie gsua re ts u, n D sS aG tis if fa ec lt to itry wla es five st ls a, rt D in Sg Gt io f lo es lt eit bu w sa in se ss ts ar a tn in dgct u o st lo os m ee b ru s. siness and customers Capitas approach and so turned to Capita for a solution.
We are working closely with BBC People to deliver Capitas approach many HR services across the corporation, including C Ca a p p it it aa im sp alp em pr e o na te cd ha full migration and review recruitment, HR advice and administration, and F po ro llc oe w sisn, g ina clfu ud llin re g vt ie hw e t arn ad ns m fe ig rr ra altio ofn8 p 6 r0 ocs e ts a sf, fi.
n A cllm ud o in st g occupational health and disability access services.
t im he m tr ea d n ia sf te erly o, ft8 h6 e0 cu es m to pm loe yr ee cs o, n tt h a ecc to cn et n a tc rt ec w ea ns tra eble to p We have set up a new HR Shared Service Centre in b be eg ga in nfo up ne cr ta io tin nig ng ataa t v aa v sa tl sy tliy m im pro pv ro ev derd at re a, tm e:eeting all Belfast with 110 employees and a number of new contracted service levels ahead of schedule.
The results p % improvement in customer satisfaction technologies to help improve services, which are over 2 years have been remarkable, with all stakeholder branded BBC HR Direct p % reduction in call abandonment rate groups seeing large improvements.
Performance p sales conversion increased by % and PC World p In the first year of the contract we will have improved sharply: Sales conversion increased.
processed over 160,000 applications for over p Customer satisfaction up 18% and number of calls 4,500 jobs, managed induction for some 2,800 p % improvement in customer satisfaction per resolution down 41% new employees, dealt with 3,500 leavers and As a result of the relationships success, in 2006 we p Store call sales conversion rate up 400% handled over 170,000 queries from employees were awarded a further contract to deliver technical and applicants p Employee satisfaction up 60% and 2 industry support services from DSGis Nottingham site, where awards achieved in 2006. p Over the life of the contract the BBC expects to we are already exceeding all enhanced SLAs and KPIs.
We have made the right decision.
Weve found a In 2006, we won a further contract with DSGi to partner that is willing to work closely with us and also deliver its technical support services, which Together with Capita, we are working on in terms of performance we are seeing positive returns included the transfer of another 900 employees.
a change plan to improve and simplify the in all aspects.
delivery of HR administration and advice SO imv oe nrH th ue ntle a rs, t 18 months we have built a to the BBC.
The HR operation Capita has Commercial Manager, very strong relationship with Capita and developed in Belfast represents the first DSG international plc have developed a joint vision of improving step on that journey.
our customers' experience with us.
Director Customer and Stores Director BBC People DSG international Services Market Division Services Market Division p BPO p Private sector p Insurance & Specialist p BPO p Private sector p HR Solutions & Services Property Consultancy p Customer services p Customer services p Administration and p Administration and support support p ICT p Human resources p ICT The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business review Governance Accounts 60 Who do we work with?
Birmingham City Council The Childrens Mutual Client objective Client objective To establish a long term partnership to deliver To engage with a partner who could establish a cost ambitious transformation objectives and a world effective infrastructure to process Child Trust Funds class ICT service, with the aim of significantly CTFs and administer the scheme from its launch.
improving the delivery of public services.
Capitas approach Capitas approach We developed a state-of-the art service delivery We are working with the Council to provide the platform which enables highly efficient scheme additional capacity and specialist skills required for administration: major service transformation.
Over 500 Council p To meet the launch date we designed and employees have been seconded to a joint venture developed processes and infrastructure from with Capita and we have made excellent progress scratch in just 10 months in the first year: p Clerical productivity is now 50% higher than in a p The new ICT network has increased stability and traditional life and pensions processing area significantly cut costs p Over 95% of applications are processed without p Email is 500% faster despite a 30% increase in manual intervention, ensuring an error free traffic and nearly 90% of helpdesk calls are now environment and minimising follow-up queries answered within 20 seconds up from 40% p In recognition of the schemes success, The p In July 2006 we signed an additional contract to Childrens Mutual was awarded Child Trust Fund transform Corporate Services, including Provider of the Year at the Investment, Life & procurement, finance and business management: Pensions Moneyfacts Awards 2006. due to generate savings of 800m over 10 years, it has already saved 9.5m.
The projects success has led to The Childrens Mutual awarding further work to Capita to administer other We are supporting the development of business cases products such as Growing Up Bonds.
Capita's ability to provide advanced This Council-wide programme will deliver administration and customer contact better, more efficient services to the citizens services to a wide range of clients and its of Birmingham.
The joint venture gives us commitment in extending these service the capacity and skills we need, with a models to our valued customers continues shared vision and goals.
Stephen Hughes David White Chief Executive Chief Executive Birmingham City Council The Childrens Mutual Services Market Division Services Market Division p BPO p Local government p ICT & Advisory Services p BPO p Life & pensions p Life & pensions p ICT p Customer services p Administration p Administration and support and support p ICT The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business review Governance Accounts 61 Who do we work with?
South Oxfordshire and Vale of Home Office White Horse District Council Criminal Records Bureau Client objective Client objective To create a shared service for 2 councils to In 2000, Capita was selected to provide a carefully modernise and achieve economies of scale in regulated service enabling organisations to gain access revenues and benefits administration.
to important criminal and other information for recruitment and licensing purposes.
We now process Capitas approach 3m applications for information annually, and We are committed to developing new models of customer satisfaction is at an all-time high.
In 2006, partnership that deliver widespread cost savings the CRB asked us to help meet growing demand from and substantial service improvements to local customers for online access to the status of their authorities.
This contract is an excellent example applications while providing a platform for future of shared services in action.
In the first 6 months e-products and services.
of the contract we have already made good progress: Capitas approach p Created joined-up revenues and benefits services, We developed an online tracking product based on an delivering direct cost savings to both Councils, accredited e-infrastructure designed to support future anticipated to be in the region of 3m online services.
p We are transferring work to processing centres in p Rigorous testing and accreditation ensured the Kent and Somerset and telephone enquiries to security of CRB Disclosures Coventry, achieving savings by using new technology and Capita's business centre p The service received over 73,000 hits in the first infrastructure month and won extremely positive feedback from customers.
p Helped both councils to create true shared service operations in the client unit functions.
I am immensely proud of the work we have now completed together.
Launching More and more councils are recognising the the service was one of our key strategic real benefits of shared service partnerships.
It marks the Together we are delivering real service beginning of a journey which will bring improvements and cost savings to residents greater efficiencies to our processes and that could not have been achieved benefits to our customers as more and more without Capita.
David Buckle Terry Stock Vince Gaskell Chief Executive Chief Executive Chief Executive South Oxfordshire Vale of White Horse Criminal Records Bureau District Council District Council Services Market Division Services Market Division p BPO p Local government p Professional Services p BPO p Central government p Integrated Services p Customer services p Customer services p Administration p Administration and support and support p Finance p ICT p ICT p Advisory services The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
