Business review Governance Accounts 38 Our business strategy 3 Which markets do we target?
We work across a broad range of markets characterised by strong growth, allowing us to be selective in our approach to new opportunities.
We are market leader in a number of sectors and face a range of different competitors across each of our markets.
The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business review Governance Accounts 39 Our business strategy Which markets do we target?
Public sector Our 9 chosen markets are: Central government 2006 2005 Revenue by market % % % Across the public sector there is constant pressure to increase efficiency while simultaneously enhancing 1.
As Government departments are set 2.
Local government 17 15 ever more demanding financial and service targets, 3.
Education 14 14 they look to the private sector to help them deliver organisational change and service transformation.
Transport 6 7 Market growth of 11% is expected out to 2010.
Health 1 1 Our track record of successfully delivering complex 6.
Life & pensions 8 6 and high profile transformational projects, supported by effective ICT and process re-engineering, puts us 7.
Insurance 10 12 in pole position to compete for future Government 8.
Private sector 26 Drivers Public private split 1 p Gershon Efficiency Review and the 2004 and 2007 52% 48% Spending Reviews create pressure for shared services 2005: 53% 47% merging transactional functions, standardising and 2 simplifying processes and sharing expertise p Imperative to improve quality of service delivery 9 p Government calls for citizen-centred approach to service 8 delivery following Sir David Varneys report Service 3 Transformation: A better service for citizens and businesses, a better deal for the taxpayer in the 2006 Pre Budget Review 7 p Need to improve productivity through process redesign, 4 6 5 better use of technology and management of absenteeism p Relocation of public sector functions following Lyons Review calls for rationalisation of assets and improved HR and ICT systems to link geographically dispersed offices.
Services Divisions p BPO p Integrated Services p Customer services p HR Solutions & Property Consultancy p Administration and support p Life & Pensions p Human resources p Insurance & Specialist Services p ICT p ICT & Advisory Services p Property consultancy p Finance and treasury p Consultancy The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business review Governance Accounts 40 Our business strategy Which markets do we target?
Public sector Local government Education Transforming public services for the benefit of The Government has committed further funding to citizens and communities is an explicit local improve educational standards and raise accessibility: government priority.
This is driving local government spending worth 5.6% of GDP is allocated for to seek alternative ways of providing services and 200708, but there is a need to ensure value for creating opportunities for the private sector to help money.
Government education strategy is focused develop new delivery models.
With over 20 years on working in partnership across the public, private experience in this marketplace and a UK-wide network and voluntary sectors to deliver high quality results.
of multi-service centres, we are uniquely placed to We are particularly well placed to contribute because help local authorities achieve effective change.
we combine ground-level experience in schools and Industry analysts forecast market growth of 9% higher education with strategic support for local a year to 2010. authorities and the DfES.
Industry analysts are predicting market growth rates of 7.6% out to 2010.
Drivers Drivers p Gershon Efficiency Review and the 2004 and 2007 Spending Reviews create pressure for shared services p Efficiency targets of at least 4.3bn by 2007-08, of which 50% must be reinvested in front line activities p Local governments response to Varney Service Transformation report is to focus increasingly on new localism p Pressure for more shared services across the sector p Local strategic partnership models and local area agreements: p Childrens Services Agenda the embedding of Childrens councils working with other public agencies, other councils, Trusts linking education, social, health and other services private and voluntary organisations to achieve common goals p Local authorities moving towards a commissioning role, supported by shared services with less emphasis on delivering services themselves p The Local Government White Paper Strong and Prosperous p Government commitment to investing in infrastructure Communities, which encourages local government to be a and ICT through Building Schools for the Future programme place shaper commissioner rather than always being a direct provider of services p Focus on ICT to reduce bureaucracy, enhance assessment and improve financial management p Focus on economic and social regeneration of local communities.
p The Leitch Review of skills and the Governments policies for further education and training will create new opportunities.
Services Divisions Services Divisions pBPO p Professional Services pBPO p Integrated Services p Customer services p HR Solutions & Property p Customer services p Professional Services Consultancy p Administration and support p Administration and support p HR Solutions & Property p Financial Services Consultancy p Human resources p Human resources p ICT & Advisory Services p Insurance & Specialist Services p ICT p ICT p ICT & Advisory Services p Property consultancy p Property consultancy p Finance and treasury p Finance and treasury p Consultancy p Consultancy The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business review Governance Accounts 41 Our business strategy Which markets do we target?
Public sector Transport Health Total Government expenditure on transport will NHS funding is set to increase by an average of 7% exceed 37bn between 2005 and 2008 an average a year between 2005-06 and 2007-08.
But there annual real-term increase of 4.5%.
A key priority is are significant financial pressures for organisational road congestion, and the Government has committed change through initiatives such as shared services and funds to exploring innovative ways of reducing local back office rationalisation.
The private sector is already well established targeted savings of 6.5bn a year by 2007-08, in this area and our delivery of the Central London including 0.5bn from rationalisation under the Arms Congestion Charging Scheme is now a proven model.
Length Body Review ALBR, for reinvestment into Our offering spans a broad range of transport frontline services.
Outsourced services and public consultancy, from strategic and policy issues to private partnerships are increasingly seen as playing effective design and delivery of complete transport a key role in capacity building and delivery of health management solutions.
Industry analysts predict annual market growth of 7% out to 2010. market growth of 44% to 2010.
Drivers Drivers p New Public Service Agreement to cut urban congestion p Funding pressure and 2007 Spending Review by 201011 p Enhancement of commissioning capacity p Government commitment to road pricing schemes p Rationalisation and modernisation of support services p Focus on local transport needs with public consultation resulting from reconfiguration of Strategic Health Authorities and Primary Care Trusts p Government commitment to building road and transport infrastructure p Roll-out of Connecting for Health programme is requiring support to optimise use of new systems and make better p Use of technology to improve network management.
use of human capital p Rationalisation of existing property and reinvestment in new property to improve work environment and patient care p Streamlining clinical administration and achieving the 18 week target from first appointment to treatment.
Services Divisions Services Divisions pBPO p Integrated Services pBPO p HR Solutions & Property Consultancy p Customer services p Professional Services p Administration and support p ICT & Advisory Services p Administration and support p HR Solutions & Property p Human resources Consultancy p Human resources p ICT p Financial Services p ICT p Property consultancy p ICT & Advisory Services p Property consultancy p Finance and treasury p Consultancy The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business review Governance Accounts 42 Our business strategy Which markets do we target?
Private sector Private sector Life and pensions Right across the private sector, companies Continuing to face a highly competitive and regulated competitiveness depends on unrelenting environment, many life and pensions companies are improvement in productivity and customer service.
adopting new service models to increase their focus, Increasingly, they recognise outsourcing of non-core efficiency and flexibility while maintaining service activities as an indispensable part of achieving this quality.
This is stimulating demand for outsourcing, adding real value to their performance and allowing which industry analysts expect to grow by 16% them to focus resources on their central areas of annually across the sector to 2010.
Opportunities in this market continue to experience across both open and closed book grow as the proven competitive benefits of business gives us a strong proposition in this market.
outsourcing make it an increasingly acceptable Our specialist skills and software are also proving alternative to in-house provision.
Capita is well increasingly attractive to occupational pension established in the private sector, with numerous providers, as pension scheme structures become clients across a wide range of industries.
Our 3 largest private sector markets are life and Drivers pensions, insurance, and other financial services.
p Need to reduce operating costs while improving performance We have also been particularly successful in securing and customer retention business with organisations in the retail and telecommunications industries.
p Pressure on administration processes from increasingly complex regulation and initiatives such as Treating Customers Fairly Drivers p Consumer and adviser demand for choice requires ability to p Pressure to reduce costs while improving customer service bring new vehicles, such as wrap products, to market quickly and retention p Adviser demand for new models to reduce reliance on upfront p Need to introduce new products to market faster to meet commission changing customer requirements p Response to rapidly changing distribution marketplace p Need for better access to expert operational and advisory capabilities p Need by providers to develop closer relationships with advisers through the use of technology and straight through p Competition for skills requires focus on employee processing support and benefits p Need for specialist skills and process and systems p Drive to improve productivity requires better management enhancement to comply with new pensions legislation and of sickness and absenteeism support the shift from final salary pension schemes to money p Increasing regulatory and legislative requirements UK purchase schemes.
business views these as the greatest obstacle to growth CBI.
pBPO p Integrated Services pBPO p Life & Pensions p Customer services p Professional Services p Customer services p Financial Services p Administration and support p HR Solutions & Property p Administration and support p Professional Services Consultancy p Human resources p ICT p ICT & Advisory Services p Financial Services p ICT p Finance and treasury p Life & Pensions p Property consultancy p Insurance & Specialist Services p Finance and treasury p ICT & Advisory Services p Consultancy The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business review Governance Accounts 43 Our business strategy Which markets do we target?
Private sector Insurance Financial services The UK insurance industry continues to operate in a These are exciting times for the financial sector.
Companies face increasing the board growth has been driven by high levels of regulatory requirements while striving to cut costs, M&A work, IPOs and retail investor activity.
New improve efficiency and enhance customer service.
markets are opening up and regulatory changes The rapid growth of internet sales, industry abroad, such as Sarbanes-Oxley, are driving work into consolidation and intensifying international London.
Faced with ever fiercer competition and competition are driving dramatic shifts in consumer growing regulation, product providers are expectations, pricing and service delivery.
concentrating on developing and distributing As organisations seek ways to compete more competitive products and are increasingly keen to effectively, they are turning increasingly to outsource back office functions.
Industry analysts outsourcing to deliver both specialised technical estimate growth of 7% annually to 2010.
Our solutions and management of non-core services and uniquely broad range of services enables us to offer operations.
Annual growth of 6% is forecast in this providers a single view of their customers across market to 2010. their whole product range.
Drivers Drivers p Need for effective administration processes to address p Continuing regulatory change encourages companies to complex regulation seek partners to assist with managing their compliance risk p Need to reduce operating costs and improve customer service p Regulatory change creates opportunities for our customers to launch a plethora of new products p Opportunities to establish strategic partnerships for low risk all requiring administration service improvement and business transformation p Regulatory change creates requirements for us to do more for p Focus on improving management of claims costs, in particular our customers and enables us to create new premium services through fraud and leakage prevention p Structural changes in markets are creating new outsourcing p Need to meet customer demands for more transparency, opportunities information, flexibility and value p The pre-eminence of the London markets creates new p Continued rise of affinity brands emerging interest from opportunities last year, 25% of companies listing in London internet service providers and utilities alongside growing were US based and 40% of companies listing on AIM were numbers of retailers.
Services Divisions Services Divisions pBPO p Insurance & Specialist Services pBPO p Financial Services p Customer services p ICT & Advisory Services p Customer services p Life & Pensions p Administration and support p Administration and support p Insurance & Specialist Services p ICT p Human resources p ICT & Advisory Services p ICT p Finance and treasury p Consultancy The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Market growth rates source: Ovum 2006
