Business review Governance Accounts 66 Directors report The Directors present their report and the audited Group accounts for Directors interests the year ended 31 December 2006.
The interests all beneficial of the Directors in the ordinary shares of the company were as follows: Group activities 31 December 31 December The Capita Group Plc and its subsidiaries the Group is a leading UK 2006 2005 provider of professional support services and business process outsourcing or date of or date of appointment appointment solutions to organisations across the public and private sectors.
The Groups if later if later 9 chosen markets are local government, central government, education, ordinary shares ordinary shares health, transport, life & pensions, insurance, financial services and other of 2p of 2p private sector.
Eric Walters 49,326 45,000 On behalf of its clients, the Group aims to improve service quality, reduce Paul Pindar 1,850,000 2,450,000 costs of delivery and enable them to transform the way that they deliver Paddy Doyle 26,979 26,664 services to their customers.
The services that the Group provides are Gordon Hurst 28,221 28,221 essential to the smooth running and success of its clients operations.
Simon Pilling The Group designs, successfully implements and manages tailored service Peter Cawdron 24,000 24,000 solutions, ranging across administration, information technology, financial, human resources, property and customer service functions.
The Group Martina King maintains leading positions in its markets due to its ability to draw on Bill Grimsey 12,616 its wide base of professional services, detailed market knowledge and The Directors have no interests in the share capital of any other Group extensive business process transformation and change management skills.
The Groups principal activities are managed through 7 operating divisions The interests of the Directors under the share option schemes, the Deferred comprising HR Solutions & Property Consultancy, Insurance & Specialist Annual Bonus Plan, the Long Term Incentive Plan and the Long Term Services, Financial Services, ICT & Advisory Services, Life & Pensions, Indexed Share Appreciation Scheme of the company are shown in the Professional Services and Integrated Services, plus a Group Sales and Directors Remuneration Report.
Group support services report direct to Group Executive Directors.
A review of the development of the Group and its Substantial shareholders business activities during the year is contained in the Business Review On 21 February 2007 the company had notifications that the following onIpages 9-61. were interested in 3% or more of the companys ordinary share capital: Profits and dividends No.
of shares Percentage The Group profit before taxation amounted to 193.2m 2005: 153.1m.
FMR Corp and Fidelity International Ltd 73,884,499 11.65% The Directors recommend a final dividend of 6.3p per share 2005: 4.9p Baille Gifford & Co 41,000,378 6.64% per share to be paid on 4 May 2007 to ordinary shareholders on the Legal & General Group Plc 22,109,521 3.58% register on 30 March 2007.
This gives a total dividend for the year of 9.0p per share 2005: 7.0p per share.
Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the accounts Share repurchase and auditors The company renewed its authority to repurchase up to 10% of its own Company law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for each financial issued share capital at the Annual General Meeting in April 2006 and year that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company during the year acquired 52.9 million 2005: 13.2 million ordinary shares and of the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
of 2p each see note 25 all of which were cancelled.
The shares acquired In preparing those accounts, the Directors are required to: in previous years and held in treasury were cancelled and the company select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently no longer has any holding of treasury shares.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent Directors The Directors of the company currently in office are listed on state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, Ipages 64-65. subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts Paul Pindar and Peter Cawdron retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate themselves for re-election.
Rod Aldridge stepped down from his role as to presume that the Group will continue in business.
Executive Chairman on 23 March 2006 to become Non-Executive To the best of each Directors knowledge and belief, there is no information Chairman until his retirement from the company on 31 July 2006. relevant to the preparation of their report of which the companys auditors Eric Walters was appointed as Non-Executive Chairman with effect from are unaware.
His other significant commitments are a partnership in Englefield Capital, a private equity firm, and Non-Executive directorships of Each of the Directors has taken all steps that a Director might reasonably a number of private companies.
Simon Pilling was appointed as an be expected to have taken to be aware of all relevant audit information Executive Director with effect from 1 August 2006 and offers himself for and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
Bill Grimsey was appointed as a Non-Executive Director with The Directors confirm that the accounts comply with the effect from 9 October 2006 and offers himself for election.
None of the above requirements.
Directors of the company had a material interest in any contract with the company or its subsidiary undertakings other than their contracts of The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which employment and no Director has a service contract exceeding one year.
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and to enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business review Governance Accounts 67 Directors report Going concern Financial instruments After making enquiries, the Group Board of Directors has a reasonable The Groups financial instruments primarily comprise bonds, unsecured loan expectation that the Group and the company The Capita Group Plc have notes, bank loans, finance leases and overdrafts.
The principal purpose of adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable these is to raise funds for the Groups operations.
In addition various other future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in financial instruments such as trade creditors and trade debtors arise directly preparing the accounts.
From time to time, the Group also enters into derivative transactions, primarily interest rate swaps and currency swaps, the purpose Disabled persons of which is to manage interest risk and currency risk.
It is the Groups policy to give full consideration to suitable applications for employment of disabled persons.
Disabled employees are eligible The main financial risks, to which the Group has exposure, are interest rate to participate in all career development opportunities available to staff.
risk, liquidity risk and foreign currency risk.
The Group borrows in desired Opportunities also exist for employees of the Group who become disabled currencies at fixed and floating rates of interest and makes use of interest to continue in their employment or to be retrained for other positions in rate swaps to generate the desired interest profile and to manage its the Group.
exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
In respect of liquidity risk, the Group aims to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility Employee involvement through the use of bonds, bank loans, unsecured loan notes, finance leases The Group is committed to involving all employees in the performance and overdrafts.
The Group has exposure to foreign currency risk where and development of the Group.
Its approach to employee development it has limited investments in overseas operations which are affected by offers continual challenges in the job, learning opportunities and personal foreign exchange movements.
The Group is not exposed to significant development.
Capita supports employees through a comprehensive range foreign currency risk nor does it intend to significantly increase its overseas of key business and management skills courses and an annual management operations, so only limited hedging of these exposures is executed.
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the benefit of Directors The Group encourages all its employees to participate fully in the business Under the Companies Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise Act through open dialogue.
Employees receive news of the Group through 2004 which amends the Companies Act 1985, companies are under an Recap, the Groups newsletter, frequent email notices, internal notice obligation to disclose any indemnities which are in force in favour of their board statements, Capita Online, a regular communication reviewing directors.
The current Articles of Association of the company contain an the performance of the Group from the perspective of the Directors.
indemnity in favour of the Directors of the company which indemnifies These communication initiatives enable employees to share information them in respect of certain liabilities and costs that they might incur in the within and between business units and employees are encouraged to execution of their duties as Directors.
Copies of the relevant extract from contribute news, views and feedback.
The Group maintains a strong the Articles of Association are available for inspection at the registered communications network and employees are encouraged, through our office of the company during normal business hours on any weekday and open door policy, to discuss with management matters of interest to the will be available at the venue of the AGM from 15 minutes before the employee and subjects affecting day-to-day operations of the Group.
The Group grants share options to senior employees, on a discretionary Auditors basis, in order to reward their long term commitment to the Group.
In accordance with section 384 of the Companies Act 1985, a resolution The granting of all share options is subject to the approval of the to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the external auditors will be put to the Remuneration Committee.
The share option schemes have been a key forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
factor in attracting, retaining and motivating senior employees across the Group.
The company is committed to ensuring appropriate independence in its relationship with external auditors and the key safeguards are: The Capita Sharesave Scheme, an employee Save As You Earn Scheme, and the Capita Share Ownership Plan, a share incentive plan, are both the Group Risk Manager monitors the independence of the auditor as firmly established and are designed to promote employee share ownership part of the Groups assessment of auditor effectiveness and reports to and to give employees the opportunity to participate in the future success the Audit Committee of the Group.
the Audit Committee routinely benchmarks the level of the external In keeping with its belief that employees are the Groups most valuable audit fee against other comparable companies both within and without asset, the Group operates an annual employee awards scheme, celebrating its sector, to ensure ongoing objectivity in the audit process the core values that embody the organisation and rewarding employees for the Group Finance Director monitors the level and nature of non-audit service excellence, effective teamwork, service to the community and fees accruing to the external auditor, and specific assignments are innovation.
discussed in advance with the external auditor and flagged for the Further information on our employee initiatives can be found on approval of the Audit Committee as appropriate.
The Audit Committee Ipages 50-53. reviews, in aggregate, non-audit fees of this nature on an annual basis and considers implications for the objectivity and independence of the Payment of suppliers relationship with the external auditor.
The company aims to pay suppliers in accordance with the suppliers contract terms.
The company had an average of 43 days purchases Ensuring conflicts of interest are avoided is a fundamental criterion in the 2005: 44 days purchases outstanding in trade creditors.
selection of any third party auditor for assignments with which the Group is involved.
Such conflicts may arise across public or private sector customers Charitable and political donations and key supplier relationships, for example, and are a key determinant in During the year charitable donations amounted to 0.5m 2005: 0.4m.
the award process for external audit assignments.
No political contributions were made.
By order of the Board Gordon Hurst Company Secretary 21 February 2007 The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
