Business review Governance Accounts 20 Our business strategy 1 How do we generate profitable growth?
In two ways: a We concentrate on organic growth, winning business from new and existing customers in the UK and Ireland.
b We supplement this by acquiring businesses that broaden our skills base and extend our market reach.
As a result, we have grown consistently since we started initially delivering support services to government, and now operating across both public and private sectors.
The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business review Governance Accounts 21 Our business strategy How do we generate profitable growth?
Developing new business opportunities a We drive profitable Our approach to securing business varies according organic growth to the size and complexity of the opportunity: We aim to secure high quality, recurring revenues: p Our major sales team pursues complex, long term p The majority of this revenue is generated from contracts worth over 10m.
It can draw on the long term contracts that deliver multiple, integrated resources of the whole Group to design integrated support services.
The length of contracts has solutions tailored to individual client requirements.
consistently increased and now averages 9 years.
p Sales teams in each business unit pursue contracts p We also focus on single service business that rolls usually focused on a single service.
Where these are over annually, has a high repeat rate or is secured worth over 10m, the major sales team may provide under medium to long term contracts of 2 to 7 years.
The combination of long term contracts and highly recurring business provides strong visibility of future revenues.
Major new contracts and extensions secured in 2006: 1.37bn 2005: 1.14bn Client Value m Term years Divison 7 Professional Services South Oxfordshire and Vale New 20 of White Horse District Councils BBC HR New 132 10 HR Solutions & Property Consultancy DTI Re-award 120 3 Insurance & Specialist Services 7 Insurance & Specialist Services DSG international New 120 Birmingham City Council Enlarged 51 new total 10 ICT & Advisory Services 475 Northern Ireland Civil Service New 100 15 HR Solutions & Property Consultancy 5 Life & Pensions SIPPs New 100 SMMT Re-award 12 5.5 ICT & Advisory Services Birmingham City Council New 88 3 ICT & Advisory Services 10 Professional Services Rossendale Borough Council New 13 Westminster City Council Re-award 50 7 Professional Services Prudential New 40 3 Life & Pensions 1.8 Integrated Services Transport for London Congestion Charging Scheme Extension 90 Transport for London Low Emissions Zone New 14 3 Integrated Services Swindon Borough Council New 140 now 15 Professional Services signed at 243 10 Life & Pensions Co-operative Insurance New 250 BT Extension 13.5 9 Insurance & Specialist Services Cambridgeshire County Council New 15 7-10 HR Solutions & Property Consultancy subject to contract Total value: 1.37bn 2005: 1.14bn The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business review Governance Accounts 22 Our business strategy How do we generate profitable growth?
Our long term bid success rate is 1 in 3 and our current rate is 1 in 2.
Identifying opportunities Tracking our major sales opportunities In the UK, public sector contracts are subject to defined procurement processes.
EU policy requires fair and open competition, and opportunities are formally advertised or notified.
In the private sector, we actively seek out organisations where we see opportunities to generate real business value.
Pipeline We generally identify these through business shortlisted to 4 or fewer intelligence and relationships, and the procurement process is determined by each individual customer.
Prospect list Tracking success active live bids One measure of our success in finding and developing significant opportunities is the bid pipeline.
It contains contracts of 10m or above, where we have been shortlisted to the last 4 or fewer: all bids are capped Suspect list identified opportunities at 500m to prevent very large individual contracts from distorting the total.
Because our long term bid success rate is 1 in 3 and our current rate is 1 in 2, the sales pipeline is a useful indicator of future sales growth.
We report the pipeline in our full and half year results, providing a snapshot of the size and progress of bids.
Once a bidding process is completed, the contract moves out of the pipeline which is replenished as other bids progress to a shortlist stage.
The bid pipeline is backed by an active prospect list of opportunities where we are working on bids which are yet to reach a shortlist or final bidding stage.
In turn, this is backed by a list of suspects and relationships which we are nurturing to generate future bid opportunities.
In February 2007, our bid pipeline was 2.6bn February 2006: 2.2bn.
The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business review Governance Accounts 23 Our business strategy How do we generate profitable growth?
Addressing opportunities selectively Securing appropriate pricing and contract terms Major bids are costly, in time and resources: public Our major contracts are long term commitments.
sector procurement processes can take up to 2 years to On average they last over 9 years, so we need to get complete.
We are highly selective, only bidding where our pricing and contract terms right.
we can see clear benefits to both the client and the As part of the bid process we make detailed risk Group.
Critical factors include: assessments of the contract requirements and our p a defined bid process with clear decision criteria, service delivery proposals.
We build in flexibility and set by clients with whom we can build a strong make provision for changing needs where possible.
relationship Our extensive experience in measuring and accounting for risks is a valuable benefit.
Where we identify risks p a fit with our core competencies of service we build them into our model and price accordingly.
transformation We will not accept responsibility for risk that is outside p limited requirement for capital investment, unless our control.
there is a real value proposition for the Group To ensure prudent pricing, we clearly separate p fair risk reward balance responsibilities.
Sales teams are responsible for client p acceptable contractual obligations.
relationships and sales support teams develop pricing and risk models.
On all major bids, pricing is agreed by Responding to client requirements the Group Board.
Just as we are selective with the opportunities we pursue, our clients are highly selective when engaging an outsourcing partner.
Each client looks for a unique set of services and deliverables.
Most, however, are looking for a partner with a track record of: p service excellence p service improvement p cost savings p process efficiencies p innovation p depth and flexibility of expert resources p added value services p market expertise p financial strength and stability.
The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business review Governance Accounts 24 Our business strategy How do we generate profitable growth?
We agree detailed service standards and key Retaining the business we win performance indicators to measure the improvement The most efficient way to win business is to renew in service to clients and their customers.
On our largest existing contracts.
contracts, strategic partnership boards help both parties understand each others needs better.
As a result, clients We are intent on delivering value to clients so that find that outsourcing gives them more control over they want to extend their relationships with us.
As a result, we successfully renew the great majority of contracts when they come up for renewal.
In our Responding to competitive pressures 23 year history we have only failed to renew 2 of our material contracts defined as generating more than We believe stable, healthy competition stimulates 1% of the previous years revenue.
We have no material innovation and promotes choice.
Because our range rebids until 2009. of services is so wide, we face a variety of different Impending rebids of existing material contracts competitors in our 9 chosen markets: this reduces our exposure to competition in any one area.
2007 p None 2008 p None There are significant barriers to entry for new 2009 p TfL: Congestion Charging Scheme 56m per annum participants in all our markets: our own knowledge p DSG international plc Sheffield 18m per annum base and geographical and technical infrastructure have 2010 p DfES: National Strategies 35m per annum taken over 20 years to build.
When clients outsource large scale functions or services they want to partner 2011 p None with an organisation with a solid financial and Defined as generating more than 1% of previous years revenue performance record.
Our strong balance sheet and cash flow provide reassurance that their service is in We share thinking and expertise across our operations safe hands.
Our proven record of ethical and socially to ensure that we can provide clients with the highest responsible behaviour and strong governance is also standards of service.
By delivering operational excellence a competitive strength.
and added value for our clients and their customers we achieve high client rentention rates.
We also create a pool of positive referees who provide powerful support to new sales initiatives.
We aim not just to keep existing relationships, but to grow them.
Many of our clients have awarded us additional work, once they have experienced the quality service and added value we deliver.
Not only do we broaden existing contracts but we are also successful in winning multiple contracts from our clients.
Priorities for 2007: generating profitable growth Organic growth pContinue to expand bid suspect and prospect lists to feed pipeline p Continue to address opportunities selectively p Maintain bid process disciplines to secure appropriate pricing and contract terms p Increase focus on developing existing customer relationships p Maintain high customer service levels.
The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business review Governance Accounts 25 Our business strategy How do we generate profitable growth?
b We stimulate growth through acquisition Main acquisitions and investments in 2006 Company Service Division Webline Software services Professional Services Two Ten Response management ICT & Advisory Services DLA Direct Legal services Insurance & Specialist Services Sinclair Henderson Fund administration Financial Services Synaptic Systems Software services Professional Services Stirling Trustees Trustee services Financial Services investment Total spent on 11 acquisitions and investments in 2006: 48m 2005: 88m, 11 acquisitions We have substantial experience of integrating acquired Small to medium sized acquisitions help us to enter businesses and achieving synergies with our existing new markets where we can grow organically, strengthen operations.
Stringent due diligence, before and after existing market positions and build economies of scale, acquisition, enables us to set clear targets for growth, or access a new customer base.
For example, we entered integration benefits and profit.
A dedicated project team the private sector in 2000 with the acquisition of IRG Plc manages the transition, rigorously applying the and swiftly built significant capabilities through a processes we have developed to bring financial mixture of acquisitions and contract wins.
Private sector procedures, ICT, HR, legal, compliance and marketing business now represents 48% of our annual turnover.
quickly into line with our standards, using Group We judge all potential acquisitions against strict systems and resources where appropriate.
criteria, seeking targets that: p have operations and customers in the UK and or Ireland p fit with our strategy and core competencies p generate sustainable, quality revenue p are attractively priced, with scope to add value for shareholders p provide an opportunity to acquire without competition.
Priorities for 2007: generating profitable growth Acquisitions pSelect acquisitions that complement or grow our business offering and market reach p Continue to apply rigorous criteria when selecting and agreeing purchase price p Continue to follow and enhance integration procedures.
The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
