Business review Governance Accounts 54 How do we do business responsibly?
Capita is committed to managing its business in a responsible manner and making a positive contribution to the wider community.
A focus on corporate responsibility flows throughout our business in the manner in which we operate in our marketplace, treat our people, support our local communities and minimise our impact on the environment.
co. uk society The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business review Governance Accounts 55 How do we do business responsibly?
An integral approach Due to the nature of our business when we talk about CR we focus As corporate reponsibility CR is integral to our business we have touched upon it throughout this report and full on 4 priorities: details of our approach, targets and progress can be found in our CR report at www.
Ensuring quality of service Supporting our people Integrating CR into Reducing our environmental impacts decision making Benefiting our communities CR issues arise in the normal, day to day management and growth of our business.
As a result, we treat corporate responsibility alongside other key business Ensuring quality of service issues and integrate it into our operational and governance processes.
Ipages 26-37 Helping our clients transform the way they do business is not a short term project.
When we engage with a Corporate responsibility is championed from the top, client we hope to enter into a long term relationship with Group Board members being responsible for each that supports their business and values.
Through building of our 4 impact areas.
We also have a Group-wide strong, productive partnerships that consistently meet Statement of Business Principles and a number of client expectations, we have created a successful and CR related policies all of which are supported by the sustainable business of our own.
Capita helps to change the way frontline services are Impact area Board-level responsibility delivered.
We are not involved in creating or influencing Quality of service Clients Simon Pilling client policies or objectives and we do not make political Joint Chief Operating Officer donations.
But helping our clients adapt to change Suppliers Gordon Hurst Group Finance Director means they make better use of taxpayer and shareholder funds.
Our people Paddy Doyle Joint Chief Operating Officer A clear reporting schedule with key performance Our communities Paul Pindar indicators is written into major contracts and regularly Chief Executive reviewed with the client.
Where changing circumstances Environment Gordon Hurst require, we will also review how we deliver services in Group Finance Director order to provide even better service to our clients and their customers.
In 2006, a sustainability working group was established comprising Gordon Hurst, Group Finance Director, with Supporting our people the heads of safety, health & environment, risk, We would not have achieved such high levels of procurement, property and facilities management to sustained growth without a dedicated and competent ensure that the Group is meeting requirements and workforce.
Being able to attract, retain and develop operating in an effective and responsible manner.
talented and ambitious people means we will have the We undertake bi-annual site audits and regularly refresh resources we need to help our clients and grow our Group standards to ensure ongoing improvement.
Ipages 50-53 a constantly evolving programme as we have a large number of new sites joining the Group each year, as a result of new contracts and acquisitions.
The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business review Governance Accounts 56 How do we do business responsibly?
Reducing our environmental impacts Benefiting our communities Due to the nature of our business, Capita does We are actively engaged with the communities in not have a major impact on the environment.
which we work, focusing on support and regeneration.
This is confirmed by our FTSE4Good environmental Our interest in corporate responsibility arises from impact rating of low.
We nonetheless recognise the a recognition of the impact our business operations value of taking a proactive approach to environmental have on society.
Key measurements of environmental We have created a community investment and impacts have now been embedded into our engagement strategy that focuses on how businesses management reporting process, focusing on and employees can make a positive impact on the 3 key areas: communities in which they operate.
We implement p Waste and resource management in 2004 we this community strategy through: undertook a survey of waste management at key p Local community partnerships through our sites across the Group.
This helped to develop more regional partnerships we have helped to increase effective waste management policies and future job creation, local purchasing and investment in targets.
Our regional business centre p Carbon emissions on the basis of a carbon strategy for creating greenfield sites also helps to survey undertaken in 2005, we identified energy use channel job creation opportunities to deprived areas.
and transport as 2 of Capitas most significant Our businesses are also encouraged to invest in and environmental impacts.
This has informed a number support local initiatives that add social or of initiatives including an agreement to purchase green environmental value.
energy for all our sites and switching our fleet vehicles p Charitable initiatives at a corporate level our to diesel engines.
charitable strategy is to support initiatives that p Supply chain we monitor our suppliers statements address social and educational exclusion whether of compliance with our Supplier Environmental Code due to disability, economic or social circumstances.
We are also working with suppliers to Our current charitable partnerships are with the extend the range of recyclable products used by the NSPCC and the Princes Trust and a 3rd charity Group and to implement the EU WEEE Directive with voted for annually by employees which was a strong focus on recycling.
Fundraising events are arranged centrally and locally and a volunteering scheme is in place to support the Princes Trust young people programmes.
Charitable donations m 2006 0.2 02 0.2 03 0.5m 0.3 04 0.4 05 06 0.5 The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business review Governance Accounts 57 How do we do business responsibly?
Core CR measures Aim Year end 2006 Year end 2005 Environment Continue to measure and assess our 26,592 26,592 carbon footprint to reduce our impact on the environment and help tackle climate change Raise awareness of environmental issues Working group set up to Ongoing and Group initiatives across the business monitor requirements and awareness programme progress Environmental site audit to be undertaken Audits completed twice each year Reduce Capitas overall impact on the Target set environment achieve 12% reduction in electricity used at our 20 largest sites by 2008 Continue switching fleet vehicles to 95% 90% diesel engines Achieve further ISO 14001 accreditations 34 25 at our higher impact sites Further promote BT conference call facility 3m saved on hotel and 2m saved on hotel and travel costs travel costs Further promote Digital Pipeline Initiative 5,000 pieces of IT 1,500 pieces of IT where used IT equipment is donated to equipment donated equipment donated developing countries 5 months Communities Job creation to date 4,000 3,000 Corporate donations 0.5m 0.4m Meet our 3 year target of raising 1.5m Ongoing Ongoing for our corporate charities Maximise the fundraising potential of our 53k 26k Group-wide charity week Health & safety Ensure we provide safe and 58 reportable accidents 42 reportable accidents productive working environments for RIDDOR RIDDOR all our employees.
Undertake site audits twice each year Audits completed Our carbon footprint was calculated in 2004 and will next be calculated in 2007.
Increase is primarily a result of business growth.
The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
