Business review Governance Accounts 26 Our business strategy 2 How do we manage and measure our growth?
Growth needs to be steady and controlled.
We are committed to growing the business in a transparent and socially responsible way, ensuring that it delivers a healthy return to investors and is sustainable for all stakeholders over the long term.
So our growth is underpinned by: a Strong structure and control b Clear financial KPIs c Resource and operational controls d Careful risk management.
The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business review Governance Accounts 27 Our business strategy How do we manage and measure our growth?
Each of our business units prepares a comprehensive a Strong structure and control annual business plan.
This includes monthly revenue Our management structure and business reporting and cost forecasts for the year ahead, taking into process promotes accountability and knowledge account new service product developments and sharing across the Group, ensuring that management changes in the competitive landscape.
is responsive to issues and trends within the business The business unit financial plans feed into the Group and the wider marketplace.
At divisional Monthly Operational p The Group Board is responsible for establishing, Business MOB reviews, management teams assess maintaining and reviewing the Groups growth each units performance against plan and discuss its strategy, financial performance and systems of ongoing development.
This enables them to determine internal control how planned targets will be met and identify potential difficulties at an early stage.
This provides a forum to p The Divisional Executive Board sets, communicates share knowledge and challenges and to develop tactics, and monitors the application of Group-wide policies, reallocate resources and refresh strategies to meet or procedures and standards exceed business plans.
p The Divisional Executive Directors are responsible for the development and performance of their divisional businesses.
They work with and delegate responsibility to their management teams.
Group Board Independent Governance Non-Executive Chairman Group Audit Committee 3 x Non-Executive Directors External Auditors 4 x Executive Directors: Chief Executive 2 x Joint Chief Operating Officers Group Finance Director Divisional Executive Board Group Board Executive Directors Divisional Executive Directors Monthly Operational Business MOB reviews Group Board Executive Directors Internal Governance Divisional Executive Directors Group Compliance Divisional Management Teams Group Risk and Business Assurance Risk Committees Business units The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business review Governance Accounts 28 Our business strategy How do we manage and measure our growth?
b Clear financial key performance indicators KPIs We are a financially focused business.
We monitor and challenge financial performance at all levels to probe the health and progress of our businesses and promote accountability.
As well as profitability we use a range of financial measures at Group level.
Collectively they form an integral part of building value for our shareholders on a consistent basis over the long term.
We particularly focus on 6 KPIs: KPIs Aim Progress Year end 2006 Year end 2005 Operating margins Maintain and strengthen margins 12.9% 12.8% Free cash flow Maintain strong free cash flow 154m 127m Capital expenditure Keep capital expenditure at or below 4% of revenue 3.6% 3.7% Return on capital employed ROCE Achieve steadily increasing ROCE which exceeds 18.5% 17.1% our cost of capital Gearing interest cover Maintain a conservative and efficient capital structure, 9x 13x with a relatively low level of gearing Economic profit Achieve steadily increasing economic profit 89m 68m The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business review Governance Accounts 29 Our business strategy How do we manage and measure our growth?
In 2006, we have continued our long term trend of improving operating margins.
Operating margins Operating margins Annual increase 19 bpts Aim: to maintain and strengthen margins.
We constantly monitor operating margins and manage operating costs to keep the business efficient and cost 12.9 12.8 effective.
This means: 12.2 12.2 p Focus on adding value and applying innovation 12.0 p Increasing economies of scale p Unremitting focus on our cost base p Offshoring back office activities to India 11.2 p Increasing the utilisation of our business centres p Better use of technology.
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 In 2006, we have continued our long term trend of improving operating margins after share based payment charge.
The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business review Governance Accounts 30 Our business strategy How do we manage and measure our growth?
We aim to maintain strong free cash flow, defined as operating cash flow less capital expenditure, interest and taxation.
Operating cash flow m Cash flow Aim: to maintain strong free cash flow, defined Annual growth 01 90 as operating cash flow less capital expenditure, interest and taxation.
In 2006, we generated underlying 02 117 20% cash flow of 279m, representing an operating profit to 03 158 5 year cash conversion rate of 124%.
Our underlying free cash compound growth flow increased by 21% to 154m.
Our success reflects 04 150 50 the strength of our business model and management 232 05 25% approach, in particular: 06 279 p Securing timely payment terms for new contracts exceptional pension payment p Focusing on cash generation p Providing quality service to clients.
Free cash flow m Annual growth 01 31 02 25 21% 03 83 5 year compound growth 04 56 50 05 127 38% 06 154 exceptional pension payment The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business review Governance Accounts 31 Our business strategy How do we manage and measure our growth?
We use surplus cash to add further shareholder value in Opportunistic share buybacks to maintain an 3 main ways through acquisitions, dividends and share efficient capital structure and minimise our long term buybacks: cost of capital.
In 2006, we repurchased 53m shares representing 7.9% Funding acquisitions where we see opportunities issued share capital at an average price of 464p.
In 2006, we invested 48m in 11 acquisitions and our Share buybacks 2006 2005 pipeline of potential businesses remains at a healthy % of share capital authorised to repurchase 10% 10% level.
We will continue to be extremely selective but, No of shares repurchased 53m 13m notwithstanding this, we anticipate a sustained volume Total cost 246m 50m of small transactions in 2007. page 25 I Average price 464p 374p Distribution to shareholders through regular dividends.
Issued share capital 617m 671m A key element in the creation of shareholder value is a progressive dividend policy.
Over the 5 years to 31 December 2006, we have grown Capitas annual dividend at a compound rate of 32%.
Our confidence in the strength and resilience of Capitas business model allows us to reduce annual dividend cover for 2006 to 2.6 times.
Dividends p 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 Interim dividend 2.70 2.10 1.75 1.30 1.00 0.75 Final dividend 6.30 4.90 3.60 2.70 2.00 1.50 Total dividend 9.00 7.00 5.35 4.00 3.00 2.25 Dividend cover 2.6x 2.7x 2.9x 3.3x 3.5x 3.5x The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business review Governance Accounts 32 Our business strategy How do we manage and measure our growth?
We have successfully widened the margin between the cost of our capital and the returns we generate by investing it.
Capital expenditure Return on capital employed ROCE Aim: keep capital expenditure at or below 4% Aim: steadily increasing ROCE which exceeds our of revenue.
This helps us focus investment on the cost of capital.
This ensures that we add shareholder opportunities that generate greatest shareholder value over the long term.
In recent years we have value and avoid tying up too much capital in long successfully widened the margin between the cost of term projects.
our capital and the returns we generate by investing it.
In 2006, we met this objective with net capital During 2006, the post tax return on average capital expenditure being 3.6% of annual revenue.
This was employed improved to 18.5%.
achieved after significant investment in Capitas advanced IT platforms supporting, in particular, our life & pensions business.
Net return on capital % Actual WACC We believe capex at or below 4% is sustainable for the foreseeable future.
There are currently no indications 18.5 of significant capex requirements in our business 17.1 16.1 forecasts or bid pipeline.
But we would not rule out the 14.6 possibility of exceeding 4% if we saw an exceptional 13.2 opportunity to use Capitas financial strength as a competitive advantage.
Gearing Economic profit Aim: maintain a conservative and efficient capital Aim: achieve steadily increasing Group economic structure, with a relatively low level of gearing.
We are focused on delivering value for our It is important for our clients that we are a low risk, shareholders.
An effective way of measuring this is to stable partner, particularly where we are delivering assess whether after tax returns are sufficient to cover large scale operations on their behalf.
The Group has the returns required from all our capital providers.
considerable headroom to take on further debt if Group economic profit allows us to assess whether the necessary as indicated by the interest cover ratio and return generated on the average capital base is sufficient net debt to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation to meet the return requirements of our investors debt and amortisation EBITDA.
However, we would be and equity.
Positive economic profit therefore means unlikely to incur borrowings which would reduce that value has been created.
c Resource and operational controls Our continued growth and financial performance depends on having the right resources in place.
To sustain our high contract win and retention rates, we have to satisfy clients that we have the operational scale and capability to deliver our promises whether on relatively simple contracts or large scale, multi-service packages.
Through the MOB process we continuously assess the needs of each business unit to ensure that we have the necessary people, infrastructure and resources for current and future development.
Each month, we monitor and review comprehensive operational management information enabling us to manage the business in a way that delivers our key financial aims.
4 key areas of attention: Progress Core operational indicators Aim Year end 2006 Year end 2005 Retaining the right people Senior management retention top 250 earning over 90k 91% 92% attract and retain the appropriate level of senior management to drive the strategic direction of the Group Overall employee retention attract and retain the right 82% 81% people to deliver Group strategy, maintaining employee retention at or above industry average 81.7% Creating extensive infrastructure Continue to grow our infrastructure of business centres to 52 business 47 business meet the needs of our growing business centres: centres: Onshore 46 Onshore 42 Nearshore 4 Nearshore 3 Offshore 2 Offshore 2 Extend our offshore capability have at least 10% of our 3% 1.6% people based in India by 2009 Using ICT and innovation to Generate economies of scale by maximising use and 11 shared 9 shared add value growing number of shared technology platforms platforms platforms Ensuring effective procurement Monitor and build relationships with key strategic suppliers Introduced through our Supplier Development Programme comprehensive Supplier Development Programme Continue to audit all existing suppliers against Capitas Supplier audit Supplier standards of business 50% of all suppliers to be audited commenced profiling by December 2007 targets set project undertaken The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business review Governance Accounts 35 Our business strategy How do we manage and measure our growth?
Offshore infrastructure: Our offshore operations Retaining the right people in India, established in 2003, are a key and growing We now employ over 27,800 people across the UK, element of our blended operating model.
We now have Ireland, Channel Islands and India.
Robust HR processes over 800 employees in our 2 sites in Mumbai, equating and disciplines ensure that we have the right skills to to a seat capacity of 1,300.
By the end of 2007, we will meet customer demand.
We aim to attract and retain have secured a 3rd site in a 2nd Indian city to build the right people.
We understand the commercial value seat capacity further to 3,000 with 1,500 employees, of a rewarding and positive working environment.
and to strengthen business continuity.
By 2009, we And we build skills and provide career development anticipate in the region of 10% of our people will be opportunities across the Group, to create a solid base based in India.
Our senior management team Our offshore operations are being used to make is strong and stable, with an annual retention rate significant savings, provide flexibility, raise service exceeding 91%.
Our overall employee retention rate quality and deliver increased productivity.
pages 50-53 I directly benefiting from offshoring some of our own back office functions, such as financial and HR administration: by transferring administration Creating an extensive infrastructure operations that support multiple client groups, such Group infrastructure: Our extensive infrastructure as registrar services, client account reconciliation and of business centres onshore in the UK, nearshore in SIPP administration: and by delivering some back office the Channel Islands and Ireland and offshore in India, administration processes for existing long term built over 2 decades allows us to deliver services in contracts.
Our ability to offer a standalone offshoring the most appropriate and cost effective way.
or blended onshore offshore operating model to new Through accessing centres of expertise, economies clients also provides a strong, competitive proposition of scale and a choice of operating cost models, we and will continue to be the main driver of growth of can deliver innovative and appropriate solutions to our offshore operations.
suit each clients aims and preferences.
As we increase our economies of scale through our growing infrastructure, we can drive down our own operating costs, add greater value to our clients and increase our competitive advantage.
Onshore Nearshore Offshore 46 business centres including: 4 business centres including: 2 business centres including: p Back office administration p Customer services p Data validation & entry p Customer services p Life & pensions administration p Claims & policy administration p Life & pensions administration p Financial services p Fund management administration p Resourcing & training p Corporate registrars p Accounting & finance processing p Share registration p Property consultancy p Document management p Claims & policy administration p HR administration The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business review Governance Accounts 36 Our business strategy How do we manage and measure our growth?
We foster innovative thinking and we have the skills to translate innovation into practical working solutions.
Using ICT and innovation Ensuring effective procurement to add value Effective procurement and supplier management gives us access to the right external resources on We aim for continuous improvement in our own competitive terms.
Our scale enables us to negotiate business models and our services to clients, by favourable terms and develop strategic relationships combining the best in ICT and innovation with proven with our suppliers.
We foster innovative thinking and we have the skills to translate innovation into practical Our preferred supplier programme and process for working solutions.
With no ties to specific technology assessing new and developing existing suppliers, platforms or manufacturers, we are free to source or ensures that they meet our own corporate responsibility, develop the most appropriate ICT solutions for each diversity and performance standards.
As part of the business and client.
This enables us to provide clients bid process, clients often require us to demonstrate with the best possible service and economies of scale, stringent and transparent procurement processes and giving us a highly competitive edge when bidding for standards in our supply chain.
We have also invested in developing technology platforms which deliver common, non-location specific services for multiple clients from one infrastructure.
With shared facilities, expert resources and technology platforms we can create considerable economies of scale.
We have developed shared platforms for administering company registrar services, investment funds, unit trusts, trustee services, Child Trust Funds, self invested personal pensions, occupational pensions, life & pensions services, insurance claims, HR services and local government revenues and benefits.
The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business review Governance Accounts 37 Our business strategy How do we manage and measure our growth?
At Group level, risk management is independently d Careful risk management facilitated and challenged by the Group Risk and Systems and procedures are in place across the Group Business Assurance function, which reports to the to identify, assess and mitigate major business risks that Group Finance Director and independently to the could impact the delivery of our growth strategy.
pages 27 and 70 I Monitoring our exposure to risk is an integral part of the MOB process.
Across our regulated businesses this is supplemented by formally constituted committees.
Risk category Risk management and mitigation p Group Board involvement in all major contracts p Secure appropriate pricing and contract terms to ensure Contract pricing and fair risk reward profile operational resources p Aligned with core competencies and financial targets p Detailed, tailored transition process to ensure continuity of p Rigorous pricing and risk assessment, separate from service and retention of employees.
sales process p Aligned with core competencies financial targets p Fit with strategy and pricing is subject to consideration and Acquisitions quality approval by the Group Board and appropriate p Rigorous, risk based due diligence process pricing p Clear transition process to ensure adoption of Group policies and procedures.
Operational risk p Escalated via the MOB process and Risk Committees to p Processes and reports in place to highlight, in particular, Divisional Executive and Group Boards as appropriate business processes, employees, health & safety and environment issues p Processes and appropriate multiple operating performance indicators in place across all businesses contracts p Supporting software tools are being rolled out across our businesses.
Fraud issues p Mitigating policies and procedures are disseminated by the p The Group has invested in a tailored fraud awareness Group Risk and Business Assurance function in conjunction training package that is being rolled out across all business with Group Compliance units to enhance fraud management.
Regulatory and p Monitored by Group Compliance function reporting directly p Separate challenge and review process for businesses legislative impacts to the Group Finance Director and independently to the operating in a regulatory environment.
These businesses Audit Committee have comprehensive processes embedded into their business functions to address specific regulatory p Review and communications process for regulatory and requirements.
legislative change that impacts Group-wide Financial control p Capital expenditure is subject to rigorous budgetary p Treasury management the Groups principal financial controls and spending above specified levels requires instruments for fundraising are bonds, unsecured loan notes, Group sign off finance leases and overdrafts.
The Group has various other financial instruments such as trade creditors and debtors p Financial performance of each business unit is monitored that arise directly from its operations.
Where appropriate, each month and actual progress against plan is challenged the Group may also use derivatives to hedge its exposure to by Divisional Executive Board fluctuations in interest rate and foreign exchange rates.
It is the Groups policy that no trading in financial instruments will be undertaken.
Attracting and p Investment in training and development p Continual development of our robust screening and retaining employees reference process for all employees.
p Competitive, appropriate incentive schemes p Succession planning is a key element of the MOB process Maintaining p Robust process for handling and escalating p Centralised proactive and reactive PR team to promote reputation enquiries complaints from all stakeholders at both a Group and separate businesses and to manage business contract and Group level primarily clients, communications regarding issues.
media, public and suppliers Appropriate supplier p Active supplier engagement to assess and align suppliers p Supplier registration and approvals processes are in place.
relationships with Group values and processes A new Supplier Development Programme for key strategic suppliers is being developed and implemented during 2007.
The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
