Royal & SunAlliance 10 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Market leading capabilities Driving profitable performance through technical expertise, operational improvement and performance management insurance solution.
We were awarded Claims Initiative of the Year Delivered a 0.8 point improvement in the COR to 93.3% with Marishal Thompson for our work on subsidence risks.
Targeting 130m of annualised savings by mid 2008 Since 2004, we have transformed our claims capabilities and Industry recognition processes and built a market leading supply chain, which has Technical Academy promoting and developing expertise significantly reduced claim costs.
Our supply chain is now used Energised teams driving the business forward by Lloyds TSB and Co-operative Insurance Services.
We have established a Technical Academy to promote and We are focused on driving sustainable profitable performance develop underwriting, claims and actuarial expertise across the through technical excellence, continuous operational improvement Group.
The Academy shares best practice and provides a career and performance management.
Our technical expertise has development framework for those working in technical disciplines.
driven the delivery of 12 consecutive quarters of sub 100 CORs, We are also implementing a Groupwide sales effectiveness and the 0.8 point improvement in the 2006 COR to 93.3%.
programme to strengthen the sales tools, infrastructure and Our strong results are driven by a culture of delivery, discipline, reward processes to drive disciplined profitable growth.
technical expertise and continuous operational improvement.
We have embedded a performance management culture with Over the last three years we have implemented new claims and clear accountabilities and reward aligned to performance.
During policy systems, enhanced the control environment and delivered the year, we continued to strengthen the top management team.
270m of cost savings ahead of plan.
We have committed to The business is committed to investing in talent to develop its deliver an additional 130m of annualised savings by mid 2008 people, including through Executive Development and FastTrack and in the UK and Scandinavia we are progressing well towards programmes.
We have a strong, highly motivated, energised our target sub 15% expense ratio.
team driving the business forward.
In the UK, our technical excellence continues to be recognised by Through the combination of our technical expertise, performance the industry.
In 2006, we were awarded the title of British Insurer management culture and focus on operational excellence, we will of the Year at the British Insurance Awards, and our marine continue delivering sustainable profitable performance.
business received a British Insurance Award for its Aquaculture Leading technical expertise We have a strong reputation for our technical expertise and work closely with our clients to provide tailored risk management and insurance solutions.
We continuously focus on enhancing our capabilities to drive sustainable profitable performance.
Our reputation for strong technical expertise is an integral part of our customer proposition.
In the UK for example, we insure 70% of FTSE 100 retailers and have customer relationships dating back over 200 years.
This, together with our leading claims management processes, helps drive our strong retention levels and profitable growth.
