Royal & SunAlliance 22 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Risk framework Overall risk framework Independent assurance the third line of defence, providing The Group operates under an enterprise risk management independent and objective assurance of the effectiveness of framework that is designed to identify, assess, measure the Groups systems of internal control established by the first and manage exposure to risk.
This process is subject to and second lines of defence.
This is the Group Audit Committee, continuous review and development and further work supported by Group Internal Audit.
was undertaken in 2006 to enhance the framework.
Group risk policy statements Risk management Group risk policy statements set out the minimum standards to The Board is responsible for the Groups systems of risk be maintained by the Groups operations in order to manage their management.
risks in a way that is consistent with the risk appetite.
Business managers are responsible for complying with Group and local Executive management has the responsibility for establishing risk policies and for managing risk by taking mitigating actions and implementing appropriate systems and controls in their own where risks are outside the appetite.
The Board Risk Committees areas of remit.
The Group Risk Management Framework provides oversight and challenge role includes consideration of risk mitigation.
the mechanism through which risk management and control is embedded throughout the Group.
Each Group business is Compliance with policy statements is mandatory.
Policies are required to follow a consistent process to identify, assess, subject to regular review in order to reflect changes in circumstances manage and monitor their key risks.
Group risk appetite Risk categories The Group has a process for setting risk appetite at both Group Within the Group the risk elements are viewed under headings and regional level and for monitoring compliance with this.
The that broadly correspond to those used in the Financial Services Group risk appetite sets business volumes for certain higher risk Authoritys Integrated Prudential Sourcebook PRU.
Additional insurance classes, stipulates loss retention limits, reinsurance information is provided in note 28 to the financial statements.
protection, targets for credit rating and solvency margins, and The following details some of the key current practices, tools other appropriate measures.
and other arrangements for each risk category.
There is a formal escalation process for potential or emerging Insurance risk risks that are outside the risk appetite.
The Groups general insurance activities are primarily concerned Risk framework with the pricing, acceptance and management of risks arising The Group has continued to adopt the 3 lines of defence from our contracts with customers.
The management of the governance model.
The framework for the oversight and underwriting and claims risks uses a number of key tools, management of risk is as follows: including the review of the performance and management of all the individual insurance portfolios throughout the Group, Management the first line of defence in setting strategy, and the investigation of potential emerging insurance risks.
performance measurement, establishment and maintenance of internal control and risk management in the business, Further work has been undertaken in 2006 to refine and improve the Portfolio Classification process, designed to provide a more Risk assessment the second line, operating a formal risk effective method of evaluating portfolio performance.
We are management framework within which the Group policies continuing to improve oversight, and tools in support of it, in and minimum standards are set and objective oversight and this area to ensure that we remain in control of our insurance challenge of risk management across the Group is achieved.
business and the risks within it.
This includes the Board Risk Committee, supported by the Group Risk functions, and a Group wide network of regional risk committees, Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2006 23 Claims development and reserving levels are closely monitored Credit, market and liquidity risks by Reserve Committees.
Each regions Reserve Committee The primary sources of credit risk within the Group are investment determines a recommended level of outstanding claims reserves, and treasury activities and reinsurance counterparty risk.
Within in accordance with the Group Reserving Policy.
The Group the investment management and treasury activities, a range Reserving Committee considers the reasonableness of these of bank counterparty concentration and credit quality limits, recommendations.
It then determines the level of aggregate together with other controls, are in place to ensure that exposure outstanding claims reserves to be carried by the Group.
is managed within the Group risk appetite.
New reinsurance cover is placed with reinsurers that are authorised as Approved Reinsurance risk Reinsurance Counterparties recommended by the Group The Groups reinsurance strategy and appetite are set and agreed Reinsurance Credit Committee under criteria approved by the by the Board Risk Committee and published and disseminated via Board Risk Committee.
the Group reinsurance policy statement.
The Group Reinsurance Credit Committee oversees the implementation of the Market risk arises from the Groups investment portfolios.
counterparty credit aspects of this strategy.
The Global Asset Management Committee is the management committee that oversees the Groups investment strategy under The reinsurance team monitors and controls reinsurance activity the oversight of the Investment Committee, and operating within throughout the Group, and has responsibility for the purchase of risk limits set by the Board Risk Committee.
the Groups worldwide programme of treaties.
Liquidity risk is considered to be a low risk category.
Group All major treaty purchases are analysed using various liquidity is managed by Group Treasury and each operation is sophisticated modelling tools to ensure that the level of cover required to maintain a minimum level of cash or cash equivalents purchased is capital efficient and aligned with Group risk appetite or highly liquid assets that can be liquidated within a maximum and strategy.
Contingency funding plans are prepared Operational risk and monitored to ensure that these minimum levels are met Operational risk exists in every facet of the organisation, including even in stress conditions.
those areas that are not viewed as operating units.
As such, all Regulatory risk areas of the Group and its major outsourcing providers, are The Group operates in a number of geographical locations with involved in addressing and controlling operational risk.
Internationally, the regulatory The Group uses a suite of risk tools to help manage operational environment has become more complex and demanding.
The risk using a common categorisation of risk.
These tools include Group continues to respond to these developments through its Risk and Control Self Assessments, Key Risk Indicators, Scenario arrangements for regulatory compliance and by ensuring that it Analyses, Incident Management and Loss Data.
maintains open and cooperative relationships with its regulators.
A series of forward looking key risk indicators are used to assess potential future trends in operational risks, whilst data collected on actual operational risk incidents and near misses captures past experiences.
In addition, the use of scenario analyses enables the Group to assess whether certain operational events that have occurred elsewhere could manifest themselves within the Group.
When taken together, the tools provide a complementary set of indicators of the Groups operational risk profile.
