Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2006 29 Directors report The directors of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc present their The Group is committed to the promotion of equal opportunities for all report and the audited financial statements of the Company for the year employees including those with a disability.
In order to do this, we will ended 31 December 2006. ensure that any reasonable adjustment is made, where it is appropriate to do so, to provide equal opportunities to all in the provision of recruitment, Principal activity terms and conditions, promotions, transfers, dismissals and vocational The Company is the holding company of the Royal & SunAlliance Group training.
We are committed, wherever possible, to supporting the of companies the Group whose principal activity is the transaction of rehabilitation and return to work of employees who become disabled personal and commercial general insurance business.
The Group operates during their career with us.
The Group is committed to fostering a constructive dialogue with Business review independent trade unions wherever they are recognised, ensuring An overview of the business performance during the year along with a regular and constructive dialogue on business issues, and early an analysis of its financial position is set out in the financial review on consultation on changes affecting the workforce.
In the UK, Amicus is pages 18 to 21.
The future developments of the business can be found formally recognised through a partnership agreement which covers in the Group CEOs business review on pages 6 to 9 and in the regional collective consultation and bargaining on behalf of non management business reviews on pages 12 to 17.
The principal risks and uncertainties employees.
The Management Association TMA represents managerial facing the Group are set out in the estimation techniques, uncertainties employees under a separate consultative agreement.
The European and contingencies on pages 50 to 52, and in the risk framework on Consultative Forum ECF, is a cross European body created to enable pages 22 to 23. information sharing and consultation on transnational issues with the The Group uses Key Performance Indicators KPIs to provide a well European workforce.
Since 2005, an amended constitution has been balanced and comprehensive review of the Groups overall performance.
in place for the European workforce which enables streamlined KPIs are monitored in a number of areas including financial, employee, consultation arrangements.
customer and the environment and community.
Financial KPIs include The Group continues to focus on the development of employees in combined operating ratio, expense ratio, operating result and net written order that they can deliver high levels of performance.
We believe we premium growth.
Employee KPIs include the percentage of staff that can create real competitive advantage by building and maintaining a have performance related pay, the percentage of staff taking part in the high performance culture across the Group.
In 2006, the focus has been employee survey and the increase in overall employee satisfaction as on developing talent and capability for todays business needs and those measured by the survey.
Customer KPIs include the levels of customer of the future.
We have continued to accelerate the development of our retention and the Groups position in the annual benchmarking survey in-house executive talent, through the Executive Development Programme on complaints handling by the Association of British Insurers.
Environment which enters its third year in 2007.
We have also introduced robust and community KPIs include the levels of CO emissions and in addition 2 strategies to build capability and performance in the areas of sales, the Group discloses the amount of the Groups charitable donations.
Financial KPIs are detailed in the Group CEO review on pages 6 to 9 and the regional business reviews on pages 12 to 17.
The employee, A Groupwide programme was introduced looking at sales effectiveness, customer and the environment and community KPIs are detailed in the with the aim of equipping our salesforce with the tools, skills, career regional business reviews on pages 12 to 17, the corporate responsibility pathways, training, reward and recognition that an effective salesforce report on pages 24 to 25 and the directors report on pages 29 to 30. would expect.
Post balance sheet events During 2006, we launched the Technical Academy, aimed at building On 4 March 2007 the Group announced the completion of the disposal on our technical mastery in underwriting, claims and actuarial to support of its US operation to Arrowpoint Capital Corp. the Groups growth objectives.
Dividends An accelerated career programme, FastTrack, was launched hiring The directors recommend a final dividend of 4.12p per share which, if 16 individuals who show potential to swiftly build capability to fulfil approved by shareholders at the 2007 Annual General Meeting AGM, leadership positions in the Group.
Typically, three or four years post will be due for payment on 1 June 2007 to holders of ordinary shares graduate, these individuals follow a structured career acceleration on the register at the close of business on 16 March 2007.
This, together programme involving a six month overseas assignment to help bring with the interim dividend of 1.75p per share, will make a total dividend for increased exposure to cultural and organisational differences.
The third annual web based Global Employee Survey was run in 2006.
The preferential dividend at the rate of 3.6875% for the period from 91% of eligible employees took the opportunity to contribute.
Our aim is 1 October 2006 to 31 March 2007, will be paid on 3 April 2007 to to consistently seek feedback on the environment we are creating as an holders of preference shares on the register at the close of business employer and to work constructively towards our objective of becoming on 16 March 2007. an employer of choice.
Our intention is to continue to repeat this survey annually, to ensure we have a current picture of employees views and Employment policy also to track year on year movement in particular areas of priority.
In The Groups employment policy reflects our belief that motivated and this way, by asking our employees, we measure how the culture of our skilled employees are critical to our success.
For example, in 2006 70% of staff felt that My job We encourage equal opportunities and diversity across the Group.
provides the opportunity to learn new skills and develop new talents, an This involves recruiting, engaging, retaining, rewarding and developing increase of 3% on 2005.
As in previous years, we have used the 2006 people solely on the grounds of ability to do the job, and establishing results to build a Groupwide action plan which requires every manager and promoting a working environment which is free from discrimination.
to identify and work on areas of particular importance to their team.
