Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2006 11 Profitable growth Delivering profitable growth in target markets through a disciplined approach we are using our technical expertise to develop tailored customer Clear growth targets for each business propositions and risk solutions.
Renewable energy, for example, Focus on target trades and segments is a rapidly growing sector and we have quickly built a strong wind Building momentum new business up 26% in 2006 turbine proposition in Canada, Scandinavia and Ireland.
Strong retention across the Group at 83% By expanding distribution, we are finding more ways to profitably Tailored customer propositions and risk solutions access new customers.
Our agreement with Paymentshield, the UKs largest independent supplier of mortgage related insurance, Our overriding objective is to deliver sustainable earnings is expected to deliver over 200m of premiums in 2008.
In we will only grow where we can do so profitably.
We are building Scandinavia, our motor dealership proposition now provides strong positions in our target markets using our technical us with access to around 30% of the new car market in Denmark expertise and customer focus to expand distribution and and 27% in Sweden.
In Canada, Johnson signed a number of enhance our customer propositions.
affinity deals during 2006 giving it access to a potential 400,000 new customers.
Each of our businesses has clear growth targets.
In the UK, we are aiming to grow our Affinity business by more than 50%, strengthen Our increasing customer focus is reflected in our strong new our number three retail position and move to number one in business and retention levels.
In the UK, we have customer Broker by 2010.
In Scandinavia, we are aiming to strengthen our relationships that go back more than 200 years.
In our mature number three market position, while in Canada, Ireland and Italy we markets, we are using customer segmentation to develop innovative are targeting 10% annual premium growth.
We are targeting 15% products to attract new customers and widen our target customer growth per annum in Latin America, Asia and the Middle East and base.
In the UK, MORE TH N has recently launched a number of the Baltics, in order to double premiums in 2010 from 2005 levels.
propositions aimed at increasing customer acquisition and retention, Over the same period, we intend increasing gross written premiums to increase profitability and opportunities for cross selling.
All targets are on a local currency basis.
Our focus on profitable market and customer segments, combined We focus on target trades and segments that provide with our technical expertise, means that the Group is well positioned opportunities for profitable growth.
Within these segments, to continue to deliver profitable growth.
Caption heading Expanding our motor proposition In 2006 in Scandinavia we signed a number In 2006 in Scandinavia we signed a number of of agreements with motor manufacturers and distribution agreements with motor manufacturers distributors.
These agreements include Peugeot and distributors.
These agreements include Peugeot and Volkswagen in Sweden and Toyota in Denmark.
and Volkswagen in Sweden and Toyota in Denmark.
Through these agreements we have access to around Through these agreements we have access to 27% 27% of the Swedish new car market and around 30% of the Swedish new car market and around 30% of of the Danish car market.
the Danish new car market.
In the UK we have strong relationships with some In the UK we have strong relationships with major of the major manufacturers including Toyota, Land manufacturers including Toyota, Land Rover and Volvo.
We continue to develop these We continue to develop our motor proposition and motor proposition and this year we have signed this year we have signed a new agreement with Kia.
