Royal & SunAlliance 26 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Board of Directors John Napier Andy Haste George Culmer Noel Harwerth Edward Lea Malcolm Le May John Maxwell Simon Lee Bridget McIntyre N, I A, R, I E John Napier Age 64.
Director of the Group Edward Lea Age 65.
Director of the Group Bridget McIntyre Age 45.
UK Chief Executive from January 2003 and Chairman of the Group from July 2003.
Chairman of the Group Audit and director of the Group from November from March 2003.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee from October 2003.
Previously Executive Director of Norwich Committee from March 2003.
Non-executive Redbourn Group plc property management Union insurance.
Chairman of Kelda Group plc water utility.
Director of IDC Plugs Limited Former Executive Chairman and Chief Executive electrical services.
Director of MacIntyre Care Executive Team E, I of Kelda Group plc.
Former Chairman of Booker charity.
Previously a director of The British Andy Haste plc cash and carry.
Former Managing Director United Provident Association BUPA.
Group CEO of Hays plc business services from 1991 to R, I Malcolm Le May Age 49.
Director of the Mark Chambers 1998.
Former Managing Director of AGB plc Group from March 2004 and Chairman of General Counsel and Group Company international market research and information the Investment Committee from November Secretary services.
President Europe JER Partners Limited E, I George Culmer E, I Andy Haste Age 45.
Director and Group Europe property investment.
Non-executive Chief Financial Officer Chief Executive from April 2003.
Former Chief director of Pendragon plc.
Former Deputy Executive of AXA Sun Life plc and Director Chief Executive Morley Fund Management Orlagh Hunt of AXA UK plc life and pensions.
Former Deputy Group Human Resources Director President and Chief Executive Officer of CEO of ING-Barings finance.
Tony Latham Global Consumer Finance Europe at GE A, N, R, I John Maxwell Age 62.
Director of Group Director, Global Relationships Capital UK, Western Europe and Eastern the Group from July 2003.
Chairman of the E Europe financial services.
Former President Simon Lee Remuneration Committee from October 2003. of National Westminster Banks US Consumer Chief Executive, International Businesses Director of Provident Financial plc financial Credit Business retail banking.
Director of Homeserve plc support Neil Macmillan E, I George Culmer Age 44.
Governor of the Royal Ballet School.
Group Director, Audit, Risk and Compliance Officer and director of the Group from May Chairman of the Institute of Advanced E Bridget McIntyre 2004.
Previously Head of Capital Management Motorists.
Previously an Executive Director of UK Chief Executive Zurich Financial Services insurance.
Former Chairman of DX Services plc mail.
Previously Director General Paul Whittaker A, I Noel Harwerth Age 59.
Director of the Chief Executive Officer of The Automobile Chief Executive, Emerging Markets Group from March 2004.
Director of Corus Association Limited.
Group plc, Tube Lines Limited, Logica CMG, E Corporate Services Group plc, Anglo Irish Simon Lee Age 46.
Director of the Group Bank and Partnership Director, London from January 2007 having been Chief E Executive director Underground.
Deputy Chairman of Sumitomo Executive of the International Businesses since A Member of Group Audit Committee Mitsui Banking Corporation Europe Limited April 2003.
Former Chief Executive, Natwest N Member of Nomination Committee finance.
Former Chief Operating Officer of Offshore and Head of US Retail Banking at R Member of Remuneration Committee Citibank International plc finance.
I Member of Investment Committee 29 Directors report 53 Significant accounting policies 31 Corporate governance 60 Notes to the financial statements 35 Remuneration report 106 Independent auditors report 41 Directors emoluments to the members of Royal & Sun 42 Directors interests Alliance Insurance Group plc 45 Independent auditors report 107 Parent Company balance sheet to the members of Royal & Sun 108 Statement of changes in equity Alliance Insurance Group plc of the Parent Company 46 Consolidated income statement 109 Parent Company cashflow statement 47 Consolidated statement of 110 Notes to the separate financial recognised income and expenses statements 48 Consolidated balance sheet 114 Shareholder information 49 Consolidated cashflow statement 115 Financial calendar 50 Estimation techniques, uncertainties 116 Frequently asked questions and contingencies
