qxp 19 3 07 09:35 Page 31 RBS Insurance Contribution 964 million 2005 935 million Total income up 3% Operating profit up 3% RBS Insurance underwrites and sells motor, RBS Insurance is the UKs No 2 general insurer.
home, commercial and other insurance direct to RBS Insurance is the UKs No1 direct insurer, by customers over the telephone and internet as well both phone and internet, and No1 in partnerships.
as through partnerships and a network of 2,500 brokers.
Its brands, which include Direct Line, RBS Insurance is the No1 car insurance provider in the UK, and the No 2 home insurance provider in the UK.
Churchill, Privilege, Green Flag and NIG, are among the best known in the UK.
Through its international RBS Insurance has over 1.3 million car rescue policies operations, RBS sells general insurance, mainly sold through Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege and a motor, in Spain, Germany and Italy.
further 3.7 million through partner brands.
Following its acquisition in 2005, RBS insurance completed the integration of Tracker, the UK leader in stolen vehicle tracking.
RBS Insurance is the No 2 travel insurance provider with 2.4 million policies and the No 2 pet insurance provider with 25% of the market.
NIG now has 1.9 million policyholders including 1.4 million motor policyholders.
It became the first insurer to offer a motor product for brokers on imarket, the e-commerce portal.
RBS Insurances international business is growing successfully.
Sales of motor and related insurance in Spain, Italy and Germany have now reached more than 2 million policies.
Total income of 5.7 billion in 2006 was achieved through a range of channels, with customers offered the choice of direct brands Direct Line, Churchill, Privilege and access through the bank branches Royal Bank of Scotland and NatWest, as well as through a range of partners.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 31 RBS Report 30-33v2.
qxp 19 3 07 09:35 Page 32 Divisional review continued RBS Insurance continued Over 50% of own-brand car business is sold over the internet, and RBS Insurance hosts car insurance websites for over 23 partner brands.
Direct Line has the highest spontaneous customer brand awareness in both car and home, and Churchill has the second-highest awareness for car.
Churchills advertising campaign, Challenge Churchill, urged people to challenge Churchill to get them a better deal on their car and home insurance.
Direct Lines Good Deal Better marketing campaign highlighted enhancements to its No Claims Discount on car insurance.
Picture copyright of Bristol Evening Post In May, Direct Line announced the launch of enhanced home insurance, offering a 50% discount on contents Green Flag An annual campaign sponsored by Green insurance and free European annual family travel cover Flag, Beep Beep!
Day is a nationwide scheme led by to new customers.
road safety charity Brake, designed to teach under fives important lessons about road safety.
Nurseries and preRBS Insurances partnership business, UKI Partnerships, school groups hold road safety days to teach young children introduced a seven-day free car insurance offer scheme the vital skills for staying safe on the roads.
The sponsorship for new car purchases across all its motor manufacturer also helps raise funds for Brakes crucial work supporting partners.
It also introduced a car insurance policy for Tesco families bereaved or affected by a serious injury in a road Personal Finance, consistent with the Tesco Value range.
After agreeing a new deal with Saab, UKI Partnerships now provides car insurance in the UK for seven of the top ten car manufacturers.
UKI Partnerships signed a new contract with Nationwide to provide household insurance, extending the relationship, which already provides car insurance.
Direct Line in Spain introduced faster claims management and improved customer communication.
Direct Line Italy pays its insurance claims on average six days faster than the market, according to Italys Insurance regulator.
An annual price comparison produced by Quattro Route motoring magazine reported Direct Line to be the most competitive insurer in Italy.
32 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Divisional review RBS Insurance RBS Report 30-33v2.
qxp 19 3 07 09:35 Page 33 Churchill Challenge In July 2006 Churchill the famous nodding dog took to the road with the Challenge Churchill campaign, urging people to challenge him to save money on their car and home insurance.
The initiative has significantly increased unprompted awareness of the brand.
Selected awards Direct Line Most Promising New Product Insurance Direct Line in Germany continued to expand its product range, launching general legal protection and private third Direct Line Best Corporate party liability insurance.
Social Responsibility Programme ifs Capgemini Financial Innovations Awards 2006 RBS Insurance handles more than 35 million calls for its own brands and partnership brands every year through Direct Line E-business Award its UK call centres.
British Insurance Awards RBS Insurance has the largest motor claims operation Privilege Marketing Initiative of the Year in the UK, providing scale and efficiency benefits.
British Insurance Awards As a result of development in 2006, our UK Assistance Churchill and Direct Line Accident Repair Centre in Heywood became one of the Best Motor Insurance Provider joint first bodyshops in the industry to achieve the Thatcham Churchill Best Online Motor Insurance Provider BSI British Standards Industry Kitemark accreditation, a new industry quality standard.
Churchill Best Online Travel Insurance Provider Direct Line Best Pet Insurance Provider RBS Insurance has played an important role in helping the Insurance Fraud Bureau disrupt organised crossGreen Flag Best Online Breakdown Cover Provider industry fraud, and a number of successful investigations 2006 Your Money Awards have resulted in many arrests.
RBS Insurance HR People Management Award Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development Direct Line Winner of the Judges Special Award for Consumer Insight The Financial Services Forum Awards for Marketing Effectiveness 2006 RBS Insurance IT Application Development Business Achievement in Financial, Insurance and Professional Services 2006 British Computer Society Awards RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 33 RBS Report 34-37v2.
qxp 19 3 07 09:37 Page 34 Divisional review continued RBS has one of the best track records for reducing fraud and introducing robust measures which better protect our customers.
One of the biggest successes of last year was the introduction of real-time monitoring of spending by our customers on their debit cards.
Any uncharacteristic spending behaviour is immediately checked with customers and 3,000 frauds have already been stopped.
34 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Divisional review Manufacturing
