qxp 19 3 07 09:30 Page 13 Corporate Markets Contribution 6,122 million 2005 5,165 million Total income up 17% Operating profit up 20% Corporate Markets, formerly Corporate Banking Global Banking & Markets GBM GBM has a strong client franchise across our chosen & Financial Markets, was reorganised into two markets.
We have relationships with the great majority businesses, Global Banking & Markets and UK of the largest UK, US and European corporations and Corporate Banking, on 1 January 2006.
This institutions, including over 95% of the FTSE 100, 80% allowed us to focus on the distinct needs of of the Fortune 100, and over 95% of the Dow Jones Eurostoxx 50. these two customer groups and to enhance our services to them.
GBMs employees serve the diverse needs of major corporates and financial institutions from offices in Global Banking & Markets 21 countries around the world.
GBM continues to invest significantly in people, infrastructure and technology to Global Banking & Markets is a leading banking support growth and develop new product capabilities.
partner to major corporations and financial and governmental institutions around the world, GBM made significant progress in building its business providing an extensive range of debt financing, internationally in 2006.
Income grew by 18% in the US, 26% in Europe and 35% in the Asia Pacific region.
risk management and investment services to its customers.
To support international expansion we made significant investments in new offices and locations.
Construction work UK Corporate Banking started on new premises, which will bring together our people from RBS Greenwich Capital and RBS New York: a new office UK Corporate Banking is the largest provider of in Helsinki opened on 1 September 2006: and we moved banking, finance and risk management services to larger premises in Tokyo, Hong Kong and Singapore.
Through its network of relationship managers across the country it Examples of GBM client transactions RBS teams in Spain and the UK successfully arranged distributes the full range of Corporate Markets the financing of the 15 billion acquisition of BAA, the products and services to companies.
worlds leading airport operator, by a consortium led by Ferrovial.
This complex transaction benefited from our knowledge of the Spanish and UK markets as well as our global distribution capabilities.
RBS helped Arsenal Football Club sell 260 million secured long-dated bonds to refinance the shorter-term construction loans used to fund their new Emirates Stadium.
The deal was described by Euroweek as arguably the most comprehensive application of structured finance techniques in an asset-backed securitisation deal yet in Europe.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 13 RBS Report 12-17v2.
qxp 19 3 07 09:31 Page 14 Divisional review continued Corporate Markets continued In North America, RBS financed the energy sectors We were one of two joint Bookrunners and joint largest acquisition to date, that of Burlington Resources Lead Arrangers on Hutchison Whampoa Ltds inaugural by ConocoPhillips, for $35 billion.
We played the lead role 700 million sterling debt capital issue.
The company as administrative agent on $22.5 billion of credit facilities, took advantage of attractive sterling market conditions, including $15 billion of bridge facilities to finance the cash benefiting from a strong appetite for corporate names portion of the acquisition and $7.5 billion of permanent debt in longer-dated maturities, to launch and price an facilities.
RBS Greenwich Capital was also joint Bookrunner 11 and 20-year dual-tranche issue successfully.
To date on $3 billion of related debt capital markets issuances.
this is the largest ever sterling issue by a non-Japanese Asia Pacific corporate.
RBS was selected by German industrial conglomerate Siemens as one of six banks arranging $4 billion acquisition finance facilities and one of four joint lead managers for Europes largest-ever hybrid bond issue of 900 million and 750 million.
We arranged acquisition financing for the newly built Kamppi Shopping Centre in central Helsinki.
The owners agreed to sell the company to a new company established by Boultbee, a specialist shopping centre manager, and RBS, for 345 million.
The shopping centre opened in March 2006 and was visited by more than three million people in its first month.
Ferrovial Our Global Banking teams in both Spain and the UK worked together to secure the 15 billion of acquisition RBS Structured Ship Finance successfully completed funding required by Spanish infrastructure company, Ferrovial, a financing programme in China for three ships for for the purchase of BAA.
Our knowledge of both the Spanish Shanghai Time Shipping for $60 million.
We enabled the and UK markets and global distribution capability were company to secure the ships offshore at attractive prices, important attributes for Ferrovial in selecting RBS.
and charter them in a strong international market.
We also obtained Chinese government approvals to import, flag and register the vessels.
This was the first joint ship financing by RBS working with Bank of China as its strategic partner in the Chinese market.
RBS acted for Leighton Holdings Limited, Australias largest construction and contract mining group, as Bookrunner, Mandated Lead Arranger, Residual Value Guarantor and joint Lead Manager for an AU$750 million leveraged operating lease facility and associated senior debt and bond financing.
The purpose was to enable Leighton to fund their equipment requirements in a flexible and capital efficient maner.
com photolibrary 14 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Divisional review Corporate Markets RBS Report 12-17v2.
qxp 19 3 07 09:31 Page 15 Renewable energy Last year RBS was the largest provider of funding for renewable energy projects and is the market leader internationally for wind farm financing, with over 1 billion of funding for projects globally.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 15 RBS Report 12-17v2.
qxp 19 3 07 09:31 Page 16 Divisional review continued Corporate Markets continued UK Corporate Banking UKCB Examples of UKCB client transactions UKCB has over 90,000 customers and over 8,500 RBS was instrumental in assisting Mitchells & Butlers, employees.
UKCBs approach to relationship management the pub and restaurant operator, to relever its asset portfolio, provides customers with access to the resources of one involving transactions totalling more than 2 billion.
This of the worlds largest financial groups through a local point allowed it to refinance existing debt, fund a strategically of contact.
important acquisition and make a substantial cash payment to its shareholders.
UKCB works closely with GBM to provide specialist products and distribution for larger clients.
RBS Corporate Banking organised an innovative 1 billion debt structure for Barchester Healthcare.
We have made significant investment in additional international trade services and specialists to help our RBS Corporate Banking in Birmingham led and UK customers to trade in international markets.
co-arranged a 750 million syndicated facility for Pendragon, the UKs leading motor retailer group.
2006 has seen strong growth in both lending and deposits across UKCB, reflecting the successful growth RBS Corporate Banking in Yorkshire was the joint of our customers businesses.
underwriter and provider of 450 million senior debt and revolving credit facilities to support Croda with Commercial Banking serves customers with turnover its acquisition of Uniqema.
It operates under the Royal Bank of Scotland and NatWest brands and is the No 1 commercial relationship bank in the UK, with just under 1,000 relationship managers.
Corporate Banking is the UKs No 1 bank for businesses WA Developments Group WA Developments Group with turnover in excess of 25 million, and operates in the includes the UKs largest haulage company, Eddie Stobart.
It offers a combination of dedicated RBS Corporate Banking, RBS Invoice Finance and Lombard relationship directors and specialist sector teams.
Corporate provided a refinance package to assist the companys Banking continues to be a market leader in the provision future growth and development.
of funding and risk management products to mid-market corporate customers in the UK.
RBS Invoice Finance is a leading invoice finance provider in Europe with over 8,000 clients.
It operates from 25 locations across the UK and continental Europe.
Both the French and German businesses now trade under the RBS Group brand.
Lombard is the UKs leading provider of finance and leasing facilities for business assets.
It has a comprehensive network of business centres across the UK and Ireland as well as specialist units for the aviation, corporate, marine, technology services and vehicle management markets.
16 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Divisional review Corporate Markets RBS Report 12-17v2.
qxp 19 3 07 09:31 Page 17 Alder Sportswear Distributors of watersports equipment Alder Sportswear recently moved to NatWest Commercial Banking in Exeter believing that our products and services would help them move their business forward.
RBS financial products included international trade finance, invoice finance and foreign exchange hedging, allowing the company to concentrate on product design, development and distribution.
Selected awards RBS Corporate Banking in Manchester was the joint Global Banking & Markets GBM Mandated Lead Arranger of a 300 million revolving credit facility for Manchester Airport.
Best Global Project Finance House of the Year Project Finance Sector RBS Commercial Banking in Scotland provided SBS Euromoney Marine with a 30 million funding package that enabled both a buy-out and an expansion of the fleet from three European Leveraged Finance House of the Decade to six vessels.
Financial News In a transaction worth 8.5 million, Lombard financed European Securitisation House of the Year Asdas 2006 refrigerated trailer replacement programme ifr Awards 2006 of over 200 trailers on a five year lease.
Most Impressive Arranger, Loans Poll NatWest Commercial Banking in Truro provided a Euroweek 3 million funding package to help AE Rodda & Son, the largest manufacturer of Cornish clotted cream, to expand Best Bank Fixed Income and keep up with demand from the major supermarkets.
The 2006 Treasury Management International Awards RBS provided a trade cycle finance facility of 2.3 million Currency Derivatives House of the Year to Shubiz, designers and importers of ladies shoes from Risk Magazine the Far East.
Asset Backed Securities Arranger 2006 RBS Commercial Banking in Cardiff provided 1.5 million International Securitisation Report debt funding for Freshwater UK, which enabled this Welshbased communications agency to make a further acquisition Best Debt Provider that will help grow turnover by 50% to around 6 million in European Private Equity Awards 2006 2006 07.
Asia Shipping Debt Deal of the Year 2006 RBS Corporate Banking in Southampton provided a Shanghai Time Shipping debt package to support Graphite Capital in the purchase Janes Transport Finance of the largest UK independent tyre wholesaler, distributor and retailer, Micheldever Tyre Services.
UK Corporate Banking UKCB RBS Corporate Banking in Scotland provided Wolfson Debt Provider of the Year MicroElectronics with a revolving credit facility complemented Unquote Private Equity Awards, 2006 by international cash management, corporate treasury and trade finance solutions to help the firm focus on building Best Short-Term Trade Finance Bank its business and expanding into new markets.
Trade & Forfaiting Awards 2006 As well as supplying the AAs iconic yellow patrol Best Use of IT in Wholesale Banking vans and company cars, Lombard is funding over 12,000 Financial Sector Technology Awards 2006 AA Driving School vehicles over a three year period.
RBS Corporate Banking has provided the Haymarket Group with a long-dated finance package to support growth aspirations.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 17 RBS Report 18-23v2.
qxp 19 3 07 09:32 Page 18 Divisional review Savings products 2006 saw strong growth in our savings and investment products with a 56% increase in bancassurance sales.
We increased the number of financial planning managers in our branch network by 25%.
18 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Divisional review Retail Markets
