RBS Rev 42-60 ARSFS DR & SFS 06 15 3 07 15:12 Page 44 Board of directors and secretary 12 3 45 6 78 9 Chairman Executive directors Group Finance Director 1.
Sir Tom McKillop age 63 Group Chief Executive 3.
Sir Fred Goodwin age 48 C Appointed to the Board as Deputy Chairman DUniv, FCIBS, FCIB, LLD Appointed to the Board in February 2006, Guy in September 2005, Sir Tom is a non-executive C Whittaker was formerly group treasurer at Citigroup director of BP p. l. c. and president of the Science Appointed to the Board in August 1998, Sir Fred Inc. based in New York, having previously held a Council.
He was formerly chief executive of is a Chartered Accountant.
He was formerly chief number of management positions within the AstraZeneca PLC, and was previously president executive and director, Clydesdale Bank PLC and financial markets business at Citigroup.
He was of the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Yorkshire Bank PLC.
He is chairman of The Princes elected a Lady Beaufort Fellow of Christ's College Industries and Associations and chairman of the Trust, a non-executive director of Bank of China Cambridge in 2004.
He is Pro-Chancellor of the Limited and a former president of the Chartered University of Leicester and a trustee of the Council Institute of Bankers in Scotland.
for Industry and Higher Education.
Chief Executive, Corporate Markets Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive, Manufacturing 4.
Johnny Cameron age 52 FCIBS of Citizens Financial Group, Inc. 6.
Mark Fisher age 46 FCIBS Appointed to the Board in March 2006, Johnny 5.
Lawrence Fish age 62 Appointed to the Board in March 2006, Mark Fisher Cameron joined RBS from Dresdner Kleinwort Appointed to the Board in January 1993, Lawrence is a career banker having joined National Benson in 1998.
In 2000, he was appointed Deputy Fish is an American national.
He is a career banker Westminster Bank Plc in 1981.
In 2000, he was Chief Executive of Corporate Banking & Financial and was previously a director of the Federal Reserve appointed Chief Executive, Manufacturing with Markets CBFM with responsibility for the Bank of Boston.
He is a trustee of the Massachusetts various responsibilities including the integration integration of the NatWest and RBS Corporate Institute of Technology MIT and The Brookings of RBS and NatWest systems platforms.
In October 2001 he was Institution, and a director of Textron Inc. and chairman of APACS Administration Limited.
appointed Chief Executive CBFM, subsequently numerous community organisations in the USA.
renamed Corporate Markets in January 2006.
Chief Executive, Retail Markets Non-executive directors 9.
Gordon Pell age 57 FCIBS, FCIB 8.
Colin Buchan age 52 R Appointed to the Board in March 2000, Gordon Pell A, C, R Appointed to the Board in November 2001, Jim was formerly group director of Lloyds TSB UK Appointed to the Board in June 2002, Colin Buchan Currie is a highly experienced senior international Retail Banking before joining National Westminster was educated in South Africa and spent the early civil servant who spent many years working in Bank Plc as a director in February 2000 and then part of his career in South Africa and the Far East.
He was formerly director becoming chief executive, Retail Banking.
He is He has considerable international investment general at the European Commission with also a director of Race for Opportunity and a banking experience, as well as experience in very responsibility for the EUs environmental policy and member of the National Employment Panel and the large risk management in the equities business.
He director general for Customs and Excise and FSA Practitioner Panel.
He was appointed chairman was formerly a member of the group management Indirect Taxation.
He is also a director of Total of the Business Commission on Racial Equality in board of UBS AG and head of equities of UBS Upstream UK Limited and an international adviser the Workplace in July 2006.
He is chairman of UBS Securities to Eversheds.
He is a special adviser to the Canada Inc. and vice-chairman of Standard Life president of the European Bank for Reconstruction Investments Holdings Ltd.
He is also a director and Development.
of Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust Plc, Merrill Lynch Gold Limited, Royal Scottish National Orchestra Society Limited and World Mining Investment Company Limited.
44 RBS Group Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 Directors report and summary financial statement RBS Rev 42-60 ARSFS DR & SFS 06 15 3 07 15:12 Page 45 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 10.
Charles Bud Koch age 60 A A Chairman, C, N Appointed to the Board in September 2004, Bud Appointed to the Board in March 2006, Bill Friedrich Appointed to the Board in September 2004, Archie Koch is an American national.
He has extensive is currently deputy chief executive of BG Group Hunter is a Chartered Accountant.
He was Scottish professional experience in the USA and is currently plc.
He previously served as general counsel for senior partner of KPMG between 1992 and 1999 chairman of the board of John Carroll University British Gas plc and is a former partner of Shearman and President of The Institute of Chartered and a trustee of Case Western Reserve University.
& Sterling where he practised as a general corporate Accountants of Scotland in 1997 1998.
He has He was chairman, president and chief executive lawyer working for several of the world's leading extensive professional experience in the UK and officer of Charter One Financial, Inc. and its wholly financial institutions.
He is currently chairman owned subsidiary, Charter One Bank, N. A. between of Macfarlane Group plc, a director of Edinburgh 1973 and 2004.
He is also a director of Assurant, Inc.
US Tracker Trust plc, Convenor of Court at the University of Strathclyde and a governor of the Beatson Cancer Research Institute.
Sir Steve Robson age 63 R A A Appointed to the Board in January 2006, Janis Kong Appointed to the Board in September 2004, Appointed to the Board in July 2001, Sir Steve was formerly executive chairman of Heathrow Joe MacHale is currently the senior independent is a former senior UK civil servant, who had Airport Limited, chairman of Heathrow Express director and chairman of the audit committee of responsibility for a wide variety of Treasury matters.
Limited and a director of BAA plc.
She is currently Morgan Crucible plc, a non-executive director and His early career included the post of private a non-executive director of Kingfisher plc and chairman of the remuneration committee of Brit secretary to the Chancellor of the Exchequer Portmeirion Group plc.
She is also chairman of Insurance Holdings plc, and a trustee of MacMillan and secondment to ICFC now 3i.
He was also Forum for the Future and a member of the board Cancer Support.
He held a number of senior a second permanent secretary of HM Treasury, of Visit Britain.
executive positions with J P Morgan between 1979 where he was managing director of the Finance and 2001 and was latterly chief executive of J P and Regulation Directorate.
He is a non-executive Morgan Europe, Middle East and Africa Region.
director of JP Morgan Cazenove Holdings, Xstrata Plc and Partnerships UK plc, and a member of the Chairmans Advisory Committee of KPMG.
Peter Sutherland age 60 KCMG Group Secretary and General Counsel C, N, R Chairman C, N, R 18.
Miller McLean age 57 FCIBS Appointed to the Board in January 2001, Bob Scott Appointed to the Board in January 2001, Peter C is an Australian national.
He is the senior independent Sutherland is an Irish national.
He is a former Miller McLean was appointed Group Secretary in director.
He has many years experience in the attorney general of Ireland and from 1985 to 1989 August 1994.
He is a trustee of the Industry and international insurance business and played a was the European Commissioner responsible for Parliament Trust, non-executive chairman of The leading role in the consolidation of the UK insurance competition policy.
He is chairman of BP p. l. c. and Whitehall and Industry Group and director of industry.
He is a former group chief executive of Goldman Sachs International.
He was formerly The Scottish Parliament and Business Exchange.
CGNU plc now Aviva plc and former chairman chairman of Allied Irish Bank and director general of of the board of the Association of British Insurers.
GATT and its successor, the World Trade Organisation.
A member of the Audit Committee He is chairman of Yell Group plc and a non-executive C member of the Chairmans Advisory Group director of Swiss Reinsurance Company Zurich N member of the Nominations Committee and Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc.
He is also R member of the Remuneration Committee a trustee of the Crimestoppers Trust, an adviser to independent non-executive director Duke Street Capital Private Equity and a board member of Pension Insurance Corporation Holdings LLP.
RBS Group Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 45 Directors report and summary financial statement
