Operating and financial review Description of business Introduction In core retail banking, Retail offers a comprehensive product The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc is the holding company range across the personal and small business market: money of one of the worlds largest banking and financial services transmission, savings, loans, mortgages and insurance.
groups, with a market capitalisation of 62.8 billion at the end of Customer choice and product flexibility are central to the retail 2006.
Headquartered in Edinburgh, the Group operates in the banking proposition and customers are able to access services UK, US and internationally through its two principal subsidiaries, through a full range of channels, including the largest network of the Royal Bank and NatWest.
Both the Royal Bank and NatWest branches and ATMs in the UK, the internet and the telephone.
are major UK clearing banks whose origins go back over 275 years.
In the US, the Groups subsidiary Citizens is ranked the Retail also includes the Groups non-branch based retail eighth largest commercial banking organisation by deposits.
businesses that issue a comprehensive range of credit and The Group has a large and diversified customer base and charge cards to personal and corporate customers and provides provides a wide range of products and services to personal, card processing services for retail businesses.
Retail is the commercial and large corporate and institutional customers.
leading merchant acquirer in Europe and ranks fourth globally.
The Group had total assets of 871.4 billion and shareholders It also includes Tesco Personal Finance, The One account, equity of 40.2 billion at 31 December 2006.
It is strongly First Active UK, Direct Line Financial Services and Lombard capitalised with a total capital ratio of 11.7% and tier 1 capital Direct, all of which offer products to customers through direct ratio of 7.5% as at 31 December 2006. channels principally in the UK.
In continental Europe, Retail offers a similar range of products through the RBS and Organisational structure and business overview Comfort Card brands.
The Groups activities are organised in the following business divisions: Corporate Markets comprising Global Banking & Wealth Management provides private banking and investment Markets and UK Corporate Banking, Retail Markets comprising services to its clients through a number of leading UK and Retail and Wealth Management, Ulster Bank, Citizens, RBS overseas private banking subsidiaries and offshore banking Insurance and Manufacturing.
A description of each of the businesses.
Coutts is one of the world's leading international divisions is given below.
wealth managers with offices in Switzerland, Dubai, Monaco, Hong Kong and Singapore, as well as its premier position in the Corporate Markets is focused on the provision of banking, UK.
Adam & Company is the major private bank in Scotland.
investment and risk management services to medium and The offshore banking businesses The Royal Bank of Scotland large businesses and financial institutions in the UK and International and NatWest Offshore deliver retail banking around the world.
Corporate Banking and Financial Markets services to local and expatriate customers, principally in the was renamed Corporate Markets on 1 January 2006 when we Channel Islands, the Isle of Man and Gibraltar.
reorganised our activities into two businesses, Global Banking & Markets and UK Corporate Banking, in order to enhance the Ulster Bank Group brings together the Ulster Bank and First service provided to these two customer segments.
Active businesses to provide a comprehensive range of products and services to retail and corporate customers in the Global Banking & Markets GBM is a leading banking partner island of Ireland.
to major corporations and financial institutions around the world, providing an extensive range of debt financing, risk management Ulster Bank Retail Markets serves personal customers through and investment services to its customers.
GBM has a wide both the Ulster Bank and First Active brands.
Ulster Bank range of clients across its chosen markets.
It has relationships provides branch banking and direct banking services with an overwhelming majority of the largest UK, European and throughout the island of Ireland.
First Active, through its branch US corporations and institutions.
GBMs principal activity in the network, serves personal customers in the Republic of Ireland US is conducted through RBS Greenwich Capital.
with its separately branded product offerings, including mortgages and savings.
UK Corporate Banking is the largest provider of banking, finance and risk management services to UK corporate Ulster Bank Corporate Markets caters for the banking needs of customers.
Through its network of relationship managers business and corporate customers, including treasury and across the country it distributes the full range of Corporate money market activities, asset finance, e-banking, wealth Markets products and services to companies.
Business and corporate banking services are provided via centrally-based relationship Retail Markets was established in June 2005 to lead comanagement teams and dedicated Business Centres located ordination and delivery of our multi-brand retail strategy across across both Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland.
our product range and comprises Retail including our direct channels businesses and Wealth Management.
Citizens is the second largest commercial banking organisation in New England and the eighth largest commercial banking Retail comprises both the Royal Bank and NatWest retail organisation in the US measured by deposits.
Citizens provides brands, and a number of direct providers offering a full range retail and corporate banking services under the Citizens brand of banking products and related financial services to the in Connecticut, Delaware, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New personal, premium and small business markets across several Jersey, New York state, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island and Vermont distribution channels.
and the Charter One brand in Illinois, Indiana, Michigan and 46 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Operating and financial review Ohio.
Through its branch network Citizens provides a full range commercial banking capabilities.
In asset finance, the Group of retail and corporate banking services, including personal competes with banks and specialised asset finance providers, banking, residential mortgages and cash management.
In addition, Citizens engages in a wide variety of commercial In the small business banking market, the Group competes lending, consumer lending, commercial and consumer deposit with other UK clearing banks, specialist finance providers products, merchant credit card services, trust services and retail and building societies.
Citizens includes RBS National Bank, our US credit card business, RBS Lynk, our merchant acquiring In the personal banking segment the Group competes with UK business, and Kroger Personal Finance, our credit card joint banks and building societies, major retailers, life assurance venture with the second largest US supermarket group.
In the mortgage market the Group competes with UK banks and building societies.
RBS Insurance is the second largest general insurer in the UK, National Westminster Life Assurance Limited and Royal by gross written premiums.
It sells and underwrites retail, SME Scottish Assurance compete with Independent Financial and wholesale insurance over the telephone and internet, as well Advisors and life assurance companies.
as through brokers and partnerships.
The Retail Divisions of Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege sell general insurance In the UK credit card market large retailers and specialist card products direct to the customer.
Through its International Division, issuers, including major US operators, are active in addition to RBS Insurance sells motor insurance in Spain, Germany and Italy.
Competitive activity is across a number of The Intermediary and Broker Division sells general insurance dimensions including introductory and longer term pricing, products through its network of independent brokers.
loyalty and reward schemes, and packaged benefits.
In addition to physical distribution channels, providers compete Manufacturing supports the customer-facing businesses and through direct marketing activity and the internet.
The market provides operational, technology and customer support in remains very competitive, both between issuers and with other telephony, account management, lending and money payment methods.
transmission, global purchasing, property and other services.
In Wealth Management, The Royal Bank of Scotland International Manufacturing drives optimum efficiencies and supports competes with other UK and international banks to offer offshore income growth across multiple brands and channels by using banking services.
Coutts and Adam & Company compete as a single, scalable platform and common processes wherever private banks with UK clearing and private banks, and with possible.
It also leverages the Groups purchasing power and international private banks.
Competition in wealth management has become the centre of excellence for managing large-scale activities has intensified as banks have increased their focus on and complex change.
competing for affluent and high net worth customers.
The expenditure incurred by Manufacturing relates to costs RBS Insurance competes in personal lines insurance and, principally in respect of the Groups banking and insurance to a limited extent, in commercial insurance.
There is strong operations in the UK and Ireland.
These costs reflect activities competition from a range of insurance companies which that are shared between the various customer-facing divisions now operate telephone and internet direct sales businesses.
and consequently cannot be directly attributed to individual Competition in the UK motor market remains particularly intense.
Instead, the Group monitors and controls each of its RBS Insurance also competes with local insurance companies in customer-facing divisions on revenue generation and direct the direct motor insurance markets in Spain, Italy and Germany.
costs whilst in Manufacturing such control is exercised through appropriate efficiency measures and targets.
For financial In Ireland, Ulster Bank and First Active compete in retail and reporting purposes the Manufacturing costs have been commercial banking with the major Irish banks and building allocated to the relevant customer-facing divisions on a basis societies, and with other UK and international banks and management considers to be reasonable.
building societies active in the market.
Competition is intensifying as UK, Irish and other European institutions seek to expand The Centre comprises group and corporate functions, such as their businesses.
capital raising, finance, risk management, legal, communications and human resources.
The Centre manages the Groups In the United States, where competition is intense, Citizens capital requirements and Group-wide regulatory projects and competes in the New England, Mid-Atlantic and Midstates provides services to the operating divisions.
retail and mid-corporate banking markets with local and regional banks and other financial institutions.
The Group also Competition competes in the US in large corporate lending and specialised The Group faces intense competition in all the markets it finance markets, and in fixed-income trading and sales.
In the UK, the Groups principal competitors are the Competition is principally with the large US commercial and other UK retail and commercial banks, building societies and investment banks and international banks active in the US.
the other major international banks represented in London.
In other international markets, principally in continental Europe, Competition for corporate and institutional customers in the UK the Group faces competition from the leading domestic and is from UK banks and from large foreign financial institutions international institutions active in the relevant national markets.
who are also active and offer combined investment and RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 47 Operating and financial review
