qxp 19 3 07 09:32 Page 19 Retail Markets Contribution 4,364 million 2005 4,191 million Total income up 5% Operating profit up 5% Retail Markets focuses on serving our personal The Royal Bank of Scotland and NatWest maintained our commitment to development of the branch network, and small business customers.
It was established opening new branches, refurbishing or upgrading dozens in June 2005 to strengthen the co-ordination of of branches, increasing the number of branches open on our full range of retail banking services across Saturdays, and adding mobile bank routes in South Wales our brands and channels in the UK.
2006 we created four distinct business areas: We have one million new active telephone and internet Consumer Banking, Business Banking and Cards users, with an annual growth in active usage of more than & Direct Finance operate in the UK: and Wealth 25%.
Since May 2006, customers have been automatically Management serves customers in the UK, enrolled for telephone and internet banking when opening a new account.
5.4 million customers use our telephone continental Europe and the Asia Pacific region.
Our Customer Account Opening system enables Consumer Banking our customers to open additional accounts within minutes, Consumer Banking is joint first in the UK current account whether they use branches, telephone or the internet.
market and the leading provider in the UK student current account market.
We launched RBS Intermediary Partners, providing intermediaries with one point of contact for the Groups We continue to grow our share of the UK savings main mortgage brands: Royal Bank of Scotland, NatWest, market.
The number of savings accounts taken out with First Active and the One account.
NatWest in 2006 grew by 11%, and balances grew by 14%, helped by significant improvements to the speed and ease We launched Royal Bank of Scotland and NatWest of opening an account either in a branch, by telephone or Lifetime Mortgages, offering existing customers a no via the internet.
negative equity guarantee and an option of either a monthly income, lump sum or combination of both: and an interest NatWest was again the No 1 choice for student accounts, rate fixed for life.
with 42% of first-year students in England and Wales opening their current account with us.
We launched the new NatWest and RBS Private Banking services, which are tailored to the needs of Amongst high street bank customers who rate themselves customers who typically earn more than 100,000 a year, extremely satisfied with their main current account provider, or with 50,000 or more to save or invest.
We offer the the Royal Bank of Scotland retained top position and choice of a local relationship manager or advice by NatWest was again joint second.
phone through the new Private Banking Direct service.
A dedicated range of products and services, including With over 2,250 branches, the Royal Bank of Scotland flexible borrowing facilities, guaranteed deposits and an and NatWest have the UKs largest branch network.
We enhanced mortgage service have enabled us to build on also have the largest free-to-use ATM network, with over the Groups position as the UKs No1 provider of current 6,600 under the Royal Bank of Scotland, NatWest and accounts amongst this high income group.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 19 RBS Report 18-23v2.
qxp 19 3 07 09:32 Page 20 Divisional review continued New branches The Royal Bank of Scotland and NatWest have continued to extend their branch networks.
When Clydesdale Bank closed its branch in New Deer, Aberdeenshire, we worked with the local community to open a Royal Bank of Scotland branch in its place.
Retail Markets continued Retail Markets was the fastest-growing UK Bancassurer in We piloted Shariah Commercial Property Finance 2006, with sales increasing by 56% to 267 million annualised in Leeds and Bradford to provide Muslim customers premium equivalent in 2006 and 116,000 customers taking with compliant finance options.
out 8.9 billion worth of life assurance cover.
The Royal Bank of Scotland provided facilities In response to simplified pension legislation in the UK, for farmers to accept their support payments in euros.
Bancassurance modified and re-launched our Stakeholder Pension Plan and introduced a new Self-Invested Personal Mentor, our business advice service for employment Pension Plan.
We also launched a website providing law, health & safety, and tax, assisted more than 22,000 customers with detailed information on the new legislation customers last year.
and an interactive tool to help them assess its impact and decide on their best course of action.
Cards & Direct Finance Chip & PIN capability was successfully completed in We have introduced significant changes to our February 2006.
Implementation of this, together with other Bancassurance administration processes and systems.
fraud prevention initiatives, contributed to a reduction in These help to process our customers applications faster, fraud losses in 2006 for our core Retail credit card portfolios.
and include a new telephone support team and a new, shorter application form.
The relationship with Bank of China gives us access to one of the fastest-growing cards markets in the world, Business Banking and our joint business has issued 1.2 million cards in China.
The Royal Bank of Scotland and NatWest are the market leaders in small business banking in the UK.
In merchant aquiring, through our brands including Streamline and RBS Worldpay, we are the largest in In 2006, over 53,000 business customers reviewed traditional and internet payments in the UK and continental their banking needs with one of our 200 Financial Europe, and No 4 globally for traditional payments.
the largest facilitator of e-commerce payments in Europe and processed 360 million transactions via the internet in 2006.
NatWest Business Banking provides an extended hours, telephone-based, full banking service with access to a dedicated business relationship team for over 44,000 customers.
The number of NatWest business customers using internet banking regularly has increased by 28% in 2006.
20 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Divisional review Retail Markets RBS Report 18-23v2.
qxp 19 3 07 09:32 Page 21 Private Banking RBS and NatWest have the largest market share of affluent current account holders and in the past three years have seen a 30% increase in the number of customers who earn over 100,000.
Private Banking has been re-launched to meet the needs of this customer group with dedicated relationship managers, and 24 hour telephone support.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 21 RBS Report 18-23v2.
qxp 19 3 07 09:32 Page 22 Divisional review continued Mint Mobile In 2006 Mint customers were given the option of managing their credit card payments via their mobile phone.
Retail Markets continued The number of transactions processed by our payment acquiring business topped three billion for the first time, an increase of 6% on 2005.
By combining our card issuing and acquiring capabilities, we were the first in Europe to develop and trial a contactless card, for making payments of under 10 without the need for cash.
Hanco is the largest supplier of third-party ATMs in the UK.
Although Hanco offers a range of internal and external ATM options, it predominately operates ATMs on a merchant replenishment basis.
Hanco has continued to grow market share successfully ahead of competition.
Our direct brand MINT has continued to grow and as well as credit cards also offers gift cards, loans and motor insurance.
Over two thirds of MINT credit card applications come via the internet.
MINT card customers can set email and text alerts to help them manage their accounts quickly and simply, and can receive statements and balances by text message.
With five million customer accounts and 22 products and services, our joint venture Tesco Personal Finance is the UKs largest and most successful supermarket bank.
Tesco Personal Finance operates in the UK, Ireland, Hungary and Poland.
Free Access to Cash for Deprived Communities In July 2006 RBS committed to providing 300 free-to-use Tesco Personal Finance continues to expand its range cash machines for deprived and rural areas.
We have of products, and in 2006 introduced the Bonus Credit Card, worked with community groups, local authorities and the which gives customers back one months interest every National Federation of Sub-Postmasters to find host sites year a first in the UK.
Tesco Personal Finance has also for these machines.
entered the business market with the new Tesco Business Credit Card.
Tesco Personal Finance is the third-largest issuer of car insurance policies in the UK.
In 2006 we introduced Value Car Insurance, offering modified comprehensive cover to motorists who currently have only third party insurance.
22 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Divisional review Retail Markets RBS Report 18-23v2.
qxp 19 3 07 09:32 Page 23 Selected awards Wealth Management Best Banking Provider Royal Bank of Scotland Coutts & Co is the leading private bank in the UK and Your Money Direct strengthened its position with income growth of 20% and a 9% increase in customer numbers.
Coutts has continued The Innovators 2006 awards its regional expansion and now has 23 offices in the UK.
The Royal Bank of Scotland Contactless Card Scottish Financial Enterprise.
Coutts International has a network of offices in Switzerland and a presence in selected jurisdictions around the world.
Best Direct Lender NatWest In 2006 the headquarters for this business was moved from Best Bank for mortgages NatWest Switzerland to Singapore.
Your Mortgage Awards Sustained investment in Asia has seen Coutts grow Best CAM Offset Mortgage The One Account its client base by 13% and revenues in the region by 24%.
Moneyfacts Working with GBM we have enhanced our derivatives Best On Line Business Banking Provider and FX capacity which is proving attractive with ultra high Royal Bank and NatWest Business net worth clients elsewhere in the world.
Your Money Direct RBS International is one of the largest UK offshore banks The Editors Award: The race for Chinas with 39 offices across the world in nine jurisdictions and High Net Worth Individuals Coutts Asia achieved double-digit income and profit growth in 2006.
Private Banker International Awards 2006 RBS International launched a new internet banking Best specialist independent private bank Coutts UK service, i-banking, providing an online personal multiAll Euromoney awards currency, multi-jurisdiction service with access to international and same-day UK payments.
Business to Business award RBS International Chartered Institute of Marketing, Guernsey Adam & Company have five offices in the UK and one in Guernsey, and achieved a 14% growth in income, Best Current Account of 2006 RBS International its twelth successive year of double-digit income growth.
for Advantage and Royalties International Portfolio International Best Customer Retention Programme 2006 RBS International for packaged accounts Chartered Institute of Marketing The Sunday Times Best Big Companies To Work For 4th RBS Retail Banking The Sunday Times RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 23 RBS Report 24-25v2.
qxp 19 3 07 09:33 Page 24 Divisional review continued Ulster Bank Ulster Bank paid tribute to footballing legend George Best with a commemorative five pound note this year.
The response from fans around the globe was overwhelming and the limited edition of one million notes sold out in ten days.
Barbara McNarry, his sister, is pictured with one of the notes in the family home.
24 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Divisional review Ulster Bank
