Report of the directors The directors have pleasure in presenting their report together Business developments with the audited accounts for the year ended 31 December 2006.
The Group led a consortium which acquired a 10% stake in Bank of China for US$3.1 billion in 2005.
The Group itself Profit and dividends invested US$1.6 billion.
Bank of China listed on the Hong Kong The profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders of the Stock Exchange in June 2006 and on the Shanghai Stock company for the year ended 31 December 2006 amounted to Exchange in July 2006, issuing new shares equivalent to 6,202 million compared with 5,392 million for the year ended 14.14% of its enlarged share capital and raising US$13.7 31 December 2005, as set out in the consolidated income billion.
The Group did not take up its rights in the listings and statement on page 139. the consortiums shareholding in Bank of China is now 8.25%.
An interim dividend of 24.2p per ordinary share was paid on In the year since the RBS investment was completed in 6 October 2006 totalling 771 million 2005 619 million.
December 2005, good progress has been made in developing The directors now recommend that, subject to approval at the the partnership.
The joint credit card business has already Annual General Meeting, a final dividend of 66.4p per ordinary issued more than one million cards and both sides have share totalling 2,093 million 2005 1,699 million be paid on agreed to expand its scope to include all credit cards and 8 June 2007 to members on the register at the close of merchant acquiring in mainland China.
Preparations have business on 9 March 2007. been made to open pilot offices for the joint private banking business in Beijing and Shanghai early in 2007.
Co-operation Business review in corporate banking led to the completion of over 1 billion of Activities transactions in shipping, aviation and trade finance.
RBS has The company is a holding company owning the entire issued provided advice in a number of key operational areas ordinary share capital of The Royal Bank of Scotland, the including risk management, IT and human resources.
principal direct operating subsidiary undertaking of the company.
The Group comprises the company and all its subsidiary and Employees associated undertakings, including The Royal Bank of Scotland As at 31 December 2006, the Group employed 135,000 and NatWest.
Details of the principal subsidiary undertakings employees full-time equivalent basis throughout the world.
of the company are shown in Note 15 on the accounts.
Details of employee related costs are included in Note 2 on the accounts on page 143.
The Group is engaged principally in providing a wide range of banking, insurance and other financial services.
Further details Employee recruitment of the organisational structure and business overview of the Across the Group, over 20,000 employees are recruited at Group, including the products and services provided by each different levels every year.
The Group utilises a wide range of its divisions and the competitive markets in which they of recruitment channels including executive search, general operate, is contained on pages 46 and 47 of the Operating advertising, an open internal jobs market, talent fora and and financial review.
detailed succession planning to ensure that the recruitment and development of its employees are fully aligned to its Risk factors organisational requirements.
The Groups future performance and results could be materially different from expected results depending on the outcome of Employee reward certain potential risks and uncertainties.
Details of the principal The Groups continuing success is closely linked to the risk factors the Group faces are given on page 48 of the performance, skills and individual commitment of its employees.
In order to attract, motivate and retain the best available talent at every level, the Group offers a comprehensive remuneration The reported results of the Group are also sensitive to the and benefits package, Total Reward, to all employees.
accounting policies, assumptions and estimates that underlie the preparation of its financial statements.
Details of the Groups Within this package, RBSelect, the Groups benefit choice critical accounting policies and key sources of accounting programme, provides for UK staff in the Group a flexible way judgements are included in the Accounting policies on pages of tailoring their reward to reflect their own individual lifestyles.
During 2006, the Group brought retirement savings provision within RBSelect in order to provide more choice for the receipt The Groups approach to risk management, including its of retirement benefits.
Employees can also participate in bonus financial risk management objectives and policies and incentive plans specific to their business and share in the information on the Groups exposure to price, credit, liquidity Groups ongoing success through profit sharing, Buy As You and cash flow risk is discussed in Note 34 on the accounts.
Earn and Sharesave schemes, which align their interests with those of shareholders.
Financial performance A review of the Groups performance during the year ended 31 December 2006, including details of each division, and the Groups financial position as at that date is contained in the Operating and financial review on pages 49 to 78.
104 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Governance Employee learning and development these are required.
The Group provides reasonable workplace The Group maintains a strong commitment to creating and adjustments for new entrants into the Group and for existing providing learning opportunities for all its employees through a employees who become disabled during their employment.
variety of personal development and training programmes and learning networks.
The Groups employees are encouraged to Health, safety, wellbeing and security volunteer to work with its community partners.
The Group The health, safety, wellbeing and security of employees and continues to invest in leadership and management development customers continues to be a priority for the Group.
Regular which is consistent with its objective of being the employer of reviews are undertaken of both policies and processes to choice: attracting, rewarding and retaining the very best talent.
ensure compliance with current legislation and best practice.
The Group focus is on ensuring that these policies are closely Many of the Groups development programmes are delivered linked to the operational needs of the business.
at the RBS Business School, based on the Gogarburn Campus.
In the first quarter of 2006 the Group launched a Wellbeing Employee communication website which includes a health and wellbeing calendar.
The Employee engagement is encouraged through a variety of site is designed to raise awareness of international health means including the corporate intranet, Group and divisional issues and events, and to provide lifestyle education, magazines, team meetings led by line managers, briefings information and support to employees.
held by senior managers and regular dialogue with employees and employee representatives.
The Group Chief Executive and Services were extended under HelpDirect, the Groups other senior Group executives regularly communicate with Employee Assistance Programme, to provide support to all employees through Question Time style programmes, employees in the event of a critical incident.
The service broadcast on the Groups internal television network.
provides telephone access to qualified clinicians and a global network of counselling affiliates to enable the Group to provide Employee consultation a consistent level of support to individuals and the business The Groups confidential global employee opinion survey is wherever they are located.
externally designed, undertaken and analysed annually on behalf of the Group by International Survey Research ISR.
Code of ethics The survey enables employees to maximise their contribution The Group has adopted a code of ethics that is applicable to all to the Group by expressing their views and opinions on a of the Groups employees and a copy is available upon request.
Corporate responsibility A record-breaking 87% of Group employees in over 30 countries Business excellence requires that the Group meets changing completed the 2006 survey.
For the second year in a row, the customer, shareholder, investor, employee and supplier Group scored significantly above the ISR Global Financial expectations.
The Group believes that meeting high standards Services Norm in all categories.
The survey results are of environmental, social and ethical responsibility is key to the presented to the Board and at divisional and team levels.
Action plans are developed to address any issues identified.
For the financial services sector, consumer banking issues are The Group recognises trade unions in the UK and Ireland.
the primary focus, followed by financial inclusion and capability, These formal relationships are complemented by works council financial crime and corruption, employee practices, the arrangements in many of the Groups mainland Europe-based challenge of climate change, support for small businesses and operations.
The Group has a European Employee Communication community giving.
The Group takes all these responsibilities Council that provides elected employee representatives with seriously, continually monitoring and managing them through an opportunity to better understand the impact on its policies and practices across the Group.
The Board regularly European operations.
considers corporate responsibility issues and receives a formal report on these twice each year.
Diversity The Groups Managing Diversity policy sets a framework for Further details of the Groups corporate responsibility policies broadening the Groups talent base, achieving the highest levels will be contained in the 2006 Corporate Responsibility Report.
of performance, and enabling all employees to reach their full potential irrespective of age, disability, gender, marital status, Going concern political opinion, race, religious belief or sexual orientation.
The directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
The Group is also committed to ensuring that all prospective For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern applicants for employment are treated fairly and equitably basis for preparing the accounts.
Its comprehensive resourcing standards cover the attraction and retention of Corporate governance individuals with disabilities.
Reasonable adjustments are The company is committed to high standards of corporate provided to support applicants in the recruitment process where governance.
Details are given on pages 108 to 113.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 105 Governance Report of the directors continued Ordinary share capital Johnny Cameron, Mark Fisher and Bill Friedrich, who were During the year ended 31 December 2006, the company appointed to the Board on 1 March 2006, and purchased for cancellation 54.4 million of its ordinary shares at a total cost of 1 billion.
These repurchases represented Sir George Mathewson, who retired from the Board on 1.7% of the issued ordinary share capital of the company at 28 April 2006, 31 December 2006. served throughout the year and to the date of signing of the During the year, the ordinary share capital was increased by financial statements.
7.5 million ordinary shares allotted as a result of the exercise of options under the companys executive and sharesave Lawrence Fish, Sir Fred Goodwin, Archie Hunter, Bud Koch, schemes, 0.3 million ordinary shares allotted in respect of the Joe MacHale and Gordon Pell will retire and offer themselves exercise of options under the NatWest executive scheme for re-election at the companys Annual General Meeting.
which had been exchanged for options over the companys ordinary shares following the acquisition of NatWest in 2000 Details of the service agreements for Lawrence Fish, Sir Fred and 2.2 million ordinary shares allotted under the companys Goodwin and Gordon Pell are set out on pages 117 and 118. employee share ownership plan.
No other director seeking election or re-election has a service agreement.
Details of the authorised and issued ordinary share capital at 31 December 2006 are shown in Note 30 on the accounts.
Directors interests The interests of the directors in the shares of the company at Preference share capital 31 December 2006 are shown on page 125.
None of the Details of issues and redemptions of preference shares during directors held an interest in the loan capital of the company or the year and the authorised and issued preference share capital in the shares and loan capital of any of the subsidiary at 31 December 2006 are shown in Note 30 on the accounts.
undertakings of the company, during the period from 1 January 2006 to 28 February 2007.
Authority to repurchase shares At the Annual General Meeting in 2006, shareholders renewed Directors' indemnities the authority for the company to make market purchases In terms of section 309C of the Companies Act 1985 as of up to 319,778,520 ordinary shares.
As at 28 February 2007 amended, the directors of the company, members of the the latest practical date prior to printing of this report the Group Executive Management Committee and Approved company had an unexpired authority to repurchase further Persons of the Group under the Financial Services and shares up to a maximum of 265,384,899 ordinary shares of Markets Act 2000 have been granted Qualifying Third Party 25p.
Shareholders will be asked to renew this authority at the Indemnity Provisions by the company.
Annual General Meeting in April 2007.
Directors' disclosure to auditors: Bonus issue Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report Shareholders will be asked to vote at the Annual General Meeting confirms that: on a proposal for the capitalisation of part of the companys share premium account, resulting in the issue of up to 6.4 billion a so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit new ordinary shares of 25p each, details of which are set out information of which the companys auditors are unaware: in the letter to shareholders.
and Directors b the director has taken all the steps that he she ought to The names and brief biographical details of the directors are have taken as a director to make himself herself aware of shown on pages 102 and 103.
All directors, except: any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
Fred Watt, who resigned from the Board on 31 January 2006, This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in Guy Whittaker, who was appointed to the Board on 1 accordance with the provisions of section 234ZA of the February 2006, Companies Act 1985.
106 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Governance Shareholdings As at 28 February 2007, the company had been notified of the following interests in its shares.
Number of shares % held Number of shares % held 1 Ordinary shares: 5 2% cumulative preference shares: Legal & General Group plc 127,207,908 4.01 Commercial Union Assurance plc 91,429 22.86 Barclays PLC 126,836,868 4.01 Mr P. S. and Mrs J. Allen 86,999 21.75 The Capital Group of Companies, Inc 95,578,555 3.01 Bassett-Patrick Securities Limited 46,255 11.56 11% cumulative preference shares: E M Behrens Charitable Trust 20,000 5.00 Guardian Royal Exchange Mrs Gina Wild 19,800 4.95 Assurance plc 129,830 25.97 Trustees of The Stephen Cockburn Windsor Life Assurance Limited Pension Scheme 19,879 4.97 Company Limited 51,510 10.30 Miss Elizabeth Hill 16,124 4.03 Mr S. J. and Mrs J.
A. Cockburn 30,810 6.16 Mr W. T. Hardison Jr. 13,532 3.38 Cleaning Tokens Limited 25,500 5.10 Ms C. L. Allen 13,200 3.30 Ms J. C. Allen 12,750 3.18 Notification has been received on behalf of Mr A. W. R. Medlock and Mrs H. M. Medlock that they each have an interest in the 1 holding of 5 2% cumulative preference shares registered in the name of Bassett-Patrick Securities Limited noted above and that there are further holdings of 5,300 and 5,000 shares, respectively, of that class registered in each of their names.
Charitable contributions Auditors In 2006 the contribution to the Groups Community Investment The auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, have indicated their programmes increased to 58.6 million 2005 56.2 million.
willingness to continue in office.
A resolution to re-appoint The total amount given for charitable purposes by the company Deloitte & Touche LLP as the companys auditor will be and its subsidiary undertakings during the year ended proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Political donations At the Annual General Meeting in 2006, shareholders gave Miller McLean authority for the company to make political donations and incur Secretary political expenditure up to a maximum aggregate sum of 28 February 2007 500,000 as a precautionary measure in light of the wide definitions in The Political Parties, Elections and Referendums The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Act 2000, for a period of four years.
These authorities have not is registered in Scotland No.
No political donations were made during the year and it is not proposed that the Groups longstanding policy of not making contributions to any political party be changed.
Policy and practice on payment of creditors The Group is committed to maintaining a sound commercial relationship with its suppliers.
Consequently, it is the Groups policy to negotiate and agree terms and conditions with its suppliers, which includes the giving of an undertaking to pay suppliers within 30 days of receipt of a correctly prepared invoice submitted in accordance with the terms of the contract or such other payment period as may be agreed.
At 31 December 2006, the Groups trade creditors represented 28 days 2005 27 days of amounts invoiced by suppliers.
The company does not have any trade creditors.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 107 Governance
