Presentation of information In the Report and Accounts, and unless specified otherwise, International Financial Reporting Standards the term company means The Royal Bank of Scotland Group As required by the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the plc, RBS or the Group means the company and its subsidiary European Union IAS Regulation, the consolidated financial undertakings, the Royal Bank means The Royal Bank of statements of the Group are prepared in accordance with Scotland plc and NatWest means National Westminster Bank Plc.
International Financial Reporting Standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and The company publishes its financial statements in pounds interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting sterling or sterling.
The abbreviations m and bn Interpretations Committee of the IASB together IFRS as represent millions and thousands of millions of pounds adopted by the European Union.
On implementation of IFRS sterling, respectively, and references to pence represent on 1 January 2005, the Group took advantage of the option in pence in the United Kingdom UK.
Reference to dollars or IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting $ are to United States of America US dollars.
The Standards to implement IAS 39 Financial Instruments: abbreviations $m and $bn represent millions and thousands Recognition and Measurement, IAS 32 Financial Instruments: of millions of dollars, respectively, and references to cents Disclosure and Presentation and IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts represent cents in the US.
The abbreviation represents the from 1 January 2005 without restating its 2004 income euro, the European single currency and the abbreviations m statement and balance sheet.
The date of transition to IFRS for and bn represent millions and thousands of millions of euros, the Group and the company and the date of their opening respectively.
IFRS balance sheets was 1 January 2004.
Certain information in this report is presented separately for The Groups published 2004 financial statements were prepared domestic and foreign activities.
Domestic activities primarily in accordance with then current UK generally accepted consist of the UK domestic transactions of the Group.
Foreign accounting principles UK GAAP or previous GAAP activities comprise the Groups transactions conducted comprising standards issued by the UK Accounting Standards through those offices in the UK specifically organised to Board, pronouncements of the Urgent Issues Task Force, service international banking transactions and transactions relevant Statements of Recommended Accounting Practice conducted through offices outside the UK.
and provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
The Group also presents information under generally accepted accounting The geographic analysis in the average balance sheet and principles in the US US GAAP.
interest rates, changes in net interest income and average interest rates, yields, spreads and margins in this report have been compiled on the basis of location of office UK and overseas.
Management believes that this presentation provides more useful information on the Groups yields, spreads and margins of the Groups activities than would be provided by presentation on the basis of the domestic and foreign activities analysis used elsewhere in this report as it more closely reflects the basis on which the Group is managed.
UK in this context includes domestic transactions and transactions conducted through the offices in the UK which service international banking transactions.
The results, assets and liabilities of individual business units are classified as trading or non-trading based on their predominant activity.
Although this method may result in some non-trading activity being classified as trading, and vice versa, the Group believes that any resulting misclassification is not material.
44 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Operating and financial review
