qxp 19 3 07 09:37 Page 35 Manufacturing Manufacturing is the engine room of the RBS group, supplying processing and telephone services, IT, property, purchasing and security expertise to the Groups customer-facing divisions.
Our support and services enable the Group to We operate one of the worlds largest and most advanced mainframe computer environments, delivering operate around the clock, and provide a strong, extremely high levels of service availability.
This supports stable and scalable platform for future growth.
over 122,000 desktop PCs, and the servers, mainframe and storage for these all to run efficiently and securely, as well Manufacturing employs more than 25,000 people as more than 7,500 ATMs and 475,350 merchant terminals.
across the UK, Republic of Ireland and continental In 2006 over 100 key technology systems supporting Europe and manages the UKs largest free-to-use customer transactions and employee systems were available ATM network.
During 2006 our retail customer an average 99.9% of the time, even though we make many service centres received just under 70 million upgrades and changes to systems daily.
We have been able to reduce the delivery time of new IT developments customer calls.
by creating a scalable production environment.
We manage and maintain over 3,200 buildings around the world, covering 2.1 million square metres and providing workplaces for 135,000 people.
Our e-sourcing programme continues to be one of the largest of any company in the world, with 2006 throughput of over 1 billion.
We use a common purchasing approach across all divisions to make the most of our scale.
We have applied a number of improved fraud detection tools, focusing on real-time fraud detection.
We reduced fraud throughout the Group by 24% in 2006 and 50% since 2004.
We have streamlined the way we produce and handle statements, cheque books and debit cards, generating seven million fewer sheets of paper.
Printed documents are stored as an image that can be called up and processed at any location.
This eliminates the risk of lost paper and improves the management of queries.
Manufacturings Lean programme which uses techniques to remove waste, improve the flow of work and ultimately improve customer service has created the capacity for Manufacturing to provide more support to all divisions.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 35 RBS Report 34-37v2.
qxp 19 3 07 09:37 Page 36 Divisional review continued Ulster Bank Integration In 2006 we successfully completed the integration of Ulster Bank and First Active onto the RBS technology platform.
This was a complex programme involving the integration of three banks and two currencies in two jurisdictions.
2.5 million customer accounts and 30 billion of customer balances were transferred.
Manufacturing continued Highlights of 2006 We successfully won and implemented the handling Ulster Bank integration was the Groups biggest of Tescos England and Wales cash, coin and clearing integration project since NatWest, involving nearly 2,000 business, equalling a total cash and coin business of business and technology staff across the Group.
It was 9.6 billion, and processing of eight million cheques a complex programme involving the integration of three per year.
banks and two currencies in two jurisdictions.
The Ulster Bank integration successfully migrated systems and Recently the Group launched the Welcome Account, processes from Ulster Bank Retail and First Active onto which provides the increasing number of Polish speakers the RBS group Manufacturing model.
This involved moving in the UK with a current account, a money transmission 2.5 million customer accounts and 30 billion of balances account and a debit card.
The service also offers a dualto the RBS group platform in a single weekend.
language website and an option to talk to a Polish-speaking customer service adviser.
Ulster Bank Group is now well positioned to take advantage of existing RBS products and services and We created a telephone service for Private Banking future developments on the Groups platform.
As a result customers allowing them to make transactions and speak of this integration, our core retail systems now support to an adviser round the clock.
We have supported the euro processing, and will be able to support any future significant business growth of Coutts with a 20% increase euro-based brands.
in the number of new accounts opened and an increase of 22% of payments processed.
On our busiest payment processing day in 2006 we processed over 100,000 outward CHAPS payments, worth By training people in multiple skills and adopting over 118 billion.
We are among the top 10 senders of flexible working hours we are able to redeploy staff to SWIFT payments globally.
This increased flexibility resulted in call centre staff handling 11% more calls per person In 2006, the Royal Bank of Scotland and NatWest than in 2005. brands had 2.3 million customers banking online, an increase of 33% from 2005.
We continue to reap the benefits of using UK Mail to distribute our correspondence around the country, Our customer contact centres generated more with Royal Mail providing final delivery to our customers than 1.57 million sales leads during 2006, compared in a process known as Downstream Access.
331 million items were delivered using this method, generating savings to the Group of over 10 million.
In 2006, staff processed over 13% more new mortgage applications per person, compared with 2005.
The Group collaborates with two charities, GreenWorks and Recycle Scotland, to recycle surplus office Corporate Service Centres opened 123,000 new furniture for re-use by non-profit organisations, donating accounts in 2006, a 13.8% rise over 2005. over 1,700 tonnes of office furniture in 2006 for use in schools, hospitals and community groups.
Lombard Operations supported 17% growth in UK new business deals for Lombard Asset Finance.
36 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Divisional review Manufacturing RBS Report 34-37v2.
qxp 19 3 07 09:37 Page 37 Selected awards World-class global sourcing leaders Group Purchasing A. T. Kearney Assessment of Excellence in Procurement study World-class real estate organisation Group Property University College London UCL World-class Management System for Hub and Spoke Operations Manufacturing Operations University of Warwick Best Banking Provider Direct Banking Your Money Direct Awards Learning Organisation Award The One account Unisys Service Excellence Awards Corporate Occupier of the Year Award Scottish Property Awards.
Compliance Initiative of the Year Group Technology Polish bank account With over 300,000 Polish speakers Banker FT now resident in the UK, NatWest has launched the first dedicated Polish bank account in Britain.
Special features Project of the Year, Private Sector Group Enterprise which meet the needs of the Polish community include Platform a second account to allow the transfer of money to family Techworld Network Awards members in Poland, a dedicated Polish call centre and all Polish material available both in print and online.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 37
