DIRECTORS AND MANAGERS Directors and Managers Members of the Board come from a broad variety of backgrounds.
The Board can draw on a very extensive pool of knowledge and experience.
Baillie Gifford & Co, a leading UK investment management firm, who act as Managers and Secretaries to the Company have done so since its formation in 1909.
3 MM Gray 5 JPHS Scott Directors Michael Gray, 58, joined the Board in John Scott is a former international 1 Sir Donald MacKay 2004 after a successful career in printing investment banker who maintains a number Sir Donald MacKay, the Chairman, is an and technology industries where he of interests in the investment trust sector.
economist with an extensive record in gained valuable global business John is 53 and was appointed a Director in advising governments, organisations and experience.
He is a former executive director of companies.
Sir Donald is 69 and was executive he led the growth of McQueen Lazard Brothers & Co. Limited.
During his appointed a Director in 1999 and became International over a 17 year period as it twenty years with Lazard, he was involved Chairman in 2003.
He is also Chairman of with the merchant banks corporate advisory evolved from being a printing company the Nomination Committee.
He was into a global enterprise providing a range activities and its Asian businesses.
He is Professor of Political Economy at Aberdeen of support services to technology currently a director of various companies, University and Professor of Economics at companies.
On McQueens acquisition, he including Martin Currie Pacific Trust plc, JP Heriot-Watt University.
He is a former became senior vice president of Sykes Morgan Fleming Claverhouse Investment Trust chairman of The Malcolm Group PLC and Enterprises Inc. a global NASDAQ quoted plc, Xaar plc, Miller Insurance Services and Scottish Enterprise and is currently a director outsourcing services company.
He retired Schroder Japan Growth Fund plc.
In addition, of Edinburgh New Income Trust plc.
from Sykes in 1999 and currently has he is chairman of Dunedin Income Growth many business, community, charity and Investment Trust PLC and Endace Limited.
2 GA Ball sporting interests and responsibilities Geoffrey Ball, the senior independent including being a member of the Advisory 6 Lord Strathclyde director, is a long-standing director who Board of the Scottish Institute of Sport Thomas Strathclyde, currently Leader of also has considerable industrial experience the Opposition in the House of Lords, has Foundation.
He is a former director of in the house building sector.
Geoffrey is Scottish Enterprise and the Scottish considerable political experience.
Tom is 62 and was appointed a Director in 1983.
46 and was appointed a Director in 2004.
He is executive chairman of Cala Group His parliamentary career to date includes Ltd, having led the management buy out in 4 WG McQueen extensive ministerial experience at the 1999.
He was president of the House Gordon McQueen, the Chairman of the Departments of Employment, the Environment, Builders Federation of England and Wales Audit Committee, brings to the Board first Trade and Industry and the Scottish Office.
from 2001 to 2003 and he was a director class financial and banking expertise.
Prior to entering politics in 1988 as a of The Standard Life Assurance Company Gordon is 59 and was appointed a Government Whip, Lord Strathclyde worked for 13 years until 2001.
He was an executive in the City for the insurance brokers, Bain director of HBOS plc, Bank of Scotland and Dawes.
Lord Strathclyde is also chairman Halifax plc, where his main role was chief of London based hedge fund manager executive, Treasury.
He is a director of The Trafalgar Capital Management and a director Alliance Trust PLC, The Second Alliance of Galena Capital Management Limited and Trust PLC, JP Morgan Mid Cap Investment Marketform Limited.
He is also the president Trust plc and Shaftesbury PLC.
of the Quoted Companies Alliance.
06 ANNUAL REPORT 2006 DIRECTORS AND MANAGERS 1 2 3 4 5 6 both in the UK and overseas.
Funds under The firm of Baillie Gifford & Co are Managers and Secretaries the management or advice of Baillie authorised and regulated by Scottish Mortgage is managed by Baillie Gifford total over 47 billion.
Based in the Financial Services Authority.
Gifford & Co, an investment management Edinburgh, it is one of the leading firm formed in 1927 out of the legal firm Management Details privately owned investment management Baillie & Gifford, WS, which had been Baillie Gifford & Co are appointed as firms in the UK, with 29 partners and a Managers and Secretaries to the Company investment managers and secretaries to the staff of around 450. since its formation in 1909.
The management contract can Baillie Gifford & Co are one of the The manager of Scottish Mortgages be terminated at 12 months notice.
largest investment trust managers in the portfolio is James Anderson, a partner of UK and currently manage eight investment Management Fee Baillie Gifford where he is Chief trusts.
Baillie Gifford also manage unit Investment Officer and Head of the Baillie Gifford & Cos annual remuneration trusts and open ended investment is 0.32% of total assets less current Global Team.
He is ultimately responsible companies, together with investment for stock selection and works closely with liabilities excluding short term borrowings portfolios on behalf of pension funds, for investment purposes, calculated and the other Heads of the Investment payable on a quarterly basis.
charities and other institutional clients, Departments.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 07
