MANAGERS REVIEW Managers Review express our stock preference with more markets, countries, sectors and stocks over the The Year in Review conviction but little extra risk.
We now have next three months.
This leaves those less Returns have been strong in the last year.
just five Japanese holdings as opposed to 12 obsessed by the volatility of indices with ever Global equity markets have risen steadily.
Some readers may find it greater opportunities.
own performance has been good.
As provocative that this has happened at a proposed last year we have ceased to moment when the Japanese economy had We invest globally.
We think this is the most provide geographical details of our finally shown signs of vitality and when many rational approach in a world in which the performance.
We provide overall figures for managers are optimistic about prospects for impact of globalisation is a truism.
We find it the trust and individual stock results for our top the Tokyo market.
We are confident that the puzzling that so many investors still think in 30 holdings.
We have nothing to hide but we economy had revived at least temporarily but terms of national or regional stock allocations are ever more convinced that providing short we are sceptical whether this translates into a when both companies and countries are so term regional performance data is damaging stock market offering many companies with inextricably bound in a multinational web.
to the application of common sense and clear and powerful competitive advantages.
We are sceptical of the theoretical or intelligence in fund management.
The Of those that did offer such attractions the practical rationales for thinking in terms of tendency to be held in thrall by index weights number of bargains in a global context has national market multiples or risk premiums.
and the daily noise of volatility interferes with sharply diminished.
We would cite our sale Our sole concession is that we take our both the commitment to searching out stocks of the long-held and still admirable retailer commitment to real dividend growth seriously.
that offer superior long-term returns and the Yamada Denki as falling into this category.
This means that our UK exposure though ability to be courageous in purchasing stocks declining is greater than it would otherwise when they are out of favour.
Three years is the As long-term investors we believe that the be but here too we do our best to incorporate absolute minimum over which skill rather than possibilities open to us have seldom been the global context in assessing opportunities.
randomness can be assessed and we try very greater.
We have little ability to predict the hard to apply this standard of judgement to direction of markets over the next year and Although we consider all forecasts with our own efforts.
Since we started articulating find some amusement in the confidence with caution we think the path of least resistance this philosophy three years ago the results which others offer such forecasts.
Yet in the next decade leads to ever greater have been encouraging but we reiterate that precisely by trying to put aside some of the globalisation and the associated rise of what this is the bare minimum for any serious habits of fund management as commonly are conveniently, if questionably, known as judgement of our abilities.
We will endeavour practiced today we have the scope to add emerging markets.
The impact of the to remember that over confidence is a significant value for our shareholders over profound changes being seen in China, besetting sin of fund managers.
More and more India, Eastern Europe and Latin America is There has been another substantial fall in the managers, aided and abetted by the rise of likely to become the dominant backdrop to number of equity holdings from 101 to 86. hedge funds, the influence of the investment investment decisions.
This does not mean that We would be surprised if this process of banks, and the unintended consequences of the economies of these markets will ill-considered regulation have abandoned the continually prosper and still less that their concentration goes much further although there may still be scope for a small shrinkage effort to invest in individual companies and stock markets will always flourish but it does in the number of UK listed stocks in order to instead speculate as to the direction of mean that we should consider how each of 08 ANNUAL REPORT 2006 MANAGERS REVIEW 1 CVRD 2 Gazprom Iron ore mining within CVRDs Carajas Mine in The first joint of the Russian onshore section of North East Brazil.
the North European Gas Pipeline, 9 December 2005.
1 2 our stocks fits into this global transformation.
the same investment standards to companies natural response is still to be prepared to add Equally, historic relationships and assumed headquartered in emerging markets as we do to our exposure.
We are puzzled at the correlations will frequently break down to those in developed markets.
We do not limited exposure so many investors maintain.
throughout the world as this takes place.
The purchase them simply because they are We would very much like to understand risk models that many rely too heavily upon based in emerging markets but because they where else they think the growth opportunities will probably be a hindrance rather than a have the competitive positions, growth in the global markets are going to come from help.
opportunities and valuation attractions that in the next twenty years.
would appeal to us anywhere in the world.
We are growth stock investors.
This has been That these characteristics can frequently be None of this means that there will not be unpopular for the last five years.
Whilst this found in emerging markets stocks hardly setbacks inspired either by economic and has been frustrating it has meant that we are seems surprising to us given the human political setbacks or stock overvaluation.
The now in the pleasant position of being able to capital, educational progress, technological country that we worry most about at present find many companies with strong secular prowess and resource endowment that many is Poland where the combination of populist growth opportunities trading at ratings that of these countries offer.
That valuations have politics and economic imbalances seems the are undemanding relative to both the broader been so attractive shows to our mind just how worst attempt to re-invent the toxic mixtures market and their own history.
It may require far the memory of past economic crises, that led to the emerging market crises of the patience to benefit from this situation but that investor adherence to index weights and past.
We have no exposure to this economy.
is precisely what our investment trust ought to unwarranted scepticism about the importance From a valuation perspective we regret that be able to offer.
of profitable growth has become.
If the longthe two Indian stocks that we have owned, predicted downturn in the global economy Hero Honda and HDFC, have risen to ratings The Portfolio triggered by inadequate US savings and that are now more demanding than we In this section twelve months ago we consequent indebtedness does occur then would prefer.
Given that valuation is at best discussed the rise of emerging markets, their naturally emerging markets will tremble but an inexact science we have cut back rather commodity and industrial impacts, the the real risk and damage will be done in than sold our holdings but this represents the attractions of disciplined technology investing, America and other mature economies as first time that we have found this necessary in the virtues of selected US financials and their problems extend beyond losses in companies for which we still retain much consumer staples and the undervaluation of profitability to serious balance sheet admiration.
All these themes remain central to our quandaries.
At a time of crisis it is balance thinking about equity opportunities for the sheets that dominate investor mentalities.
General Motors to the US government the Many of our most profitable investments over debtors are predominately in America not the last year have been in natural resources.
How We Think about Investment in emerging markets.
In short from both a risk We did not start with a particularly notable Emerging Markets and an opportunity stand-point we think exposure to this subsequently fashionable Whilst we have already touched on the rise emerging markets are better placed than the area but we were fortunate enough to have of the emerging economies some more developed world.
To us when we can find owned a selection of companies that have specific words may be of interest.
We apply individual stocks that meet our criteria the been powerful beneficiaries of rising SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 09 MANAGERS REVIEW 1 Canon 2 Porsche Canon colour scanner.
Porsches range of cars include the Boxster left and the 911 Carrera S Convertible right.
Porsche continue to experience growing sales figures both in their traditional markets and nations throughout the developing world.
In fact we are quite concerned that even a modest slowing of enthusiastic supporters of the Swedish surprised just how much we have benefited global growth could affect pricing as supply engineering duo Atlas Copco and Sandvik.
from our preference for resource rich rather gradually increases.
We are therefore In both cases the last year has seen their than index heavy stocks.
Most notably redoubling our search for companies that mining equipment divisions come into better Petrobras and Gazprom have risen to be our have a sufficiently secure competitive position focus and it is typical of the disciplined and two largest holdings.
Whilst we would be to ride out a potential downturn.
We are patient capital allocation of these two surprised if their performance of the last more confident that this is most evidently so companies that such activities were supported twelve months can be replicated in the year amongst the focused emerging market quoted and expanded in times when many less ahead we remain comfortable with the size stocks rather than the diversified giants.
We resilient managements would have despaired of the holdings.
Petrobras is able to expand particularly admire the strong market position of seeing adequate returns.
We have, production and reserves in a manner that is and iron ore reserve base of CVRD and have however, sold ABB as we felt that the rise in the envy of the traditional majors at a still been building up this holding at the expense the share price was sufficient to make our undemanding rating.
Gazprom continues to of the BHP Billiton position.
We have been questions over their sustainable competitive be a controversial but successful investment.
rewarded for last years patience with Anglo advantages more relevant.
Thus far this has Over the last year it has ever more clearly American Platinum by a return to market proven a premature decision.
demonstrated the awesome power of its favour of this metal and, latterly, by takeover resource base and pipeline infrastructure speculation that has prompted us to reduce We are still owners of three automobile whilst making surprisingly significant efforts to our holding.
Porsche, BMW and Nissan all see that shareholders are the beneficiaries of appear to be amongst the few winners in this this dominance.
We still have no desire to Industrials tough industry.
The two German companies own the shares of the British, American or One of the challenges for us as growth continue to exploit their brand strength and European oil majors.
We think the last year investors is trying to move towards companies the global appetite for luxury product, whilst has only emphasised the paucity of their and sectors that have outstanding prospects Nissans low cost manufacturing, product reserves and the difficulties they face in for the future rather than to become unduly strength and tough management have rebuilding them.
We are somewhat agnostic attracted by what has grown in the past.
If we have a about the likely course of oil prices but we has been critical in thinking about the broad concern over any of these companies it is would be surprised if crude fell below the industrial field.
The scope for profitable probably at Porsche where we are yet to be approximately $40 level which would start to growth has been transformed by opportunities entirely persuaded of the virtues of building a undermine the long-term case for our in emerging markets.
This is becoming a stake in Volkswagen but we are wary of holdings.
generally accepted orthodoxy now but was second guessing a management with such a an unusual hypothesis only two years ago.
Broader commodity prices have also been We continue to think that there are appealing driven higher by the combination of persistent investments to be made but the greater Technology Chinese demand and improved OECD recognition of the virtues of many of the Last year we commented on the generally economic activity.
Whilst this has been of stocks in our portfolio makes us determined to subdued share performance of our technology benefit to our portfolio we are becoming be ever more selective.
This year there has been some 10 ANNUAL REPORT 2006 MANAGERS REVIEW 1 The Hershey Company 2 Ryland A selection of Hershey confectionery.
A Ryland home built in the Washington D. C. area.
1 2 improvement in prices but we still feel that the enjoys.
We regard both continued investment strong profitability and consistent growth excellent business performance of many in its global footprint and the purchase of prospects.
We sold our successful investment dominant companies is only being grudgingly Skype as sensible despite their dampening in Wendys as the value of its ownership of acknowledged by markets.
Some of this impact on short-term earnings.
Tim Hortons had become more apparent to scepticism is just the general reluctance to the market.
We replaced it with a stake in embrace growth stocks that we have already Financial, Consumer Staples and Brown-Forman, the maker of Jack Daniels and commented on but there also seems to be a now Housing in America Southern Comfort, as the power of its focused specific set of anxieties over technology that US equities have continued to under-perform marketing expertise continues to drive probably owes much to a reaction against global indices over the last year.
Despite this pleasing sales growth.
the long-gone but emotionally draining days the US stocks that we own have once again of the internet bubble.
We have therefore added value for our shareholders.
We think We are intrigued by how many people added to our existing holdings and made that the discipline of simply picking equities throughout the world appear to be worried new investments which excite us for the future that we believe to be intrinsically and about the stability of the US housing market.
despite the downbeat market mood.
individually attractive rather than making a Whilst these anxieties may have some decision to allocate a set percentage of economic basis what seems much clearer is We have increased our holdings in Samsung assets to North America has helped us to that US house-building equities already Electronics, SAP and Canon.
We must again pay tribute to discount a great deal of bad news.
Given the stocks have little in common by geography or the calibre of advice and decisions in our US demographic tailwinds, prime property technology but all of them possess dominant department which has long refused to behave scarcity, increasing scale advantages, solid global leadership and demonstrate an as index sensitive traders in favour of balance sheets and near book value ratings admirable willingness to reinvest in their core remaining dedicated stock pickers with we think that this is becoming an area of businesses and an associated refusal to particular skills in assessing consumer staples considerable interest.
Returns are higher and pander to short-term earnings guidance and financials.
A notable example of this has valuations substantially lower than for UK obsession of the markets.
We would be been our successful holding in Moodys, the builders.
At present we have purchased disappointed not to own these stocks for credit rating agency, with a franchise that we Ryland, which appears to us to be one of the years to come.
cannot find elsewhere in the world and a best run and more conservative companies simplicity of business model that is unusual in and we may increase our exposure in the We have bought holdings in eBay and the complex world of unwieldy financial year ahead.
These purchases are the key conglomerates.
Only valuation has made us reason that our US exposure has risen in the trim our holding in recent months.
The UK Market course of the year.
Neither has helped our The UK market returned 28.0% in the year to performance as yet but we continue to view We have added to our holding of Hershey.
31 March, the third successive year of share price weakness as an opportunity to Whilst we consider it implausible that its double digit positive returns.
Although add to our holdings.
We are particularly chocolate will interest global appetites it is domestic growth was subdued, the market attracted by the outstanding network driven clear that it remains a brand with powerful offers significant exposure to the strong global competitive advantages and returns that eBay mind-share in its American heartland with economy which allowed profits and SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 11 MANAGERS REVIEW 1 Carnival 2 British Land Carnival now dominates the world cruising British Lands City office portfolio has seen a industry.
1 2 dividends to continue to rise at a healthy rate, Royal Bank of Scotland has yet to be portfolio on companies where we have a while the abundance of cheap credit repaid.
The UK property sector has also high degree of confidence in sustainable contributed to a boom in takeovers and been a highly profitable area for the fund longer term growth and rising profitability and corporate restructuring which pushed share over recent years, with a recovery in rents we bought new holdings in Yell, Schroders valuations higher.
and falling yields translating into very strong and Inchcape, all of which have made a share price performance thanks to high positive contribution to date.
Our UK portfolio modestly beat the FT Allfinancial gearing and the narrowing of Share Index despite a relatively low exposure discounts.
Most of these drivers now look to UK economic growth was sluggish in 2005 to the resource industries, where we find the be slowing and with future returns likely to and we expect more of the same going most appealing investment opportunities be much more modest we have begun to forward, with high levels of consumer and outside the UK stock market.
We added to reduce exposure.
Disappointments included public debt dampening domestic demand.
our position in Rio Tinto, attracted by the Vodafone, where we made significant While the stock market offers exposure to combination of low cost long life reserves reductions in the face of deteriorating much more than just the domestic economy, with a consistent and long-term management prospects, mainly driven by falling prices.
some of our recent favourites have seen a approach but we have continued to shun the We remain hopeful that the UK consumers significant rerating and now look less UK listed oil majors BP and Royal Dutch Shell, appetite for DIY will recover and are appealing.
Unless we can identify a range of both of which were poor performers over the retaining our so far unsuccessful investments new buying ideas, the UK stake may continue period.
Underperformance and a steady rise in Kingfisher owner of B&Q and Travis to shrink simply because we are able to find in expectations for future oil prices and profits Perkins owner of Wickes, while we have a broader range of potential investments have combined to reduce the prospective taken advantage of weakness in Royal Bank elsewhere in the world.
valuations on both companies but for the time of Scotland, Reed Elsevier and Carnival to being we continue to identify better add to our already significant positions.
Fixed Interest investment opportunities in overseas markets.
Scottish Mortgages bond portfolio earned a Towards the end of the period we also sold Portfolio activity was higher than usual, with return of 9.6% in the year to 31 March.
our preferred UK energy company BG, net sales of approaching 60m, leading to a World economic growth has generally been following a surge in the share price and fall in the number of UK investments and a higher than expected, the United States valuation, in part fuelled by takeover further decline in the proportion of assets economy has grown only slightly less than in speculation.
The two largest sales 2004 while Europe and Japan are showing were BG and the reduction of Vodafone but signs of sustainable economic recovery.
Elsewhere we benefited from a strong others included Allied Domecq and BOC, Importantly for bond markets, consumer price recovery in the share price of the hedge both of which received bids from European inflation has remained very subdued despite fund manager Man Group and also from companies: the media companies BSkyB and higher oil prices.
In many respects the most Standard Chartered and Northern Rock, all Trinity Mirror, which are both experiencing disappointing economic performance has of which had seen substantial purchases in increased competition enabled by new been that of the United Kingdom where the previous year, although our continued technologies: and the life insurers Aviva and growth has been lower than expected and confidence in the investment appeal of Friends Provident.
We continue to focus our inflation higher.
12 ANNUAL REPORT 2006 MANAGERS REVIEW 1 Daimler Chrysler 2 CMA CGM Daimler Chrysler is a leading automobile CMA CGM is one of the worlds largest manufacturer, best known for container shipping companies, operating US Mercedes-Benz, Chrysler, Jeep and over 240 vessels between ports in Dodge brands.
1 2 The response of both the United States and With little anticipation of falling government remained extremely low for the third year in European central banks has been to raise bond yields, the focus is firmly finding succession.
The European high yield market short-term interest rates from their unusually low companys whose bonds will benefit from returned 6.6% in 2005, easily eclipsing levels.
The Fed raised rates eight times to improved creditworthiness.
While strong returns on government bonds and investment reach a level of 4.75% while the ECB raised corporate earnings are aiding this quest, grade bonds.
48% of the Trusts bond rates from 2% to 2.5% in two steps.
Against there has been a clear trend towards portfolio is high yield, up from 29% in 2005, the global trend, the Bank of England cut its companies taking a more shareholder and high yield was a major contributor to base borrowing rate to 4.5% in August in the friendly approach.
In concrete terms this performance this year.
face of weakening consumer spending.
means higher dividend payments, large share buy-backs and more debt-financed The outlook is for moderate returns from US ten year government bond yields rose by investment: each of these factors can lead to investment grade bonds.
In the absence of an 0.4% and euro government bonds by 0.2%.
So economic slowdown, high yield bonds will As a result returns were meagre in both while corporate bonds performed slightly probably do rather better.
In all cases, with markets 1.9% and 2.7% respectively.
Gilts better than government bonds in aggregate, corporate activity an increasingly volatile did much better, ten year bonds returning this masked a highly variable pattern of factor, we expect our stock-picking abilities to 6.9% as yields fell by 0.3%.
As well as the returns at stock level.
weaker economy, sterling bonds benefited from strong buying by pension funds owing to We have found an unusual number of Portfolio Outlook regulatory changes.
Scottish Mortgages opportunities recently in the insurance Whilst three years of steady recovery in bond portfolio benefited from strengthening industry.
The increased oversight of financial equities may have made investors somewhat currencies the US dollar appreciated by regulators has considerably reduced the risks complacent we still find scope for cautious 8.9% and the euro by 1.4%.
of malfeasance or poor balance sheet optimism.
Fundamentally we are still finding discipline and, in particular, UK life insurance too many companies with high quality The Trusts fixed interest portfolio consists of companies now bear considerably less earnings streams and appealing growth bonds issued by various companies in exposure to the equity market.
2005s prospects selling at reasonable valuations to sterling, euros and US dollars.
It has shrunk in extraordinarily high losses following the want to raise cash or even reduce our modest size from 75 million to 66 million over the Caribbean hurricane season illustrated the gearing.
A setback is always possible and past twelve months due to shifts in the Trusts strength of Lloyds and the major reinsurance there are sufficient political and economic asset allocation.
The biggest change in the companies reserves.
We have, therefore, anxieties to provide the rationalisation for any portfolio was the sale of our long-standing bought bonds issued by Lloyds of London such correction but at present we would see investment in Bank of Scotland Shared and Talanx, the owner of Hannover Re.
such a development as likely to provide Appreciation Mortgage bonds which had opportunities for new purchases and done well from past growth in house prices.
The economic environment and generally additions rather than as a cause for long-term Some of the proceeds have been reinvested improved investor sentiment have been concern.
Demonstrating our ability to identify in a range of corporate bonds, particularly beneficial for the high yield bond market.
The these opportunities will be the decisive task in higher yielding securities.
default rate for highly-indebted companies the years ahead.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 13
