DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Report The Directors have pleasure in submitting merit the Company taking a geared position The movement in net asset value per their Annual Report together with the results to equities.
Gearing levels, and the extent of ordinary share after deducting debentures of the Company for the year to equity gearing, both in absolute terms and at market value : 31 March 2006. relative to the peer group, are discussed by the Board and Managers at every Board The movement in the share price: meeting.
The portion of borrowings which is Business Review The movement of net asset value and share not invested in equities may be invested in price performance compared to the Objective fixed interest securities.
Benchmark: Scottish Mortgage carries on business as an Investment Trust.
The investment objective is to The discount after deducting debentures at Discount maximise total return, whilst also generating market value : The Board recognises that it is in the long real dividend growth, from a focused and term interests of shareholders to reduce actively managed global portfolio.
The equity The total expense ratio: discount volatility and believes that the portfolio is relatively concentrated and Earnings per share: prime driver of discounts over the longer investments are chosen on their long-term merits term is performance.
The Board does not rather than with reference to geographical Dividend per share.
intend to issue a precise discount target at asset allocation or the composition of an index.
which shares will be bought back as it The one and five year records of the KPIs are Investment Strategy believes that the announcement of specific shown on pages 2, 3 and 21. targets is likely to hinder rather than help the Scottish Mortgage is positioned as a truly active fund and does not attempt to track its successful execution of a buyback policy.
In addition to the above, the Board Future buybacks will be considered by benchmark index.
Investments are chosen for considers peer group comparative reference to the Companys discount relative inclusion within the equity portfolio by looking performance.
A range of comparator groups to its peers.
closely at the merits of individual companies.
are used including: a group of the five The investment approach focuses on three During the year the Company bought back a largest AITC Global Growth investment trusts points: total of 7,530,000 shares for cancellation, Large Trust Peer Group, a universe of Taking a global perspective: increasing net asset value per share by global growth trusts as defined by 0.44%.
Winterflood Securities, the AITC Global Maintaining a relatively concentrated equity Growth Sector and the larger Standard portfolio: and Poors universe of Global Growth Trusts.
Performance Having a long-term investment horizon.
The Companys net asset value and share At each Board meeting, the Directors Further details of investment strategy can be price total return performance compared to consider a number of performance measures found in the Chairmans Statement on the Large Trust Peer Group and the AITC to assess the Companys success in achieving page 4 and the Managers Review on Global Growth Sector is shown in the its objectives.
The Board also reviews the The key performance indicators KPIs used to absolute and relative discount.
At 31 March Gearing measure the progress and performance of the 2006 the discount was 10.7% compared to Borrowings are invested in equity markets Company over time are established industry 7.8% for the weighted average of the AITC when it is considered that investment grounds measures and are as follows: Global Growth Sector.
22 ANNUAL REPORT 2006 DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Attendance at Meetings Audit Nomination Board Committee Committee Number of meetings 72 2 Sir Donald MacKay 72 2 GA Ball 72 2 MM Gray 52 1 WG McQueen 72 2 JPHS Scott 62 1 Lord Strathclyde 62 2 Net Asset Value and Share Price Total discussion takes place on development and The financial highlights for the year under strategic direction.
The Companys brokers, review are as follows: the net asset value per Return Performance UBS, present to the Board on an annual share increased by 46.5% during the year, One Five basis and cover the topics of sector compared to an increase in the benchmark of Year Years developments, perception of the Company 26.3%, dividends increased by 15.6% to %% and relevant strategic issues.
8.50p per share and the discount narrowed Net Asset Value ` 47.7 48.6 from 16.5% to 10.7%.
Benchmark 29.7 24.5 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Large Trust Peer Group 34.6 28.4 The principal risks facing the Company relate Dividends weighted average net asset value to the Companys investment activities and The Board recommends a final dividend of include market risk, interest rate risk, credit AITC Global Growth Sector 36.6 34.5 4.65p per ordinary share which, together risk, liquidity risk, foreign currency risk and weighted average net asset value with the interim of 3.85p already paid, loss of investment trust status.
An explanation Share Price 60.1 53.9 makes a total of 8.50p for the year of these risks and how they are managed are compared with 7.35p for the previous Large Trust Peer Group 39.0 30.2 contained in note 23 to the accounts on weighted average share price year.
AITC Global Growth Sector 40.9 38.0 If approved, the recommended final weighted average share price dividend on the ordinary shares will be paid Financials on 5 July 2006 to shareholders on the In the year under review, the Company has Source: AITC Fundamental Data register at the close of business on 9 June had to comply with a number of new Total return includes both capital growth 2006.
The ex-dividend date is 7 June Financial Reporting Standards which were and income reinvested.
2006. introduced as part of the UK convergence programme with International Financial ` Net asset value total return after deducting Reporting Standards.
The main changes to Status debentures at par.
the Companys financial statements resulting The Company is an investment company from these new Standards are that within the meaning of section 266 of the Current and future development investments are now valued at bid prices Companies Act 1985.
A review of the main features of the year is rather than mid, income from fixed interest contained in the Chairmans Statement and The Company carries on business as an securities is calculated using the effective the Managers Review on pages 4 to 5 investment trust.
In the opinion of the interest method and dividends declared after and 8 to 13 respectively.
The Boards main Directors, the Company conducts its affairs the period end are no longer treated as a focus is on the investment return and so as to enable it to obtain approval by the liability at the period end.
Attention is paid to the integrity Inland Revenue as an investment trust under are explained in more detail in note 1 on and success of the investment approach and section 842 of the Income and Corporation page 38. on factors which may have an impact on Taxes Act 1988.
The Company was this approach.
Due regard is paid to the The Company has additional long term approved as an investment trust for the year marketing and promotion of the Company, finance in the format of long dated bonds.
ended 31 March 2005, subject to matters including effective communication with There are four debentures in issue, all are that may arise from any subsequent enquiry shareholders and other external parties.
The listed and quoted on the London Stock by the Inland Revenue into the Companys Board is updated regularly on wider Exchange and details are given on pages 43 tax return.
The Company will continue to investment trust sector issues.
In addition, shorter term bank seek approval under section 842 of the papers are presented to the Board at the borrowings and loan facilities are in place Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 Annual Strategy Meeting where a wide which are also shown on pages 43 and 48. each year.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 23 DIRECTORS REPORT Directors interests Nature Ordinary 25p shares held at Name of interest 31 March 2006 31 March 2005 Sir Donald MacKay Beneficial 2,469 2,469 GA Ball Beneficial 10,000 10,000 MM Gray Beneficial 272,900 272,900 Non-beneficial 12,500 12,500 WG McQueen Beneficial 1,500 1,500 Non-beneficial 3,000 3,000 JPHS Scott Beneficial 30,566 15,464 Lord Strathclyde Beneficial 3,142 3,142 The Directors at the year end, and their interests in the Company, were as shown above.
There have been no changes intimated in the Directors interests up to 9 May 2006. governance policy.
A separate meeting the view expressed in the AITC Code that Corporate Governance devoted to strategy is held each year.
The long-serving Directors should not be prevented The Board is committed to achieving and Board also reviews the financial statements, from being considered as independent.
demonstrating high standards of Corporate investment transactions, revenue budgets and Following a formal performance evaluation, Governance.
This statement outlines how the performance.
Full and timely information is the Board has concluded that, principles of the Combined Code on provided to the Board to enable the Board to notwithstanding his length of service, Mr Ball Corporate Governance the Combined function effectively and to allow Directors to retains independence of character and Code were applied throughout the financial discharge their responsibilities.
judgement and his skills and experience add year.
to the strength of the Board.
The Board currently comprises six Directors, Compliance all of whom are non-executive.
The executive The Company has complied throughout the responsibility for investment management has Meetings year under review with the provisions of the been delegated to the Companys Managers There is an annual cycle of Board meetings Combined Code except that no limit has and Secretaries, Baillie Gifford & Co, and, in which is designed to address, in a systematic been imposed on the overall length of service the context of a Board comprised entirely of way, overall strategy, review of investment of Directors.
non-executive Directors, there is no chief policy, investment performance, marketing, executive officer.
The Senior Independent revenue budgets, dividend policy and The Directors recognise the value of Director is Mr GA Ball.
The Board progressive refreshing of, and succession considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to planning for, company Boards and the Board The Directors believe that the Board has a discharge its duties effectively.
The table composition is reviewed annually.
However, balance of skills and experience that enable it above shows the attendance record for the the Board is of the view that length of service to provide effective strategic leadership and Board and Committee Meetings held during will not necessarily compromise the proper governance of the Company.
independence or contribution of Directors of Information about the Directors, including their an investment trust company, where continuity relevant experience, can be found on and experience can add significantly to the page 6.
Nomination Committee strength of the Board.
Consequently, no limit The Nomination Committee consists of the There is an agreed procedure for Directors to has been imposed on the overall length of independent non-executive Directors and seek independent professional advice, if service.
All Directors are however required to the Chairman of the Board is Chairman of necessary, at the Companys expense.
The retire and, if appropriate seek re-election, at the Committee.
The Committee meets on an Company also maintains Directors and least every three years.
Directors who have annual basis and at such other times as Officers Liability insurance.
more than nine years service submit may be required.
The Committee has themselves for re-election annually.
written terms of reference which include reviewing the Board, identifying and Independence of Directors The Board is also adhering to the principles nominating new candidates for All the Directors are considered by the Board of the AITC Code in all material respects.
appointment to the Board, Board to be independent of the Managers and free appraisal, succession planning and of any business or other relationship that The Board training.
Appointment of new Directors are could interfere with the exercise of their The Board has overall responsibility for the considered by the Nomination Committee independent judgement.
It has a number of matters taking into account the need to maintain a reserved for its approval including strategy, Mr GA Ball, who has served on the Board balanced Board.
The terms of reference are investment policy, currency hedging, gearing, for more than nine years, offers himself for available on the Managers website: treasury matters, dividend and corporate re-election annually.
The Board subscribes to www.
24 ANNUAL REPORT 2006 DIRECTORS REPORT Substantial Holdings No.
of ordinary Name 25p shares held % of issue DC Thomson & Co Ltd 15,000,000 5.2 Prudential plc 10,938,100 3.8 Legal & General Investment Management 9,783,613 3.4 The above information has been intimated to the Company as at 9 May 2006 in compliance with section 198 of the Companies Act 1985.
Performance Evaluation The names of Directors retiring and offering Control: Guidance for Directors on the themselves for re-election together with the Combined Code.
The Nomination Committee met to assess the performance of the Chairman, each Director, reasons why the Board supports the The practical measures to ensure compliance re-elections are set out on page 27. the Board as a whole and its committees, with regulation and company law, and to after inviting each Director and the Chairman provide effective and efficient operations and Induction and Training to consider and respond to a set of questions.
investment management, have been New Directors are provided with an The appraisal of the Chairman was led by delegated to the Managers and Secretaries, induction programme which is tailored to Mr GA Ball.
Baillie Gifford & Co, under the terms of the the particular circumstances of the Management Agreement.
The Board The appraisals considered amongst, other appointee.
Directors receive other relevant criteria, the balance of skills of the Board, the acknowledges its responsibilities to supervise training as necessary.
and control the discharge by the Managers contribution of individual Directors and the overall effectiveness of the Board and its and Secretaries of their obligations.
Following this process it was Since all the Directors are non-executive, the Baillie Gifford & Co are responsible for the concluded that the performance of each provisions of the Combined Code in respect design, implementation and maintenance of Director, the Chairman, the Board and its of Directors remuneration are not relevant to control policies and procedures to safeguard Committees continues to be effective and the Company except to the extent that they the assets of the Company and to manage its each Director and the Chairman remain relate specifically to non-executive directors.
This responsibility also committed to the Company.
Consequently there is no requirement for a extends to maintaining effective operational A review of the Chairmans and other separate remuneration committee.
Directors and compliance controls and risk Directors commitments was carried out and fees are considered by the Board as a whole management.
the Nomination Committee is satisfied that within the limits approved by shareholders.
The Baillie Gifford & Co heads of Business they are capable of devoting sufficient time to The Companys policy on remuneration is set Risk & Internal Audit and Regulatory Risk the Company.
There were no significant out in the Directors Remuneration Report on provide the Board with regular reports on changes to the Chairmans other commitments pages 29 and 30.
Baillie Gifford & Cos monitoring during the year.
The reporting procedures for Internal Controls and Risk Management these departments are defined and formalised The Directors acknowledge their responsibility Terms of Appointment and Re-elections within a service level agreement.
Baillie for the Companys system of internal controls Letters which specify the terms of Gifford & Co conduct an annual review of and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system appointment, are issued to new Directors.
their system of internal controls which is of internal controls is designed to manage The letters of appointment are available for documented within an internal controls report rather than eliminate risk and can only inspection on request.
This report is independently provide reasonable but not absolute Under the provisions of the Companys reviewed by Baillie Gifford & Cos auditors assurance against material misstatement or and a copy is submitted to the Board.
Articles of Association, a Director loss.
The Directors confirm that they have appointed during the year is required to reviewed the effectiveness of the system and The Companys investments are segregated retire and seek election by shareholders at they have procedures in place to review its from those of Baillie Gifford & Co and their the next Annual General Meeting.
Directors effectiveness on a regular basis.
other clients through the appointment of The are required to submit themselves for reBank of New York as independent custodian The Board confirms that a process is applied election at least once every three years and of the Companys investments.
for identifying, evaluating and managing the Directors who have served for more than significant risks faced by the Company in A detailed risk map is prepared which nine years offer themselves for re-election accordance with the guidance Internal identifies the significant risks faced by the annually.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 25 DIRECTORS REPORT Company and the key controls employed to terms of reference which are available on the trustees and the credit rating issuer.
Mr WG McQueen is Committee does not believe that this has chairman of the Audit Committee.
The impaired the auditors independence.
In These procedures ensure that consideration is Committees responsibilities which were accordance with the professional rules on given regularly to the nature and extent of the discharged during the year include: independence the current audit director will risks facing the Company and that they are be replaced with a new audit director next being actively monitored.
Where changes in monitoring and reviewing the integrity of year.
risk have been identified during the year they the interim and annual financial statements also provide a mechanism to assess whether and the internal financial controls: Relations with Shareholders further action is required to manage the risks The Board places great importance on making recommendations to the Board in identified.
The Board confirms that these communication with shareholders.
The relation to the appointment of the external procedures have been in place throughout the Companys Managers meet regularly with auditors and approving the remuneration Companys financial year and continue to be institutional shareholders and report and terms of their engagement: in place up to the date of approval of this shareholders views to the Board.
The developing and implementing policy on the Report.
Chairman is available to meet with engagement of the external auditors to shareholders as appropriate.
Shareholders supply non-audit services: Internal Audit wishing to communicate with any members of The Board has reviewed the need for an reviewing and monitoring the the Board may do so by writing to them at internal audit function and has decided that independence, objectivity and effectiveness the address on the back cover.
the compliance and internal control systems in of the external auditors: The Companys Annual General Meeting place within the Investment Managers provide reviewing the arrangements in place within provides a forum for communication with all sufficient assurance that a sound system of Baillie Gifford & Co whereby their staff shareholders.
The Board announces the level internal control, which safeguards may, in confidence, raise concerns about of proxies lodged, including votes withheld, shareholders investment and the Companys possible improprieties in matters of financial and the information is also published on the assets, is maintained.
An internal audit reporting or other matters insofar as they Managers website.
The notice period for the function, specific to the trust, is therefore may affect the Company: Annual General Meeting is at least twenty considered unnecessary.
reviewing the terms of the Investment Management Agreement: and Accountability and Audit Shareholders and potential investors may The respective responsibilities of the Directors obtain up-to-date information on the considering annually whether there is a and the Auditors in connection with the Company from the Managers website.
need for the Company to have its own Financial Statements are set out on pages 31 internal audit function.
Voting Policy and Socially Responsible to 33.
The Audit Committee considers the Investment The accounts have been prepared on the experience and tenure of the audit director The Company has given discretionary voting going concern basis as it is the Directors and staff and the nature and level of services powers to the investment managers, Baillie opinion that the Company will continue in provided.
The Committee receives Gifford & Co.
The Managers vote against operational existence for the foreseeable confirmation from the auditors that they have resolutions they consider may damage future.
complied with the relevant UK professional shareholders rights or economic interests.
An Audit Committee has been established in and regulatory requirements on Baillie Gifford & Co give due weight to what compliance with the Combined Code independence.
Non audit fees for the year to they consider to be socially responsible consisting of all directors.
Its authority and 31 March 2006 were 4,750 and related investment when making investment decisions, duties are clearly defined within its written to the certification of results for the debenture but their overriding objective is to produce 26 ANNUAL REPORT 2006 DIRECTORS REPORT good investment returns for shareholders.
The Mr GA Ball, having served for more than The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Managers policy has been reviewed and nine years, offers himself for re-election.
Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 as endorsed by the Board.
amended Treasury Shares Regulations Following formal performance evaluation, came into force on 1 December 2003.
The their performance continues to be effective Treasury Shares Regulations give flexibility Investment Managers and each remain committed to the Company.
concerning what the Company can do with Their contribution to the Board is greatly An Investment Management Agreement any of its ordinary shares which it may between the Company and Baillie Gifford & valued and the Board recommends their buy-back.
The Company may now hold such re-election to shareholders.
Co set out the matters over which the shares in treasury and then sell them at a Managers have authority in accordance with later date for cash rather than simply cancelling the policies and directions of, and subject to Disclosure of Information to them.
The Treasury Shares Regulations require restrictions imposed by, the Board.
The Auditors such sale to be on a pre-emptive, pro rata, Management Agreement is terminable on not The Directors who held office at the date of basis to existing shareholders unless less than 12 months notice.
Details of the fee approval of this Directors Report confirm that, shareholders agree by special resolution to arrangements with Baillie Gifford & Co are so far as they are each aware, there is no disapply their pre-emption rights.
Accordingly, shown on page 40. relevant audit information of which the special resolution 10 will give the Directors Companys auditors are unaware: and each The Board considers the Companys power to sell ordinary shares held in treasury Director has taken all the steps that he ought investment management and secretarial on a non pre-emptive basis, subject always to to have taken as a Director to make himself arrangements for the Company on a regular the limitations noted above.
Treasury shares aware of any relevant audit information and basis and a formal review is conducted are explained in more detail under the heading to establish that the Company auditors are annually.
The Board considers, amongst Purchase of Shares below.
The Directors aware of that information.
others, the following topics in its review: the consider that the power proposed to be quality of the personnel assigned to handle granted by Resolution 10 is advantageous the Companys affairs: success of the Authority to Allot Shares and should the shares trade at a premium to net investment strategy: investment performance: Disapply Pre-emption Rights asset value and natural liquidity is unable to the administrative services provided by the meet demand.
The Directors do not intend to Resolution 10, which is being proposed as Secretaries and the marketing efforts a special resolution and will therefore not use this power to sell shares on a non preundertaken by the Managers.
Following the emptive basis at a discount to net asset value.
be passed unless 75% of those voting are most recent review it is the opinion of the in favour, seeks to give the Directors The Directors believe that granting the power Directors that the continuing appointment of power to sell ordinary shares held in to sell treasury shares in the above Baillie Gifford & Co as Managers, on the treasury see below for cash up to a circumstances is in the best interests of terms agreed, is in the interests of shareholders maximum of 7,145,628 in aggregate shareholders as a whole and recommend that as a whole.
Investment performance over the representing 10% of the issued ordinary shareholders vote in favour of the resolution.
period under review has been excellent and share capital of the Company as at the Managers and Secretaries also continue 9 May 2006 without first being required to maintain high standards in the provision of to offer such shares to existing shareholders Purchase of Shares ancillary services.
in accordance with the statutory At the Annual General Meeting held on pre-emption procedure.
30 June 2005 the Company renewed its authority to purchase shares in the market, in Directors This power will last until the Annual General respect of up to 44,066,869 ordinary shares Mr MM Gray and Mr WG McQueen retire Meeting of the Company to be held in 2007 equivalent to 14.99% of its then issued by rotation at the Annual General Meeting or on 27 December 2007, whichever is share capital, such authority to expire at the and will offer themselves for re-election.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 27 DIRECTORS REPORT conclusion of the Annual General Meeting a sell such shares or any of them for cash programmes and stabilisation of financial of the Company to be held in respect of the or its equivalent under the Treasury instruments No 2273 2003.
The minimum year ending 2006 or 29 December 2006, Shares Regulations : or price again exclusive of expenses that may whichever is earlier, unless previously varied, be paid will be 25p per share.
Purchases of b cancel such shares or any of them.
shares will be made within guidelines All buy-backs up to the 10% issued share established, from time to time, by the Board.
During the year to 31 March 2006 the capital limit imposed by the Treasury Share The Company does not have any warrants or Company bought back 7,530,000 ordinary Regulations will initially be held in treasury options in issue.
Your attention is drawn to shares nominal value 1,882,500, on the while shares bought back in excess of that Special Resolution No.
9, in the Notice of London Stock Exchange for cancellation.
limit will be cancelled as before.
Shares will Annual General Meeting.
The total consideration for these shares only be re-sold from treasury at or at a This authority, if conferred, will only be was 30,260,547.
Between 1 April 2006 premium to the net asset value per ordinary exercised if to do so would result in an and the date of this report the Company has share.
increase in net asset value per ordinary share bought back a further 2,250,000 shares for Treasury shares do not receive distributions for the remaining shareholders and if it is in cancellation at a cost of 11,756,746. and the Company will not be entitled to the best interests of shareholders generally.
The principal reasons for such share exercise the voting rights attaching to them.
buy-backs are: Recommendation The Directors are seeking shareholders i to enhance net asset value for continuing The Board unanimously recommends you to approval at the Annual General Meeting to shareholders by purchasing shares at a vote in favour of the resolutions to be renew the authority to purchase up to 14.99% discount to the prevailing net asset value: proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
of the Companys ordinary shares in issue at the date of the passing of the resolution, such ii to manage imbalances between the Creditor Payment Policy authority to expire at the Annual General supply of and the demand for the It is the Companys payment policy for the Meeting of the Company to be held in respect Companys shares which exacerbates any forthcoming financial year to obtain the best of the year ending 2007 or 27 December discount of the quoted market price to the terms for all business.
In general, the 2007, whichever is earlier.
Any such shares published net asset value per share.
Company agrees with its suppliers the terms purchased shall either be cancelled or held in The shares in question were purchased at a on which business will take place and it is its treasury.
Under the Listing Rules of the UK price after allowing for costs below the net policy to abide by these terms.
The Company Listing Authority of the Financial Services asset value and subsequently cancelled, had no trade creditors at 31 March 2006 or Authority, the maximum price exclusive of thereby reducing the issued share capital see 31 March 2005. expenses that may be paid on the exercise of note 14 on page 44.
As a result of such the authority shall be an amount equal to the Auditors purchases the net asset value of the Company higher of a 105% of the average of the has increased by approximately 0.44%.
The auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, are willing to middle market quotations as derived from the continue in office and in accordance with Resolution 9, which is being proposed as a Daily Official List of the London Stock section 385 and section 390A of the special resolution, will authorise the Company Exchange for the shares over the 5 business Companies Act 1985 resolutions concerning to make market purchases of its own ordinary days immediately preceding the date of their reappointment and remuneration will be shares.
In the past, own shares bought back purchase and b the higher of the price of the submitted to the Annual General Meeting.
by the Company pursuant to such authority last independent trade and the highest current By order of the Board had to be cancelled.
With the new Treasury independent bid as stipulated by Article 5 1 Shares Regulations the Company may, in of Commission Regulation EC 22 December BAILLIE GIFFORD & Co addition, hold bought-back shares in 2003 implementing the Market Abuse Managers and Secretaries treasury and then: Directive as regards exemptions for buy-back 10 May 2006 28 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
