BOARD OF DIRECTORS 24 Carillion plc Section 05 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 A Strong Team 1.
Vanda Murray OBE Chairman Non-Executive Director Age 62.
Philip was appointed to the Board in October 2004 Age 46.
Vanda Murray was appointed to the Board in becoming Chairman in May 2005.
He is Chairman of the June 2005 and is a member of the Audit, Nominations and Nominations Committee.
Philip is also Chairman of Aggreko plc, Remuneration Committees.
Vanda is Non-Executive Chairman THUS Group plc and Northgate plc on a temporary basis and of Eazyfone Group, a Non-Executive Director of the North West is a Non-Executive Director of The Davis Service Group plc.
Development Agency, a Trustee and Non-Executive Director He was an Executive Director of BG plc from 1992 to 1998, of The Manufacturing Institute, a registered charity, and is a latterly as Deputy Chairman.
Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Marketing.
Vanda was a Director of Ultraframe plc prior to its takeover in 2006 and 2.
John McDonough was previously Chief Executive of Blick plc.
She was appointed Chief Executive OBE in 2002 for Services to Industry and to Export.
John was appointed Chief Executive in January 2001 having formerly been Vice President, Integrated Facilities 7.
David Maloney Management, Europe, the Middle East and Africa of Johnson Non-Executive Director Controls Inc.
He is Chairman of the CBIs Public Services Forum, Age 51.
David Maloney was appointed to the Board in Vice-Chairman of the CBIs Public Services Strategy Board and November 2005 and is Chairman of the Audit Committee a member of the CBIs Presidents Committee.
and a member of the Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
David is Chairman of Hoseasons Holdings Ltd 3.
Chris Girling and a Non-Executive Director of Micro Focus International plc, Finance Director Ludorum plc and Cineworld Group plc.
Before taking up these Age 53.
Chris was appointed to the Carillion plc Board in appointments, David held senior positions in a number of November 1999.
Chris is a Non-Executive Director of Elementis services sector companies, including Chief Financial Officer plc and is a Chartered Accountant and holds the degree of for Le Meridien Hotels and Resorts, Chief Financial Officer for Master of Business Administration.
He was previously Group the Thomson Travel Group Holdings plc and Group Finance Finance Director of Vosper Thornycroft Holdings plc.
Director of Avis Europe plc.
Don Kenny Executive Director Executive Director Age 55.
Roger joined Tarmac Construction as Contracts Director Age 52.
Don was appointed to the Board in September in 1989 subsequently becoming Managing Director of Tarmac 2006 and is responsible for Carillions National Building, Health, Civil Engineering, International and Rail.
Roger was appointed Integrated Solutions, Facilities Management, Facilities Services to the Board of Carillion plc in May 1999 and has Groupwide and TPS businesses.
He joined Carillion from Johnson Controls responsibility for construction, commercial and health and Inc in 2002, having held a number of senior positions in safety matters.
He is a Fellow of the Institution of Civil Engineers Johnson Controls and prior to that in Mowlem.
Don is also and was a member of the Government Taskforce on Modern a Director of Aspire Defence Ltd. a joint venture between Apprenticeships.
Carillion, Kellogg Brown and Root and HSBC, to deliver Project Allenby Connaught, the Ministry of Defences largest Estates 5.
David Garman Public Private Partnership contract to date.
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Age 55.
Appointed to the Board in September 2004, David is 9.
Steve Mogford Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of Non-Executive Director the Audit and Nominations Committees.
Steve Mogford was appointed to the Board in Executive of TDG plc which he joined in 1999 from Associated September 2006 and is a member of the Audit, Nominations British Foods where he was an Executive Director, having and Remuneration Committees.
Steve has been a director of previously held senior positions in a number of leading UK BAE Systems plc for over six years and is currently the Group food companies.
Executive Director responsible for UK naval sector consolidation.
He brings to the Board considerable experience as a senior business leader who has managed major capital projects in a FTSE 50 company.
25 Carillion plc Section 05 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 A Strong Team 01 02 03 04 05 06 070809
