MARKETS AND OUTLOOK 10 Carillion plc Section 04 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Operating and Financial Review In the UK, Carillion has eight principal market 01 sectors Defence, Education, Health, Building, Facilities Management and Services, Roads, Rail and Civil Engineering.
In the Middle East, our two principal market sectors are Construction and Facilities Management.
In Canada and the Caribbean, our main market sectors are Health, Roads Maintenance and Construction.
With the exception of rail infrastructure, where volumes have declined as expected, we have made progress in all our market sectors in 2006.
In 2007, we again expect opportunities for growth in our UK and international markets.
Defence, Education and Health In these three sectors we provide a wide range of design, construction, facilities management and integrated service solutions, including private finance.
We made further outstanding progress in this sector in Education.
In 2006, we reached financial close on the 76 million 2006, winning new orders worth nearly 6 billion.
This followed South Ayrshire PPP schools project, our sixth such project, and the major breakthrough we achieved in this sector in 2005 when we were appointed as a framework contractor for Academies Carillion joint ventures won two major support services contracts to be built under the Governments Building Schools for the Housing Prime and Regional Prime Central for Defence Estates, Future programme.
together worth around 600 million to Carillion.
The education sector contributed around 162 million of revenue In 2006, we generated some 232 million of revenue from the in 2006 2005: 141 million, with growth driven primarily by fullDefence sector, almost a ten-fold increase on 2005 24 million.
year contributions from the 100 million Renfrewshire schools PPP Growth has been driven by mobilising the two support services project and the 100 million Leeds schools project.
contracts won in 2005 and by achieving financial close in 2006 on two major PPP contracts for the Ministry of Defence The outlook in the education sector continues to be very positive.
the 12 billion Allenby Connaught project and the 880 million Although the Building Schools for the Future programme has Permanent Joint Headquarters, Northwood, project.
We will invest made a slower than expected start, the Government remains some 70 million of equity in these projects, on which we also committed to this programme under which it plans to invest up to commenced construction and the provision of facilities 60 billion over the next 15 years in replacing secondary schools management services in 2006. and some 1.6 billion over the next five years in building Academy Schools.
In Scotland, investment continues to be made in new PPP The outlook in this sector in 2007 is for continuing growth as schools and Carillion has been shortlisted for a further project in construction and facilities management services reach full-year West Dunbartonshire, worth approximately 130 million.
volumes on the Allenby Connaught and Northwood projects.
In addition, we are the preferred bidder for the 250 million Royal School of Military Engineering project and there are good prospects for further substantial construction work associated with the Regional Prime Central contract.
11 Carillion plc Section 04 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Operating and Financial Review 02 01.
Glencourse Barracks delivering facilities 03 We have completed a management services for the major redevelopment of new hospital, which provides Glencourse Barracks, the general health services to Milton Bridge Camp and Oxfordshires 625,000 residents Medical Centre at Redbridge and specialist services to Barracks in Edinburgh.
Old some 2.3 million people in accommodation blocks were the county and beyond.
demolished and replaced with modern, high quality living 03.
Renfrewshire Schools accommodation together with Carillion is providing 10 new new recreational areas and PPP schools, including nursery, welfare facilities.
primary and secondary schools, for Renfrewshire Council at 02.
John Radcliffe Hospital a capital cost of 150 million.
This 135 million PPP hospital The new schools will provide was completed on time and state-of-the-art facilities for to budget in December 2006 over 6,000 pupils in Paisley, and has enabled the Oxford Linwood and Johnstone.
Radcliffe NHS Trust to relocate They have been designed for services from the ageing optimum flexibility to meet Radcliffe Infirmary to the John a variety of needs including Radcliffe Hospital, as well as full-time education and providing a new Childrens community learning.
Carillion is now My values Health.
In 2006, our activities in the health sector generated Being open and truthful is just the revenue of 229 million 2005: 146 million.
We made good best way to be.
Its not always easy, progress in facilities management in this sector, winning and but working in the same office, as mobilising a 330 million contract for Barts and The London part of the same team with our client, I know that openness is the Hospital and mobilising services at two of our UK PPP hospitals only way to work together and get the John Radcliffe, Oxford, and the Queen Alexandra, Portsmouth.
Our Clinicenta joint venture also made further substantial Ricky Mistry, Performance Engineer, Carillion Rail progress, winning preferred bidder positions on two more Independent Sector Treatment Centre ISTC contracts London South and London North to add to the preferred bidder position it already held on a similar contract for ISTCs in Bedfordshire and Hertfordshire.
Since the year-end, Clinicenta has also been appointed as the preferred bidder for a fourth ISTC contract to provide diagnostic services in South East England.
These four contracts, which involve fully integrated solutions including clinical services, are expected to generate around 450 million of revenue for Carillion over five years.
Clinicenta is therefore on course to become a key supplier of community-based clinical services.
Looking forward, we expect continuing opportunities for growth in the health sector.
In 2006, the Government reviewed its PPP programme for acute hospitals and confirmed its commitment to this programme and to investing between 7 billion and 9 billion in 20 new hospitals.
In addition, the Government plans to invest around 150 million per annum over the next five years in community hospitals.
MARKETS AND OUTLOOK 12 Carillion plc Section 04 continued Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Operating and Financial Review 01.
EcoDepot York This award- 01 winning development, which is home to the City of York Councils Neighbourhood Services Directorate, is a national exemplar of sustainable construction.
It features real-time monitoring of building performance, a wind turbine and solar panels to generate energy for the site and uses locally grown straw to provide insulation three times more efficient than Building Regulations require.
Rainwater is collected and used to wash Council vehicles, reducing annual water bills by some 25,000.
Facilities Management We provide a wide range of facilities management and other support services to public and private sector customers, with large, integrated FM solutions as one of our key strengths.
Building Our National and Regional UK building businesses provide construction services to a wide range of public and private sector customers for projects with values typically between 1 million and 300 million.
My values The values have become my natural way of working.
They are about finding ways to build relationships to make something happen or to solve problems.
Kerrie Jones, PA, Carillion 13 Carillion plc Section 04 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Operating and Financial Review 02 02.
BT 03 We designed and built this new Working with our joint dairy for Arla Foods in Leeds.
It venture partners, we provide replaced an outdated dairy with a fully integrated facilities a fully automated,  service for some art facility that processes 250 7,000 BT properties, including million litres of milk a year.
offices, research centres, telephone exchanges, computer centres and the flagship BT Tower in London.
This service includes cleaning, security, mechanical and electrical engineering maintenance, grounds maintenance, equipment procurement, site safety, building inspections and programmed maintenance.
In 2006, we generated some Building.
In 2006, UK building contributed 848 million of 656 million of revenue from this sector 2005: 370 million, revenue 2005: 528 million with the increase primarily due to reflecting the acquisition of Mowlem and further organic growth.
New orders totalling 885 million in 2006 reflected positive trading conditions in our target sectors As we indicated at the half-year, we are now much more of the UK building market.
positive than we were in 2005 about the outlook for this sector in which there is a growing number of opportunities, This market is expected to remain buoyant in 2007, with nonparticularly for larger integrated solutions.
We won new orders housing new build forecast to grow by around 6 per cent per in 2006 worth some 700 million, including a 100 million, annum over the next five years.
Although we propose to bid five-year extension to our contract with ntl TeleWest now Virgin only selectively for projects let by the Olympic Delivery Authority Media and a 360 million, three-year claims management ODA, the ODA investment programme should help maintain contract for Norwich Union.
Carillion has also been appointed buoyant trading conditions across the UK market by attracting by the Office of Government Commerce as a framework suppliers from regions beyond the South East.
Furthermore, supplier of facilities management services to the public sector.
as well as the facilities needed for the Games themselves, substantial regeneration investment is planned for London Currently we are bidding for further contracts worth over the next 10 to 15 years and this represents an important approximately 100 million per annum for public and private opportunity for us, given our strength in providing integrated sector customers and we believe the positive outlook in this solutions for urban regeneration.
sector is set to continue.
Overall, the UK outsourcing market grew by around 5 per cent to 110 billion in 2006 and growth is forecast to continue at this level over the next five years.
About 60 per cent of the market is forecast to be contracted out by the end of this period.
With building fabric maintenance and facilities management expected to be among the areas of strongest growth, we are well positioned to make further progress in this sector.
MARKETS AND OUTLOOK 14 Carillion plc Section 04 continued Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Operating and Financial Review 01.
Marylebone Station 01 Carillion Rail upgraded Marylebone and Beaconsfield Stations for Chiltern Railways to improve the frequency and speed of passenger services on this important commuter route into London.
This design, build and finance project, the first of its kind in the UK, provided two new platforms, track and signalling improvements at Marylebone, together with track realignment and signalling enhancements at Beaconsfield.
Roads and Civil Engineering In these sectors we are focused primarily on long-term road maintenance contracts, the design and construction of road projects under the Highways Agencys Early Contractor Involvement ECI programme and civil engineering projects for Local Highway Authorities, Network Rail and water companies.
Rail In the UK rail infrastructure market we provide project services to upgrade and improve the national rail network, together with track renewal, signalling and other specialist services.
We also provide maintenance services for the Channel Tunnel Rail Link.
My values Of course we have to be profitable, but cutting corners always comes back to bite you.
Sustainable growth is what matters most, so that well have a job tomorrow!
Jason Ruehland, Site Agent, Carillion Regional Civil Engineering 15 Carillion plc Section 04 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Operating and Financial Review 02 02.
M40 Motorway 03 This new bridge, built by maintenance Carillion Regional Civil Early in 2007, Carillion Roads Engineering, carries a was awarded a 100 million, pedestrian right of way 20-year contract to provide and the National Route 45 maintenance services for the cycleway over the River Severn M40 between the M25 and between Highley and Alveley Warwick.
These services include in Shropshire.
The bridge also network management, safety links the Severn Valley Country inspections, cyclical and routine Park and Severn Valley Railway.
maintenance, accident and emergency response and winter maintenance.
These sectors contributed provider over the life of the concession.
Carillion is currently 465 million of revenue to the Group in 2006 2005: 172 the maintenance contractor for the M25 and Area 8 and we million with the increase due primarily to the acquisition of believe we are well positioned to bid for all these contracts.
Mowlems regional civil engineering business whose portfolio The outlook in our target sectors for regional civil engineering included six road contracts under the Highways Agencys Early is for modest growth in 2007.
Revenue from this sector was 368 million in 2006 In 2006, we won a steady flow of new orders in the roads 2005: 410 million and reflected the decline in the UK rail sector, notably construction of the 122 million ECI project infrastructure market, on which we have commented previously.
to upgrade the A74 in Cumbria to motorway standards Consequently, during the second half of 2006 we restructured the M6 missing link and two further ECI contracts, the Carillion Rail to reduce overheads and focus the business on A5117 A530 improvement scheme on Deeside and the sustainable areas of the rail infrastructure market.
Since the year-end, we have also won a 120 million contract for the operation Although the outlook in this sector is still uncertain, it has and maintenance of the M40 motorway between the M25 improved since we reported at the half-year and is now and Warwick.
For regional civil engineering, 2006 was a year expected to stabilise in 2007 rather than decline further.
In of consolidation in which we implemented a more selective October 2006, a Carillion joint venture won the 363 million approach to the projects for which we bid.
contract for Transport for London for the East London Line.
In December 2006, Network Rail announced its intention to The outlook for the roads sector in 2007 is encouraging.
We reduce the number of suppliers it uses to provide track renewal expect to bid for Highways Agency maintenance contracts for services from six to four by July 2007.
This represents an Areas 6 and 8, potentially worth around 500 million over opportunity to increase our market share and we believe seven years.
Carillion is also an equity partner in a consortium Carillion Rail is well positioned in this market, particularly in that has been shortlisted for the Design, Build, Finance and the more specialised area of switches and crossings renewals.
Operate DBFO project to widen the M25, which has an estimated total value of around 5 billion.
Carillions interests in this project lie in being an equity investor and the maintenance MARKETS AND OUTLOOK 16 Carillion plc Section 04 continued Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Operating and Financial Review Middle East Our operations in the Middle East are based in Dubai and Oman and focused on two sectors, Construction and Facilities Management.
Canada and the Caribbean In Canada, our key sectors are Health and Roads Maintenance.
In the Caribbean, we provide Construction Services to public and private sector customers.
17 Carillion plc Section 04 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Operating and Financial Review 01 01.
Royal Ottawa Hospital 02 This development, under Recently completed by construction in Port of Spain, Carillion, this new hospital is part of the new Trinidad and is the first to be built under Tobago Government Campus.
the PPP programme in Canada.
With our second PPP hospital, the new William Osler Hospital, Ontario, nearing completion, Carillion is now firmly established in this growing market.
Revenue in the Middle East grew strongly Canada and the Caribbean.
In 2006, revenue in Canada and in 2006 to 274 million 2005: 165 million, maintaining a the Caribbean increased to 163 million 2005: 132 million.
compound annual growth rate of around 60 per cent over the New orders worth approximately 230 million were secured in last three years.
This reflects the strength of our market sectors 2006, the largest of which was a seven-year road maintenance and of the relationship with our joint venture partner and main contract in Alberta, Canada, worth 137 million.
Carillion is customer, the Al Futtaim Group.
During 2006, the Al Futtaim already established as the leading supplier of road maintenance Group joined Carillion and Emaar Properties as a third partner services in Ontario and the contract in Alberta extends our in our facilities management joint venture, Emrill.
This opens up operations to a new and growing market.
significant new opportunities for growth, as Emrill is now the preferred supplier for the property portfolios of both Emaar We have made good progress with construction of the first two Properties and the Al Futtaim Group.
PPP hospitals to be built in Canada: the Royal Ottawa has been completed on time and to budget and is now operational and In 2006, our joint ventures secured orders worth 360 million the new William Osler Hospital in Ontario is nearing completion, to Carillion of which some 275 million were in Dubai with the also on time and to budget.
This has firmly established Carillion balance in Oman.
We also have a substantial pipeline of in this growing sector of the health market in Canada.
Currently, construction and FM opportunities in Dubai and for construction we are shortlisted for two more PPP hospitals the Sault Sainte in Oman.
Consequently, we expect growth in the Middle East to Marie and Niagara Hospitals in Ontario and there are prospects remain strong in 2007.
Beyond that, the prospects for further to bid for further PPP hospitals in British Columbia over the next healthy growth continue to be encouraging in Dubai and Oman 12 to 18 months.
and there are emerging opportunities elsewhere in the region, notably in Abu Dhabi and Egypt.
New order intake in the Caribbean improved significantly in 2006, the largest of which was a 46 million building contract for the Viceroy Resort complex in Anguilla and the prospects for further growth in 2007 are encouraging.
With an order book of nearly 1 billion, the outlook in this region is therefore positive and we expect it to continue to deliver healthy growth.
