39 Carillion plc Section 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Accountability Report of the Directors The Directors of Carillion plc present their annual report, A 2006 interim dividend of 3.1 pence per ordinary share together with the audited financial statements for the year 2005: 2.8 pence was paid in November 2006.
It is proposed ended 31 December 2006. to pay a final dividend of 5.9 pence per ordinary share 2005: 5.2 pence on 22 June 2007 to shareholders on the The Directors of the Company at the date of the approval of register at the close of business on 27 April 2007.
The this Directors Report confirm, that, so far as they are aware, payment of these 2006 interim and final dividends amounts there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys to 25.3 million 2005: 20.6 million.
auditors are individually unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to A dividend reinvestment plan DRIP will also be offered.
make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that Directors information.
The Directors of the Company who served during 2006 are shown on page 32 of the Remuneration Report.
Biographical Principal activities and business review details for each Director at 31 December 2006 are given on Carillion is a leading company delivering integrated solutions for page 24. infrastructure, buildings and services and operating throughout the UK and in a number of overseas regional markets.
Steve Mogford was appointed a Non-Executive Director and Don Kenny an Executive Director on 6 September 2006.
A review of the Groups businesses, financial performance and Richard Adam will become Finance Director on 2 April 2007. future developments is contained in the Chairmans Statement, Messrs. Kenny, Mogford and Adam will hold office until the the Business Performance, Financial Reporting Segments and Annual General Meeting at which, being eligible, they offer Order Book sections of the Chief Executives Review, the themselves for election.
Don Kenny has and Richard Adam Markets and Outlook section and the Financial Review.
will have contracts of service which are subject to one years notice of termination by the Company.
The Chief Executives Review specifically includes discussion of the following issues, with the relevant sections shown Steve Mogford has a three year term of appointment and in brackets: is a member of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
performance in the financial year, including trends and factors Business Performance : In accordance with the Articles of Association, John the acquisition of Mowlem Acquisition of Mowlem : McDonough retires by rotation and, being eligible, offers changes in the industry and external environment and himself for re-election at the Annual General Meeting on their impacts on the development and performance 9 May 2007.
John McDonough has a contract of service which of the Group Markets and Outlook : is subject to one years notice of termination by the Company.
principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group Risk Management : The interests of the Directors and their families in the share financial key performance indicators Acquisition of capital of the Company are shown in the Remuneration Report Mowlem, Business Performance and Financial Reporting on page 38.
Segments and key performance indicators related to environmental, Employees social and employee issues Sustainability and Our People.
Information relating to employee numbers and remuneration is given in Note 7 on page 55.
Carillion sets key strategic objectives and performance against these in 2006 and details of those set for 2007 are reviewed Employees are key to achieving Carillions business strategy on pages 7 and 9 of the Chief Executives Review.
and the Group is committed to improving their skills through training and development and nurturing a culture in which Analysis of turnover, results and net assets by business segment employees feel valued for their contribution and are motivated and turnover and net assets by geographical location are given to achieve their full potential.
Carillions core values of openness, collaboration, mutual Profits and dividends dependency, sustainable profitable growth, professional The consolidated income statement is shown on page 44. delivery and innovation have been developed to emphasise Profit before tax was 67.6 million 2005: 51.9 million.
the changing working practices required to succeed in an environment where partnership and integrated solutions are becoming the norm.
40 Carillion plc Section 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Accountability Report of the Directors continued It is Carillions aim to foster a working environment in which The views of employees on matters affecting their interests are all employees are treated with courtesy, dignity and respect.
also sought through The Great Debate.
This is a major exercise Carillion continually strives to eliminate all bias and unlawful which was undertaken by the Group in 2003, 2004, 2005 and discrimination in relation to job applicants, employees, business 2006 to capture the feelings and views of as wide a range of partners and members of the public.
Employees who become employees as possible.
These views are then taken into account disabled are, wherever possible, retrained or provided with in the development of work related initiatives as part of equipment so that they can continue their employment.
Carillions strategy to become an employer of choice.
In 2006, 2,600 UK employees attended The Great Debate sessions.
The objectives of Carillions Equal Opportunity and Diversity Policy are: Carillion stages The Great Debate as part of the ongoing quest for cultural change and to produce step changes which: to have a workforce that represents and responds to the diversity of customers and todays society: raise understanding of what drives motivation, morale, improved safety and quality provided by a balanced and engagement and performance: productive workforce: allows employees to take ownership and be empowered better public image and market position, leading to to build and implement solutions: and improved links with the community in which Carillion works: demonstrates Carillions desire to change attitudes and adherence to legal requirements: behaviours based on listening to the views of its employees.
lower staff turnover, absenteeism and sickness levels leading to cost savings: Additionally, Team Talk which is held monthly provides Carillion to provide a fair working environment in which discrimination employees with a face-to-face communication with their line will not be tolerated: managers and facilitates two-way communication, discussion to create a working environment free from discrimination, and feedback.
It focuses on local issues and key corporate harassment, victimisation and bullying: messages and information.
to work towards finding ways for under-represented groups to fully realise their potential within the Carillion organisation One-to-one meetings between individual employees and their and to take reasonable steps to help such groups: line managers are also held to discuss performance and progress.
to ensure that all employees are aware of the Group Equal Opportunities and Diversity Policy and to provide any Employees can also exchange best practice information on necessary ongoing training to enable them to meet their a Knowledge Management Forum on the Group intranet.
responsibilities under it: and Carillion plc also recognises the merit of developing a Carillion seeks to involve all employees in its leading edge workforce that incorporates the many diverse skills and programmes to integrate safety into everything it does and backgrounds available from within the total population and to improve its environmental performance, including the accordingly, will strive to become an organisation that will understanding and application of the principles of sustainability.
recognise, value and understand diversity and to provide Further information on Health and Safety, the Environment its employees with genuine opportunities to improve and and Community is given in the Corporate Social Responsibility reach their full potential.
Carillion places great importance on open and regular Carillion also involves, engages and consults with employees communication with employees through both formal and through People Forums across the Group which give informal processes.
As part of this commitment, a Group employees the opportunity to express their views on business newspaper, Spectrum, is produced on a regular basis for issues.
Specifically, the objectives of the People Forums are: all employees.
to improve employee information and consultation: to help employees feel more involved and valued: to support the continued education and development of employees: improve business performance by enabling employees to be better aware of the business climate in which they operate: and to help employees to be responsive to and better prepared for change.
41 Carillion plc Section 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Accountability Substantial share interests Annual General Meeting At 7 March 2007, the Company had received formal notification The Annual General Meeting will be held at 12 noon on of the following substantial interests in the ordinary share Wednesday 9 May 2007 at Austin Court, 80 Cambridge capital of the Company: Street, Birmingham B1 2NP.
The notice of the Annual General Meeting accompanies this annual report and accounts.
Number of shares held Percentage Amongst the business to be transacted is a proposal to renew Schroder Investment 53,989,137 19.2 the authority for the Company to purchase its own shares.
Management Ltd, As at 31 December 2006, the Company had authority from its subsidiaries and shareholders for the purchase of 28,071,818 of its own shares.
affiliated companies Standard Life Investments 11,513,159 4.1 Auditor Legal & General Assurance 10,198,686 3.6 Resolutions to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditor and to Pensions Management Ltd authorise the Directors to determine its remuneration will be PMC proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Under the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules, shareholders have until 20 March 2007 to inform companies of interests of 3% and at each 1% Approved by order of the Board increment above that level: as the above table is at 7 March 2007, this may not be a complete list of substantial share interests.
Policy for payment of suppliers R F Tapp It is the policy of the Group that each business agrees terms Secretary and conditions for transactions with its suppliers and for 7 March 2007 payment to be made on these terms providing the suppliers meet their obligations to the businesses satisfaction.
The Group as a whole does not apply a general recognised code with regard to the payment of all suppliers.
The Company does not have any trade creditors.
The number of days credit outstanding for the Group averaged 80 days at 31 December 2006 62 days at 31 December 2005.
Charitable and political contributions Payments for charitable purposes made by the Group during the year ended 31 December 2006 amounted to 145,000 2005: 84,000.
The primary beneficiaries of these charitable donations were The Wildlife Trust, Business in the Community, the British Heart Foundation and CRASH, the construction and property industry charity for the homeless.
The Carillion Group also contributes more than one per cent of profits per annum in cash or in-kind staff time on community projects to community activities and is a member of the Business in the Community PerCent Club.
The Company and its subsidiaries made no political donations during the period under review.
Financial Instruments Information on the Carillion Groups use of financial instruments, financial risk management objectives and policies and exposure is given in Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
42 Carillion plc Section 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Accountability Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Annual Report and Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and Parent Company financial statements, in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRS as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and performance of the Group: the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The Parent Company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Parent Company and of the profit or loss of the Parent Company for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: for the Parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent Company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company will continue in business The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
