Business Review Performance Driving Performa Service excellence and product innovation will help us achieve our ambition to be the worlds best international bank Record product launches Operational excellence drive Meeting SME customer needs We continue to deliver on our strategy to drive organic The quality of our service is a key driver SME Express Trade is a one-stop trade growth through product innovation and excellent service.
Consumer Bankings finance facility aimed at businesses that need In 2006, we had a wide range of Consumer Banking Operational Excellence initiative aims a range of trade finance products.
Express product launches across our footprint.
This was more than to improve and simplify the way we Trade was launched in early 2006 and has double the number of product launches rolled out in 2005. work, resulting in faster service delivery, since been introduced in 14 countries across Countries such as Hong Kong, India, Korea, Singapore and higher quality and greater capacity.
Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
The service United Arab Emirates led the way by testing new product By revolutionising our banking processes, is an example of product innovation tailored concepts which were then launched in other countries.
we want to create a breakthrough in to the needs of customers.
Global product capability, tapping into our international service for our customers and reduce the network, is a key element of Consumer Bankings growth complexity of processes for employees.
strategy and helps differentiate us in our markets.
16 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2006 nceforward Asias largest international RMBS A year of landmark deals Local knowledge, global expertise Standard Chartered, as sole lead manager Wholesale Banking had a bumper year in 2006.
Drawing on over 150 years of international and bookrunner, completed Asias largest crossA landmark transaction was the $1.375 billion banking experience, Standard Chartered actively border securitisation with a $1.26 billion floating acquisition financing for KazMunaiGas to acquire drives value creation in its markets with a clear rate seven-tranche residential mortgage-backed a 33% stake in PetroKazakhstan from China strategy for growth.
Consumer and Wholesale securitisation RMBS transaction for Korea First National Petroleum Corp. Another was a $375 Banking combine deep local knowledge with Mortgage No.
This issue marks Standard million first-in-market collateralised bond global network capabilities to offer a wide range Chartereds sixth RMBS offering to date.
It is the obligation for Polaris Securities in Taiwan.
of innovative products and services and awardbiggest unwrapped RMBS ever completed in These transactions demonstrate Standard winning solutions in over 50 countries.
An unwrapped Chartereds leadership position in the market RMBS transaction does not have a third-party in meeting clients needs.
