Senior Management Standard Chartered Bank The directors of Standard Chartered Bank comprise the executive directors of Standard Chartered PLC and the following three senior executives: Gareth Bullock Tim Miller Joined Standard Chartered in 1996.
He is Director, Middle East, Joined Standard Chartered in 2000.
He is Director, People, Africa, Europe and the Americas.
Most recently he was Group Property and Assurance and has responsibility for Human Head of Strategy and prior to that Group Chief Information Officer Resources, Corporate Real Estate, Compliance and Regulatory and CEO Africa.
He has held other senior positions in the United Risk, Legal, the Chief Economist and Operational Excellence.
Kingdom, Europe, Hong Kong, China and North East Asia.
He is He also has functional responsibility for Internal Audit and the a non-executive director of Fleming Family & Partners Limited and Corporate Secretariat.
Prior to joining the Group, he was of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc.
Human Resources Director of GlaxoSmithKlines worldwide manufacturing operations.
He is a director of Standard Chartered Mike Rees First Bank Korea Limited and a non-executive director of Michael Joined Standard Chartered in 1990.
He is a director of Standard Page International plc.
Chartered Bank and Chief Executive Officer Wholesale Bank.
He has held the positions of Chief Financial Officer of Group Treasury, Regional Treasurer in Singapore and Group Head of Global Markets.
Group Management Committee The Group Management Committee as at 27 February 2007 comprises the directors of Standard Chartered Bank and the following senior executives: Jaspal Bindra David Edwards Joined Standard Chartered in 1998.
He is General Manager, Joined Standard Chartered in 1999.
He is Chief Operating Officer South East and South Asia.
He has previously held the positions of Wholesale Bank.
He has previously held the positions of Group of Global Head Client Relationships and Regional General Head, Risk and Group Special Assets Management, Regional Manager, India.
He is a director of Standard Chartered Thai General Manager, Middle East and South Asia and Group Head Public Company Limited, Standard Chartered Bank Malaysia Risk Management.
He is a director of Standard Chartered First Berhad, Prime Financial Holdings Limited and Chairman of Bank Korea Limited.
Scope International Private Limited and Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited.
52 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2006
