Risk Review Risk Management Review Risk Governance During 2006 the credit risk environment has generally been Through its risk management structure the Group seeks to manage benign and outside of Taiwan the Group has seen little evidence efficiently the core risks: credit, market, country and liquidity risk.
of stress in its major geographies.
These arise directly through the Groups commercial activities whilst compliance and regulatory risk, operational risk and reputational risks The OECD market has seen a rise in default levels.
However are normal consequences of any business undertaking.
tight management of risk in Wholesale Banking, coupled with proactive management of accounts has resulted in very low levels of The basic principles of risk management followed by the provisions.
The benign economic conditions in the Groups core Group include: markets, together with good progress on the management of x Balancing risk and reward: risk is taken in support of the problem accounts has resulted in further high levels of recoveries requirements of the Groups stakeholders.
Risk should during the year.
be taken in support of the Group strategy and within its The Consumer Banking impairment charge for the year has been risk appetite.
significantly impacted by the consumer credit climate in Taiwan, x Responsibility: given the Group is in the business of taking risk, which particularly affected the first half of the year.
The Consumer it is everyones responsibility to ensure that risk taking is both Banking business has demonstrated a strong capability for disciplined and focused.
The Group takes account of its social, dealing with such circumstances throughout the crisis, as environmental and ethical responsibilities in taking risk to evidenced by the material improvement in the impairment rate in produce a return.
the second half of 2006. x Accountability: risk is taken only within agreed authorities and Consumer Banking continues to take initiatives to further improve where there is appropriate infrastructure and resource.
All risk its risk management capability.
Risk control systems are being taking must be transparent, controlled and reported.
enhanced so the business can maintain its competitive advantage in this respect while growing assets profitably.
x Anticipation: the Group looks to anticipate future risks and to maximise awareness of all risk.
Despite the generally benign conditions, what is noticeable is that the credit environment is exhibiting many of the characteristics x Risk management: the Group aims to have a world class that have in the past indicated a downturn.
Nevertheless, liquidity specialist risk function, with strength in depth, experience remains strong across most key geographies, and the ability to across risk types and economic scenarios.
distribute risk widely, or to take protection at reasonable cost, Ultimate responsibility for the effective management of risk rests indicate that any downturn may be gradual in nature and less with the Companys Board.
Acting within an authority delegated of a dramatic decline.
by the Board, the Audit and Risk Committee ARC, whose The Group has made some significant acquisitions over the last members are all Non-Executive Directors of the Company, two years.
Risk controls and processes have been integrated into reviews specific risk areas and monitors the activities of the SCFB.
The Group is also progressing well with the integration of Group Risk Committee GRC and the Group Asset and the risk governance framework into its latest acquisitions in Liability Committee GALCO.
GRC, through authority delegated by the Board, is responsible The Group strongly supports the principle of a more risk sensitive for credit risk, market risk, operational risk, compliance and approach to capital adequacy and therefore the new Basel II regulatory risk, legal risk and reputational risk.
The Group recognises that Basel II is a driver for authority delegated by the Board, is responsible for liquidity risk, continuous improvement of risk management practices, but for structural interest rate and foreign exchange exposures, and in the short term it is also a significant regulatory exercise.
The Group continues its preparation for Basel II.
Work started in All the Group Executive Directors GEDs of Standard Chartered 2002, with priority initially given to enhancing risk models to Basel PLC, members of the Standard Chartered Bank Court and the II standards, and on developing the infrastructure required to Group Chief Risk Officer are members of the GRC.
This gather and use the more detailed data required by the models.
Committee is chaired by the Group Chief Risk Officer.
The GRC More recently, the Group has addressed the changes in capital is responsible for agreeing Group standards for risk measurement management and regulatory processes in line with the Financial and management, and also delegating authorities and responsibilities Services Authority FSA guidelines.
to risk committees and to the Group and Regional Credit Committees and Risk Officers.
The Group is now in the process of applying to the FSA for formal approval of its Basel II practices.
Management is also in contact GALCO membership consists of all the GEDs of Standard with local regulators: not all regulators will adopt Basel II at the Chartered PLC and members of Standard Chartered Bank Court.
same time and their detailed requirements will differ, presenting The committee is chaired by the Group Finance Director.
GALCO the Group with a complex implementation process that will take is responsible for the establishment of and compliance with, the next two to three years to complete.
The Group continues to policies relating to balance sheet management including work closely with the FSA on these matters, recognising its role management of the Groups liquidity, capital adequacy and as the lead regulator.
structural foreign exchange rate risk.
34 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Risk Governance continued The committee process ensures that standards and policies are The Group Executive Director with responsibility for Risk GED cascaded down through the organisation from the Board through Risk and the Group Chief Risk Officer manage a risk function the GRC and the GALCO to the functional, regional and country which is independent of the businesses and which: level committees.
Key information is communicated through the x recommends Group standards and policies for risk country, regional and functional committees to Group so as to measurement and management: provide assurance that standards and policies are being followed.
x monitors and reports Group risk exposures for country, The diagram below illustrates the high level committee structure.
credit, market and operational risk: x approves market risk limits and monitors exposure: x sets country risk limits and monitors exposure: x chairs the credit committee and delegates credit authorities: x validates risk models: and x recommends risk appetite and strategy.
Group Risk Committee Structure Standard Chartered PLC Board Audit and Risk Commitee Standard Chartered Bank Court Group Asset and Liability Committee Group Risk Committee GALCO GRC Liquidity Tax Capital Consumer Banking Wholesale Banking Management Management Management Risk Committee Risk Committee Committee Committee Committee Group Market Group Credit Risk Committee Committee Group Compliance Group Reputational and Regulatory Risk and Responsibility Risk Committee Committee Other Risk Type Group Operational Committees Risk Committee www.
com 35 Risk Review continued Risk Governance continued Risk Management Framework Individual GEDs and members of the Standard Chartered Bank Court are accountable for risk management in their businesses and support functions, and for countries where they have Risk Types governance responsibilities.
This includes: eg Credit, Country, Market, Reputational, x implementing the policies and standards as agreed by the GRC Operational across all business activity: x managing risk in line with appetite levels agreed by the GRC: and Risk Management Standards x developing and maintaining appropriate risk management Global Policies and Procedures infrastructure and systems to facilitate compliance with risk policy.
The Groups Risk Management Framework RMF identifies 18 risk types, which are managed by designated Risk Type Wholesale and Consumer Banking Owners RTOs, who are all approved persons under the FSA Policies and Procedures regulatory framework, and who have responsibility for setting minimum standards and governance and implementing governance and assurance processes.
The RTOs report up through specialist risk committees to the GRC, or in the case of Liquidity Risk, to the GALCO.
Countries Local Policy Addenda and Procedures In support of the RMF the Group uses a set of risk principles, which are sanctioned by the GRC.
These comprise a set of statements of intent that describe the risk culture that the Group wishes to sustain.
All risk decisions and risk management activity should be in line with, and in the spirit of, the overall risk principles of the Group.
The governance process is designed to ensure: x business activities are controlled on the basis of risk adjusted return: x risk is managed within agreed parameters with risk quantified wherever possible: x risk is assessed at the outset and throughout the time that the Group continues to be exposed to it: x applicable laws, regulations and governance standards in every country in which the Group does business are abided by: x high and consistent ethical standards are applied to the Groups relationships with its customers, employees and other stakeholders: and x activities are undertaken in accordance with fundamental control standards.
These controls include the disciplines of planning, monitoring, segregation, authorisation and approval, recording, safeguarding, reconciliation and valuation.
The GED Risk and the Group Chief Risk Officer, together with Group Internal Audit, provide assurance, independent from the businesses, that risk is being measured and managed in accordance with the Groups standards and policies.
36 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Assurances Stress Testing Objectives and purpose of stress testing x ensure effective governance, processes and systems are in Stress testing and scenario analysis are important components place to coordinate stress testing: of the Groups risk assessment processes, and are used to x integrate current stress testing and scenario analysis assess the financial and management capability of the Group procedures: to continue operating effectively under extreme but plausible trading conditions.
Such conditions may arise from economic, x engage and inform senior management: legal, political, environmental, and social factors which define x assess the impact on the Groups profitability and the context within which the Group operates.
It is intended that business plans: stress testing and scenario analysis will help to inform senior and middle management with respect to: x enable the Group to set and monitor its risk appetite: and x the nature and dynamics of the risk profile: x satisfy regulatory requirements.
x the identification of potential future risks: Key to the framework is the formation of a Stress Testing Forum that is a formally constituted body deriving its powers x the setting of the Groups risk appetite: from the GRC.
The primary objective of this forum is to identify x the robustness of risk management systems and controls: and assess the extreme but plausible risks to which the Group may be subjected, and to make recommendations to senior x the adequacy of contingency planning: and management for suitable scenarios.
x the effectiveness of risk mitigants.
Group-wide scenario analysis represents a wide ranging Stress testing framework assessment of potential impact.
Therefore it is coordinated The diagram below illustrates the framework, which has been through a Group risk function, which is responsible for designed to satisfy the following requirements: consolidating the analysis and highlighting existing mitigants, controls, plans, and procedures to manage the identified risk, x identify key risks to the Groups strategy, financial position, as well as any additional management action required.
and reputation: Stress Testing Framework Country Stress Testing Stress Testing Forum Business Scenario Management Risk Type, Owners, Chief Risk Officers, Analysis Stress Testing Selection Action Group Risk, Global Research and Regional Representatives Risk Type Stress Testing www.
com 37 Risk Review continued Risk Appetite Risk appetite is the amount of risk the Group wants to take Procedures for managing credit risk are determined at the pursuant to its strategic objectives.
business levels with specific policies and procedures being adapted to different risk environment and business goals.
Risk The RMF summarises the Groups risk appetite for each of the officers are located in the businesses to maximise the efficiency identified risk types, as well as the related management standards.
of decision making, but have a reporting line which is separate Risk appetite setting is the Groups chosen method of balancing from the business lines into the Group Chief Risk Officer.
risk and return, recognising a range of possible outcomes, as The businesses working with the Risk Officer take responsibility business plans are implemented.
The Group adopts quantitative for managing pricing for risk, portfolio diversification and overall risk appetite statements where applicable, and aggregates risk asset quality within the requirements of Group standards, policies appetite across businesses where appropriate.
For example, a formal quantitative statement from the Board Where appropriate, derivatives are used to reduce credit risks communicates the Groups overall credit risk appetite and in the portfolio.
Due to the income statement volatility which can ensures this is in line with the strategy and the desired result, derivatives are only used in a controlled manner and within risk-reward trade off for the Group.
Where risk appetite statements are qualitative, these are Wholesale Banking supported with measures that allow business units to judge Within the Wholesale Banking business, a numerical grading whether existing and new business and processes fall within system is used for quantifying the risk associated with a the risk appetite.
The grading is based on a probability of default The annual business planning and performance management measure, with customers analysed against a range of quantitative process and associated activities ensure the expression of risk and qualitative measures.
Expected Loss is used for the further appetite remains appropriate, and the GRC supports this work.
assessment of individual exposures and portfolio analysis.
There is a clear segregation of duties with loan applications being Credit Risk prepared separately from the approval chain.
Significant Credit Risk Management exposures are reviewed and approved centrally through a Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not settle its Group or regional level credit committee.
These committees obligations in accordance with agreed terms.
are responsible to the GRC.
Credit exposures include both individual borrowers and groups Consumer Banking of connected counterparties and portfolios in the banking and For Consumer Banking, standard credit application forms trading books.
are generally used, which are processed in central units using The GRC has clear responsibility for credit risk.
Standards largely automated approval processes.
Where appropriate to the are approved by the GRC, which oversees the delegation customer, the product or the market, a manual approval process of credit authorities.
As with Wholesale Banking, origination and approval roles are segregated.
38 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Loan Portfolio Loans and advances to customers have grown by $28.3 billion Growth in the Wholesale Banking portfolio was $15.2 billion, to $140.5 billion.
Included in this is the effect of acquisitions made or 34 per cent, excluding recent acquisitions.
Growth was seen during the year in Pakistan and Taiwan.
in the Manufacturing, Commerce, and Financing, insurance and business services industries.
This was well spread across The Union portfolio increased loans and advances in Consumer geographies.
The Union Wholesale Banking portfolio is $0.5 billion and is well diversified.
The use of derivatives has partially offset the risks arising from the growth in the balance sheet during the period.
Of the $9.5 billion HIB total portfolio, 84 per cent relates to Consumer Banking and of this, 61 per cent represents the The Wholesale Banking portfolio remains well diversified across mortgage portfolio.
The Wholesale Banking portfolio stands both geography and industry, with no significant concentration at $1.6 billion.
within the industry classifications of Manufacturing, Financing, insurance and business services, Commerce or Transport, Growth in the Consumer Banking portfolio has been constrained storage and communication.
with mortgages, both in Hong Kong and Singapore, seeing increased attrition rates as the local markets have become highly competitive.
The Wholesale Banking portfolio is predominantly the Other and SME loans in Consumer Banking have short short term, with 78 per cent of loans and advances having a contractual maturities, typically they may be renewed and contractual maturity of one year or less.
In Consumer Banking, repaid over longer terms in the normal course of business.
An account is considered to be in default when payment is The provision is set with reference to past experience using flow rate not received on the due date.
Accounts that are overdue by methodology, as well as taking account of judgemental factors more than 30 days are considered delinquent.
These accounts such as the economic and business environment in core markets, are closely monitored and subject to a collections process.
and the trends in a range of portfolio indicators.
The process used for raising provisions is dependent on the The cover ratio reflects the extent to which the gross nonproduct.
For mortgages, individual impairment provisions IIP performing loans are covered by the individual and portfolio are generally raised at 150 days past due based on the difference impairment provisions.
The balance of non-performing loans between the outstanding amount of the loan and the present uncovered by the individual impairment provisions reflects value of the estimated future cash flows.
Loan impairment for the level of collateral held and or the estimated net value of other secured loans utilises the forced sale value of the collateral any recoveries.
For unsecured products, individual provisions are raised for the entire outstanding amount at 150 days past The table below sets out the total non-performing portfolios in due.
For all products there are certain accounts, such as cases Consumer Banking.
The significant decrease in non-performing involving bankruptcy, fraud and death, where the loss recognition loans in Korea is primarily as a result of the successful exiting process is accelerated.
of SME accounts and the realisation of collateral.
The increase in individual impairment provisions in Other Asia Pacific and A portfolio impairment provision PIP is held to cover the Middle East & Other S Asia includes the impact of the inherent risk of losses, which, although not identified, are known acquisitions of HIB and Union respectively.
through experience to be present in the loan portfolio.
PIP covers 2006 Asia Pacific Americas Middle UK & Other East & Group Hong Asia Other Head Kong Singapore Malaysia Korea Pacific India S Asia Africa Office Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Loans and advances Gross non-performing 80 100 202 531 668 48 98 24 5 1,756 Individual impairment provision 29 38 67 239 377 17 64 10 3 844 Non-performing loans net of individual impairment provision 51 62 135 292 291 31 34 14 2 912 Portfolio impairment provision 452 Net non-performing loans and advances 460 Cover ratio 74% 2005 Asia Pacific Americas Middle UK & Other East & Group Hong Asia Other Head Kong Singapore Malaysia Korea Pacific India S Asia Africa Office Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Loans and advances Gross non-performing 81 117 171 856 101 53 22 17 29 1,447 Individual impairment provision 22 31 63 310 61 13 16 9 3 528 Non-performing loans net of individual impairment provision 59 86 108 546 40 40 6 8 26 919 Portfolio impairment provision 278 Net non-performing loans and advances 641 Cover ratio 56% www.
com 41 Risk Review continued Wholesale Banking In Wholesale Banking, accounts or portfolios are placed on Where it is considered that there is no realistic prospect of Early Alert when they display signs of weakness.
Such accounts recovering an element of an account against which an impairment and portfolios are subject to a dedicated process with oversight provision has been raised, then that amount will be written off.
involving senior Risk Officers and Group Special Asset A portfolio impairment provision is held to cover the inherent Management GSAM.
Account plans are re-evaluated risk of losses, which, although not identified, are known through and remedial actions are agreed and monitored until complete.
experience to be present in any loan portfolio.
In Wholesale Remedial actions include, but are not limited to, exposure Banking, the portfolio impairment provision is set with reference reduction, security enhancement, exit of the account or to past experience using loss rates, and judgemental factors immediate movement of the account into the control of such as the economic environment and the trends in key GSAM, the specialist recovery unit.
Loans are designated as impaired and considered nonThe cover ratio reflects the extent to which gross non-performing performing where recognised weakness indicates that full loans are covered by individual and portfolio impairment provisions.
payment of either interest or principal becomes questionable or At 87 per cent, the Wholesale Banking non-performing portfolio as soon as payment of interest or principal is 90 days or more is well covered.
The balance uncovered by individual impairment overdue.
Impaired accounts are managed by GSAM, which is provision represents the value of collateral held and or the independent of the main businesses of the Group.
Where any Groups estimate of the net value of any work-out strategy.
amount is considered uncollectable, an individual impairment provision is raised, being the difference between the loan carrying The Wholesale Banking net non-performing loan portfolio amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows.
In as at 31 December 2006 was 56 per cent lower than as at any decision relating to the raising of provisions, the Group 31 December 2005.
This was driven by a decrease in gross attempts to balance economic conditions, local knowledge non-performing loans in most of the Groups key regions, and experience, and the results of independent asset reviews.
except those affected by recent acquisitions.
The following table sets out the total non-performing portfolio in Wholesale Banking: 2006 Asia Pacific Americas Middle UK & Other East & Group Hong Asia Other Head Kong Singapore Malaysia Korea Pacific India S Asia Africa Office Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Loans and advances Gross non-performing 167 69 29 110 251 24 121 100 152 1,023 Individual impairment provision 130 46 25 46 154 22 102 58 151 734 Non-performing loans and advances net of individual impairment provision 37 23 4 64 97 2 19 42 1 289 Portfolio impairment provision 158 Net non-performing loans and advances 131 Cover ratio 87% 2005 Asia Pacific Americas Middle UK & Other East & Group Hong Asia Other Head Kong Singapore Malaysia Korea Pacific India S Asia Africa Office Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Loans and advances Gross non-performing 355 125 36 156 133 83 60 89 210 1,247 Individual impairment provision 257 109 33 51 118 27 48 51 164 858 Non-performing loans and advances net of individual impairment provision 98 16 3 105 15 56 12 38 46 389 Portfolio impairment provision 90 Net non-performing loans and advances 299 Cover ratio 76% 42 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Wholesale Banking continued 2006 Asia Pacific Americas Middle UK & Other East & Group Hong Asia Other Head Kong Singapore Malaysia Korea Pacific India S Asia Africa Office Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Gross impairment charge 14 9 2 7 3 9 10 19 7 80 Recoveries provisions no longer required 50 6 8 3 11 19 18 6 49 170 Net individual impairment charge credit 36 3 6 4 8 10 8 13 42 90 Portfolio impairment provision 2 Net impairment credit 92 2005 Asia Pacific Americas Middle UK & Other East & Group Hong Asia Other Head Kong Singapore Malaysia Korea Pacific India S Asia Africa Office Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Gross impairment charge 70 25 2 5 6 9 40 12 169 Recoveries provisions no longer required 6 12 9 1 117 12 50 8 72 287 Net individual impairment charge credit 64 13 7 1 112 6 41 32 60 118 Portfolio impairment provision 12 Net impairment credit 106 www.
com 43 Risk Review continued Movement in Group Individual Impairment Provision The following tables set out the movements in the Groups total individual impairment provision against loans and advances: 2006 Asia Pacific Americas Middle UK & Other East & Group Hong Asia Other Head Kong Singapore Malaysia Korea Pacific India S Asia Africa Office Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Provisions held at 1 January 2006 279 140 96 361 179 40 64 60 167 1,386 Exchange translation differences 7 6 29 8 1 2 1 9 57 Amounts written off recoveries on acquisition fair values 119 108 51 170 403 64 88 17 48 1,068 Recoveries of amounts previously written off 49 8 11 8 18 17 12 2 3 128 Acquisitions 369 134 503 Discount unwind 2 2 4 32 7 1 2 2 52 Other 63 14 1 1 67 20 New provisions 126 71 94 131 403 76 79 44 9 1,033 Recoveries provisions no longer required 111 32 60 56 37 31 33 18 51 429 Net charge against credit to profit 15 39 34 75 366 45 46 26 42 604 Provisions held at 31 December 2006 159 84 92 285 531 39 166 68 154 1,578 2005 Asia Pacific Americas Middle UK & Other East & Group Hong Asia Other Head Kong Singapore Malaysia Korea Pacific India S Asia Africa Office Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Provisions held at 1 January 2005 294 119 127 1 319 43 125 64 457 1,549 Exchange translation differences 7 2 1 4 8 1 5 4 13 25 Amounts written off 156 30 58 21 204 66 70 43 223 871 Recoveries of amounts previously written off 49 6 11 5 36 21 14 4 7 153 Acquisitions 352 352 Discount unwind 3 3 4 28 2 1 2 5 48 Other 1 19 1 1 2 3 21 New provisions 165 92 62 57 153 105 48 60 12 754 Recoveries provisions no longer required 64 42 43 9 134 60 59 17 71 499 Net charge against credit to profit 101 50 19 48 19 45 11 43 59 255 Provisions held at 31 December 2005 279 140 96 361 179 40 64 60 167 1,386 44 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Country Risk investment securities where the counterparty is resident Country Risk is the risk that a counterparty is unable to meet its in a country other than that where the assets are recorded.
contractual obligations as a result of adverse economic conditions Cross border assets also include exposures to local residents or actions taken by governments in the relevant country.
denominated in currencies other than the local currency.
The GRC approves country risk limits and delegates the setting Cross border exposure to countries in which the Group does and management of country limits to the Deputy Group Chief not have a significant presence is predominantly in relation to Risk Officer.
money market and global corporate activity.
This business is The business and country Chief Executive Officers manage originated in the Groups key markets, but is conducted with exposures within these limits and policies.
Countries designated counterparties domiciled in the country against which the as higher risk are subject to increased central monitoring.
Cross border assets comprise loans and advances, interest The following table, based on the Bank of England Cross Border bearing deposits with other banks, trade and other bills, Reporting CE guidelines, shows the Groups cross border acceptances, amounts receivable under finance leases, assets including acceptances where they exceed one per cent of the Groups total assets.
com 45 Risk Review continued Market Risk The Group recognises market risk as the exposure created The stress test methodology assumes that management action by potential changes in market prices and rates.
The Group would be limited during a stress event, reflecting the decrease in is exposed to market risk arising principally from customer liquidity that often occurs.
Value at Risk Market risk is governed by the GRC, which agrees policies and The Group uses historic simulation to measure VaR on all market levels of risk appetite in terms of Value at Risk VaR.
The Group risk related activities.
Market Risk Committee GMRC provides market risk oversight The total VaR for trading and non-trading books combined at and guidance on policy setting.
Policies cover both trading and 31 December 2006 was $10.3 million 2005: $10.8 million.
non-trading books of the Group.
The trading book is defined as per the FSA Handbook BIPRU.
Limits by location and portfolio Interest rate related VaR was $9.3 million 2005: $10.3 million and are proposed by the businesses within the terms of agreed policy.
foreign exchange related VaR was $1.5 million 2005: $1.1 million.
Group Market Risk GMR approves the limits within delegated The average total VaR for trading and non-trading books during authorities and monitors exposures against these limits.
Additional 2006 was $10.6 million 2005: $12.4 million with a maximum limits are placed on specific instruments and currency concentrations exposure of $14.0 million 2005: $20.6 million.
Sensitivity measures are used in addition VaR for interest rate risk in the non-trading books of the Group to VaR as risk management tools.
Option risks are controlled totalled $8.0 million at 31 December 2006 2005: $9.2 million.
through revaluation limits on currency and volatility shifts, limits on volatility risk by currency pair and other variables that determine The Group has no significant trading exposure to equity or the options value.
VaR models are back tested against actual results to ensure The average daily income earned from market risk related pre-determined levels of accuracy are maintained.
GMR activities during 2006 was $5.2 million, compared with complements the VaR measurement by regularly stress testing $4.1 million during 2005. market risk exposures to highlight potential risks that may arise Revenue Distribution from extreme market events that are rare but plausible.
Stress testing is an integral part of the market risk management framework and considers both historical market events and 90 forward looking scenarios.
Ad hoc scenarios are also prepared 80 reflecting specific market conditions.
A consistent stress testing 70 methodology is applied to trading and non-trading books.
60 50 Stress scenarios are regularly updated to reflect changes in 40 risk profile and economic events.
GMRC has responsibility for 30 reviewing stress exposures and, where necessary, enforcing 20 reductions in overall market risk exposure.
GRC considers 10 stress testing results as part of its supervision of risk appetite.
0 -4 -2-4 -2-0 0-2 2-4 4-6 6-8 8-10 10-12 12-14 14-16 16-18 $ million 46 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Number of days 1 0 4 18 72 79 51 13 12 7 2 1 Foreign Exchange Exposure Liquidity Risk The Groups foreign exchange exposures comprise trading and The Group defines liquidity risk as the risk that the Group either does not have sufficient financial resources available to meet all non-trading foreign currency translation exposures and structural its obligations and commitments as they fall due, or can access currency exposures in net investments in non US dollar units.
them only at excessive cost.
Foreign exchange trading exposures are principally derived from It is the policy of the Group to maintain adequate liquidity at all customer driven transactions.
The average daily income from times, in all geographical locations and for all currencies.
Hence foreign exchange trading businesses during 2006 was $2.0 the Group aims to be in a position to meet all obligations, to million 2005: $2.0 million.
repay depositors, to fulfil commitments to lend and to meet Interest Rate Exposure any other commitments.
The Groups interest rate exposures arise from trading and nonLiquidity risk management is governed by GALCO, which is trading activities.
chaired by the Group Finance Director.
GALCO is responsible Structural interest rate risk arises from the differing re-pricing for both statutory and prudential liquidity.
These responsibilities characteristics of commercial banking assets and liabilities.
are managed through the provision of authorities, policies and procedures that are co-ordinated by the Liquidity The average daily income from interest rate trading businesses Management Committee LMC with country Asset and during 2006 was $3.2 million 2005: $2.1 million.
Derivatives Due to the diversified nature of the Groups business, the Groups Derivatives are contracts whose characteristics and value derive policy is that liquidity is more effectively managed locally, infrom underlying financial instruments, interest and exchange rates country.
Each ALCO is responsible for ensuring that the country or indices.
They include futures, forwards, swaps and options is self-sufficient and is able to meet all its obligations to make transactions in the foreign exchange, credit and interest rate payments as they fall due.
The ALCO has primary responsibility markets.
Derivatives are an important risk management tool for for compliance with regulations and Group policy and maintaining banks and their customers because they can be used to manage a country liquidity crisis contingency plan.
the risk of price, interest rate and exchange rate movements.
A substantial portion of the Groups assets are funded by The Groups derivative transactions are principally in instruments customer deposits made up of current and savings accounts where the mark-to-market values are readily determinable by and other deposits.
These customer deposits, which are reference to independent prices and valuation quotes or by widely diversified by type and maturity, represent a stable using standard industry pricing models.
Lending is normally funded by liabilities in The Group enters into derivative contracts in the normal course of the same currency.
business to meet customer requirements and to manage its own The Group also maintains significant levels of marketable exposure to fluctuations in interest, credit and exchange rates.
securities either for compliance with local statutory requirements Derivatives are carried at fair value and shown in the balance or as prudential investments of surplus funds.
sheet as separate totals of assets and liabilities.
Recognition of The GALCO also oversees the structural foreign exchange fair value gains and losses depends on whether the derivatives and interest rate exposures that arise within the Group.
These are classified as trading or for hedging purposes.
responsibilities are managed through the provision of authorities, policies and procedures that are co-ordinated by the Capital The Group applies a future exposure methodology to manage Management Committee.
Policies and guidelines for the counterparty credit exposure associated with derivative maintenance of capital ratio levels are approved by GALCO.
Please refer to note 51 on page 139 for Compliance with Group ratios is monitored centrally by Group further information on Market Risk.
Corporate Treasury, while local requirements are monitored by Hedging the local ALCO.
In accounting terms, hedges are classified into three types: fair Operational Risk value hedges, where fixed rates of interest or foreign exchange Operational risk is the risk of direct or indirect loss due to an event are exchanged for floating rates: cash flow hedges, where or action resulting from the failure of internal processes, people variable rates of interest or foreign exchange are exchanged and systems, or from external events.
The Group seeks to ensure for fixed rates, and hedges of net investments in overseas that key operational risks are managed in a timely and effective operations translated to the parent companys functional manner through a framework of policies, procedures and tools currency, US dollars.
to identify, assess, monitor, control and report such risks.
The Group uses futures, forwards, swaps and options The Group Operational Risk Committee GORC has been transactions in the foreign exchange and interest rate markets established to supervise and direct the management of to hedge risk.
operational risks across the Group.
GORC is also responsible The Group occasionally hedges the value of its foreign currency for ensuring adequate and appropriate policies and procedures denominated investments in subsidiaries and branches.
Hedges are in place for the identification, assessment, monitoring, control may be taken where there is a risk of a significant exchange rate and reporting of operational risks.
movement but, in general, management believes that the Groups A Group Operational Risk function, independent from the reserves are sufficient to absorb any foreseeable adverse businesses, is responsible for establishing and maintaining currency depreciation.
the overall operational risk framework, and for monitoring the The effect of exchange rate movements on the capital risk asset Groups key operational risk exposures.
This unit is supported ratio is mitigated by the fact that both the net asset value of these by Wholesale Banking and Consumer Banking Operational investments and the risk weighted value of assets and contingent Risk units.
These units are responsible for ensuring compliance with policies and procedures in the business, monitoring key liabilities follow substantially the same exchange rate movements.
com 47 Risk Review continued Operational Risk continued operational risk exposures, and the provision of guidance to the standards.
All staff are responsible for day to day identification respective business areas on operational risk.
and management of reputational risk.
Compliance with operational risk policies and procedures is the From an organisational perspective the Group manages responsibility of all managers.
Every country operates a Country reputational risk through the Group Reputational Risk and Operational Risk Group CORG.
The CORG has in-country Responsibility Committee GRRRC and Country Management governance responsibility for ensuring that an appropriate and Committees.
Wholesale Banking has a specialised Responsibility robust risk management framework is in place to monitor and and Reputational Risk Committee which reviews individual manage operational risk.
In Consumer Banking, potential reputational risks resulting from transactions or products are reviewed by the Compliance and Regulatory Risk Product and Reputational Risk Committee.
Issues are then Compliance and Regulatory risk includes the risk of nonescalated to the GRRRC.
compliance with regulatory requirements in a country in which the Group operates.
The Group Compliance and Regulatory A critical element of the role of the GRRRC is to act as a radar for Risk function is responsible for establishing and maintaining the Group in relation to the identification of emerging or thematic an appropriate framework of Group compliance policies and risks.
The GRRRC also ensures that effective risk monitoring is in procedures.
Compliance with such policies and procedures place for Reputational Risk and reviews mitigation plans for is the responsibility of all managers.
Legal Risk At a country level, the Country CEO is responsible for the Groups Legal risk is the risk of unexpected loss, including reputational reputation in their market.
The Country CEO and their loss, arising from defective transactions or contracts, claims being Management Committee must actively: made or some other event resulting in a liability or other loss for x promote awareness and application of the Groups policy the Group, failure to protect the title to and ability to control the and procedures regarding reputational risk: rights to assets of the Group including intellectual property rights, changes in the law or jurisdictional risk.
The Group x encourage business and functions to take account of the manages legal risk through the Group Legal Risk Committee, Groups reputation in all decision making, including dealings Legal Risk policies and procedures and effective use of its internal with customers and suppliers: and external lawyers.
x implement effective functioning of the in country reporting Reputational Risk system to ensure their management committee is alerted Reputational risk is any material adverse effect on the relations of all potential issues: and between the Group and any one of its significant stakeholders.
It x promote effective, proactive stakeholder management.
is Group policy that the protection of the Groups reputation should take priority over all activities including revenue generate Monitoring on at all times.
Group Internal Audit is a separate Group function that reports to the Group Chief Executive and the ARC.
Group Internal Audit Reputational risk is not a primary risk, but will arise from the failure provides independent confirmation that Group and business to effectively mitigate one or more of country, credit, liquidity, standards, policies and procedures are being complied with.
market, legal and regulatory and operational risk.
It may also arise Where necessary, corrective action is recommended.
from the failure to comply with Social, Environmental and Ethical 48 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2006
