50 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2006 1.
Oliver Stocken Chairman Appointed to the Board on Appointed to the Board on Appointed to the Board on Appointed to the Board on 16 November 2002.
He was appointed as Group Finance of Xchangeco Limited and a of Home Retail Group, Deputy appointed as Chairman on Director on 20 November 2006 Chairman of 3i plc and Chairman non-executive director of 20 November 2006.
Immediately and is responsible for Finance, Drax Group plc.
He is also of Oval Limited, Rutland plc prior to this he had been Corporate Treasury and and Stanhope Group Holdings Chairman of Macmillan Cancer Group Chief Executive since Corporate Development.
Before his Immediately prior to this he Group Finance Director of Chief Executive Officer of the appointment as Group Chief was Group Executive Director Barclays PLC.
UK property company MEPC Executive he was the executive responsible for growth and and Finance Director of the 13.
Lord Turner director with responsibility for governance across Africa, Airport Authority Hong Kong.
Appointed to the Board on Hong Kong, China and North the Middle East, Pakistan, the Age 56.
He is a nonEast Asia and for Group-wide United Kingdom, Europe and executive director of United 8.
Val Gooding CBE Technology and Operations.
the Americas and before that Business Media plc, Siemens Appointed to the Board on He is a non-executive director of was responsible for Risk, Holdings plc and Paternoster UK 1 January 2005.
She is Chief Tesco PLC, Tottenham Hotspur Special Assets Management Limited and is a member of the Executive Officer of BUPA plc and Fleming Family & Partners and Legal & Compliance.
He is Board of Trustees of WWF-UK and a non-executive director of Limited.
He is also Chairman of a non-executive director of the and Save the Children Fund.
J Sainsbury plc and of The Lawn the Appeal Fundraising Board of Indo British Partnership Network.
Previously he was Director Tennis Association.
She is also Breakthrough Breast Cancer and Before his appointment to the General of the CBI and Vice a Trustee of the Sir Kyffin Williams Standard Chartered PLC Board a Trustee of the British Museum.
Chairman of Merrill Lynch Trust.
Age 54. he was Chief Operating Officer, Previously she was Director, Europe Limited.
Asia Pacific with British Airways.
Peter Sands Barclays PLC and before that Age 56.
Board Committees Group Chief Executive Group Financial Controller at Appointed to the Board on 9.
Prior to Barclays Audit and Risk Committee 14 May 2002.
He was appointed Senior Independent Director he was Group Finance Director Rudy Markham chairman as Group Chief Executive on Appointed to the Board on Jamie Dundas of Woolwich PLC.
He is Chief Ruth Markland prior to this he had been Group 5.
Kai Nargolwala Financial Officer of Unilever Lord Turner Finance Director since his Appointed to the Board on and a non-executive director Board Nomination appointment to the Board and 7 May 1999.
He is Group of Legal and General Group Plc.
Committee was responsible for Finance, Executive Director with Age 60.
Risk, Strategy and Technology responsibility for governance in Mervyn Davies chairman 10.
Ruth Markland Jamie Dundas and Operations.
Before his Asia and for the Groups Risk Appointed to the Board on and Special Assets Management Rudy Markham appointment to the Standard 3 November 2003.
She is Ruth Markland Chartered PLC Board he was functions.
He joined Standard Chairman of the Board of a director with worldwide Chartered in 1998 as Group Board Remuneration Trustees of the WRVS and consultants McKinsey & Co. Head of Sales.
He is a nonCommittee a non-executive director of He had been with McKinsey executive director of Singapore Ruth Markland chairman The Sage Group plc.
Previously since 1988, where he worked Telecommunications Ltd and of Val Gooding she was Managing Partner Asia extensively in the banking and Tate & Lyle PLC and is on the Paul Skinner for the international law firm technology sectors in a wide range Visa International Asia Pacific Oliver Stocken Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer.
He is based of internationalmarkets.
Lord Turner Age 54. in Singapore.
Paul Skinner Appointed to the Board on 6.
Sir CK Chow and Community Committee Appointed to the Board on 12 May 2000.
He is Group Appointed to the Board on Mervyn Davies chairman 3 November 2003.
He is Executive Director with Peter Sands Chairman of Rio Tinto plc and responsibility for the Groups Chief Executive Officer of MTR Jamie Dundas is a non-executive director Consumer Banking business Corporation Limited of Hong Val Gooding Kong and is non-executive of the Tetra Laval Group and worldwide and leads the Groups LAir Liquide SA.
He is also a Strategy function.
He joined Chairman of Standard Chartered Also a director of Standard member of the board of INSEAD Standard Chartered in July 1999 Bank Hong Kong Limited.
with responsibility for Consumer is a member of the Hong Kong and of the Defence Management Board of the UK Ministry of Banking in Asia.
He is a member Tourism Board, the Council of Independent non-executive director.
the Chinese University of Hong Defence.
Previously he was a of the Asia Pacific Regional Advisory Board of MasterCard Kong and the Council of the director of The Shell Transport International, a member of the Hong Kong Institute of Certified and Trading Company plc and Public Accountants.
Previously Group Managing Director of board of Singapore Management University and a director of the he was Chief Executive Officer the Royal Dutch Shell Group International Centre for Missing of GKN plc and Brambles of companies where he was Industries plc.
He is based and Exploited Children.
He is CEO of its global Oil Products based in Singapore.
