Report of the Directors The directors have pleasure in submitting their report and the Dividends accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries for the year ended The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend for 31 December 2006.
2006 of 50.21 cents per ordinary share to be paid on 11 May 2007 to shareholders on the register on 9 March 2007.
The 2006 Activities interim dividend of 20.83 cents per ordinary share was paid on The Company is a holding company co-ordinating the activities 11 October 2006, making a total of 71.04 cents for the year.
of its subsidiary undertakings which are principally engaged in the business of banking and the provision of other financial services.
The ordinary shareholders will again be offered the choice to receive their cash dividends in sterling, Hong Kong dollars or The Chairmans Statement on pages 6 and 7, the Group Chief US dollars.
It is also intended that the share dividend alternative Executives Review on pages 8 to 11 and the Business, Financial to the cash dividend will be offered during 2007. and Risk Reviews on pages 12 to 49 contain a review of the business of the Group during 2006, recent events and of likely Major Interests in Shares and Voting Rights future developments.
As far as the directors are aware as at 31 December 2006, Temasek Holdings Private Limited Temasek was the only Results shareholder that had an interest of more than 10 per cent in the The results for the year are set out in the consolidated income Companys issued ordinary share capital.
As at 27 February 2007, the Company had been notified of the Share Capital following interests of three per cent or more in its issued ordinary During the year 1,496,807 ordinary shares were issued under share capital.
the Companys employee share plans at prices between nil Percentage of and 987 pence.
Number of issued ordinary Shareholder ordinary shares share capital On 12 May 2006, 9,960,348 ordinary shares were issued instead of the 2005 final cash dividend.
On 11 October 2006, Temasek Holdings Private Limited 153,365,936 11.0755 4,912,941 ordinary shares were issued instead of the 2006 Fidelity Investments 68,506,087 4.9473 interim cash dividend.
In addition to the above interests, the Company had been On 12 January 2006, 3,401,290 new ordinary shares were notified that Legal & General Group PLC had a direct interest issued as partial consideration for the Groups 20 per cent in 47,526,644 shares in the Company and, as a result, held investment in Fleming Family & Partners Limited, at an average 3.43 per cent of the total voting rights in the Company.
On 4 October 2006, 48,500,000 new ordinary shares were issued as a result of an institutional Loan Capital placing, at a price of 1375 pence per share to fund the acquisition Details of the loan capital of the Company and its subsidiaries are of Hsinchu International Bank.
set out in note 36 to the accounts.
Further details of these issues of ordinary shares and other Fixed Assets matters relating to the Companys share capital can be found Details of the fixed assets of the Company are set out in note 22 in note 37 to the accounts.
Details of the fixed assets of the Group are set out in notes 22, 24 and 25 to the accounts.
At the annual general meeting AGM in May 2006 the shareholders granted authority for the Company to buy back up to 131,986,987 of the Companys ordinary shares.
This was approximately 10 per cent of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 28 February 2006.
In addition, at the AGM, the shareholders granted authority for the Company to buy back up to all of the Companys issued preference share capital.
The Company did not purchase any of its own ordinary shares or sterling preference shares during 2006 and the directors would only use this authority if they considered that the purchase would benefit the Company and shareholders.
On 2 October 2006, the Company redeemed 328,388 8.9 per cent preference shares of $5 each which represented all of the US dollar preference shares in issue at that time.
On 8 December 2006 the Company issued 7,500 6.409 per cent preference shares of $5 each.
These US dollar preference shares were issued in the form of American Depository shares and further details can be found in note 37 to the accounts.
com 53 Report of the Directors continued Directors Continuing Connected Transactions The directors of the Company at the date of this report are On 20 July 2006, by virtue of its acquisition of a greater than listed on page 51.
All of the directors, except for Lord Turner, 10 per cent shareholding in the Company, Temasek, together held office throughout the year.
with its associates, became related parties and connected persons of the Company for the purposes of the UK Listing Rules Lord Turner was appointed as an independent non-executive and the Listing Rules of The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited director with effect from 1 August 2006 and will offer himself the HK Listing Rules respectively the Rules.
Neither Temasek for election by the shareholders at this years AGM.
nor its associates are related parties for the purposes of IAS 24.
Mr Ho KwonPing retired from the Board at the conclusion of the The Rules are intended to ensure that there is no favourable 2006 AGM, Mr B K Sanderson resigned as a director and Group treatment to Temasek or its associates as defined under the Chairman on 19 November 2006 and Mr H E Norton retired from Rules as a result of such shareholding to the detriment of other the Board on 31 December 2006.
Mr E M Davies, who had been shareholders in the Company.
Unless transactions which the Group Chief Executive since November 2001, was appointed Company and its subsidiaries undertake with Temasek or its Group Chairman on 20 November 2006.
Mr P A Sands was associates are specifically exempt under the Rules or the appointed as Group Chief Executive on 20 November 2006. subject of a specific waiver, they may require a combination Mr R H Meddings was appointed as Group Finance Director of announcement, reporting, shareholder approval, and or on 20 November 2006. disclosure.
To ensure transparency, the Rules also impose Mr J F T Dundas, Ms R Markland, Mr R H Meddings, additional reporting and disclosure requirements on the Mr K S Nargolwala and Mr P D Skinner retire from office by Company in respect of certain non-exempt and other rotation and will offer themselves for re-election at this years transactions with Temasek or its associates.
AGM, in accordance with the Companys articles of association.
Since 20 July 2006 the Group has entered into certain Sir CK Chow, having completed more than nine years service continuing connected transactions with Temasek or its on the Board, will offer himself for re-election at this years AGM, associates in the normal course of its business which are in accordance with the recommendations of the Combined Code.
not exempt and are subject to the annual reporting and or shareholders approval requirements of the HK Listing Rules.
Mr Meddings and Mr Nargolwala have service contracts with In accordance with the requirements of the HK Listing Rules a notice period of one year.
Sir CK Chow, Mr Dundas, details of such transactions as undertaken with Temasek Ms Markland, Mr Skinner and Lord Turner are non-executive associates and which are required to be reported are set out in directors and do not have service contracts.
the Supplementary Financial Information on page 146.
Any such Directors Interests transactions and or other matters which require shareholder The directors beneficial interests in the ordinary shares of the approval will be proposed to the Companys shareholders at Company as at 31 December 2006 are shown in the Directors the AGM.
Remuneration Report on pages 61 to 73.
The independent non-executive directors of the Company Qualifying Third Party Indemnities confirm that the continuing connected transactions reported In February 2006, the Company granted qualifying third party have been entered into by members of the Group with Temasek indemnities to the directors of the Company and the directors or its associates: of Standard Chartered Bank, subject to and on terms consistent x in the ordinary and usual course of business of the Group: with the Companys articles of association and the Companies Act 1985 as amended by the Companies Audit, Investigations x either on normal commercial terms or, if there are not sufficient and Community Enterprise Act 2004.
The indemnities remain comparable transactions to judge whether they are on normal in force at the time of this report.
commercial terms, on terms that are no less favourable to the Group than terms available to or from as appropriate independent Risk Management third parties: and The risk management objectives and policies of the Group, including its policy for hedging risk are set out in the Risk Review x in accordance with the relevant agreement governing them on pages 34 to 48.
The Groups exposure to credit risk is set out on terms that are fair and reasonable and in the interests of on pages 38 to 44, liquidity risk in note 48 to the accounts, and the shareholders of the Company as a whole.
market risk in note 51 to the accounts.
Company-only risks For the purposes of Rule 14A.
38 of the HK Listing Rules, the are managed as a part of overall Group risks.
Companys auditor, KPMG Audit Plc and its associated firms Significant Contracts together KPMG, has performed certain agreed-upon There were no contracts of significance during the year in which procedures on the aforementioned continuing connected any of the directors were materially interested.
transactions for the period 20 July 2006 to 31 December 2006, in accordance with International Federation of Accountants Related Party Transactions Related Services 4400 Engagement to Perform Agreed-Upon Details of transactions with directors and officers and other Procedures Regarding Financial Information.
related parties are set out in note 53 to the accounts.
54 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Employees The Group employs almost 60,000 staff in 56 countries and HIV AIDS directly and indirectly impacts the Groups staff and territories.
The average number of people employed by the therefore its business.
A policy on HIV AIDS has been developed Group in the United Kingdom during the year was 1,290 and by the Group to be adopted across all the countries in which the their total remuneration for the year was $176 million.
Employees Group operates and will apply to all staff and their families in a in all the countries and territories where the Group operates have manner consistent with existing medical cover.
A copy of the the opportunity to participate in the Groups all-employee Groups HIV AIDS policy is available to shareholders on the sharesave schemes.
This encourages their contribution to the Companys website at: Groups performance.
Further details of the sharesave schemes www.
com sustainability are given on page 64 and in note 40 to the accounts.
Environmental Policy The employment policies of the Group are designed to meet The Group recognises that it should minimise any adverse impact the relevant social, statutory and market conditions and of the conduct of business on the environment.
It therefore aims practices in each country where the Group operates.
The to manage its businesses according to best practice with regard Group communicates systematically with its employees on to the use of energy and other resources and by disposing of a wide range of issues.
This is done by briefings to managers waste responsibly, by encouraging its customers to ensure that who are encouraged to hold subsequent meetings with staff their products, processes and businesses do not damage the and by circulars, publications and videos.
environment unnecessarily and by taking environmental considerations into account in business decisions.
The Group recognises its social and statutory duty to employ disabled people and has followed a policy in the United Kingdom A copy of the Groups environmental report is available to by providing, wherever possible, the same employment shareholders on the Companys website at: opportunities for disabled people as for others.
com sustainability become disabled every effort is made to ensure their employment Social, Ethical and Environmental SEE Responsibilities continues, with appropriate training where necessary.
Further A report on SEE responsibilities can be found on page 60 and details of the Groups employees can be found in the Business further details of the Groups policies on SEE risk can be found Review on pages 18 to 21. on the Companys website: Areas of Operation www.
com sustainability The Group has over 1,400 branches and corporate offices, as Corporate Governance shown on pages 150 and 151.
A report on corporate governance is included on pages 56 to 60.
Major Customers Auditor Taken together, the five largest customers of the Group account A resolution will be proposed at the 2007 AGM to reappoint for 1.36 per cent of the total interest income and other operating KPMG as the auditor of the Company.
income of the Group in the year ended 31 December 2006.
The directors have taken all necessary steps to make themselves Creditor Payment Policy and KPMG aware of any information needed in performing the Operating businesses are responsible for agreeing the terms audit of the 2006 Annual Report and Accounts and as far as each and conditions with their suppliers in the economies where they of the directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information of conduct business.
It is the Groups policy to pay creditors when which KPMG is unaware.
the amounts fall due for payment.
Annual General Meeting Standard Chartered PLC is a holding company and does not The Companys AGM will be held at 12 noon UK time 7.00 pm trade.
Therefore, it is not considered meaningful to give a number Hong Kong time on Thursday 3 May 2007 at The Plaisterers Hall, of days purchases outstanding for the Company at 31 December 1 London Wall, London EC2Y 5JU.
Details of the business to be 2006.
For the Groups operations in the United Kingdom, there transacted at the AGM are included in the accompanying Notice were 57 days purchases outstanding at 31 December 2006. of AGM.
Community Investment By order of the Board The Group recognises its responsibility to invest in the communities where it operates and to act as a good corporate citizen.
In 2006, the Group gave $14.2 million to fund the work of non-governmental organisations of which $0.3 million was given to United Kingdom registered charities, focusing on supporting C Burns their work outside the United Kingdom.
Further details of Group Company Secretary community projects can be found in the Business Review 27 February 2007 on pages 22 to 25.
HIV AIDS Policy The Group is committed to addressing social, health and human rights issues confronting its employees, their families and the communities in which it operates.
The Group recognises that the principal competitive advantage of any business is gained through its employees, and this advantage is only sustainable if they are healthy, skilled and motivated.
