Annual report Final copy:Temple Bar RA 23 2 07 19:20 Page 5 Directors JOHN REEVE, Chairman, aged 62, was former managing director of Carlton appointed a director in 1992.
He was formerly Communications PLC.
She was previously a nonexecutive chairman of the Willis Group, group executive director of J Sainsbury PLC, Cookson managing director of Sun Life Assurance Society Group PLC and BT PLC.
and a member of the boards of the Association of MARTIN R RILEY, aged 63, was appointed a British Insurers and the International Insurance director in 2004.
He has over 35 years experience Society.
He is currently Chairman of Alea Group in stockbroking and fund management in the City Holdings Bermuda Limited and a director of a and is a former director of Henderson Crosthwaite number of other companies.
Ltd, Guinness Mahon & Co Ltd and Barlows PLC.
He GARY J ALLEN, aged 62, was appointed a is currently chairman of SR Europe Investment director in 2001.
He has over 35 years experience Trust PLC and Howard Investment Company Ltd and in engineering and is former chairman of IMI PLC.
a director of Bonfield Asset Management Ltd and His other directorships include The London Stock various private investment companies.
FIELD L J WALTON, aged 66, was appointed a RICHARD W JEWSON, aged 62, was appointed director in 1983.
He started his career in a director in 2001.
He first worked in the timber engineering management and moved to the City and building material supply industry, becoming as an analyst with Cazenove in 1971.
Subsequently managing director of Jewson the builders he held a number of positions in fund merchants for twelve years from 1974, and then management.
He is currently a consultant to managing director and chairman of its parent MacArthur & Co. Limited, a former chairman of company Meyer International PLC from which he Biofuels Corporation PLC and a non-executive retired in 1993.
He is currently chairman of director of a number of engineering and trust PFI Infrastructure PLC and Archant Limited, and a companies.
He is also a director of Harrods Group non-executive director of Grafton Group PLC and Trustees Ltd. Clean Energy Brazil PLC.
Independent non-executive director and member of the audit committee and nomination committee.
JUNE F fide MOLLER, aged 59, was appointed a Chairman of the audit committee and Senior Independent director in 2005.
She is a non-executive director Director.
of Derwent London PLC, Archant Limited and a from left to right: June fide Moller, Gary Allen, John Reeve, Martin Riley, Field Walton, Richard Jewson Temple Bar Investment Trust 5
