Annual report Final copy:Temple Bar RA 23 2 07 19:21 Page 16 Report of the directors The directors present their report and accounts driving down the prices of out-of-favour for the year ended 31 December 2006. companies to below their fair value will offer investment opportunities provided a typical BUSINESS REVIEW emotional response to both good and bad news Introduction can be avoided.
This will allow the Company to purchase shares at significant discounts to their This business review forms part of the Directors fair value and sell them as they become more Report.
Its function is to provide a balanced and fully valued, principally as a result of predictable comprehensive review of the Companys patterns in human psychology.
performance and development during the year and its position at the year end.
The review also The Managers process is designed to produce covers the principal risks and uncertainties faced best ideas to drive active fund management by the Company and sets out key performance within a rigorous control framework.
The indicators used to measure, monitor and manage framework begins through narrowing down the the Companys business.
universe of stocks by passing those companies with a market capitalisation above 100m Business of the Company through a screening process which highlights The Company carries on business as an the weakest performing stocks.
This isolates investment trust and was approved by HM opportunities with attractive sentiment Revenue & Customs as an investment trust in characteristics which are then in turn scrutinised accordance with Section 842 of the Income & in greater detail to identify investment Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for the year ended 31 opportunities.
In the opinion of the directors The process is very much bottom-up, and can the Company has subsequently conducted its result in large sector positions being taken if affairs so that it should continue to qualify.
enough stocks of sufficient interest are found The Companys principal business activity of within one sector.
However, top down risk investment management is sub-contracted to analysis is undertaken to identify potential Investec Investment Management Limited IIM concentration of risk and to factor this under the ultimate supervision of the board of awareness into portfolio construction.
The Company has one active wholly portfolio comprises stocks which have been owned subsidiary company, whose principal purchased for different reasons and at different activity is investment dealing and one dormant times.
In general, because of the bottom-up subsidiary.
approach to stockpicking, each of these reasons A review of the business is given in the is independent of the other and the portfolio, Chairmans statement and the Managers report.
therefore, is not excessively vulnerable to longerThe results of the Group are shown on page 27. term macro trends.
Cash is a residual of the process and normally will not exceed 5% of the Investment Objective and Policies portfolio value.
The Companys investment objective is to provide The approach to stock selection and portfolio growth in income and capital to achieve a long construction is driven by four core beliefs: term total return greater than the benchmark 1.
Markets overreact to news on the upside and FTSE All-Share Index, through investment in UK the downside.
The Manager aims to be securities.
The Companys policy is to invest in a broad spread of securities with typically the sceptical of the crowd and aware of investor majority of the portfolio selected from the psychology, which often causes overvaluation constituents of the FTSE 100 Index.
of those stocks that are deemed to have good prospects and an undervaluation of those Investment Approach which are out of favour.
The investment approach of our Manager is premised on a contrarian view on the timing of 2.
There are few companies which sustain below buy and sell decisions, buying the shares of normal profits over the longer term.
Weaker companies when sentiment towards them is at or companies tend to leave an industry, thus near its worst, and selling them as fundamental improving the balance of supply and demand, profit improvement and or re-evaluation of their are bid for or management is changed.
Similarly, there are few companies which can The belief is that repeated investor behaviour in sustain supernormal profits over the longer 16 Temple Bar Investment Trust Annual report Final copy:Temple Bar RA 23 2 07 19:21 Page 17 term.
Such profits tend to be competed or Details of the attribution analysis for the year regulated away.
ended 31 December 2006 are given in the investment managers report on page 10.
Fundamental valuation is the key determinant of stock prices over the long-term.
In other Discount on Net Asset Value words cheap stocks will outperform The Board monitors the premium discount at expensive stocks.
which the Companys shares trade in relation to the assets.
During the year the shares traded at 4.
Diversification is an important control.
an average discount to NAV of 3.5%.
The Board Particular companies or sectors can be out of and Manager closely monitor both movements in favour for a considerable time.
the Companys share price and significant dealings in the shares.
In order to avoid Performance substantial overhangs or shortages of shares in In the year to 31 December 2006 the net asset the market the Board asks shareholders to value total return of the Company increased by approve resolutions each year which allow for 17.72% compared with the total return by the the buy back of shares and their issuance which Companys benchmark index of 16.75%.
The can assist in the management of the discount.
investment managers report on pages 10 to 12 Regular demand generated by monthly includes a review of developments during the investment in the Savings Scheme and the use of year together with information on investment marketing and promotional activity also assist in keeping the discount at an acceptable level.
activity within the Companys portfolio.
Earnings and Dividend Per Share Key Performance Indicators It remains the directors intention to distribute The key performance indicators KPIs used to over time by way of dividends substantially all of determine the progress and performance of the the Companys net revenue income after Company over time and which are comparable to expenses and taxation.
The Manager aims to those reported by other investment trusts are set maximise total returns from the portfolio and out below:- attaches great importance to dividends in Net asset value total return relative to the FTSE achieving total return.
The portfolio will typically All-Share Index provide a yield premium to the market.
The final dividend recommended for the year is 19.88p per Performance attribution ordinary share which brings the total for the year to 29.23p per ordinary share, an increase of Discount on net asset value 5.03%.
This increase exceeds the RPI inflation of Earnings and dividends per share 4.43% by a comfortable margin and is the 23rd consecutive year in which the Company has Total expense ratio increased the overall level of its dividend While some elements of performance against payment.
KPIs are beyond management control they Total Expense Ratio TER provide measures of the Companys absolute and The TER is an expression of the Companys relative performance and are, therefore, management fees and all other operating monitored by the board on a regular basis.
expenses including tax relief where allowable Net Asset Value Total Return but excluding interest payments as a percentage In reviewing the performance of the assets of the of average month end net assets over the year.
Companys portfolio the Board monitors the net The TER for the year ended 31 December 2006 asset value in relation to the FTSE All-Share was 0.47% 2005 0.46%.
During the year the net asset value total each year a comparison of the Companys TER return of the Company rose by 17.72% compared with those of its peers.
At the present time the with a rise of 16.75% by the FTSE All-Share Index.
Company has one of the lowest TERs in the Performance Attribution income and growth sector of investment trust companies.
The purpose of performance attribution analysis is to assess how the Company achieved its performance relative to its benchmark index.
Temple Bar Investment Trust 17 Annual report Final copy:Temple Bar RA 23 2 07 19:21 Page 18 Report of the directors continued Principal Risks and Uncertaintities beyond the absolute control of the management and Board.
The principal risks facing the Company fall under the general categories of strategy, operational Accounting Legal & Regulatory and management risks.
With the assistance of In order to qualify as an investment trust the the Manager the Board has drawn up a risk Company must comply with Section 842 of the matrix which identifies the key risks to the Income & Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
Were the Company under these broad headings.
The Board Company to breach Section 842 it might lose reviews and agrees policies, which have remained investment trust status and, as a consequence, unchanged since the beginning of the accounting gains within the Companys portfolio would be period, for managing these risks as summarised subject to capital gains tax.
qualification criteria are, therefore, monitored by Investment Strategy the Board at each meeting.
An inappropriate investment strategy on matters The Company must also comply with the such as asset allocation or the level of gearing provisions of the Companies Acts and, since its may lead to underperformance against the shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange, Companys benchmark index or peer companies, the UKLA Listing Rules.
A breach of the resulting in the Companys shares trading on a Companies Acts could result in the Company wider discount.
The Board manages such risks by being fined or subject to criminal proceedings.
diversification of investments through its Breach of the UKLA Listing Rules could result in investment restrictions and guidelines, which are the Companys shares being suspended from monitored and reported on by the Manager.
The Listing which in turn would breach Section 842.
Manager provides the directors with regular and The Board relies on the services of its company accurate management information including secretary, Investec Investment Management absolute and relative performance data, Limited, and its professional advisers to ensure attribution analysis, revenue estimates, liquidity compliance with the Companies Acts and the reports, risk profile and shareholder analysis.
Board monitors the implementation and results Corporate Governance and Shareholder of the investment process with the investment Relations Manager, who attends Board meetings.
Details of the Companys compliance with Periodically the Board holds a separate meeting corporate governance best practice including devoted to strategy.
information on relations with shareholders, are Income Risk Dividends set out in the corporate governance report on Generating the necessary level of income from pages 22 to 24. portfolio investments to meet the Companys Control Systems Risk expenses and to provide adequate reserves from Disruption to, or failure of, IIMs accounting, which to base a sustainable programme of dealing or payments systems or the custodians increasing dividend payments to shareholders is records could prevent accurate reporting and subject to the risk that income generation from monitoring of the Companys financial position.
investments fails to meet the level required.
The Details of how the Board monitors the services Board monitors this risk through the receipt of provided by IIM and its associates and the key detailed income reports and forecasts which are elements designed to provide effective internal considered at each meeting.
As at 31 December control are included within the internal control 2006 the Company had distributable revenue section of the corporate governance report on reserves of 25,071,000 before declaration of pages 22 to 24. the final dividend for 2006.
Other Risks Share Price Risk Other risks to which the Company is exposed and The Companys share price and discount to net which form part of the market risks referred to asset value are monitored by the Manager and is above are included in note 22 to the financial considered by the Board at each meeting.
Some statements together with summaries of the short term influences over the discount may be policies for managing these risks.
These exercised by the use of share repurchases at comprise: market price risk, interest rate risk, acceptable prices: however, market sentiment is liquidity risk and counterparty risk.
18 Temple Bar Investment Trust Annual report Final copy:Temple Bar RA 23 2 07 19:21 Page 19 The Board confirms that there is an ongoing No other person was a director during any part process for identifying, evaluating and managing of the year.
strategic business and operational risks.
This The directors retiring by rotation and or in process is regularly reviewed by the Board in compliance with the provisions of the AIC Code accordance with the Turnbull guidance on are Mr J Reeve, Mr F L J Walton and Mr G J internal controls.
Each of these directors being eligible, the Board recommends their re-election.
In making ORDINARY DIVIDENDS these recommendations the Board has carefully An interim dividend of 9.35p per ordinary share reviewed the composition of the Board as a was paid on 29 September 2006 2005: 8.90p whole and borne in mind the need for a proper and the directors are recommending a final balance of skills and experience.
The Board does dividend of 19.88p per ordinary share 2005: not believe that length of service per se detracts 18.93p, a total for the year of 29.23p 2005: from the independence of a director, particularly 27.83p.
Subject to shareholders approval, the in relation to an investment trust, and on that final dividend will be paid on 30 March 2007 to basis considers that the directors standing for shareholders on the register on 16 March 2007. re-election are independent.
It is confirmed that, PERSONAL EQUITY PLANS ISAs following formal evaluation, the performance of The Company has conducted its investment policy so each director continues to be effective and each as to remain a qualifying investment trust under the continues to demonstrate commitment to ISA and Personal Equity Plan regulations.
intention of the Board to continue to satisfy these There were no contracts subsisting during or at regulations.
the end of the year in which a director of the Company is or was interested and which are or SHARE CAPITAL were significant in relation to the Companys There were no ordinary shares allotted during the business.
No director has a service contract with year.
PAYMENT OF SUPPLIERS DIRECTORS The Companys policy is to obtain the best The directors of the Company during the year possible terms of payment from suppliers for all were as stated below and their interests in the forms of business.
All terms agreed with ordinary share capital of the Company are as suppliers have been complied with during the follows.
Each of the directors held office year.
There were no trade creditors at the year throughout the year.
31 December 1 January SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS 2006 2006 G J Allen 1,369 1,333 As at 20 February 2007 the following company had indicated an interest in 3% or more of the J F fide Moller 1,211 issued ordinary shares of the Company.
R W Jewson 3,113 2,645 J Reeve 30,550 28,372 % M R Riley 15,000 Legal & General Group plc 3.41 F L J Walton 6,724 6,724 MANAGEMENT CONTRACT All the above interests are beneficial.
None of the The Company has a management agreement directors had at any date any interest in either of with Investec Investment Management Limited the Companys debenture stocks.
IIM for the provision of investment management, secretarial, accounting and On 13 February 2007 Mr J Reeve acquired a administrative services to the Company and its further 112 ordinary shares in the Company subsidiaries.
The agreement is subject to one through his regular monthly saving in an ISA.
On years notice of termination by either party.
22 January 2007 Mr R W Jewson and Mrs J F fide Moller acquired a further 29 and 58 ordinary IIM receives an investment management fee of shares respectively in the Company through their 0.35% per annum, payable quarterly, based on regular monthly savings in the Temple Bar the value of the investments including cash of Investment Trust Savings Scheme.
Investments in funds managed by changes in the interests shown above occurred the Investec Group are wholly excluded from this between 31 December 2006 and 20 February charge.
Temple Bar Investment Trust 19 Annual report Final copy:Temple Bar RA 23 2 07 19:21 Page 20 Report of the directors continued management fee payable to IIM is charged by the proposed at the Annual General Meeting which, if Company to capital and the remaining 40% passed, will give the directors the power to allot 2005: 40% to the revenue account on the basis for cash equity securities up to an aggregate of the expected long term division of returns.
nominal amount of 725,000 equivalent to 2,900,000 ordinary shares of 25p each or 4.97% The investment management fee charged for the of the Companys existing issued ordinary share year ended 31 December 2006 amounted to capital, as if Section 89 1 does not apply.
The directors intend to use this authority to issue new shares to participants in the Temple Bar IIMs performance under the contract and the Investment Trust Savings Scheme or to other contract terms are reviewed at least annually.
prospective purchasers whenever they believe it This covers, inter alia, the performance of the may be advantageous to shareholders to do so.
Manager, their management processes, Any such issues would only be made at prices investment style, resources and risk controls.
As greater than net asset value, as adjusted for the noted in the Chairmans Statement, the recent market value of the Companys debt, and, performance of the Company has been good, therefore, would increase the assets underlying having outperformed its benchmark index over 5 each share.
The issue proceeds would be available and 10 year periods.
In the opinion of the for investment in line with the Companys directors the continued appointment of the investment policy.
investment Manager on the terms set out above is in the best interests of shareholders.
No issues of shares will be made which would alter the control of the Company without the DONATIONS prior approval of shareholders in general No political or charitable donations were made meeting.
The appropriate resolutions are set out in the DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO notice of meeting on page 45.
AUDITORS DIRECTORS AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE The directors are not aware of any relevant THE COMPANYS OWN SHARES information of which the auditors are unaware The directors consider it desirable to give the and have taken all the steps that they ought to Company the opportunity to buy back shares in have taken as directors in order to make circumstances where the shares may be bought themselves aware of any relevant audit for a price which is below the net asset value per information and to establish that the Companys share of the Company.
The purchase of ordinary auditors are aware of that information.
shares is intended to reduce the discount at AUDITORS which ordinary shares trade in the market A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as through the Company becoming a new source of auditors to the Company will be proposed at the demand for ordinary shares.
The rules of the UK Annual General Meeting on 26 March 2007.
Listing Authority provide that the maximum price which can be paid by the Company is 5% above RENEWAL OF AUTHORITY TO ALLOT the average of the market value of the ordinary SHARES AND DISAPPLICATION OF shares for the five business days before the PRE-EMPTION RIGHTS purchase is made.
It is proposed that the directors be authorised to The Company is not intending to make such allot up to 725,000 of relevant securities in the purchases at present and will only exercise the Company equivalent to 2,900,000 ordinary power after careful consideration and in shares of 25p each, representing 4.97% of its circumstances where, in the light of prevailing ordinary shares in issue.
market conditions, it is satisfied that it is in the When shares are to be allotted for cash, Section interests of the Company to do so.
It is expected 89 1 of the Companies Act 1985 requires such that any shares bought back pursuant to this new shares to be offered first to existing authority will be cancelled rather than being held shareholders in proportion to their existing in Treasury.
The appropriate resolution is set out holdings of ordinary shares.
However, in certain in the notice of meeting on page 45. circumstances, it is beneficial to allot shares for By order of the Board of Directors cash otherwise than pro rata to existing M K Slade shareholders and the ordinary shareholders can For Investec Investment Management Limited by special resolution waive their pre-emption Secretary rights.
Therefore, a special resolution will be 20 February 2007 20 Temple Bar Investment Trust
