Annual report Final copy:Temple Bar RA 23 2 07 19:20 Page 10 Managers report In 2006, the UK equity market delivered The fall appeared to refocus investors on their investors a fourth successive year of gains.
The other target medium-sized equities, although prevalent themes of the last few years remained this description is not clear cut.
Certainly, the in place: a belief that valuations were low, good groupings used by most market commentators to growth of profits and dividends and a high level determine size: FTSE 100 the largest 100 of merger and acquisition activity.
Although companies by market capitalization, FTSE 250 inflationary fears started to pick up, together the next 250 companies hence mid caps and with the long-anticipated slowdown in US the FTSE Small Cap the remaining 350 or so economic growth, investor sentiment remained companies in the FTSE All-Share Index are too positive.
Currently, instead, medium-sized seems to be shorthand for the bid potential of any The rise in the UK market from the low point of company.
March 2003 until the correction of Spring 2006 was the longest recorded uptrend without a 10% The shorthand may be simplistic, but it seems pullback.
Somewhat paradoxically the 10% fall in justifiable when related to investor behaviour.
A the FTSE 100 was immediately labelled as number of medium-sized companies have healthy and provided the bulls with the received bids in the last few years, and the justification for a strong recovery.
They argued pattern could well continue.
With bidders often that in late 2005 and early 2006 the market had motivated by the combination of potential cost become less sensitive to risk and needed the cutting opportunities, increased leverage and correction to remove the froth before it could fairly cheap funding, the potential for bids has reach new highs.
However, although the UK played on the twin emotions of fear and greed market did hit these new highs later in the year, that investors have always found hardest to it was not evident that the setback had control.
Their fear of missing out on a bid, having encouraged investors to become more risk held a stock for some time, and the greed for averse.
In fact, it seemed that the exact opposite receiving a bid, skewed supply and demand of had occurred medium-sized equities continued these stocks, leading, in our opinion, to a number to outperform their larger peers: emerging of them now trading at rich valuations.
market equities recovered faster than developed PERFORMANCE ATTRIBUTION ANALYSIS markets: spreads on high yield bonds relative to The following illustrates the factors that have government bond yields narrowed to multi-year contributed to the Companys performance in the lows.
year to 31 December 2006: The performance of the portfolio over the year may be viewed as two distinct parts: underAttribution Analysis % performance relative to the market in the first Total return of FTSE All-Share Index 16.75 part being countered by out-performance in the Relative return from the portfolio 0.30 second part.
In the first part, ending in April, the market favoured stocks with a story: preferably Performance on total assets 17.05 one stretching well into the future.
In particular, Income distributed to shareholders 3.33 many investors continued to be attracted by Expenses 0.51 stories of a new paradigm in the commodity Finance costs 0.92 markets.
We thought the future in these areas 12.29 was less clear cut and that the expected Impact of gearing on portfolio 1.66 profitability and ratings attached to them by the market were too high.
The spring sell-off brought Change in net asset value a reversal in the Mining sector and, although the per ordinary share 13.95 overall market ended the year higher, the larger as percentage of opening NAV miners such as Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton recovered little of their lost ground over the High valuations, while not necessarily an remainder of the year.
Our nil exposure to this obstruction to higher prices, undoubtedly sector contributed significantly to our improved increase the risk to an investor assuming that performance during the market fall.
10 Temple Bar Investment Trust Annual report Final copy:Temple Bar RA 23 2 07 19:21 Page 11 the fundamentals of the company are value of their Russian assets.
Currently, investors appear happy to pharmaceutical companies, GlaxoSmithKline and accept the risk, believing that they are AstraZeneca provided little encouragement underwritten by bidders, particularly private about the development of new drugs: and the equity buyers ready to pounce if prices fall.
This largest banks, HSBC and Royal Bank of Scotland, may be true to some extent but, historically, suffered minor profit downgrades as the first private equity managers have avoided paying signs of a US consumer slowdown diminished the high prices without good reason.
quality of their loan books.
Given this background, it is no surprise that the These stocks have now reached such low biggest contributors to the portfolios relative valuations that we believe a great deal of performance during the year came mainly from negative news is already included in their prices.
medium-sized companies: Cable & Wireless, In fact, we can find few stocks elsewhere in the easyJet, N Brown, ICAP all FTSE 250 market offering such a good combination of constituents and Centrica, Amvescap, secure earnings, balance sheet strength, dividend Legal & General and BT FTSE 100 constituents growth and valuation support.
Therefore, during but still within biting distance of private equity.
the year, we increased our holdings of all, except Royal Bank of Scotland.
These companies could As always, there were stocks whose performance be involved in merger, and possibly fide-merger, disappointed such as HMV, GlaxoSmithKline and activity in the future and this is clearly not Royal Dutch Shell.
However, in general, the discounted in their existing valuations.
As a portfolio benefited from the absence of any result of these attractions, a significant part of stocks which were significant negative the portfolio is represented by a relatively small contributors to performance.
It is important to number of holdings.
While this might displease stress that this will not always be the case.
As advocates of investment diversification, we contrarian investors, we are always seeking to believe that when building a portfolio it is of buy stocks that are significantly out of favour but primary importance to focus on finding cheap have the potential to exhibit strong share price stocks, rather than targeting a specific number of performance.
With hindsight, we can see that holdings.
While through the cycle we would while some stocks are indeed out of favour but expect to have a greater number of holdings of cheap, others are out of favour but expensive.
medium-sized companies, their valuations History shows that the majority of stocks mean currently preclude this and we are content with revert, ie what goes down comes back up and an increased focus on the largest companies.
vice versa, in terms of both profitability and share price, and our analysis aims to put the Another theme to note in the portfolio is the odds on success further in our favour.
However, sizeable position in the Media and General Retail any portfolio will include some losers those that sectors.
Many of these holdings have been dont mean revert in our holding period and affected by rapid changes in consumer behaviour sometimes no amount of analysis will protect a that have occurred, or in some instances are fund from this.
expected to occur, as a result of the increasing usage of the internet.
For example, HMV and Last year we highlighted the apparently Woolworths have been affected by severe price attractive valuations of many FTSE 100 deflation in the CD and DVD market and Trinity companies which had clearly under-performed Mirror and ITV have suffered as advertising has the broader market for a number of years.
moved away from some traditional markets.
Generally, these companies, and in particular BSkyB and EMI have been volatile while investors many of the largest ones, disappointed again in attempt to clarify whether they will retain their 2006.
As noted above, the markets focus on large market positions, or whether customers will potential bid stocks offered little sustenance to find it easier and cheaper to access these the markets giants, and the newsflow from these companies products in alternative ways.
companies offered little to excite investors.
In the Oil sector, BP was affected by safety issues, and However, we believe it is important to bear in Royal Dutch Shell and BP by concerns over the mind some positive prospects for these Temple Bar Investment Trust 11 Annual report Final copy:Temple Bar RA 23 2 07 19:21 Page 12 Managers report continued companies.
The swift take-up of broadband and, particularly, the high quality customer internet has surprised many commentators, and service associated with a familiar and well company managements have often been caught regarded chain of physical high street stores.
Although the Simultaneously, management promoted internet internet has encouraged new competition, much sales to attract or retain price conscious of which did not exist even ten years ago, the customers.
Investors warmed to this strategy and strengths of the incumbent companies should despite a disappointing Christmas trading not be under-stated.
statement, the shares stand significantly higher than the level at which we purchased them.
In most cases, the incumbents are now establishing, or have already established, equally We purchased our holding in Jessops when the dominant positions on the internet.
For example, shares were out of favour, and most in the past few months, HMVs Waterstones has commentators believed the company to be in launched its own website, while most of the structural decline.
The market often exaggerates largest UK recruitment websites are now owned a companys problems, but we know that by traditional media companies, successfully outcomes are often far more positive than seem defending their positions.
likely when the panic is at its peak.
It is always difficult to disentangle a structural One possible reading of events in 2006 is that theme from a cyclical theme.
The weakness of investors took the Spring correction as a sales in HMV and Woolworths may be as much a warning, and subsequently increased the reflection of poor music and indifferent film protection element in their portfolios.
However, releases a cyclical effect as of a structural rather like driver self-confidence induced by seat move to the internet.
belts and air bags, it is possible that the correction encouraged greater acceptance of Some of the changes may be faddish.
Clearly, risk is reduced if protection is example, companies may have been encouraged precisely aligned with the constituent parts of to move their advertising away from traditional the portfolio.
However, the science is undermined media towards the internet: however, as the by the capricious nature of asset markets, where power of internet advertising is untested, some an imperfect hedge may provide far less move back to the traditional formats is, at least, protection than expected in a severe market sellpossible.
off, and could result in risky assets being Many incumbent companies have unassailable liquidated.
In turbulent markets, this alone could content or brands.
As a case in point EMIs back create downward momentum.
catalogue of music, and ITVs archive of classic These factors of portfolio construction tend programmes, are unique and, in fact, will currently to focus us on lowly rated liquid stocks probably respond positively to new delivery and strong balance sheets.
Of course, if our channels.
opinion hardens, we could easily increase the Finally, and perhaps most importantly, the level of liquidity on the portfolio, or buy some weakened share prices of these companies protection.
However, while market conditions already discount very unattractive scenarios.
allow us to purchase a sufficient number of Wider appreciation of any of the positives listed stocks with the characteristics we desire, we are above could significantly affect valuations.
happy to be almost fully invested.
Our holding in Jessops, the camera retailer, provides a good case study.
In 2005, investors Alastair Mundy were concerned that a large percentage of Investec Investment Management Limited camera sales was likely to migrate from shops to 20 February 2007 the internet: and, indeed, the companys operating performance suggested this was already happening.
As a result, the shares halved from their peak.
However, management quickly assessed the gravity of the problem and implemented a strategy utilising the advantages 12 Temple Bar Investment Trust
