TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors have pleasure in presenting their Annual Report for the year ended 30 April 2006.
The Business Principal Activity and Investment Status In the opinion of the Directors, the Company continued to conduct its affairs so as to be able to seek approved investment status from the HM Revenue & Customs under section 842 Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for the accounting years ended 30 April 2005 and 30 April 2006.
Approval, as an investment trust, has been received from HM Revenue & Customs for all accounting periods to 30 April 2004 contained in the Taxation of Capital Gains Act 1992 which exempts approved investment trusts from corporation tax on their chargeable gains.
Business Review A review of the development and performance of the business of the Company, the position of the Company at the year end, and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company is contained in the Business Review on pages 9 to 14.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements and other information included in annual reports may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Financial Net Asset Value The net asset value of the Ordinary Shares as at 30 April 2006 was 348.18 pence per share.
Implementation of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS The company has prepared its financial statements in accordance with the requirements of IFRS.
The results for the year ended 30 April 2005 have been restated.
The effects of this are shown in detail on pages 42 and 43.
Reporting Currency As the Company is a UK investment trust, whose share capital is issued in the UK and denominated in Pounds Sterling, the Directors have deemed that the functional currency of the Company is Pounds Sterling.
Going Concern Given the Companys financial position and resources, the Directors are satisfied that the going concern basis is appropriate in preparing the Financial Statements.
Dividend Policy Section 842 of The Income and Corporation Taxes Act requires TEMIT to retain no more than 15% of the income from shares and securities.
It is the Companys policy to distribute 90% of gross taxable income from shares and securities, when possible, and retain 10% and aim for a sustainable dividend.
This policy is consistent with TEMITs investment objective of long-term capital appreciation.
The Directors propose an ordinary dividend of 2.76 pence per Ordinary Share making a total dividend for 2006 of 14.79 million.
If approved, this will be payable on 4 October 2006 to ordinary shareholders on the register at close of business on 1 September 2006.
Creditor Payment Policy Investment transactions are settled by the Company in accordance with the terms and conditions of the relevant market.
While the Company follows no formal code, its policy is to agree the terms of payment 25 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC DIRECTORS REPORT continued at the start of business and ensure that the supplier is aware of the terms of payment.
Payment is made in accordance with these terms provided that the supplier is also complying with all relevant terms and conditions.
For the year ended 30 April 2006 the number of trade brokers creditors days was 1 day 2005: 1 day.
Auditors RSM Robson Rhodes LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors to the Company and a resolution proposing their re-appointment will be submitted at the Annual General Meeting.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Financial Statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and those International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
Company law requires the directors to prepare the financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the financial statements in accordance with the applicable generally accepted accounting principles.
The Directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU.
The financial statements are required by law and IFRS as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position of the Company and the performance for that period: the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are required to:.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently:.
make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent:.
state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS, as adopted by the EU: and.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for the system of internal control, for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and the Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of the Directors report confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
The Annual Report is available on the Companys website www.
The maintenance and integrity of the Companys website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the information contained in the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
26 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC DIRECTORS REPORT continued Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements and other information included in annual reports may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors Directors The Board currently comprises seven Non-Executive Directors, six of whom are independent from Franklin Templeton Investments, the management group.
The Chairman is Non-Executive and independent from the management.
The Directors biographies are set out on pages 4 to 7.
The following were Directors during the year to 30 April 2006: Sir Ronald Hampel Sir Peter Burt Sam L Ginn Peter C Godsoe OC Charles B Johnson Andrew S B Knight Geoffrey A Langlands resigned 27 September 2005 Peter A Smith Mr Johnson is a director and shareholder of Franklin Resources, Inc.
He is also a director of Templeton Worldwide Inc, the parent company of TAML.
The Companys Articles of Association require newly appointed Directors to submit themselves for election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting and Directors are then subject to re-election at intervals of no more than three years.
The Company follows the Combined Code on Corporate Governance and the AITC Code of Corporate Governance in respect of the review and re-appointment of the Directors.
The Board considers that the question of tenure should be assessed as part of the performance evaluation of the contribution of each Director.
The Companys Articles of Association also provide that Directors, upon attainment of 70 years of age should retire from office, and may offer themselves for re-election at each Annual General Meeting.
This is in accordance with the AITC Code of Corporate Governance, which recommends that Directors over the age of 70 should offer themselves for re-election every year.
All Directors serving longer than nine years must offer themselves for annual re-election.
Sir Ronald Hampel 74 and Charles B Johnson 73 offer themselves for re-election as Directors as they are over 70 years of age.
Charles B Johnson is also standing for re-election by virtue of the Listing Rules requirement for non-independent Directors to be re-elected annually.
The Board recommends the reelection of Sir Ronald Hampel and Charles B Johnson whose biographies are set out in this Annual Report as they continue to provide the Company with valuable experience, guidance and support.
Following the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting, Sam Ginn will retire as a Director.
The Board is proposing to elect to the Board at its September meeting Neil Collins.
Mr Collins, who is 59, will be recommended to shareholders for re-election at the Annual General Meeting and his biographical details are set out below: Neil Collins has spent most of his career in financial journalism, and was City Editor of The Daily Telegraph for nearly 20 years until he retired from the position in 2005.
He was voted Financial Journalist of the Year in 2002.
Prior to that he had been City Editor of the London Evening Standard and The Sunday Times.
He is currently a columnist on the Evening Standard, contributing two columns a week to the financial pages.
Educated at Uppingham School, he graduated from Selwyn College, Cambridge, in 1968 with an Honours degree in Mechanical Sciences, and spent two years as a graduate trainee with Hoare & Co, stockbrokers.
From 1999 to 2003 he served as a governor on the board of St Andrews School, Eastbourne.
Each Director has a letter of appointment from the Company.
Other than previously stated, no Director was a party to or had an interest in any contract or arrangement with the Company at any time during the year.
27 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC DIRECTORS REPORT continued The Directors meet quarterly and retain full and effective control over the Company through the monitoring of the management team of Templeton Asset Management Ltd. TAML the Investment Manager, and Franklin Templeton Investment Management Ltd. FTIML the Secretary and Administrator.
The Board is responsible for investment policy and has a schedule of matters reserved for the resolution of the Directors for safeguarding shareholders investment and the Companys assets.
The primary focus of the Directors at the quarterly board meetings is a review of the investment performance of the Company and matters such as gearing, asset allocation, marketing investor relations, peer group information and industry issues.
The Board also reviews the investment mandate and longterm investment strategy and performance of the Company and the appropriate guidelines within which the Investment Manager should operate.
The table below lists the number of Board and Committee meetings attended by each Director.
During the year there were 4 Board Meetings, 3 Audit Committee Meetings and 2 Nomination and Remuneration Committee Meetings.
Nomination and Board Meetings Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Director Attended Meetings Attended Meetings Attended Sir Ronald Hampel 4 2 Sir Peter Burt 3 1 Sam L Ginn 4 2 Peter C Godsoe, OC 4 3 Charles B Johnson 4 Andrew S B Knight 4 Geoffrey A Langlands 2 Peter A Smith 4 3 Geoffrey A Langlands resigned on 27 September 2005.
Nomination and Remuneration Committee The Board established a Nomination & Remuneration Committee in February 2002, comprised of Sam L Ginn Chairman, Sir Ronald Hampel and Geoffrey A Langlands until his resignation from the Board on 27 September 2005.
The role of the Nomination & Remuneration Committee is to review regularly the Board structure, size and composition and make recommendations to the Board with regard to any adjustments that seem appropriate, to consider the rotation and renewal of the Board, approve the candidate specification for all Board appointments, approve the process by which suitable candidates are identified and short listed, and to nominate candidates for consideration by the full board, whose responsibility it is formally to make appointments.
In addition, the Committee reviews the level of Directors fees periodically relative to other comparable companies and in the light of the Directors responsibilities.
Performance Evaluation The Board has undertaken a formal evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors.
The Board has also considered the independence of each Director.
The evaluation of the Board, of its Committees, and the performance of individual Directors, is carried out first through discussions between the Chairman and each Director on an individual basis.
Thereafter the Board meets as a group to review the findings.
The performance and cost of service providers are considered as regular items annually on the Boards agenda.
Information and Professional Development The Board is supplied, via the Company Secretary, with regular information to enable the Directors to discharge their duties.
The Company Secretary provides the Board with regular updates on regulatory issues and on the latest corporate governance rules and guidelines.
28 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC DIRECTORS REPORT continued Remuneration Details of the remuneration policy are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Boards policy is that the remuneration of Non-Executive Directors should reflect the experience of the Board as a whole, be fair and comparable to that of other investment trusts similar in size, capital structure and investment objective.
The fees for the Non-Executive Directors are currently determined within the limits set out in the Companys Articles of Association, and they are not eligible for bonuses, pension benefits, share options, long-term incentive schemes or other benefits in accordance with other long standing investment trusts.
Apart from the Directors, TEMIT itself has no employees and therefore no retirement or health scheme obligations.
No Director had notified the Company of any interest as defined in Schedule 7 of the Companies Act 1985 existing at the end of the financial year in the Companys Ordinary Shares save for the following Directors: 30 April 2006 30 April 2005 Sir Ronald Hampel Ordinary Shares 21,618 21,618 Sir Peter Burt Ordinary Shares 4,000 Andrew S B Knight Ordinary Shares 11,000 The Company has not received notification of any changes in the above interests as at 15 June 2006.
Substantial Shareholdings As at 15 June 2006 the Company had been notified that the following were interested in 3% or more of the issued share capital of the Company.
Percentage Number of of issued Name Ordinary Shares Share Capital City of London 74,227,793 13.85 Legal & General Investment Management 19,886,682 3.71 Lazard Asset Management LLC Group 19,810,236 3.70 British Steel Pension Fund Trustee Limited 17,337,113 3.23 Service Providers Investment Manager During the year, Templeton Asset Management Ltd TAML acted as Investment Managers to the Company under an investment management agreement and received from the Company a monthly fee at an annual rate of 1.00% of the trading net assets of the Company.
The agreement between the Company and TAML can be terminated by either party giving the other one years notice of termination.
The Board keeps under review the performance and contractual arrangements of TAML as Investment Manager to the Company.
In the opinion of the Directors the continuing appointment of TAML on the agreed terms is in the best interests of the shareholders as a whole.
The Directors believe that TAML is well positioned to act as investment manager to the Company and well resourced to identify attractive investment opportunities.
29 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC DIRECTORS REPORT continued Secretarial and Administration Managers During the year FTIML acted as secretary and administrator of the Company.
The fee paid to FTIML for this service has been reviewed during the year.
As a result, from 1 February 2006 the fee has been reduced from an annual rate of 0.25% to 0.20% of the trading total net assets of the Company, payable monthly.
The agreement between the Company and FTIML can be terminated by either party giving the other one years notice of termination.
The Directors also keep under annual review the performance of FTIML as Secretarial and Administration Managers.
Custodian JP Morgan Chase Bank acts as global custodian for the Company and receives a fee for the provision of custody and nominee services to the Company under a custody agreement which contains provision for the exclusion or limitation of liability as set out in the agreement.
The custody agreement may be terminated by either party giving the other 60 days notice.
Corporate Governance Compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance The Board considers that the Company has complied with the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance throughout the year ended 30 April 2006.
AITC Code of Corporate Governance revised February 2006 The Company is a member of the AITC.
The Board considers that the Company adheres with the provisions of the AITC Code of Corporate Governance.
By reporting against the AITC Guide and by following the AITC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies, the Company is meeting its obligations under the Combined Code and paragraph 9.8.
6 of the Listing Rules and as such the Company does not require to report further on issues contained in the Combined Code which are not relevant to the Company as explained in the AITC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies.
Schedule of Reserved Matters The Board of the Company has formally adopted a Schedule of Reserved Matters which details the matters which the Board has agreed are specifically reserved to them for their collective decision.
These matters include, inter alia, approval of the interim and financial statements, recommendation of the final dividend, approval of any preliminary announcements of the Company, approval of any changes to the Companys investment objective and or policy, appointment or removal of the Companys Investment Manager or its Secretary or Administrator, Board membership and Board committee membership and any major changes to the investment objective, philosophy or policy of the Company, other than any such changes delegated to the Investment Manager under the Investment Management Agreement.
The day to day investment management of the portfolio of the Company is delegated to the Investment Manager who manages the portfolio in accordance with the investment objectives of the Company as set by the Board.
Social, Environmental & Ethical Policy As an investment trust, the Company has no direct social or environmental responsibilities.
It is focused on ensuring that its funds are properly managed and invested within the guidelines approved by the Board.
The Board receives regular reports on the policies and controls in place.
The investment policy does not contain specific restrictions of an ethical nature.
However the Investment Manager invests only in companies that it considers to be well managed and subject to appropriate 30 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC DIRECTORS REPORT continued corporate governance.
A well-managed company is considered to be one which complies with all the relevant legislation and which meets the social and environmental requirements of the country in which it operates.
It is important to recognise that local laws and requirements do not necessarily equate with those of developed countries.
Institutional Shareholder Voting Policy As an institutional investor, the Company recognises its responsibility that the companies in which it invests should aspire to appropriate levels of corporate governance.
As a matter of policy, the Company aims to utilise its votes in shares held in the relevant underlying portfolio companies at the annual general meetings of these companies.
Contact with Shareholders The Chairman of the Company is available for any shareholder questions and he has regular meetings with the Companys major shareholders.
Furthermore, the members of the Board are available during the year for any significant matters arising and are usually present in person at the Annual General Meeting.
At each Annual General Meeting of the Company, Dr Mark Mobius, on behalf of the investment manager, briefs shareholders on the investment outlook of the Company.
In addition, on behalf of the Board, he has periodic meetings with the Companys major shareholders throughout the year to discuss aspects of the Companys performance.
Shareholders may contact the members of the Board via Client Dealer Services at FTIML using the contact details provided on page 61.
Accountability and Audit In 1994 the Board established an Audit Committee, which currently comprises Peter A Smith Chairman, Sir Peter Burt and Peter C Godsoe.
The audit committee plays an important role in the appraisal and supervision of key aspects of the Companys business including financial reporting and internal controls.
The Companys Audit Committee meets representatives of the secretary and administrator of the Company and its Compliance Officer, who report as to the proper conduct of business in accordance with the regulatory environment in which both the Company and the Manager operate.
The Companys external auditors also attend the Committee at its request, not less than once a year, and report on their work procedures, the quality of the Companys accounting procedures and their findings in relation to the Companys statutory accounts.
The responsibilities of the Audit Committee include review of the internal financial controls, accounting policies, financial statements, the management contract, the auditors appointment and remuneration.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee reflect the recommendations of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance July 2003.
A copy of the terms of reference of the Audit Committee is available to shareholders on request via Client Dealer Services at Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited using the contact details provided on page 61.
Non-audit work undertaken by RSM Robson Rhodes LLP for the year ended 30 April 2006 on behalf of TEMIT includes assistance with the adoption of IFRS, calculation of the year end corporation tax liability, and review of the October 2005 Interim Report.
An engagement letter is issued for all non-audit work and reviewed by the Audit Committee to ensure that the independence and objectivity of the auditors is safeguarded.
Risk Management Objectives and Policy The Company invests in equities and other investments for the long-term so as to secure its investment objectives as stated on page 1.
This creates potential exposure to the following risks: Market Price, Foreign Currency, Interest Rate, Liquidity and Fair Value risks.
The Companys policy and objectives in relation to such risks is disclosed in Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.
31 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC DIRECTORS REPORT continued Internal Control The Board is responsible for ensuring that a sound system of internal controls of the Company is maintained to safeguard shareholders investment and the Companys assets.
The Audit Committee undertakes an annual review of the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal controls and the Directors believe that an appropriate framework is in place to meet the requirement of ensuring that a sound system of internal controls is in place in the Company.
The Board has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing risks that the Company is exposed to.
This process is conducted throughout the year and has been conducted up to the date of signing of this report.
The Board has identified risk management controls in the key areas of business objectives, accounting, compliance, operations and secretarial as areas for the extended review.
It has, however, to be understood that systems of internal control, however carefully designed, operated and supervised, can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Company does not have its own internal audit function but places reliance on the internal audit, compliance and other control functions of its service providers.
Annual General Meeting Special Business The Special Business to be dealt with at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company relates to the renewal of authority for the Company to purchase its own shares in the market.
Renewal of Authority to Purchase Own Shares At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 27 September 2005 a Special Resolution was passed authorising the Company to purchase its own shares in the market.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Directors consider that the reasons for asking shareholders to approve such authority still apply.
The main purpose of any share buy-backs will be to enhance the net asset value of the remaining Ordinary Shares, as the shares will only be acquired at a cost which is less than their net asset value.
Purchases should also provide liquidity for shareholders wishing to sell their Ordinary Shares and may have a beneficial effect on the discount at which the Ordinary Shares currently trade to their net asset value.
The Resolution to authorise the Company to purchase its own shares is set out in Resolution No.
This Resolution, if passed, will give the Company the authority to purchase its own shares within guidelines established from time to time by the Board.
This represents 15% of the Ordinary Shares in issue as at 30 April 2006.
Purchases will only be made for cash at a cost which is below the prevailing net asset value per Ordinary Share.
Under the rules of the UK Listing Authority, the maximum price which may be paid is 5% above the average of the market values of the Ordinary Shares for the five business days before the purchase is made.
The minimum price payable will be 25 pence, being the nominal value of an Ordinary Share.
Purchases will be funded either by using available cash resources, by selling investments in the portfolio or by borrowing.
No Ordinary Shares will be purchased by the Company during periods when the Company would be prohibited from making such purchases by the rules of the UK Listing Authority.
32 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC DIRECTORS REPORT continued The authority contained in Resolution No.
8 will continue until the Annual General Meeting in 2007 and your Directors envisage seeking the renewal of this authority in 2007 and in each succeeding year.
The results of the votes on the resolutions at the Annual General Meeting will be published on the Companys website www.
Recommendation The Directors believe all the Resolutions proposed are in the best interests of the Company and the shareholders as a whole and recommend all shareholders to vote in favour of all the Resolutions, as they intend to do so in respect of their own shares.
By Order of the Board Registered Office 5 Morrison Street Edinburgh EH3 8BH UK Sara A MacIntosh for and on behalf of Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited Secretary 27 June 2006 33
