TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC MANAGERS REPORT & PORTFOLIO REVIEW DR J B MARK MOBIUS 30 April 2006 This is the annual report for Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC for the year ended 30 April 2006.
Overview Ample global liquidity and a strong macroeconomic environment boosted investor confidence, resulting in a 71.1% return for the MSCI Emerging Markets Free EMF index in GBP terms.
Latin American markets outperformed their emerging market peers as the regions risk profile continued to improve and earnings remained robust.
In Eastern Europe, markets recorded positive returns as companies benefited from greater integration into Western Europe.
Asian markets, although returning double digit returns, lagged their counterparts as rising interest rates in the US led investors to adopt a more cautious stance towards investing in the region.
High commodity prices, strong economic growth and market stability saw the South African market perform well, while positive developments in Turkey led the market to end the period with strong gains.
Performance Attribution Geographic Distribution The Companys performance, relative to the MSCI EMF index, benefited from an underweight position in Taiwan, and overweight exposures to Brazil and Turkey.
Good stock selection in Brazil and South Korea further enhanced relative performance.
A zero weighting in Israel also supported performance as the market underperformed the benchmark index during the period.
In Taiwan, the largest contributors to performance were the Companys underweight holdings in Taiwan Semiconductor and absence from stocks such as Chinatrust Financial Holdings, China Steel and Au Optronics.
Key Brazilian and Turkish companies which outperformed the broader MSCI EMF index, and where the Company had an overweight exposure, were Banco Bradesco, Unibanco, Akbank and Tupras.
Alternatively, underweight exposures to Russia and Mexico resulted in the largest negative attribution effects.
An overweight position in Hong Kong also had an adverse impact on relative performance.
While the Company significantly increased its investments in Russia, it maintains an underweight position in Mexico mainly due to the fact that valuations are not as appealing as neighbouring markets such as Brazil where we continue to find value stocks.
In Hong Kong, overweight positions in Dairy Farm and Cosco Pacific had the largest negative impact on relative performance as these stocks underperformed the benchmark index.
Exposure to Cosco Pacific was trimmed during the period, but we continue to maintain the Companys position in Dairy Farm as the companys core businesses of supermarkets, drugstores, convenience stores and restaurant businesses should benefit from a regional recovery in consumer demand.
The graph below shows the geographic distribution of the Companys portfolio in comparison to the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.
Asia 48.72% 52.64% Europe 25.41% 12.31% L. America Caribbean 21.11% 20.69% Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust Mid-East Africa 4.76% MSCI Emerging Markets 14.34% North America 0.00% 0.02% 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% Sector Attribution The Companys performance was positively impacted by its sector allocation compared to the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.
The main contributors to this were: Overweight position and favourable stock selection in the banking sector Banks are generally facing more favourable business conditions such as widening net interest margins, increasing fee income derived from cross-selling of financial products, and lower non-performing loans due to economic recovery and fewer bankruptcies.
Thus we continue to maintain an overweight position.
Overweight exposure and favourable stock selection in the capital goods sector The sector has a broad diversification into many different sub-sectors, which include stocks such as Daewoo Shipbuilding, Hyundai Development which is a major real estate development and construction company, Sime Darby which is a conglomerate with core businesses in plantations, tyre manufacture, automobile and heavy 15 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC MANAGERS REPORT & PORTFOLIO REVIEW continued equipment distribution, and general trading, Fraser & Neave which is a well established manufacturer and distributor of food and beverages, and Trakya Cam which manufactures and distributes float glass and other glass products.
Rising consumer spending is indeed one of the main investment themes of the sector.
Underweight exposure to the under performing technology hardware and equipment sector Most companies in the information technology sector, such as the software and consultancy firms in India and Israel, continue to be traded at valuations ahead of their growth prospects and other fundamental factors.
We therefore continue to maintain an underweight position.
The biggest lags on performance were: Unfavourable stock selection in the energy sector There were corrections in the share prices of portfolio holdings in the energy sector after their excellent performance in the previous quarters.
The most noticeable retrenchments included those of PKN Orlen and PTT Public.
However, as crude oil prices and refining margins remained firm, the share prices of most of the Companys holdings in the sector resumed their up trend.
Underweight exposure to the materials sector The materials sector has experienced strong performances as a result of high commodity prices, making valuations increasingly expensive.
Thus, the Company will continue to be underweight in the sector until more attractive valuations emerge.
Portfolio Changes & Investment Strategies During the reporting period, the Company invested in stocks which were well positioned to benefit from high commodity prices.
This resulted in significant purchases in Russia and Brazil.
Key additions included Lukoil, one of the worlds largest vertically integrated oil companies, Norilsk Nickel, one of the biggest precious metals companies in the world, Vale Do Rio Doce, which is among the worlds leading producers of iron ore, and Petrobras, Brazils national oil and gas company.
On the other hand, countries which experienced substantial reductions during the period were Greece and South Africa.
The Company also divested its holding in Commercial International Bank thereby eliminating exposure to Egypt.
As the Company continued its search for value stocks trading at attractive valuations, it increased its exposure to Malaysia and China via Red-chip and Shenzhen B shares.
The significant purchases during the year were Maxis Communications, one of Malaysias prominent integrated telecommunications service providers, Denway Motors, a major automobile manufacturer with a joint venture with Honda Motor in China, and China International Marine Containers, the worlds largest manufacturer of marine containers.
In addition, the Company repositioned its holdings in South Korea to ensure that it is well positioned to benefit from the countrys economic recovery by reducing its holdings in the steel and packaged foods & meat sectors.
Alternatively, the Company reduced its exposure to Taiwan and Singapore as selective stocks reached their sale targets.
Asia China reported GDP growth of 10.2% in the first quarter of 2006 even faster than the 9.9% in 2005.
Key drivers included exports and investment.
In an effort to rein in the faster than expected growth, the Peoples Bank of China raised its key lending rate by 27 basis points.
Fuelling the strong economic growth, foreign direct investment FDI into the country remained strong as investors were optimistic about Chinas growing consumer market and high manufacturing productivity.
FDI inflows totalled US$14.3 billion in the first quarter of 2006, up 6.4% year on year.
Chinas trade sector continued to benefit from greater export demand with the surplus registering US$23.3 billion in the first quarter of 2006.
Moreover, China signed agreements with oil & gas rich countries such as Saudi Arabia and Russia to secure a sustainable energy supply in the future.
President Hu Jintao also embarked on a visit to the US to further develop relations between the two countries.
Economic indicators continued to point towards steady economic recovery in South Korea.
First quarter GDP grew 6.2% year on year as solid growth exports and domestic demand continued to boost the economy.
Despite accelerating economic growth, inflation slowed in the first quarter of 2006, allowing the central bank to keep interest rates unchanged in 2006.
However, the bank signalled likely tightening in the future as economic recovery continued.
Aimed at improving regional economic relations, South Korea signed an accord to form a free trade agreement FTA with the ASEAN trade bloc.
This could further boost the countrys trade sector.
In politics, parliament approved the nomination of cabinet minister Han Myung-sook for the position of prime minister.
Han is expected to expand relations between the government and opposition parties as elections approach in May.
16 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC MANAGERS REPORT & PORTFOLIO REVIEW continued Latin America In Brazil, the central bank continued to maintain a loose monetary policy with interest rates ending the period at 15.75% as inflation remained benign and efforts to ensure a sustained economic recovery continued.
GDP grew 2.3% in 2005 mainly due to growth in the industrial and services sectors.
Brazil registered a record US$45.8 billion trade surplus in the 12-month period ended March 2006 as high commodity prices boosted exports.
There was further evidence of Brazils financial and economic recovery when the country repaid its outstanding debt of approximately US$15.5 billion with the International Monetary Fund IMF in December, well ahead of schedule.
In politics, Finance Minister Antonio Palocci resigned in March as allegations of government corruption intensified.
He was replaced by Guido Mantega, President of Brazils National Development Bank.
Mantega immediately pledged to continue with Paloccis current policies.
Southern Eastern Europe In Turkey, the start of European Union accession talks, robust GDP growth, implementation of key reforms and the support from the IMF provided investors with reasons to remain confident.
GDP grew a revised 7.4% in 2005, on the back of strong private consumption and fixed investments.
Parliament also approved the social security and health insurance reforms, fulfilling a key requirement to ensure continued support from the IMF.
Moreover, newly appointed Central Bank Governor Durmus Yilmaz pledged to continue to combat inflation and maintain price stability.
Russias economy continued to benefit from high oil and other commodity prices as its financial position strengthened as a result of strong commodity exports.
This has allowed Russia to repay US$18.3 billion of debt to the IMF and the Paris Club ahead of maturity.
Russia has also approached the Paris Club to repay another US$12 billion in 2006.
This would further reduce the countrys debt servicing costs.
Economic growth also remained strong with GDP growing 6.4% last year.
All three major international ratings agencies, Fitch, Moodys and Standard and Poors raised Russias credit ratings during the year mainly due to continued political and macroeconomic stability, improved finances and sound debt management.
Russia also continued to negotiate the terms for its joining the World Trade Organisation WTO with member states, including the US.
Officials expect Russia to be ready to join in 2006-7.
South Africa South African GDP growth remained robust in 2005 with GDP expanding 4.9%, faster than the 4.5% recorded in 2004.
Key drivers included the finance, real estate and business sectors.
Domestic demand also remained strong with private consumption rising 6.9% in 2005.
Capital inflows also supported the countrys finances with foreign direct investment and portfolio flows in 2005 totalling US$11 billion, significantly larger than the US$7 billion recorded in 2004.
The government together with private investors may invest as much as US$3.3 billion to research and develop alternative energy sources such as ethanol as high oil prices impacted energy costs.
In politics, as widely expected, the ruling Africa National Congress ANC party emerged victorious with 66% of the votes in the local government elections.
Outlook After strong performances in the last few years, going forward, we may see short-term consolidation in some markets.
In macroeconomic terms, however, many of the emerging countries continued to report positive data.
Thus, over the long-term, the investment case for emerging markets remains strong with economies growing much faster than developed markets, corporate earnings showing strong growth in many countries, valuations remaining attractive in spite of the strong price appreciation experienced by many companies, and governments continuing to implement key financial, social and economic reforms, to ensure that economic recovery is sustained.
We continue to see good opportunities in Asia, South America, Africa and Eastern Europe and will continue to position the Company to benefit from the positive developments ahead.
The Manager would like to draw the attention of the Companys shareholders to the fact that there has been a sharp correction in the emerging markets as evidenced by a 19.2% and a 21.2% decline in the MSCI Emerging Markets Free Index and the Companys net asset value respectively from 30 April 2006 to 15 June 2006.
At this stage, the Manager believes that such decline is a normal retrenchment in view of the high appreciation in the markets and companies attained in the past three years.
Although we cannot preclude further downward movements in the markets, the fundamentals of the Companys holdings and the prospects of the countries or sectors they operate in remain sound.
The Manager is cautious about the possible further volatility going forward because of widely fluctuating currencies and commodity prices.
Thank you for your continued interest and support.
