12581 Text 8 6 06 1:48 pm Page 23 Report of the Directors The directors present the audited accounts of the Group Approximately 93% of the Companys assets are currently and their report for the year ended 31 March 2006.
The invested in Pan-European listed property securities with Group comprises TR Property Investment Trust plc the the balance in directly owned UK real estate.
Company and a number of subsidiaries.
The Trust is total return focused and future growth and Status capital appreciation potential is generally regarded more The Company is an investment company, as defined in highly than immediate initial yield or discount to asset Section 266 of the Companies Act 1985, and operates as value.
The investment selection process seeks to identify an investment trust in accordance with Section 842 of the well managed companies of all sizes, especially those with Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
It is required to a focus on a particular type of real estate business.
seek Inland Revenue approval of its status as an The Company is a dedicated investor in real estate and real investment trust under the above-mentioned Section 842 estate securities and will continue to adhere to this strategy.
every year, and this approval will continue to be sought.
Inland Revenue approval of the Companys status as an Revenue and Dividends investment trust has been received in respect of the year 2006 2005 Change ended 31 March 2005.
The directors are of the opinion Total earnings per share 81.29p 33.64p 142% that the Company has subsequently conducted its affairs Revenue earnings per share 3.44p 2.85p 21% in a manner which will enable it to continue to gain such Dividends per share 3.40p 2.85p 19% approval.
The Company has no employees and the 'close Total earnings per share include capital gains on company' provisions do not apply.
investments and have increased by 142% over the year.
Business Review Revenue earnings have increased by 21%.
Although gross The following review is designed to provide information revenue has grown by around 17%, expenses have primarily about the Companys business and results for the increased at a lower rate of around 16%, resulting in the year ended March 2006 and covers: greater impact at net level.
This is due in part to the reduction in management fee that your Board has agreed Objective and Strategy with the managers and which is covered later.
Revenue and Dividends The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend Capital Return of 1.90p per share.
Subject to approval at the AGM, the Property Valuation dividend will be paid on 28 July 2006 to shareholders on Performance Measurement the register at 30 June 2006.
The shares will be quoted Financial Instruments and Management of Risk ex-dividend from 28 June 2006.
Share Buy-back Activity An interim dividend of 1.50p per share was paid on Management Arrangements and Fees 6 January 2006.
The total dividend in respect of the year Basis of Accounting and IFRS is, therefore, 3.40p per share.
Environmental Policy As explained in the Finance Report on pages 33 and 34, A review of the business is also given in the Chairmans the dividends shown in the Group Statement of Changes in Statement on pages 4 to 7 and a full review of the Equity for the year are those dividends which have actually portfolio and our managers view on the outlook for the been approved in the period, i. e. the final dividend relating to coming financial year are covered in the Managers Report the financial year ended 31 March 2005 1.55p per share on pages 8 to 15. and the interim dividend for this period 1.50p per share.
Objective and Strategy Capital Return The objective of TR Property Investment Trust plc is to 2006 2005 Change maximise the shareholders total returns by investing in NAV per share 224.11p 145.71p 54% property shares and property on an international basis.
Share price 209.50p 128.50p 63% TR Property Investment Trust 23 12581 Text 8 6 06 1:48 pm Page 24 Report of the Directors continued The year has produced exceptional growth in asset value back shares in 1999.
The narrowing of the discount during and shareholders funds rose by more than 50%, even the last financial year, however, meant that worthwhile after share repurchases.
The Benchmark returned 43.3% opportunities were scarce.
2,516,286 shares were on a price only basis.
repurchased in the first two months of the year, but since then no repurchases have been made.
Details of the investments are shown within the Managers Report on pages 8 to 15.
Management Arrangements and Fees Investment management services have been provided by Property Valuation Thames River Capital LLP Thames River, accounting Valuations of all the Groups properties as at 31 March and administrative services by BNP Paribas Fund Services 2006 have been carried out by external independent UK Limited, custodial services by JPMorgan Chase and valuers.
These valuations have been adopted in the corporate secretarial services by Henderson Secretarial accounts.
Details of the values and changes in fixed Services Limited.
assets are shown in note 10 to the financial statements.
The fund management agreement with Thames River Performance Measurement Capital was reviewed during the year.
The Board has The directors consider performance measured against the secured a rebate on the management fees for the period to Benchmark, the S&P Citigroup European Property Index March 2009 which has also been applied retrospectively to in Sterling the Citigroup Index, to be the key the year just ended.
The performance fee arrangement performance indicator for the Company.
The significant terms of the agreement Index comprises 96 companies and is itself a sub-index of are as follows: the S&P Citigroup Global Property Index, a longstanding and widely used benchmark in the world of real estate Notice Period securities.
The Citigroup Index is freefloat based and The investment management agreement IMA calculated daily on a price only and total return basis.
provides for termination of the agreement by either party without compensation on the provision of not less On a total return basis the Fund returned over 56.5% than 12 months written notice.
against the Benchmark total return of 48.0%.
The Fund Management Fee figures are stated after taking account of the performance A base management fee of 0.70% p. a. on the Trusts fee, and this year for the first time the outperformance net asset value is payable quarterly in advance to the was such that the performance fee was limited to its Investment Manager.
For the period up to 31 March maximum level.
This is an excellent result and a very 2009 this will be reduced to 0.40% p. a. on that portion satisfying outcome for the first full year of the of the Trusts net asset value which exceeds 450 management contract with Thames River.
The fee is based on the Trusts net asset value determined in accordance with the AITC method of Financial Instruments and the Management of Risk valuation on the last day of March, June, September By its nature as an investment trust, the Company is and December respectively.
exposed to market price risk, foreign currency risk and interest rate risk.
The Companys policies for managing The management fee includes a number of services these risks are outlined in note 11 to the financial such as administrative services and company secretarial statements.
Further information on the management of services which are provided by third parties.
The Trust risk and internal controls is contained in the Corporate has a direct contractual relationship with the parties Governance Report on pages 27 to 30. providing these services and the fees incurred are deducted from the gross fees due to Thames River.
Share Buy-back Activity This affords the Trust a high degree of transparency The Board has not set a specific discount at which shares and control in respect of these services.
However, there has been considerable activity in recent years and around 30% of the ordinary A number of these expenses were previously paid directly shares and 80% of the warrant issue 2002 have been by the Trust and not included in the management fee.
repurchased since the Board first took the decision to buy In the current year this has led to a saving of around 300,000 for the Trust in administrative expenses.
24 TR Property Investment Trust 12581 Text 8 6 06 1:48 pm Page 25 Report of the Directors continued Performance Fee UK GAAP and the restated figures under IFRS are shown in In addition to the management fee, the Board has the notes to the financial statements.
Further explanatory agreed to pay the Investment Manager a performance notes are included in the Finance Report on pages 33 and 34. related fee in respect of a performance period if certain Environmental Policy performance objectives are achieved.
In respect of the direct property portfolio, there is an A performance fee will become payable if the total return environmental assessment prior to purchase to identify of group equity shareholders funds, as defined in the possible contamination or materials considered IMA with Thames River, at 31 March each year environmentally harmful.
Remedial action is taken where outperforms the total return of the Companys appropriate.
Tenants are encouraged to pursue their own Benchmark plus 2% the hurdle rate : this environmental procedures.
outperformance expressed as a percentage will be Annual General Meeting known as the percentage outperformance.
Any fee payable will be the amount equivalent to the group equity The Annual General Meeting AGM will be held on Tuesday 18 July 2006 at 12 noon.
The Notice of Meeting shareholders funds at 31 March each year, multiplied by the percentage outperformance, then multiplied by 15%.
is set out on pages 57 and 58, and an explanation of the business to be conducted is given on page 59.
The maximum performance fee payable in any period will be 1% of the group equity shareholders funds as Directors All the directors held office throughout the year.
If any fee exceeds 1% of group equity shareholders funds, such excess will be carried forward Directors retirement by rotation and re-election is subject and applied to reduce any percentage underperformance to the Articles of Association, the Combined Code as in future performance periods.
At 31 March 2006, an revised in July 2003 and the revised AITC Code of excess of 5.8m is being carried forward.
If the total return of group equity shareholders funds for The Articles of Association require that up to one-third of the any performance period is less than the hurdle rate for the directors must retire every year and that every director must relevant performance period, such underperformance retire by rotation at least every three years.
They may then expressed as a percentage will be carried forward.
No offer themselves for re-election.
The director retiring by fee will be payable unless the total return on group equity rotation at the forthcoming AGM is Mr Salsbury who, being shareholders funds outperforms the hurdle rate, after eligible, offers himself for re-election.
taking into account any accumulated percentage underperformance for previous periods to the extent it is Directors Interests in Shares not offset by the overperformance offset described above.
The directors interests in the share capital of the Company are shown in the table below: Basis of Accounting and IFRS 31 March 1 April On the basis of the Boards expected long term split of 2006 2005 returns, in the form of capital gains and income in equal Ordinary Ordinary proportions, the Group charges 50% of finance costs to shares shares of 25p of 25p capital.
One-third of the management fee is deemed to relate With beneficial interest: to the administration of the Trust and is charged to revenue.
C M Burton 22,000 22,000 The remainder is split on the same basis as finance costs and J H M Newsum 31,193 31,193 50% charged to capital.
The overall result is that two-thirds of P L Salsbury 55,000 45,000 R A Stone 80,000 80,000 the management fee is charged to revenue and one-third to P H Wolton 7,500 7,500 capital.
All performance fees are charged to capital.
There have been no changes in the directors interests between the end of the financial year and the date of this report.
This is the first full year the accounts have been presented under IFRS.
This has resulted in some changes in accounting policies and changes to the presentation of the accounts.
There were no contracts subsisting during or at the end of the year in which a director of the Company is or was Prior year amounts have been restated under IFRS and materially interested and which is or was significant in reconciliations between the previously reported figures under TR Property Investment Trust 25 12581 Text 8 6 06 1:48 pm Page 26 Report of the Directors continued relation to the Company's business.
No director has a ISAs PEPs The Company has conducted its affairs, and will continue contract of service with the Company.
to conduct its affairs, in such a way as to comply with the Payment of Suppliers Individual Savings Accounts and Personal Equity Plan It is the Company's payment policy for the current financial Regulations.
year to obtain the best possible terms for all business.
The Company agrees with its suppliers the terms on which Directors Indemnity Directors and officers liability insurance cover is in place in business will take place and it abides by these terms.
There were no trade creditors at 31 March 2006. respect of the directors.
The Companys Articles of Association provide, subject to the provisions of UK legislation, an Share Capital Changes indemnity for directors in respect of costs which they may incur At 1 April 2005 the Company had 346,366,286 ordinary relating to the defence of any proceedings brought against shares in issue.
During the financial year under review, the them arising out of their positions as directors, in which they Company made market purchases for cancellation of are acquitted or judgement is given in their favour by the court.
2,516,286 ordinary shares of 25 pence each representing Directors Statement as to Disclosure of Information to approximately 0.7% of the issued share capital as at 31 March 2005: the aggregate consideration paid by the Auditors The directors who were members of the Board at the time Company was 3,340,000.
The number of ordinary shares in issue on 31 March 2006 was 343,850,000. of approving the Report of the Directors are listed on pages 20 and 21 of these financial statements.
Each of Since 1 April 2006, and up to the date of this document, the these directors confirms that: Company has made no further purchases for cancellation.
to the best of each directors knowledge and belief, there is no information relevant to the preparation of their All the share buy-backs during the last financial year report of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and were repurchased prior to the AGM in July 2005.
Therefore the power granted to directors at the last AGM each director has taken all the steps a director might has not been used to date.
The Company will seek to reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of renew the power to make market purchases of ordinary relevant audit information and to establish that the shares at this years AGM.
Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Substantial Share Interests Shareholder Information Further information on the Company can be found on % of pages 61 to 63.
Shareholder issued shares Legal & General Investment Management 3.88 Going Concern The directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to M&G Investment Management 3.26 adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts as the assets of the Company consist mainly of securities Declarations of interests in the issued share capital of which are readily realisable and, accordingly, it has the Company, at 30 April 2006, are set out above.
adequate financial resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
In addition, at 30 April 2006 the following shareholders held over 3% of the share capital on a non-discretionary Registered Auditor basis: A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys auditor will be put to the forthcoming AGM.
% of issued Shareholder shares By order of the Board TR Property ISA PEP and Shareplan Schemes 6.80 UBS Wealth Management Limited 5.36 D J Trickett ACIS Rensburg Sheppards Investment Management Limited 4.74 For and on behalf of Brewin Dolphin Securities Limited 4.27 Henderson Secretarial Services Limited F&C Investment Management Limited 3.69 JP Morgan Asset Management UK Limited 3.50 Secretary 23 May 2006 26 TR Property Investment Trust
