Report of the Directors The directors present their report, indicators and a description of the Directors interests together with the audited financial principal risks and uncertainties facing The interests all beneficial of those statements of the Company and its the Group, is included in the Operating persons who were directors at the subsidiaries for the year ended and Financial Review on pages 3 to 9. end of the year in the ordinary share 31 December 2006. capital of the Company, together with This Annual Report has been prepared comparatives for the previous year or the Principal activities for, and only for, the members of the date of appointment, were as follows: Tullett Prebon plc operates as an Company as a body, and no other 2006 2005 intermediary in wholesale financial persons.
The Company, its directors, NoNo markets facilitating the trading employees, agents or advisers do not Keith Hamill 58,299 58,299 activities of its clients, in particular accept or assume responsibility to any Terry Smith 8,805,779 8,800,000 commercial and investment banks.
other person to whom this document 1 Paul Mainwaring In certain product areas the customer is shown or into whose hands it may John Spencer 32,897 32,897 base also includes financial institutions come and such responsibility is David Clark and other professional investors.
By their nature, Michael Fallon 2,000 2,000 main subsidiary undertakings through the statements concerning the risks Richard Kilsby which the Group conducts its business and uncertainties facing the Group in Bernard Leaver are set out in note 39 to the this Annual Report involve uncertainty 2 Louis Scotto 106,273 68,112 consolidated financial statements.
since future events and circumstances Notes: can cause results and developments to 1 Appointed 10 October 2006 Demerger differ materially from those anticipated.
2 Resigned 2 February 2007 On 19 December 2006, pursuant to a The forward-looking statements reflect 3 The Tullett Prebon plc Employee Share Ownership scheme of arrangement under s425 of knowledge and information available Trust previously the Collins Stewart Tullett plc Employee Share Ownership Trust recognised the Companies Act 1985, a new parent at the date of preparation of this 2,495,322 shares at 31 December 2006 company for the Collins Stewart Tullett Annual Report and the Company 2005: 367,758.
The beneficiaries of the trust are plc group was introduced which is now undertakes no obligation to update the employees of the Group, including the called Tullett Prebon plc.
Under Schedule 13 of the Companies Act 1985 the executive directors are Nothing in this Annual Report should deemed to be interested in these shares.
On the same date, under the scheme be construed as a profit forecast.
of arrangement, the Collins Stewart On 12 January 2007, Louis Scotto stockbroking business was demerged Directors acquired 49,767 ordinary shares from the Group.
Results for the Collins The directors who served throughout following the exercise of an option Stewart stockbroking business for 2005 the year, except as noted, were as granted under the Tullett Liberty Equity and 2006 have been included in the follows: Incentive Plan.
Since the year end there consolidated income statement as have been no other changes to the discontinued operations.
Keith Hamill Non-executive Chairman directors shareholdings.
Terry Smith Chief Executive Full details of the process by which the Paul Mainwaring Finance Director Directors share options are set out in demerger was given effect are shown appointed 10 October 2006 the Report on Directors Remuneration.
in notes 27 and 30 to the consolidated John Spencer Senior Independent financial statements.
Non-executive Director Substantial interests David Clark Independent At the date of this document, the Results and dividends Non-executive Director following not being directors, their The results of the year are set out Michael Fallon Independent families or persons connected, within in the consolidated income statement Non-executive Director section 346 of the Companies Act on page 24.
Richard Kilsby Independent 1985 had notified the Company that Non-executive Director they were interested in 3% or more of The directors recommend a final Bernard Leaver Independent the voting rights of issued ordinary dividend for the year of 6.0p per Non-executive Director share capital of the Company: ordinary share.
The final dividend, if Stephen Jack Finance Director approved, will be paid on 14 June 2007 resigned 13 November 2006 % to ordinary shareholders whose names Louis Scotto resigned 2 February 2007 Aviva plc 8.3 are on the register on 25 May 2007.
Legal & General Group plc 8.0 Deutsche Bank AG 7.4 Collins Stewart Tullett plc paid a final Paul Mainwaring and Rupert Robson UBS AG London Branch 5.1 dividend for 2005 of 11.0p per ordinary Independent Non-executive Director Lazard Asset Management LLC 4.1 share and an interim dividend for 2006 appointed 4 January 2007 were College Retirement Equities Fund 3.9 of 5.0p per ordinary share.
appointed since the last Annual General Meeting and accordingly offer Business review themselves for election at the An analysis of the development and forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
performance of the Group during the Biographical details of the directors who year, and the position of the Group at are in office at the date of this annual the end of the year, including financial report are set out on page 10. and non-financial performance Tullett Prebon plc 11 Annual Report 2006 Report of the Directors continued Social, environmental and ethical fairness and its policy is not to rights issues, open offers or similar matters discriminate against any persons issues and otherwise up to a nominal The Board has adopted policies with with regard to, inter alia, gender, age, amount of 2,654,226 representing regard to the social, environmental disability, sexual orientation, religious approximately 5% of the Companys and ethical matters which affect the or political beliefs but to develop and issued share capital as at the date of business.
These govern, inter alia, the promote based on individual ability this document.
type of business which is transacted, and the needs of the business.
the way in which business is conducted Resolution 9 seeks to obtain authority and the approach to training and The Group has a policy of keeping for the directors to purchase up to incentivising staff.
In particular: employees informed about major 21,233,813 ordinary shares, being 10% developments in the business.
In of the share capital in issue at the date The Board takes regular account of particular, announcements are made of this document.
The maximum price social and ethical matters affecting available to employees when released that may be paid under the authority the business: environmental issues to the public.
The ownership of shares will be limited to the higher of 105% of are not considered on a regular in the Company is encouraged by the the average middle market quotations basis as these are not regarded Board, who consider share ownership of the Companys shares as derived as a high risk: as an important aspect of incentivising from the Daily Official List of the employees and aligning their interests London Stock Exchange for the five The Board periodically carries out with other shareholders.
business days prior to any purchase formal assessments of the significant and that stipulated by Article 5 1 of risks to its business which take Health and safety policy the Buyback and Stipulation Regulation account of social and ethical matters The Board has a policy of adopting 2003 exclusive of expenses payable by affecting both short and long-term procedures appropriate to its activities, the Company in connection with the value.
The opportunities to create to monitor, maintain and, where purchase.
The minimum price which value arising from certain social and relevant, improve health and safety may be paid for an ordinary share will ethical stances are taken into account standards to safeguard the Groups be 25p exclusive of expenses payable when formulating policies: staff.
by the Company in connection with the purchase.
The directors will exercise The Board considers that it receives Policy of payment to suppliers this authority only if they are satisfied adequate information to make It is the Groups policy that all that any purchase will be in the assessments of the social, transactions are settled in accordance interests of shareholders.
environmental and ethical matters with relevant terms and conditions of which affect its business: and business agreed with the supplier, It is not the directors present intention provided all such terms and conditions to allot any ordinary shares or to There are systems of risk have been complied with.
The Company purchase any ordinary shares in the management in place to manage the does not have any trade creditors.
market except to satisfy share options significant risks which could affect that may be exercised under the the business.
Special business at the Annual Companys share option schemes.
General Meeting The authorities contained in resolutions The Groups risk management At the Annual General Meeting to be 7 to 9 will expire at the conclusion of process is described in the Corporate held on 7 June 2007 resolutions 7 to 9 the Annual General Meeting to be held Governance Report and a brief overview will be proposed under special business.
in 2008 or 15 months after the passing of the significant risks which could of such resolutions whichever is affect the business is included in the Under resolution 7 it is proposed to the earlier.
grant the directors authority to allot unissued shares in the capital of the For this forthcoming Annual General The nature of the Groups activities is Company up to a nominal amount Meeting shareholders will be able to such that it has a minimal direct effect of 17,694,844 representing utilise the CREST proxy voting service to on the environment.
However, the approximately 33% of the issued share lodge their proxy votes.
Details of how Board has agreed that it will seek to capital of the Company as at the date this will operate are included in the adopt policies to safeguard the of this document.
notes to the Notice of Annual General environment to meet statutory Meeting at the back of this report and requirements or where such policies are Resolution 8 seeks to renew, in accounts and on the proxy form.
Where practical, accordance with section 89 of the waste paper is recycled and some Companies Act 1985, the directors Events after the balance sheet date energy saving practices are employed.
authority to allot further shares for Events after the balance sheet date cash, without first offering them to are summarised in note 37 to the Staff existing shareholders under the consolidated financial statements.
It is the Groups policy to give statutory pre-emption procedure.
It is appropriate consideration to also proposed that any shares which Political and charitable donations applications for employment from are purchased by the Company, held in During 2006 no political donations all persons, having regard to their treasury and subsequently resold for were made by the Group 2005: nil.
For the purposes cash will be covered by this authority.
Charitable donations amounting to of training, career development and This authority is limited to the issue of 27,000 2005: 146,000 were made promotion, the Group is committed to equity securities in connection with to various charities globally.
12 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2006 Auditors A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as the auditors will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Disclosure of information to the auditors Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this annual report confirms that: so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and the director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of S234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
By order of the Board Alistair Peel Company Secretary 13 March 2007 Tullett Prebon plc 13 Annual Report 2006
