Board of Directors Keith Hamill aged 54 Chairman Director of Mowlem plc in 2005.
He Michael Fallon MP aged 54 Keith Hamill joined the Board of Collins was appointed to the Collins Stewart Independent Non-executive Director Stewart Tullett plc as Chairman which Tullett plc Board of directors on Michael Fallon joined the Board in is a Non-executive role in September 10 October 2006 and became Finance September 2004 and is Chairman of 2000, and remains Chairman of Tullett Director on 13 November 2006. the Remuneration Committee and a Prebon plc.
He also serves as Deputy member of the Audit Committee and Chairman of Collins Stewart plc.
He John Spencer aged 63 Senior the Nominations Committee.
He is a is currently Chairman of Travelodge Independent Non-executive Director Director of Just Learning, a company and Heath Lambert, a Non-executive John Spencer was appointed a Director which builds and operates nurseries, Director of Electrocomponents plc in September 2000 and is the Senior and the Conservative MP for Sevenoaks.
and Pro-Chancellor of Nottingham Independent Non-executive Director, He is also a member of the Treasury University.
He is a chartered accountant and a member of the Audit, Select Committee of the House of and worked for Price Waterhouse from Remuneration and Nominations Commons, and chairs the Treasury 1975 to 1988, becoming partner in Committees.
He qualified as a sub-committee, responsible for 1987.
Subsequently he was Director of chartered accountant with KPMG and overseeing HM Revenue and Customs.
Financial Control at Guinness, Finance in 1969 he joined Barclays Bank where He was Opposition spokesman on Trade Director of United Distillers, Forte plc he held a variety of posts including and City matters from 1997-1998.
He was also previously head of group finance and planning, was previously a Director of Quality a member of the Urgent Issues Task president of Barclays Bank of New York, Care Homes PLC.
Force of the Accounting Standards chief executive of the USA Banking Board and Chairman of the CBI division and deputy chief executive of Richard Kilsby aged 54 Financial Reporting Panel.
He was Non-executive Chairman Independent Non-executive Director Chairman of the Nominations of Regent Inns plc from 1995 to 1998 Richard Kilsby joined the Board on Committee and a member of the and was previously Non-executive 3 June 2005 and is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
com plc, a Audit Committee and a member of the Director of Numerica Group PLC and Remuneration and the Nominations Terry Smith aged 53 Chief Executive of Snell & Wilcox Committees.
He is also a Non-executive Chief Executive Limited.
Director of Collins Stewart plc and NonTerry Smith started his career with executive Chairman of 888 Holdings Barclays Bank and became a David Clark aged 59 Independent plc.
He has formerly held many stockbroker in 1984 with W Greenwell Non-executive Director positions in finance and the City & Co.
He was top rated bank analyst David Clark worked for Bankers Trust, including: Vice Chairman of the virt-x in London from 1984 to 1989, during Commerzbank and Midland Bank stock exchange created by the merger which period he also worked at BZW before being appointed Treasurer, of the Swiss Exchange with Tradepoint, and James Capel.
In 1990 he became Europe of HSBC Holdings in 1992.
In Chief Executive of Tradepoint an AIM head of UK Company Research at UBS 1995 he joined Bankgesellschaft Berlin quoted electronic exchange, and an Phillips & Drew, a position he left in AG becoming Managing Director of Executive Director of the London Stock 1992 following the publication of his Bankgesellschaft Berlin UK plc until Exchange responsible for listing, best selling book, Accounting for June 1999.
He was Senior Adviser to the secondary regulation and the Growth.
He joined Collins Stewart Major Financial Groups Division of the introduction of the SETS trading shortly after and became a Director in Financial Services Authority until March system.
He was previously an audit 1996.
Terry Smith is an Associate of the 2003.
He is Non-executive Chairman of partner at Price Waterhouse.
Chartered Institute of Bankers, has an Charity Bank and a Non-executive MBA from The Management College, Director of Caf Bank and Westpac Rupert Robson aged 46 Henley and is qualified as a Series 7 Europe Limited.
He was appointed as a Independent Non-executive Director Registered Representative and a Non-executive Director of Tullett Liberty Rupert Robson was appointed to the Series 24 General Securities Principal in September 2000 and to the Collins Board in January 2007.
He is a member with the NASD.
In addition to acting as Stewart Tullett Board on 10 March of the Audit, Remuneration and Chief Executive of Tullett Prebon plc, 2003.
He is a member of the Audit Nominations Committees.
He has held Terry Smith is Chairman of Collins Committee and the Nominations a number of senior roles in City Stewart plc.
institutions, most recently Global Head, Financial Institutions Group, Corporate Paul Mainwaring aged 43 Bernard Leaver aged 60 Investment Banking and Markets at Finance Director Independent Non-executive Director HSBC between 2003 and 2006 and, Paul Mainwaring trained as a chartered Bernard Leaver was appointed a prior to that, Head of European accountant with Price Waterhouse, Director in August 2003 and is a Insurance, Investment Banking at qualifying in 1987, and obtained an member of the Remuneration Citigroup Global Markets.
MBA from Cranfield School of Committee and the Nominations Management in 1991.
He was formerly a 2000, he worked for Caradon plc in a Managing Director of Lehman Europe number of financial roles, including from 1988 to 2002 and a member of three years as Finance Director of the Lehman European Board.
In 2000, he was appointed that he was the senior partner of as Group Finance Director of TDG plc.
C T Pulley and a main board director He was appointed as Group Finance at Hoare Govett.
10 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2006
