qxd 9 3 07 11:01 pm Page 2 Directors H M Henderson J Horsburgh R W C Colvill A W Jones MA, FREng, R H McGrath Age 54 Appointed Age 51 Jim Horsburgh Age 66 Robert Colvill was FRAeS, FIEE, CIM Age 60 Rory McGrath a director in 1988, was appointed a director appointed a director in Age 67 Alan Jones was was appointed a director in Harry Henderson became and Chief Executive officer 1994 and became appointed a director in 1996.
He was formerly Chairman in March 2003. with effect in February Chairman of the Audit 1996 and became Chief Executive of He was formerly a partner 2004.
He is responsible for Committee in 2002.
He is Chairman of the H. Young Holdings plc, of Cazenove & Co. and the overall management of also Treasurer of the RNLI.
He has over 25 After 25 years fund on its formation in Mr McGrath is a director executive at Cazenove years experience of management experience in December 2003.
He was of Witan Investment Group plc, retiring in 2002. investment management.
the City, he joined Marks formerly Chief Executive of Services Limited.
Mr Henderson is Chairman He was formerly with and Spencer to set up their BICC plc.
He is Chairman of Witan Investment Schroder Investment Financial Services division, of Alert Communications Services Limited.
He is also Management Limited later becoming finance Limited and The a director of Cadogan where he was UK director of Marks and Manchester Airport Group Settled Estates Limited.
Spencer plc and Chairman plc and is a director of Mr Horsburgh is a director of Marks & Spencer Agustawestland NV.
He is a of Witan Investment Financial Services.
He was former member of The Services Limited.
also Chairman for 9 years Financial Reporting of the Money Advice Trust, Council.
Mr Colvill will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 30 April 2007.
R A Bruce MA, MBA A Watson BSc Econ, J Bevan MA R W Boyle MA, FCA Age 57 Andrew Bruce ASIP, Barrister-at-Law, Age 46 James Bevan was Age 59 Robert Boyle was appointed a director FSI Hon appointed a director on was appointed a director in 2002.
He is Group Age 61 Tony Watson was 1 February 2007.
He Credit Risk Director at appointed a director on CIO, CCLA Investment qualied as a Chartered Barclays PLC where he has 1 February 2006.
Before Accountant with responsibility for asset retired in January 2006 joining CCLA in November Coopers & Lybrand and quality and credit risk after an executive career of 2006, he was the Chief retired in 2006 from across the Barclays Group.
38 years in the investment Investment officer at  He is also a non-executive management industry.
He was Chairman of the director of Clearstream Most recently he was Chief was Chief Investment PwC European International.
Executive of Hermes officer for Barclays Entertainment & Media Pensions Management Stockbrokers and Barclays Industry practice for Limited.
Mr Watson was Personal Investment 12 years.
He is a nonformerly Managing Management, having executive director and Director of AMP Asset joined BZW in 1988, chairman of the audit Management plc.
He is a following post graduate committee of Maxis non-executive director of research in applied Communications Berhad Hammerson plc and of economics and asset and the independent Vodafone Group Plc and allocation at Cambridge member of the audit Chairman of the Trustees of University.
committee of the National the Marks & Spencer Trust.
Pension Scheme and of Strategic Investment Board Limited Northern Ireland.
He is a member of the Financial Reporting Council.
Members of the Audit Committee which is chaired by Mr Colvill from 30 April 2007: Mr Boyle.
Members of the Remuneration Committee which is chaired by Mr Jones.
