Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 Group Overview Customers are central to all our operations.
Our activities are focused on securing and delivering energy and offering a distinctive range of home and business energy solutions.
Our businesses at a glance British Gas British Gas British Gas Residential Business Services Business description We are the biggest energy We market gas and electricity We are Britains largest supplier in Britains domestic to a full range of businesses operator in the installation and market.
Operating under our under the British Gas Business maintenance of domestic central British Gas brand Scottish Gas banner.
We offer a range of heating and gas appliances, in Scotland and Nwy Prydain in propositions from open tariffs employing more than 8,600 Wales, we had 16 million gas to fixed price contracts to suit engineers.
We offer services and electricity accounts at the our customers needs.
through our HomeCare product end of 2006. and Dyno-Rod.
Market Retail energy margins have The business market is highly Competition has become more been put under intense pressure sophisticated with many larger intense in the contract cover in 2006, with energy suppliers companies operating through market, with industry players finding it difficult to keep pace professional energy buyers.
offering lower priced propositions with rapidly rising commodity Brokers and consultants are that provide less cover.
These are now falling increasingly a feature as the change and high energy prices and we anticipate that industry market becomes more have led to increased interest profit margins downstream competitive.
Opportunities 95% of customers are on A 95% SME renewal rate in Our on-demand offerings our new billing system.
2006 indicates the strength are helping us access of our prospects for 2007. new markets.
Our innovative energy products will win and Smart metering and new, We are developing our retain customers.
named account managers online sales presence.
Reducing our cost base will The demand for energy help us find additional value We are developing efficiency technologies and improve our marketplace propositions for customers is opening new sales competitiveness.
who see energy efficiency as opportunities.
a key way of cutting costs.
co. uk Web address Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 08 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 Turnover by business Operating profit by business m m British Gas Residential 7,112 95 British Gas Business 2,303 87 British Gas Services 1,104 102 Centrica Energy 1,245 686 Centrica Storage 294 228 Centrica North America 4,097 223 295 7 Europe Other 0 14 from continuing operations including joint ventures and associates, stated net of interest and taxation, and before exceptional items and certain re-measurements Centrica Energy Centrica Storage Centrica North Europe America We source gas and electricity Our Rough storage facility is the Under our Direct Energy brand, We are involved in power from our own production and UKs largest.
It is supported by we are North Americas largest generation, energy management from third parties, principally to a gas processing terminal at competitive energy solutions and retail energy supply in supply British Gas Residential.
Easington, also managed by provider, serving residential and Europe.
We have operations Investments include renewable Centrica Storage.
From October business customers in Canada in Belgium, Germany, the generation and we are currently 2006, Centrica Storage became and the US.
seeking secure supplies of gas responsible for operating the from overseas sources as UK adjacent terminal receiving gas production gradually declines.
Gas prices are falling now With the decline of supplies The regulatory landscape Some EU states have been more gas is arriving in the from the UKs North Sea gas is fragmented, with robust slow to make the legislative UK.
Lower gas prices, retiring fields, the need for large volume competition in business markets changes for the full opening coal and nuclear plants and storage has grown.
Moving across many states and of the market due in July 2007 an increasingly stringent forward, the UK will require provinces, and residential but there are strong signs that emissions trading scheme additional storage as traditional competition chiefly in Ontario, the EU is keen to apply more have improved the outlook seasonal swing producing Alberta, Texas and the pressure.
North-west European for gas-fired power stations.
energy markets are increasingly interconnected and with more open access greater competition will be possible.
Our construction of an 885MW We are progressing a number We are growing our retail There are major opportunities combined cycle gas turbine of projects to increase the energy and services businesses in the Benelux and German power station at Langage in capacity of Rough to take in the deregulated markets.
markets, which are undergoing Devon began.
advantage of the increased structural change.
As a source of value creation demand for gas storage.
We are developing an additional we are developing our energy We intend to develop our 252MW of wind generation management capabilities.
generation assets, our midand have secured a 600MW stream activities and our Where we see value, our electricity supply contract linked energy management solutions intention is to acquire more to international coal prices.
as the market dynamics in assets to support the supply Europe change.
We acquired gas acreage in the of energy to our customers.
UK, Norway, Nigeria and Egypt.
fide Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 09
