ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 STRATEGY OUR STRATEGY OUR OBJECTIVES Realising the full potential of our marketed products by: AstraZeneca is a successful global researchThe objectives that we have identi ed as based prescription pharmaceutical company, critical drivers of success in delivering our Actively managing the life-cycles of each and our goal is to make a difference in the strategy are focused on four core areas: of our brands to leverage the full therapeutic lives of patients and create value for our and commercial potential of our range.
shareholders and wider society, through the PATIENTS delivery of innovative medicines in important Gaining and using insight effectively by: Driving high standards of sales force areas of healthcare.
Working closely with patients and their Our strategy for ensuring that we continue healthcare providers to understand what Building on our leadership positions in to make our best contribution to healthcare they need and what they value.
existing markets and expanding our and deliver sustained, industry-leading, presence in important emerging ones.
responsibly managed growth centres on Incorporating this insight into all aspects three key priorities: of our business decision-making from PEOPLE discovery to marketing and beyond Getting the best from our global workforce by: Strengthening our pipeline of new to ensure we remain focused on those medicines, from our own research healthcare needs that are most relevant.
Providing effective leadership with clear laboratories and by accessing scienti c This includes targeting our medicines at objectives and accountabilities.
innovation that resides outside those patients for whom they are most AstraZeneca.
Effectively managing and developing all our talent.
Delivering the full potential of all our Providing superior customer support marketed medicines, through rigorous through: Promoting a culture of diversity and inclusion life-cycle management and excellent in which people feel valued and rewarded customer support.
Innovative practices that enable patients for their individual and team contribution.
and their caregivers to better understand Challenging our cost structure to make their disease and treatment options, and Making every interaction count by: room for the further investment necessary to get the medicines they need and the in these critical activities.
best possible value from them.
Ensuring people understand that how we do business is just as important as what Across all of our activities, we will continue PRODUCTS we do, and that everyone has a to work closely with all our stakeholders to Strengthening our research platform and responsibility for integrating our core values provide medicines that meet patient needs pipeline to deliver a ow of innovative, into their everyday business activity.
and add value for society, within the scope new products by: of our existing therapy areas and beyond.
PERFORMANCE Improving further the quality, speed and Delivering a performance that will place We have a clear set of objectives for delivering productivity of our internal discovery and us among the best in the industry, with this strategy.
Through the professionalism and development through the use of leadinga reputation as one of the most forwardcommitment of our people, we are determined edge science, alongside a continued focus thinking and responsible companies by: to deliver a performance that will place on driving effective risk management, AstraZeneca among the best in the industry.
decision-making and ef ciency across all Meeting our promises in all aspects of our our processes.
business, focusing on our core priorities and on how we deliver them.
Accessing attractive external opportunities to enhance our internal innovation through Effectively managing the opportunities and partnerships, alliances and acquisitions risks associated with all our business activities.
that further strengthen our pipeline of new products.
Rigorously challenging our cost structure to improve cost-effectiveness and Making a strategic move into biologicals to operational excellence.
build a major presence in the fast-growing biopharmaceuticals sector.
Ensuring a continuous focus on corporate governance and compliance.
