DIRECTORS REPORT 43 Business Review PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT AND COMMERCIALISATION ONE OF THE GREATEST CHALLENGES FACING ANY When a candidate drug enters development, from our internal pipeline or through PHARMACEUTICAL COMPANY IS MAINTAINING THE externalisation, a more specific TPP is QUALITY OF ITS PORTFOLIO.
developed based on medical and patient need, the products features and benefits, medical and health outcomes information, At AstraZeneca, we have always worked The PST establishes the overall licensing market positioning, demonstration of value across functional boundaries to ensure that strategy by reviewing the licensing and and the competitive environment.
This profile we effectively identify and consistent with any acquisition proposals prepared by all our is used throughout the development contractual obligations prioritise emerging TAPTs in their efforts to build their portfolios.
programme to prioritise further investment.
research opportunities whether from our own This ensures appropriate risk mitigation discovery activities or from external sources, through augmentation of opportunities All these activities are driven by the insight develop them to meet market needs and generated in-house with those developed into our core customers that GM is responsible maximise the potential of our marketed brands.
Increasingly, our customer base and their respective During 2006, to further strengthen our effort in Once in development, the management of needs have become much more complex.
these areas, we reviewed and refined the way individual projects, including continued risk The attitudes and needs of regulators and the relevant teams across our business work assessment and mitigation, is done by Global payer groups, as well as physicians, patients together.
The refinements aim to improve the Product Teams and reviewed by the Product and other healthcare professionals are key connectivity, co-ordination and focus of all Review Board, which is led by our Executive drivers of both our product development and the various activities that go into maintaining Director of Development.
a high quality range of differentiated products that meet patient needs and add value for Strategic Planning and GM is also responsible for developing the our stakeholders.
Business Development global strategic communications for each Our new Strategic Planning and Business brand, working closely with the major marketing Portfolio Strategy Team Development organisation SPBD, which companies.
With the development of new Good portfolio management starts with reports directly to the Chief Financial Officer, is communication channels and an increasing selecting the best, and the right balance of, designed to improve the focus, co-ordination appetite for healthcare information among new product projects, followed by effective and execution of our externalisation activity, patients and physicians, it is increasingly decision-making along their critical paths to specifically the accessing of external research important to develop clear, consistent global ensure we continue to invest only in the and development technologies, products communication programmes for our brands medicines with the highest potential.
that are integrated across the communication channels.
As part of the recent reorganisation, Our Portfolio Strategy Team PST, which SPBD will work closely with our TAPTs, each a greater focus has been put on developing was established in 2005, determines the of which now has a dedicated SPBD member.
appropriate balance of internal and external This enables greater co-ordination in the investment to maintain a high quality identification, review and pursuit of appropriate Portfolio Governance product portfolio.
Chaired by the Executive external investment opportunities, in line with Rigorous portfolio governance is applied Vice-President of Global Marketing, the team our strategy and aligned with the individual across our range of portfolio management comprises the heads of our Discovery, therapy area strategies.
activities, from setting disease area strategies Development, Strategic Planning and in Discovery through to the life-cycle Business Development SPBD, Finance Global Marketing management of launched brands.
Working closely with all these teams, Global Marketing GM, formerly Global Marketing The drug development process is divided The PST also sets the strategic direction for and Business Development is responsible into a series of research stages, separated our product portfolio, working closely with for ensuring strong commercial direction in by performance milestones and tollgates that our Discovery organisation and Therapy Area the management of our research activities determine transition of a project to the next Portfolio Teams TAPTs to determine the areas and developing brands portfolio, both for stage.
Four key bodies, consisting of leaders of disease on which we will focus, both now our marketed and pre-launch brands, of the functions relevant to the respective and in the future.
including optimising their life-cycles, and stage of development, assess information, leading portfolio and brand development review options and recommend a course of The role of the TAPTs is to create a portfolio decisions of marketed products.
action to our Senior Executive Team.
If the of potential new medicines from any source, project is to continue, the relevant body sets in line with the therapeutic area strategy, Disease target product profiles TPPs are a baseline and tolerances, which provide and to manage these projects through defined at an early stage in the drug discovery a framework within which the projects and development from pre-clinical to late Phase II.
process, based on the insight GM provides programmes can operate.
into medical and patient needs and the drivers behind recommending, prescribing, paying for and taking the medication.
These TPPs guide our R&D activity and help shape the therapy area and marketing strategies.
