44 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2006 SUPPLY UNINTERRUPTED SUPPLY OF OUR PRODUCTS TO CUSTOMERS is to ensure that our views are heard, and that harmonisation of regulation, its interpretation IS CRITICAL TO ASTRAZENECAS SUCCESS.
WE MEASURE OUR and its implementation becomes embedded PERFORMANCE USING FOUR KEY METRICS: CUSTOMER SERVICE, in the majority of the countries in which we operate.
SUPPLY CAPABILITY, COST EFFICIENCY AND LICENCE TO OPERATE.
Safety, health and environment SHE operating CUSTOMER SERVICE using lean principles, focusing on what standards are increasingly stringent, with A core priority is to provide first-class adds value for our customers and patients regulators placing particular emphasis on customer service for all products and in all whilst simultaneously eliminating waste.
environmental issues and the safety of markets, thereby ensuring we can support Leveraging the improvements of the new chemicals.
Our manufacturing sites operate the continued growth of our business.
Our supply system also enabled us to focus on a under various regulatory and licensing regimes supply chains are designed to maximise wide-ranging cost and efficiency programme.
and internal management systems, and we are flexibility and the application of the supply This also delivered significant benefits in the focused on meeting all applicable requirements.
system that we introduced in 2004 continues year, and we are expecting further progress There are currently no SHE issues that constrain to improve supply chain performance.
us from fully utilising any facilities.
We continue to track, actively participate in, and pursue SUPPLY CAPABILITY Cost efficiencies are also driven by continuous internal initiatives relating to international Process improvements, continual asset review of our manufacturing assets to make research and policy developments associated review and the effective use of external sure that they are being used most effectively, with emerging SHE policy and legislative partners ensure the secure and effective whilst preserving the flexibility we need to matters.
Examples include pharmaceuticals in supply of our products.
As part of our overall respond to fluctuations in demand.
During the environment, chemical control regulations risk management, we carefully consider the 2006 we announced that we would be and climate change.
It is possible that we timing of investment to ensure that secure closing our facility in Indonesia in 2007 and could incur capital or operational costs in supply chains are in place for our products.
that we would commence supply from a new connection with future voluntary activities or We have a programme in place to provide manufacturing facility in Egypt in 2007. regulatory developments relating to these appropriate supply capabilities for our new issues including, for example, process or products, including an assessment of On 1 February 2007, we announced our equipment changes associated with needs for new technologies such as biologics.
intention to reduce our Operations workforce wastewater quality, raw material substitutions, Capital expenditure on supply and by 3,000 jobs over the next three years to green chemistry initiatives or energy manufacturing facilities totalled approximately address over-capacity in the supply chain.
We are addressing these matters $201 million $206 million in 2005, $352 million These reductions will be the subject of a full proactively.
For example, our preparatory in 2004 across a range of projects.
consultation process with staff representatives work is progressing for the formal AstraZenecas global purchasing policies to ensure that the process is fair and transparent.
implementation of the EU REACH regulation and processes, together with our Integrated in 2007, which aims to protect the environment Risk Management process, are aimed at Our Category Management process and human health whilst enhancing the ensuring uninterrupted supply of raw continues to drive cost efficiencies in competitiveness of EU industry.
materials and other key supplies, all of which our external expenditure.
are purchased from a range of suppliers.
Our Our aim for continuous improvement includes process systematically examines a range of LICENCE TO OPERATE learning from incidences of non-compliance risks to global supply, such as disasters that We are committed to delivering a secure basis and sharing good practice to further promote remove supply capability or the unavailability for assured product quality that underpins high standards.
It ensures that these both the safety and efficacy of our medicines.
risks are mitigated by the implementation of As part of this, the outcomes of routine internal Further information and statistics about our contingency plans, including the appropriate inspections as well as those by regulatory SHE performance can be found in the separate use of dual or multiple suppliers and authorities are rigorously reviewed and, Corporate Responsibility Summary Report maintenance of appropriate stock levels.
if required, actions are taken to further 2006 or on our website, astrazeneca.
Although the price of raw materials may enhance compliance consistently across fluctuate from time to time, our global the organisation.
The results of all external FORWARD PLANNING purchasing policies seek to avoid such inspections carried out during 2006 were fully Our commitment to improving productivity fluctuations becoming material in our satisfactory and resulted in the approval of a in Operations is a continuous process and business.
During 2006 we have felt the effect number of new medicines of particular a core part of our strategy.
In 2007, we shall of increased oil prices, although the impact note, the manufacturing site in Dunkirk, be focusing on six streams of activity that on our business has not been material.
France was approved to supply Symbicort offer the greatest potential benefit: continuing pMDI to the US market.
All regulatory to review asset utilisation and potential COST EFFICIENCY compliance issues at our sites or those of our outsourcing opportunities: driving the Lean 2006 saw the continued focus on our new partners were resolved satisfactorily.
programme and other aspects of operational supply system, which has demonstrated excellence: further integrating all elements of progressive benefits, with higher customer Throughout the year, we have been actively the supply chain to drive competitive service levels, reduced manufacturing lead involved through our membership in industry advantage: integrating assets and service in times and consequently lower stock levels.
associations in influencing new regulation distribution: developing a global IS strategy for The system has now been substantially relating to the control of manufacture, both at Operations: and re-aligning key elements of implemented throughout the supply network, national and international levels in countries the support organisation.
and we are now driving further improvements such as Europe, the US and Japan.
