DIRECTORS REPORT 49 Business Review MAIN FACILITIES OTHER BUSINESSES We own and operate numerous manufacturing, APTIUM ONCOLOGY ASTRA TECH marketing and R&D facilities worldwide.
Our Over the past 20 years, Aptium Oncology, Astra Tech is engaged in the research, corporate headquarters are in London, UK formerly Salick Health Care, has evolved from development, manufacture and marketing and we have a significant presence in Sweden a general healthcare company offering a broad of medical devices and implants for use in and the US.
range of services, to an oncology company healthcare, primarily in urology, surgery that focuses on developing and managing and odontology.
It has a leading position in Our principal R&D facilities are in the UK out-patient cancer centres, primarily in the US.
several countries in Europe and is expanding Alderley Park Macclesfield and Charnwood : its operations in key markets, particularly in Sweden Lund, MIndal and Sdertlje : the Ownership of Aptium Oncology provides the US.
US Boston, Massachusetts and Wilmington, AstraZeneca with a unique window to the Delaware : Canada Montreal, Quebec : and provider sector of the US oncology market All product lines showed continued good India Bangalore.
and access to many opinion leaders in the sales growth in 2006.
The Company has field of oncology who can help shape early been pursuing its growth strategy for Astra In January 2007, we announced a $100 million phase drug development decisions.
Tech Dental, by further expanding its sales research investment to strategically boost and marketing organisation for dental implants.
work in the infectious disease area and to In 2006, Aptium Oncology continued to Strong sales growth was achieved in major continue our incremental growth in cancer perform well in its cancer centre management European markets, North America and Japan, research at our R&D centre near Boston.
business with positive profit and cash flow and during the year Astra Tech strengthened This expansion will accommodate up to 100 contributions.
Focused on growth, Aptium its position, with increased market shares in additional researchers.
Construction of the Oncology increased its investment in sales all these major markets.
In April, the 132,000 square foot expansion will begin and marketing with an emphasis on reaching Company successfully held its first Astra during the first quarter of 2007 with scheduled senior level hospital executives at target Tech World Congress for dental implants in completion by mid-2009.
The resulting expansion of New York City, with delegates and lecturers the total size of this research facility will be its consultancy business is creating new from 35 countries attending.
opportunities for management relationships line to further simplify procedures and new in new markets in the US.
Aptium Oncology components to further enhance the aesthetic Other R&D activity is carried out at Cambridge, is also exploring opportunities to bring its result of implant treatment were successfully Avlon and KuDOSs Horsham site in the UK, unique model of cancer care to the UK launched at the Congress.
The Cresco Reims in France, Shanghai in China, Osaka and Ireland.
business, acquired in 2005, has further Tokyo in Japan and at Cambridge Antibody strengthened Astra Tech Dentals position in Technologys facility in San Francisco, US.
Aptium Oncology has continued development the prosthetic field during the year.
The whollyof its innovative clinical research network to owned subsidiaries in Australia, Poland and Out of a total of 27 manufacturing sites in improve patient care and cancer treatment Switzerland, which were established last year, 19 countries our principal manufacturing with the Aptium Oncology Research Network have continued to develop according to plan.
facilities are in the UK Avlon and Macclesfield : conducting a growing number of centrally Further investments have been made in R&D, Sweden Snckviken and Gartuna, Sdertlje : co-ordinated trials.
clinical research and new production facilities the US Newark, Delaware and Westborough, to strengthen the product portfolio.
To support Massachusetts : Australia North Ryde, New and service its growing marketing activities, South Wales : France Dunkirk, Monts and Astra Tech is expanding the premises in Reims : Germany Plankstadt and Wedel : Mlndal, Sweden, by building a state-of-theItaly Caponago : Japan Maihara and Puerto art Training and Education Centre, new Rico Canovanas and Carolina.
Bulk drug R&D facilities and offices, all of which will be production is concentrated in the UK, Sweden completed during the second quarter of 2007. and France.
On 1 February 2007 we announced an initiative to address over-capacity in the supply chain see page 44.
Substantially all of our properties are held freehold, free of material encumbrances and we believe such properties are fit for their purposes.
