DIRECTORS REPORT 37 Business Review RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT We must also have an organisation that is fit In the mid term we look to drive our Phase I, for purpose and capable of discovering and Phase II and pre-clinical projects towards developing better medicines with a very strong proof of concept and proof of principle as emphasis on quality both the properties of rapidly as possible whilst recognising that the molecules and the characteristics of the we need to continue to externalise, both organisation and its decision-making.
tactically to fill potential gaps and strategically, to access the enormous world In our competitive world, speed is also vital.
Weve already shown Were now focusing on increasing the what we can do through both licensing and productivity and speed of our development acquisition and our organisational focus and process from beginning to end.
We are asking mindset have moved to a point where My number one priority is to deliver a stream the right questions and delivering data on discovery has become a process that is of medicines that meet unmet patient needs.
time even though the outcomes may not much wider than our own laboratories.
A successful pharmaceutical company always be what we would wish.
needs to have a continuous flow of exciting In the long term, in addition to our current and differentiated medicines capable of Patient benefit underpins all our work and we capabilities, were also seeking to sustaining global growth in the short, medium continue to develop our capability to measure transform AstraZeneca through the use and long term.
Bearing in mind the very long efficacy alongside a deep commitment to the of novel biomarkers and imaging as well time needed to deliver a new medicine, safest possible usage of our products.
as a strategic move into biologicals to build we are actively managing each of these a major presence in the fast-growing time periods.
In the short term, our business needs will be biopharmaceuticals sector.
met through life-cycle management and delivery of our Phase III programmes.
JOHN PATTERSON FRCP Executive Director, Development WE HAVE A GLOBAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT In the mid term we will drive our pre-clinical and clinical Phase I and II projects towards ORGANISATION, WITH AROUND 12,000 PEOPLE AT 16 MAJOR proof of concept as rapidly as possible whilst CENTRES IN EIGHT COUNTRIES DEDICATED TO TRANSLATING recognising that we will need to continue our emphasis on externalisation to complement LEADING-EDGE SCIENCE INTO INNOVATIVE, NEW MEDICINES our internal R&D efforts.
Our drug discovery THAT MAKE A DIFFERENCE IN THE LIVES OF PATIENTS.
effort is now a process that is much wider than our own laboratories, as we actively seek to make alliances and acquisitions with In 2006, we spent $3.9 billion on research PIPELINE STRATEGY external partners to gain access to leading and development 2005 $3.38 billion, 2004 Our R&D strategy is geared to maintaining a drug projects or technology platforms.
$3.47 billion and approved $300 million flow of new products that will deliver sustained of R&D capital investments including business growth in the short, medium and The progress we are making in our drive announcements of major new facilities in long term.
to increase productivity is reflected in the Sweden safety pharmacology, the US growth of our early development portfolio: cancer and infection and China cancer.
In the short term, our business needs will during 2006 21 CDs were selected compared be met through successful delivery of the with 25 in 2005 and 18 in 2004, and we We want to be among the best in the industry Phase III programmes and optimised lifehave 92 development projects in the proof in terms of the quality of our work and the cycle management for our key products.
of principle phase before Phase III, latespeed with which we get new medicines to stage development.
During 2006 we continued our drive In 2006, we experienced some setbacks with to improve the efficiency of our processes and our Phase III portfolio with the termination of During 2006 we progressed 12 compounds the effectiveness of our decision-making, so the programmes for Galida and NXY-059, as into man.
that we can quickly eliminate weaker candidate described in more detail on pages 18 and 25 drugs CDs and concentrate on the robust, respectively.
Despite these setbacks, as at In the long term, in addition to our current rapid progress of the ones most likely to 1 February 2007 we still have 28 Phase III capabilities, we are also seeking to transform succeed as significant advances in healthcare.
programmes compared with 29 at the end the AstraZeneca pipeline through a strategic of January 2006. move into biopharmaceuticals and by using In line with our strategy, we also continued to biomarkers to help identify winning projects focus on accessing external innovation that Notable successes in the life-cycle much earlier.
complements our in-house capabilities, and management of our key marketed brands on page 39 you can read more about our during the year included nine submissions externalisation activities during the year.
and nine approvals in the US or EU and are described in the Therapy Area Review pages 16 to 32.
38 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2006 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT CONTINUED Disease area focus DISEASE AREA FOCUS During 2006, we reviewed our disease target GROW MAINTAIN EXIT areas and re-focused our efforts to ensure our scientific resources are best positioned Diabetes Obesity Alzheimers Disease Hypertension to enhance our contribution to healthcare Infection Arrhythmia Inflammatory Bowel Diseases and long-term competitiveness.
We remain Analgesia Asthma Functional GI Disorders in the same therapy areas, but within these Inhalation Atherosclerosis Parkinsons Disease areas we have prioritised the diseases where we believe our skills can make the most Translational Science Bipolar Disorder Multiple Sclerosis through the Innovation difference, and have withdrawn from those Chronic Obstructive Addiction Centre China ICC where we believe we have less chance of Pulmonary Disease Insomnia success.
We also established a New Depression Anxiety Opportunities Team, which is dedicated to Neuroprotection in Stroke Oncology reviewing and evaluating appropriate new opportunities beyond our current therapy Osteoarthritis areas.
The table opposite shows the areas on Schizophrenia which we are focusing mid to long term and Thrombosis those from which we have withdrawn.
Certain Gastro-oesophageal Reflux Disease including Biopharmaceuticals Nexium life-cycle management During the last few years, biological molecules Monoclonal antibody approaches have been the fastest-growing segment of to Rheumatoid Arthritis the pharmaceutical market.
As part of a comprehensive biopharmaceutical strategy, we are determined to secure a significant Whilst we build our biological capabilities, both Improving productivity and quality remains share of this market.
By playing an active role internally and through collaborations and a core priority, underpinned by three major in the utilisation and development of these acquisitions, we will continue to apply our initiatives: Lead Generation, Discovery technologies, we aim to bring new medicines long-standing in-house skills and experience Medicine and Safety Assessment.
based on them to patients as early as possible in small-molecule R&D and aim to maintain as well as attacking diseases that were not a complementary flow of new products Lead Generation amenable to small-molecule approaches.
from both areas of science over time.
We Our strategic initiatives are directly aligned to anticipate that from 2010 onwards, one improving the quality of chemical leads and With our acquisition of Cambridge Antibody in four AstraZeneca candidate drugs eligible biological targets, so that we can eliminate, Technology Group plc CAT in mid-2006, for full development will be biologicals.
at an earlier stage, those compounds that are we took a major step towards our goal of unlikely to make it through clinical development.
establishing a significant biopharmaceuticals Investing in China Strategic alliances with WuXi Pharmatech capability.
This acquisition was built upon During 2006, we announced a $100 million Co. Ltd China and ChemBridge US were the strong foundation laid by our existing investment over the next three years in the signed in 2006 in order to collaborate on collaboration with CAT to discover new establishment of the AstraZeneca Innovation the identification, selection and supply of antibody-based medicines for respiratory Centre, China.
The Centre will focus on proprietary compounds to significantly and inflammatory diseases.
It allows translational science by developing knowledge enhance our existing compound collection.
AstraZeneca to apply CATs world-leading about Chinese patients, biomarkers and Also in 2006, a collaboration with the Effector technology platform for the discovery of genetics.
The initial therapeutic area for the Cell Institute ECI Japan was initiated to novel human monoclonal antibodies to all of Innovation Centre will be cancer.
In addition, further develop and apply ECIs proprietary our disease research areas.
The acquisition we are also expanding our research capabilities chemotaxis monitoring technology for use in also enables CAT to secure consistent in China by increasing further the number of high-content screening.
strategic investment to broaden the range of scientific collaborations with local Chinese targets and disease mechanisms to which its organisations and through our plan to establish Discovery Medicine technology can be applied, as well as the a China Clinical Pharmacology Unit.
We continue to focus on the collaboration opportunity to develop the technology between clinical medicine and basic science beyond its current capabilities.
DISCOVERY RESEARCH Discovery Medicine, which is increasingly In Discovery, our scientists work together important in helping us gain a better In addition to the antibody projects being across national boundaries to exchange ideas, understanding of human diseases and the pursued by CAT, the first anti-cancer antibody to promote best practice and to maximise suitability of future medicines to treat those to come from our collaboration with Abgenix the scientific potential offered by our size and diseases, as well as identify and deploy further strengthened our biopharmaceutical global reach.
biomarkers for enhanced decision-making development portfolio during the year.
DIRECTORS REPORT 39 Business Review Safety Assessment Biopharmaceuticals Infection Alongside continued investment in early The acquisition of CAT, which has been the A licence agreement with Cubist understanding of the profiles of new molecules, cornerstone for building the biologicals pipeline Pharmaceuticals, Inc. for the development we continue to implement high-throughput in the Respiratory and Inflammatory area and commercialisation of the antibiotic testing of safety and drug metabolism and Osteoarthritis, Rheumatoid Arthritis, Asthma Cubicin daptomycin for injection in pharmacokinetics early in the research process, and COPD and will now be extended to our China and certain other countries in Asia, so that CDs chosen for development are more other research areas.
the Middle East and Africa not covered by likely to succeed.
existing Cubicin international partnering Cardiovascular agreements.
The agreement does not include DEVELOPMENT A partnership with Abbott Laboratories to Japan, which is yet to be partnered.
Cubicin People in our Development organisation co-develop and market a Crestor fenofibrate is the first antibiotic in a new class of antispecialise in taking a newly discovered fixed-dose combination product.
compound from the laboratories, through collaboration has the potential to provide clinical research, regulatory submissions, physicians and patients with the first statin and Our acquisition of Arrow Therapeutics Ltd. ongoing pharmaceutical development and fibrate combination in a single pill to simplify the a privately owned UK biotechnology company, life-cycle management.
Project teams bring treatment of patients with mixed dyslipidaemia.
focused on the discovery and development together all the relevant skills and experience of anti-viral therapies.
needed for the rapid progress of new medicines A partnership with the Australian company and the management of development risks.
Cerylid, to acquire kinase inhibitors that have Neuroscience the potential to deliver a very effective antiA collaboration agreement with the Karolinska The change programme initiated during 2005 platelet therapy with minimal risk for bleeding Institutet, Sweden on the expansion of one to enhance project delivery and improve complications.
The aim is to start a leadof the worlds pre-eminent PET Positron R&D interfaces has been further developed.
optimisation pre-clinical project in early 2007.
Improvement objectives focused on speeding up the progression of early Phase projects A worldwide apart from Japan collaboration An exclusive global agreement with Pozen, Inc. along the pipeline and to market, and on with Bristol-Myers Squibb Company BMS to co-develop fixed-dose combinations of increased quality, are being actively tracked to develop and commercialise two naproxen and Nexium for chronic pain.
and implemented in line with our aim to investigational compounds both discovered The fixed-dose combinations will have the become one of the best companies in the by BMS being studied for the treatment of potential to provide chronic pain sufferers industry.
Saxagliptin, a dipeptidyl with a new treatment with reduced upper peptidase-4 DPP-4 inhibitor, is currently GI side effects.
In clinical development, eClinical components in Phase III development.
Dapagliflozin are now fully implemented in our working previously referred to as BMS-512148, A partnership with Axon Biochemicals on routines.
These include the use of web-based a sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 SGLT2 Dopamine Partial Agonists for the treatment data capture for all new Phase II to strategic inhibitor, is currently in Phase IIb development.
of diseases of the nervous system, including Phase IV studies and the recruitment of psychotic and mood disorders.
healthy volunteers, patients and clinical An exclusive global licensing and research investigators via the internet.
The sharing collaboration agreement with Palatin CANDIDATE DRUGS NOMINATED of information via eEnablement for all clinical Technologies, Inc.
The collaboration is 2006 21 study teams and clinical investigators will aimed at discovering, developing and further enhance our clinical productivity and commercialising small molecule compounds quality and reduce costs.
that target melanocortin receptors and have 2005 25 potential in treating obesity, diabetes and EXTERNALISATION metabolic syndrome.
2004 18 In line with our increased drive to pursue external acquisitions, licensing and Respiratory and Inflammation partnership opportunities that will strengthen A partnership with Dynavax Technologies our research pipeline and help us to deliver Corporation to develop a TLR-9 agonist for the next generation of medicines, between asthma and COPD.
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS the beginning of December 2005 and the PRE-CLINICAL PHASE I PHASE II PHASE III end of January 2007, the Company has A discovery alliance with Argenta Discovery includes NCEs and Line Extensions see pages 40 to 42 2006 completed 12 significant licensing and Limited aimed at identifying improved 49 23 20 28 120 acquisition projects and nine significant bronchodilators to treat COPD.
These initiatives 2005 have added five Phase II and two Phase III Cancer 45 17 15 29 106 projects to our late-stage development A partnership with Schering AG to co-develop 2004 pipeline.
We also entered into more than 300 and jointly commercialise a novel selective 31 17 17 26 91 other new collaborations compared with oestrogen receptor down-regulator SERD more than 200 in 2005, bringing our total for the treatment of breast cancer.
number of active R&D collaborations and agreements to over 1,850.
Examples of some of these transactions are as follows:
