12 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2006 OUR RESOURCES, SKILLS AND CAPABILITIES WE HAVE WIDE-RANGING RESOURCES, SKILLS AND CAPABILITIES When a new medicine is launched, we may typically have between eight and 15 years of ALIGNED TO DELIVERING OUR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES.
TOGETHER patent or data protection in which to generate WITH THE CLEAR DIRECTION OUR STRATEGY PROVIDES, the income needed to recoup the investment required to maintain a flow of new medicines WE BELIEVE ASTRAZENECA IS WELL PLACED TO CONTINUE TO for important areas of healthcare.
DELIVER A STRONG PERFORMANCE IN EACH OF OUR CORE AREAS We rigorously manage our patent portfolio OF ACTIVITY AND MAINTAIN BUSINESS SUCCESS OVER TIME.
through a team of intellectual property professionals dedicated to the cost-effective OUR MEDICINES Intellectual property management and enforcement of intellectual We have a powerful range of medicines Patents enable information on inventions to property rights for the optimal global protection targeted at meeting patient needs in the be made widely available and are important of, and legitimate reward from, AstraZenecas important areas of healthcare discussed earlier.
incentives for the continued innovation that innovations and commercial products.
Many of them are world leaders.
All of them drives societys progress.
Patents do not We vigorously defend our intellectual are designed to be innovative and more create a monopoly for treating a disease property rights, including taking appropriate effective and or to offer added patient benefits other manufacturers are able to develop a infringement action in various courts such as reduced side effects or better ways different medicine to treat the same condition.
See page 136 for of taking the treatment.
Even after a new Also, patents are limited in time and after their details of patent litigation.
medicine is launched, we continue to expiry, competitors both innovative and explore all the ways it can be used to get the generic can legitimately market the same Sales and marketing most benefit for patients.
Because patents require the Active in over 100 countries, we have an our activities is a commitment to developing disclosure and publication of information extensive worldwide sales and marketing and or maintaining a continuous dialogue about the patented medicine, they can network.
In the majority of key markets, with patients and other stakeholders to help stimulate competition to innovate improved we sell through wholly-owned local marketing ensure we gain the insight necessary to alternatives that expand the range of treatment companies.
Elsewhere, we sell through maintain a flow of new medicines that make options which is important because patients distributors or local representative offices.
respond differently to different medicines in Global brand strategy is built and led by the same class.
our Global Marketing GM function formerly Our portfolio of marketed medicines is highly known as Global Marketing and Business competitive, with growth in the short to medium Our policy is to apply for appropriate intellectual Development working in partnership with term being driven by five key growth products, property protection for all of the inventions and our largest marketing companies.
This shared Arimidex, Crestor, Nexium, Seroquel and innovations that arise from our drug discovery, approach creates a consistent platform on Symbicort, all launched over the last 12 years.
development, manufacturing and other which all our local marketing companies can Backed by our successful mature brands such business activities.
This policy is designed to build according to individual market needs.
as Pulmicort, Zoladex, Seloken Toprol-XL, provide each of our products with an effective Diprivan and Merrem, these five key growth portfolio of valid, enforceable patent and other Our products are marketed primarily to products provide the platform for our intellectual property rights in all significant physicians both primary care and specialist continued success whilst we enhance our markets to protect against unauthorised as well as to other healthcare professionals.
pipeline for the future by improving internal competition during commercialisation.
This Marketing efforts are also directed towards innovation and productivity and accessing shield of intellectual property rights extends explaining the economic as well as the external innovation potential.
to research technologies, for discovering, therapeutic benefits of our products to manufacturing and delivering products, governments and healthcare buying groups.
We have clearly defined life-cycle in which we invest significant resources.
management programmes for our marketed The adequacy of the patent, design, trade Face-to-face contact is still the single most products designed to maximise the benefit mark and domain name portfolio for individual effective marketing method, but increasingly they bring to patients lives and their products is kept under review during product the efforts of our sales forces are being commercial potential within the timeframe development, clinical evaluation and marketing complemented by our use of the internet that patent protection is available to us.
so that, wherever possible, additional to facilitate and enhance our commercial protection may be sought for new applications activities.
For a few products we also use and other developments.
Our research direct-to-consumer television advertising operating model allows appropriate intellectual campaigns in the US.
A specific focus on sales property strategies to be formulated and and marketing innovation is driving us to regularly updated from an early stage in explore new ideas, including implementation product development.
of learning from other industries, to ensure AstraZeneca is at the forefront in responding to the rapidly changing external environment.
DIRECTORS REPORT 13 Business Review As well as building on our leading positions in Development portfolio Product portfolio management existing key markets such as the US, Japan A core priority is ensuring that our growing One of the greatest challenges facing any and Europe, we continue to increase our range of candidate drugs compounds with pharmaceutical company is maintaining the strength through strategic investment in the the potential to become new medicines quality of its product portfolio.
We work to fast-growing markets of the future, of which are developed effectively to meet the future ensure that we effectively prioritise emerging China offers the most outstanding opportunity.
We have a wide range of research opportunities whether from our own compounds in early development, and a total discovery activities or from external sources, Supply and manufacturing of 23 projects in Phase I, 20 projects in Phase II develop them to meet market needs and We currently have some 13,500 people at and 28 projects in Phase III development.
Whilst maximise the potential of our marketed brands.
27 manufacturing sites in 19 countries, the majority of projects are small molecule dedicated to delivering a secure, high quality, candidate drugs, an increasing proportion During 2005 to 2006, to further strengthen our cost-effective supply of our product range of our early development compounds are effort in these areas, we reviewed and refined worldwide.
Of these 13,500 people, around biopharmaceuticals see pages 38 and 39 for the way the relevant teams across our 1,300 are employed in active pharmaceutical more information.
The refinements aim ingredient supply and 11,500 in formulation to improve the connectivity, co-ordination and and packaging.
We operate a small number of Externalisation focus of all the various activities, both internally sites for the manufacture of active ingredients, In todays world of rapid scientific and and externally focused, that contribute to complemented by efficient use of outsourcing.
technological advance, no company can maintaining a high quality range of AstraZeneca has active ingredient sites in the rely exclusively on its own discovery and differentiated products that meet patient needs UK, Sweden and France and a bulk drug development.
Where appropriate we seek and add value for our stakeholders.
More purification plant in Germany.
Principal to strengthen our internal capabilities details about our Portfolio Management and formulation sites for tablets and capsules are through acquisitions and alliances with Commercialisation can be found on page 43. located in the UK, Sweden, Puerto Rico, France, external partners whose skills and resources Germany and the US.
There are also major complement our own and which broaden OUR PEOPLE formulation sites for the global supply of our base for disease research.
Our most important resource is our people.
parenteral and inhalation products in Sweden, With over 66,000 employees, we value the France and the UK.
Packaging is undertaken We continuously monitor new and emerging diversity of skills and abilities that a global at a large number of locations, both at sciences for opportunities that will help us workforce brings to our business.
Within our AstraZeneca sites and at contractors facilities, to develop the next generation of medicines performance-driven culture, we aim to give our located close to our marketing companies to that offer better results for patients.
One such employees the support they need to develop ensure rapid and responsive product supply.
opportunity is biopharmaceuticals medicines their full potential and to provide a working derived from biological molecules, which are environment in which they are energised OUR RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT often based on proteins produced naturally and informed.
Optimising individual and Our global research and development R&D by living organisms in response to disease, team performance, effectively managing organisation is therapy area-led with scientific, for example antibodies.
New technologies and developing all our talent, communicating medical, technical input and control provided by have opened up the possibility of producing and fostering our core values and improving large multi-skilled Discovery and Development effective, potent antibodies in large supply our leadership capability are core priorities, functions.
This offers a number of advantages that can be used to fight disease.
As part of alongside a commitment to ensuring the including sharing of best practice and efficient our expansion into this fast-growing area, safety, health and wellbeing of all our use of resources across a multi-site, global and building on a successful alliance, during employees worldwide.
During 2006, we continued to 2006 we acquired Cambridge Antibody see page 48. improve our focus on speed and quality of Technology Group plc CAT a leading UKproject delivery and to ensure we fully exploit based biotechnology company.
CATs skills Leadership promising new projects and technology in biological therapeutics complement our Good leadership and effective risk platforms across and outside the main expertise and strength in small molecule management are key to ensuring our resources therapy areas.
In total we employ around science, and provide a foundation for building and capabilities continue to be focused on 12,000 people at 16 R&D centres in eight a future pipeline of new products from both meeting the challenges, and maximising the countries comprising eight joint Discovery areas of research.
For more information on opportunities, of our business environment.
and Development facilities in the UK, US, CAT research, see page 38 or visit the Sweden and a new Innovation Centre that will website, cambridgeantibody.
The Board of Directors: Our Board comprises be built in China: a further seven sites in the Executive Directors, with direct responsibility UK, US, Canada, India and France that focus Elsewhere in this report you can read about for business operations, and Non-Executive only on Discovery: and a facility in Japan for other licences, collaborations and acquisitions Directors, who have responsibility to bring drug development only.
These resources are we have entered into.
independent, objective judgement to bear on complemented by clinical development Board decisions.
The Board sets Company capability at 40 sites around the world.
strategy and policies and monitors progress 14 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2006 towards meeting objectives.
It conducts an REPUTATION AND RESPONSIBILITY in-depth strategy review annually.
It also We also know that how we do business, assesses whether or not obligations to as well as what we do, is important to our shareholders and others are understood reputation among stakeholders and wider and met, which includes regular reviews of society.
Maintaining their trust and confidence financial performance and critical business in AstraZeneca as a responsible company issues.
See pages 80 and 81 for more means ensuring that wherever we have information on the Board.
a presence or an impact, we live up to our core values and publicly stated standards The Senior Executive Team SET : The SET of ethical behaviour.
Backed by our global is a cross-functional, cross-territorial group, Corporate Responsibility Policy and established and led by the Chief Executive performance measures, we continue to drive Officer.
It focuses on the day-to-day running the integration of corporate responsibility of business operations and on Company considerations into everyday business development.
It regularly reviews and makes thinking throughout the Company.
This decisions on all major business issues, save includes providing managers with guidance those which have been specifically reserved on putting the global standards into practice for the Board.
The SET comprises the three at a local level, as well as communicating with Executive Directors and six executive viceour employees to ensure their understanding presidents, each of whom has a specific of our commitment and how everyone has area of responsibility in line with our business a part to play in making sure AstraZeneca structure.
See page 77 for more information continues to be welcomed as a valued on the SET.
member of the global community.
RISK MANAGEMENT During 2006, we undertook a comprehensive Our ability to effectively identify and manage stakeholder engagement exercise across the the risks to our business is also key to our full range of our key stakeholders to understand continued success.
Our Risk Advisory Group better their perception of AstraZeneca and its RAG, led by the Chief Financial Officer and activities.
The feedback from this initiative consisting of representatives from each is helping to inform the development of a business function, assists senior management more consistent approach to stakeholder in identifying and assessing our main business engagement and reputation management risks in a co-ordinated manner.
It focuses in across the Company.
This includes further particular on cross-functional risks, linking improving our ability to gain, and consistently risk management to business performance capture, the insight that helps us to remain reporting and sharing best practice across the focused on real healthcare needs.
organisation to drive continuous improvement.
The RAG reports twice a year to the SET and For more information about our approach its reports on the Companys risk profile are to managing our corporate responsibility reviewed annually by the Board and the Audit and about our performance, policies and Committee.
For more information, see pages principles, see page 47 of this report and also 45 and 75. the separate Corporate Responsibility Summary Report 2006.
