50 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2006 INDUSTRY REGULATION As explained on page 10, industry regulation Health authorities worldwide are collaborating PRICE REGULATION is an important feature of the business more in the delivery of common approaches Prescription medicines are subject environment in which we operate.
For example, to government controls on price and the guidelines of the International Conference reimbursement, which operate in most Concerns surrounding the safety of medicines on Harmonisation ICH, intra-agency scientific countries in which we sell our products.
are having an effect across the industry.
This agreements and intra-agency confidentiality This often presents a complex matrix of includes increased industry regulation, as agreements are influencing new and revised different prices across countries, the impact evidenced by regulators increased emphasis legislation and regulations around the world.
of which may be further complicated by on safety and patient risk management currency fluctuations.
As a consequence, through all stages of drug development and PRODUCT REGULATION as downward pressure on pricing increases, post-marketing surveillance.
Drug review and Before a pharmaceutical product is approved the risk of cross-border movement of products approval become subject to more conditions for marketing, it must undergo extensive clinical is also rising.
including patient risk management plans, development programmes.
The process of patient registries, post-marketing requirements, developing a new pharmaceutical product, US and conditional and limited approvals.
from discovery to marketing approval, can Currently, there is no direct government control typically take between eight and 12 years, of prices for non-government drug sales in the AstraZeneca participates in various industry but this period varies considerably in different US.
However, Federal legislation mandates associations and other external organisations, cases and countries.
The time taken from that US government agencies should receive which, among other things, seek to ensure submission of an application for marketing the best price when purchasing drugs for that legislators and regulators fully appreciate approval to launch of the product is typically the active military, military veterans and other their impact on the pharmaceutical industrys a minimum of one to two years.
Providing the best ability to introduce and deliver innovative price to the US government is also a condition new drugs to patients worldwide, not just in After a product has been approved and for the manufacturers drugs to be reimbursed Europe, Japan and the US, but also in China launched, it is a condition of the product by state Medicaid programmes.
In addition, and India and other developing markets.
licence that all aspects relating to its safety, a large number of US states have taken efficacy and quality must continue to meet action to require additional manufacturer AstraZeneca also engages directly with health regulatory requirements.
During the marketing supplemental rebates on Medicaid drug authorities at all levels.
There is a continuing of a product, strict procedures must be in place supplies for the indigent population.
dialogue between regulatory authorities and to monitor, evaluate and report any potential industry aimed at striking an appropriate adverse reactions.
Where drug-related adverse The implementation in 2006 of Part D of the balance between new regulation and not reactions occur or it is judged that they may Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, impeding the availability of new drugs for occur, changes may be required to prescribing and Modernization Act 2003 has increased patients with unmet medical needs.
Regulators advice and to product licences.
Depending the volume of pharmaceuticals dispensed are willing to engage in discussions earlier in on the country, fines and other penalties in 2006 and also brought additional price development, as evidenced by the US Food may be imposed for failure to adhere to the pressure from third-party payers, which is and Drug Administrations FDA Critical Path conditions of product licences.
This may likely to continue.
With many variables and and the EUs European Medicines Agency include product recalls or a requirement that unknowns in the Medicare Part D market EMEA Pipeline initiatives.
Openness and letters be sent to prescribers and other medical formation, it is difficult to predict fully the transparency are cornerstones for effective practitioners.
In extreme cases, the product longer-term effects on our business.
Political communication among AstraZeneca, regulators licence may be revoked, resulting in withdrawal and legislative pressures to revise Medicare and the industrys numerous stakeholders.
Promotional and Part D could lead to negotiations between marketing activities are also tightly controlled the US government and the pharmaceutical The exploration of technology and drug by regulations and self-regulating codes of industry for further discounts.
In fact, the development in many new areas, such as ethical marketing practices.
success of the Democratic Party in the US targeted therapies, biomarkers, modelling, mid-term elections in November has placed biologics, personalised medicine and Manufacturing plants and processes are the price of products and the volume of pharmacogenomics, are testing the subject to periodic external inspection by brands prescribed under Medicare Part D framework of current regulations and these regulators as part of their monitoring back into the spotlight.
For further discussion new developments may need new or revised procedures to ensure that manufacturers of Medicare Part D, see page 34 Geographic legislation, regulations and guidelines.
are complying with prescribed standards of Review, US.
AstraZeneca is committed to a dialogue with operation.
In extreme cases, regulators have regulatory authorities to develop appropriate the power to halt production and impose Other potential changes in legislation, standards and processes to address these conditions that must be satisfied before regulation and policy are increasing the new developments.
focus on generic versions of branded drugs.
Under a new policy, the FDA has started offering accelerated approval to selected generic drugs with a high value to public health.
In addition to the change in policy, the FDA Office of Generic Drugs has introduced improvements to the review of Abbreviated New Drug Applications.
These changes directly impact FDA review time and the availability of generic drug products.
DIRECTORS REPORT 51 Business Review Europe should look at the overall costs of health PRODUCT REGULATION: APTIUM ONCOLOGY Most governments in Europe control the when considering setting drug prices, by Aptium Oncology provides administrative, price and reimbursement of medicines after taking into account the wider benefits of management and consulting services to taking into account the clinical, economic pharmaceuticals to health budgets and to hospitals for the development and operation and social impact of a product.
This budgetpatients and society in an integrated way.
of outpatient department comprehensive based approach reflects increasing constraints cancer programmes.
The healthcare industry in overall healthcare spending.
Governments These interventions do not take into account in the US is subject to extensive and complex increasingly require more assurance of the consequential delays in patient access federal, state and local legislation and the value of medicines as well as some and market access for new and or innovative regulations.
Regulations relating to the assurance on predicted volume.
products, which average five or six months reimbursement and control of healthcare and in some countries extend to over one year.
costs, particularly those designed to prevent In several European countries, the pricing fraudulent billing to the government or abuse and reimbursement systems are continually Japan of government resources, are expansive in reviewed, with the aim of controlling and There is formal central government control of nature, and reimbursement rates for healthcare limiting drug budgets.
This is an ongoing costprices by the Ministry of Health, Labour and services are highly variable and are generally containment process that puts a downward Welfare in Japan.
New product prices are set or regulated by federal or state authorities.
pressure on pricing and reimbursement of determined primarily by comparison with medicines in Europe.
One example of this is existing product classes.
PRODUCT REGULATION: ASTRA TECH the increasing focus on using generic versions Certified quality management systems form of branded drugs, as seen in a number of Regulations include an overseas price the basis of the regulatory environment relating countries such as France and Spain.
referencing system, under which prices can to medical devices.
In Europe, compliance This impacts the volume uptake of branded be adjusted according to the average price of with regulatory requirements involves the medicines, which in many therapy areas are four major countries the US, the UK, Germany implementation and maintenance of a quality now positioned as second-line agents for and France.
The price system was reviewed management system and, for certain products, smaller patient populations.
Recent changes in April 2006, when measures were put in a design dossier review.
Medical devices in in legislation have also accelerated regulatory place that will reduce the occurrence of the US are regulated through a quality system approval for generic medicines.
To qualify, the and a requirement that the product be product must now be available in at least registered.
Astra Tech continues to maintain In Germany, so-called jumbo reference two of the above markets.
a European and US compliant quality price groups were introduced in support of management system.
a general aim to reduce spending on drugs, On a more positive side, premium prices will be by calculating new and lower reimbursement more readily available for innovative products price levels.
These groups are formed around and are newly established for products broad drug classes such as statins and registered for children under the age of 15. proton pump inhibitors, which include This is dependent on satisfying all three defined branded as well as generic products, which criteria for innovativeness: drives significant price reductions for some a useful new mechanism of action: patented drugs.
b efficacy or safety superior to similar drugs: and Overall, the introduction of new costc improvement in therapeutic methods.
containment measures in Europe is increasing in frequency and intensity.
Conservative All existing products are subject to a price industry estimates suggest that the impact review based on the market price at least every of cost-containment plans in the seven major two years.
In addition, products with generic markets UK, Germany, France, Italy, Spain, competition are forced to reduce prices by Belgium and the Netherlands, representing a further amount.
In 2006, there was a price nearly 88% of the EU 15 the 15 EU Member cut averaging 6.7% on all listed drugs and an States prior to the EUs enlargement in 2004 additional 8% cut on branded drugs where pharmacy and hospital sales budget, had generic substitutes became available after risen to 6.4% of total market value in 2005 the 2004 revision.
A further price review is from 4.5% in 2003, according to EFPIA expected in April 2008, with the likelihood estimates on an annual basis.
that annual price decreases will follow.
This escalating pressure on prices is In addition, a change to the prescription increasingly targeted on recently introduced form in 2006 now gives an opportunity for innovative medicines, for example by imposing generic substitution at the prescribers higher price cuts on faster-growing products discretion.
Further changes in drug pricing or by jumbo reference pricing see above.
and reimbursement are anticipated in the Some countries have sought to recover near future.
The possible changes include: budget overruns from industry by imposing implementation of reference pricing: setting claw-backs or price cuts to cover budget differential drug reimbursement rates: more shortfalls at the year-end eg Italy and frequent generic approval and more frequent Belgium.
We believe that governments drug price revision.
