DIRECTORS REPORT 11 Business Review STRATEGY ASTRAZENECA IS A SUCCESSFUL GLOBAL RESEARCH-BASED Realising the full potential of our marketed products by: PRESCRIPTION PHARMACEUTICAL COMPANY, AND OUR GOAL IS TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE IN THE LIVES OF PATIENTS AND Actively managing the lifecycles of each of our brands to leverage the full therapeutic CREATE VALUE FOR OUR SHAREHOLDERS AND WIDER and commercial potential of our range.
SOCIETY, THROUGH THE DELIVERY OF INNOVATIVE MEDICINES Driving high standards of sales force IN IMPORTANT AREAS OF HEALTHCARE.
OUR STRATEGY OUR OBJECTIVES Building on our leadership positions in Our strategy for ensuring that we continue to The objectives that we have identified as existing markets and expanding our make our best contribution to healthcare and critical drivers of success in delivering our presence in important emerging ones.
deliver sustained, industry-leading, responsibly strategy are focused on four core areas: managed growth centres on three key priorities: People Patients Getting the best from our global Strengthening our pipeline of new Gaining and using insight effectively by: workforce by: medicines, from our own research laboratories and by accessing scientific Working closely with patients and their Providing effective leadership with clear innovation that resides outside healthcare providers to understand what objectives and accountabilities.
they need and what they value.
Effectively managing and developing all Delivering the full potential of all our Incorporating this insight into all aspects our talent.
marketed medicines, through rigorous of our business decision-making from life-cycle management and excellent discovery to marketing and beyond Promoting a culture of diversity and customer support.
to ensure we remain focused on those inclusion in which people feel valued healthcare needs that are most relevant.
and rewarded for their individual and Challenging our cost structure to make This includes targeting our medicines team contribution.
room for the further investment necessary at those patients for whom they are in these critical activities.
Making every interaction count by: Across all of our activities, we will continue Providing superior customer Ensuring people understand that how to work closely with all our stakeholders to support through: we do business is just as important provide medicines that meet patient needs as what we do, and that everyone has and add value for society, within the scope of Innovative practices that enable patients a responsibility for integrating our core our existing therapy areas and beyond.
and their caregivers to better understand values into their everyday business activity.
their disease and treatment options, and We have a clear set of objectives for delivering to get the medicines they need and the Performance this strategy.
Through the professionalism and best possible value from them.
Delivering a performance that will place us commitment of our people, we are determined among the best in the industry, with to deliver a performance that will place Products a reputation as one of the most forwardAstraZeneca among the best in the industry.
Strengthening our research platform and thinking and responsible companies by: pipeline to deliver a flow of innovative, new products by: Meeting our promises in all aspects of our business, focusing on our core priorities Improving further the quality, speed and and on how we deliver them.
productivity of our internal discovery and development through the use of leadingEffectively managing the opportunities edge science, alongside a continued focus and risks associated with all our on driving effective risk management, business activities.
decision-making and efficiency across all our processes.
Rigorously challenging our cost structure to improve cost-effectiveness and Accessing attractive external opportunities operational excellence.
to enhance our internal innovation through partnerships, alliances and acquisitions Ensuring a continuous focus on corporate that further strengthen our pipeline of governance and compliance.
Making a strategic move into biologicals to build a major presence in the fastgrowing biopharmaceuticals sector.
