DIRECTORS REPORT 15 Business Review MEASURING PERFORMANCE THE BOARD AND THE SENIOR EXECUTIVE TEAM SET USE MEASURING REPUTATION The performance measures referred to A QUARTERLY BUSINESS PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT BPM above are measures of our progress in what REPORT TO MEASURE OUR PROGRESS IN DELIVERING OUR we do in the business of delivering successful medicines and, thus, shareholder value.
As previously mentioned, we also include reputation and governance objectives within The report provides Board and SET members PRODUCTS the key areas described above.
with shared insight into current progress Marketed products against short-term non-financial objectives Sales value growth at constant exchange In terms of measuring the way we do business, and current year milestones for longer-term rates, split between key growth, patent we have a range of key performance indicators strategic goals.
expiry and base products KPIs, by which we measure our progress in see page 52. important areas of corporate responsibility A range of financial and non-financial CR.
Auditing of compliance and external objectives are set each year.
During 2006 Global sales and US prescription assurance is fundamental to ensuring high the focus was on the following key areas: share trends for key growth products standards of ethical behaviour, and compliance see page 52. is integrated into many of the KPIs used to Product performance measure our CR progress.
More details Pipeline Market share percentages for key about these KPIs and our 2006 performance Productivity and profitability growth products.
are provided in the separate Corporate Shareholder returns Responsibility Summary Report 2006, or on Reputation Life-cycle delivery.
Governance Pipeline We also participate in leading external surveys, During 2006, we reviewed our BPM framework New candidate drugs see page 39. such as the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes, with a view to further enhancing our focus which are important means of evaluating our on our strategic objectives, which are now Number of development projects by performance and understanding better the grouped under four areas: Phase see page 39. demands of sustainable development.
Patients R&D investment in US dollar terms AstraZeneca is listed in the 2007 Dow Jones Products see page 6.
Sustainability World Index, used by asset People managers globally to guide their socially Performance Progress against development milestones.
However, whilst we improved our score, we did not regain the Reputation and governance objectives have PERFORMANCE place we lost in 2005 in the European Index been included in all four areas, to reflect the Earnings per share growth see page 6.
Dow Jones STOXX, where competition for importance of integrating consistent behaviours places is increasingly fierce.
across all of our business activities.
Cost growth rates see page 6.
GOVERNANCE Shareholder returns have been included in Gross margin, costs and operating The AstraZeneca Code of Conduct 1 the Performance area.
profit margin percentages progression which is available on our website sets out over time see page 52. the high standards we expect from our The means of measuring performance in these employees, and with which compliance is areas range from quantitative, comparative Dividends and share re-purchases mandatory.
As part of our commitment under performance measures to more qualitative, see page 6. that Code to comply with all applicable laws discursive analysis.
and codes of practice, we apply all of the Free cash see page 6. principles of good governance in the 2006 Together, they provide the framework for UK Combined Code on Corporate consistently monitoring and reporting our Total shareholder return see page 90.
The way in which we do so is progress towards achieving our objectives described on page 75.
We also comply with and, ultimately, delivering enduring As a result of our review of our BPM framework all of the provisions of the UK Combined shareholder value.
in 2006, we are developing new objectives for Code and our corporate governance practices 2007 in relation to Patients and People.
We are generally consistent with the New York Stock Specific measures that our Board and SET use will report on these objectives in due course.
Exchanges corporate governance listing when assessing performance in relation to the standards see page 75 for a description of key areas noted above, or that are otherwise any significant differences.
Our continuous judged to be helpful in enabling shareholders assurance processes, as described on page better to understand and evaluate our business, 75, are designed to ensure we effectively are described and illustrated throughout this monitor our compliance with these standards.
