Filename: 824560 03.3d Time: 14:33:48 Date: 20 05 06 Checksum: 832241334 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The directors submit their report and the audited financial be independent.
In line with BTs policy, the Board comprised a statements of the company, BT Group plc, and the group, majority of independent non-executive directors throughout the which includes its subsidiary undertakings, for the 2006 2006 financial year.
The Boards principal focus is the overall strategic direction, It is BTs policy to achieve for all our operations best practice development and control of the group.
In support of this the in our standards of business integrity.
This includes a Board approves the groups values, business practice policies, commitment to maintaining the highest standards of corporate strategic plans, annual budget, capital expenditure and governance and ethics throughout the group.
investments budgets, larger capital expenditure proposals and The directors consider that BT has, throughout the year, the groups overall system of internal controls, governance and complied with the provisions set out in section 1 of the 2003 compliance authorities.
It also has oversight and control of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance and that the groups operating and financial performance and reviews the Operating and financial review has been prepared in risk register.
These responsibilities are set out in a formal accordance with the principles in the Reporting Statement on the statement of the Boards role.
The Board has agreed the Operating and Financial Review issued by the Accounting groups corporate governance framework, including Standards Board.
empowering the companys key management committee, the Operating Committee, to make decisions on operational and INTRODUCTION other matters.
The roles and powers of this committee are set BT Group plc is the listed holding company for the BT group of out on page 43.
Their powers and the authorities delegated to companies.
individual members of the Operating Committee are available to The Operating and financial review on pages 6 to 39 and everyone in the group on the groups intranet site.
the Report of the Audit Committee, the Report of the Historically the Board met every month, except in August.
Nominating Committee and the Report on directors The standard Board cycle changed in the 2006 financial year to remuneration on pages 48 to 61 form part of this report.
The nine meetings each year.
The Board met 11 times during the audited financial statements are presented on pages 65 to 122.
2006 financial year including two ad hoc meetings to consider time-critical matters.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITY The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are The groups principal activity is the supply of communications separate.
They are set out in written job descriptions, approved solutions and services and includes: networked IT services: by the Nominating Committee.
In addition to chairing the Board, local, national and international telecommunications services: the Chairman is responsible for consulting the non-executive and broadband and internet products and services.
In the 2006 directors, particularly the Deputy Chairman, on corporate financial year, approximately 87% of revenues were derived governance issues, matters considered by the Nominating from operations in the UK.
The groups key performance Committee, which the Chairman chairs, and the individual indicators can be found in the Operating and financial review.
performances of the non-executive directors.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors hold regular dinners at which they THE BOARD discuss matters without the executive directors being present.
Directors With the Chief Executive and the Secretary, the Chairman The names and biographical details of the directors of the ensures the Board is kept properly informed, is consulted on all company are given on pages 40 to 41 in the Board of directors issues reserved to it and that its decisions are made in a timely and Operating Committee.
All served throughout the financial and considered way that enables the directors to full their year, with the exception of Matti Alahuhta and Phil Hodkinson, duciary duties.
The Chairman ensures that the views of the who were appointed on 1 February 2006.
Lou Hughes served as shareholders are known to the Board and considered a director until 31 March 2006. appropriately.
He represents the company in specified strategic and Government relationships, as agreed with the Chief Election and re-election Executive, and generally acts as the bridge between the Board All directors are required by the companys articles of and the companys executive team, particularly on the groups association to be elected by shareholders at the first AGM after broad strategic direction.
The Chief Executive has final their appointment, if appointed by the Board.
A director must executive responsibility, reporting to the Board, for the success subsequently retire by rotation at an AGM at intervals of not of the group.
The Chairmans other current significant more than three years.
The director may seek re-election.
commitments are shown in the Board of directors and In accordance with the articles of association, Matti Alahuhta Operating Committee.
and Phil Hodkinson, having been appointed as directors by the The Secretary manages the provision of timely, accurate and Board, retire at the forthcoming annual general meeting AGM considered information to the Board for its meetings and, in and will be proposed for election.
Sir Anthony Greener, Maarten consultation with the Chairman and Chief Executive, at other van den Bergh and Clayton Brendish retire by rotation and will appropriate times.
He recommends to the Chairman and the be proposed for re-election.
Details of these directors contracts Chief Executive, for Board consideration where appropriate, the of appointment are included in the Report on directors companys corporate governance policies and practices and is remuneration.
responsible for their communication and implementation.
The appointment and removal of the Secretary is a matter for the Composition and role whole Board.
He advises the Board on appropriate procedures The Board, which operates as a single team, is currently made for the management of its meetings and duties and the up of the part-time Chairman, the Chief Executive, four other meetings of the companys principal committees, as well as the executive directors and eight non-executive directors.
All of the implementation of corporate governance and compliance within non-executive directors during the 2006 financial year met, and the group.
continue to meet, the criteria for independence set out in the Combined Code and are therefore considered by the Board to 42 BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006 Report of the directors Filename: 824560 03.3d Time: 14:33:49 Date: 20 05 06 Checksum: 1508664144 BTs non-executive directors Committee and the Report on directors remuneration are on The Nominating Committee has agreed and periodically reviews pages 48 to 61. the combination of experience, skills and other attributes which The Equality of Access Board EAB was established on the non-executive directors as a whole are to bring to the 1 November 2005, as part of the Undertakings given by BT to Board.
This prole is used by the Committee when the Ofcom following Ofcoms Strategic Review of appointment of a non-executive director is being considered to Telecommunications, to monitor, report and advise BT on BTs assess the suitability of candidates, who are put forward by the compliance with these Undertakings.
The EAB is a committee of directors and outside consultants.
Short-listed candidates meet the BT Group plc Board, which formally approved its formation the Committee, which then recommends to the Board a and its terms of reference.
As required by the Undertakings, the candidate s for appointment.
EAB comprises five members: Carl Symon, a BT Group plc nonThe non-executive directors provide a strong, independent executive director and chairman of the EAB: a BT senior element on the Board.
Between them, they bring experience executive, Sally Davis, Chief Portfolio officer: and three and independent judgement, gained at the most senior levels, independent members: Sir Bryan Carsberg, Stephen Pettit and of international business operations and strategy, finance, Dr Peter Radley.
The EAB reports regularly to the Board.
marketing, technology, communications and political and international affairs.
Meetings attendance Sir Anthony Greener, the Deputy Chairman, is the senior The following table shows the attendance of directors at independent director.
He chairs the Audit and Remuneration meetings of the Board and Audit, Remuneration and Nominating Committees.
In his capacity as the chairman of the Remuneration Committees during the 2006 financial year.
Committee, he meets with BTs major institutional shareholders.
Audit Remuneration Nominating c Board Committee Committee Committee The Deputy Chairman also continues to be available to discuss Attendance shown for committee member matters with institutional shareholders where it would be Number of meetings 11 4 4 4 inappropriate for those discussions to take place with either the Sir Christopher Bland 11 4 Chairman or the Chief Executive.
a Matti Alahuhta 2 Non-executive directors are appointed initially for three Maarten van den Bergh 9443 years, subject to three months termination notice from either Clay Brendish 9 4 BT or the director.
At the end of the first three years the Andy Green 11 appointment may be continued by mutual agreement.
Each Sir Anthony Greener 8243 non-executive director is provided, upon appointment, with a a Phil Hodkinson 1 letter setting out the terms of his or her appointment, including b Lou Hughes 633 membership of Board committees, the fees to be paid and the Margaret Jay 10 4 time commitment expected from the director.
The letter also Hanif Lalani 11 covers such matters as the condentiality of information and Ian Livingston 11 the companys share dealing code.
John Nelson 9 4 4 Paul Reynolds 10 Principal Board committees Carl Symon 9 4 4 The Operating Committee, the companys key management Ben Verwaayen 11 committee, meets weekly and is chaired by the Chief Executive, a Appointed a director on 1 February 2006 b Granted unpaid leave of absence by the Board from 1 September 2004 to 30 June 2005 to lead Ben Verwaayen.
The other members are the Group Finance the civil reconstruction effort for the US Government in Afghanistan.
Resigned as a director on Director and the Chief Executives of BT Retail, BT Wholesale 31 March 2006 c Includes two ad hoc meetings and BT Global Services.
The Secretary attends all meetings.
The Group Strategy and the Group HR Directors normally attend each meeting.
The Committee has collective responsibility for Service agreements running the groups business end-to-end.
To do that, it The Chairman and executive directors have service agreements, develops the groups strategy and budget for Board approval, which are approved by the Remuneration Committee.
Information recommends to the Board the groups capital expenditure and about the periods of these contracts is in the Report on investments budgets, monitors the financial, operational and directors remuneration.
customer quality of service performance of the whole group, reviews the groups risks register, allocates resources across the Independent advice group within plans agreed by the Board, plans and delivers The Board has a procedure for directors, in furtherance of their major cross-business programmes and reviews the senior talent duties, to take independent professional advice if necessary, at base and succession plans of the group.
Within the groups the companys expense.
In addition, all directors have access to corporate governance framework, approved by the Board, the the advice and services of the Secretary.
Operating Committee is empowered to approve, up to limits after which Board approval is required, capital expenditure, Training and information disposals of xed assets, the making of investments by the On appointment, the directors take part in an induction group and divestments.
It is authorised to delegate these programme when they receive information about BT, the role of approvals, up to its own limits, to senior executives.
the Board and the matters reserved for its decision, the terms To meet best corporate governance practice, the Audit of reference and membership of the principal Board Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nominating committees, and the powers delegated to those committees, Committee have long been an established part of BTs system of the companys corporate governance policies and procedures, governance.
Each committee has written terms of reference, including the powers reserved to the groups most senior which are available on the companys website.
The Report of executives, and the latest financial information about the the Audit Committee, the Report of the Nominating group.
This is supplemented by visits to key BT locations and meetings with members of the Operating Committee and other Report of the directors BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006 43 Filename: 824560 03.3d Time: 14:33:49 Date: 20 05 06 Checksum: -148242921 key senior executives.
Each year, Directors participate in BTs contract agreed with the supplier or as required by law: and to Back to the oor programme, an activity that demonstrates tell suppliers without delay when an invoice is contested and commitment to our customers and the people who serve them.
The normal payment terms are 42 Throughout their period in ofce the directors are continually calendar days from date of receipt of a due and valid invoice.
updated on BTs business, the competitive and regulatory BT will make payment to the supplier on the next payment run environments in which it operates, technology and corporate following expiry of this term.
The ratio, expressed in days, social responsibility matters and other changes affecting BT and between the amounts invoiced to the company by its suppliers the communications industry as a whole, by written briengs in the 2006 financial year and the amounts owed to its trade and meetings with senior BT executives.
Directors are also creditors at the end of the year was 39 calendar days.
advised on appointment of their legal and other duties and obligations as a director of a listed company, both in writing CHARITABLE DONATIONS and in face-to-face meetings with the Secretary.
They are Details of charitable donations made by the group can be found reminded of these duties each year and they are also updated in Business review Community investment.
on changes to the legal, accounting and governance requirements on the company and themselves as directors.
POLITICAL DONATIONS During the 2006 financial year, for example, they have The companys continuing policy is that no company in the attended presentations on BTs 21CN Investment Programme, group shall make contributions in cash or kind to any political on the effects of the introduction of International Financial party, whether by gift or loan.
Arrangements are in place to Reporting Standards on the groups results and on the US implement this policy.
However, the denition of political Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which affects BT because its donations used in the Companies Act 1985 is very much securities are registered with the US Securities and Exchange broader than the sense in which these words are ordinarily Commission SEC : and received briengs on changes to UK used.
It covers activities such as making MPs and others in the company law and various corporate governance proposals from political world aware of key industry issues and matters the European Commission.
The Chairman also sends a weekly affecting the company, which make an important contribution e-mail to non-executive directors with topical sector highlights.
to their understanding of BT.
These activities are carried out on Guidelines are in place concerning the content, presentation an even-handed basis related broadly to the major UK political and delivery of papers for each Board meeting, so that the parties electoral strength.
The authority we are requesting at directors have enough information to be properly briefed the AGM is not designed to change the above policy.
It will, sufciently far ahead of each Board meeting and at other however, ensure that BT acts within the provisions of the appropriate times.
Companies Act 1985 requiring companies to obtain shareholder authority before they can make donations to EU political Directors and ofcers liability insurance and indemnity organisations which includes UK political parties as dened in For some years the company has purchased insurance to cover the Act.
During the 2006 financial year the companys whollyits directors and ofcers against their costs in defending owned subsidiary, British Telecommunications plc, made the themselves in civil legal proceedings taken against them in that following payments to cover the cost of hosting brieng capacity and in respect of damages resulting from the meetings about the companys activities with MPs and MEPs: unsuccessful defence of any proceedings.
At the date upon Labour Party 9,956: Conservative Party 10,867: Liberal which this report was approved, and throughout the 2006 Democrats Party 1,747: Scottish National Party 1,200: Plaid financial year, the companys wholly-owned subsidiary, British Cymru 88.
No loans were made to any political party by any Telecommunications plc, has provided an indemnity in respect company in the BT group.
of all the companys directors.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnity provides cover where the director has acted FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS fraudulently or dishonestly.
Details of the financial risk management objectives and policies of the group and exposure of the group to interest risk, foreign Interest of management in certain transactions exchange risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and price risk is given on During and at the end of the 2006 financial year, none of the page 37 and note 33 on pages 105 to 110. companys directors was materially interested in any material transaction in relation to the groups business and none is AUDITORS materially interested in any presently proposed material Resolutions to reappoint  LLP as transactions.
auditors of the company and to authorise the directors to settle their remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS At 17 May 2006, the company had received notications from AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE SHARES Legal & General Investment Management Limited, Barclays The authority given at last years AGM of the company held on PLC and Brandes Investment Partners LLC, under Part VI of the 13 July 2005 for the company to purchase in the market Companies Act 1985, in respect of holdings of 318,525,417 850 million of its shares, representing 10% of the issued share shares, 369,832,178 shares and 413,832,977 shares capital, expires on 12 October 2006.
Shareholders will be asked respectively, representing holdings of 3.8%, 4.3% and 4.9% of to give a similar authority at the AGM.
the companys issued ordinary share capital.
During the 2006 financial year, 166 million shares of 5 pence each were purchased under this authority 1.9% of the POLICY ON THE PAYMENT OF SUPPLIERS share capital for a total consideration of 360 million, at an BT subscribes to the Better Payment Practice Code for all average price of 2.17 per share.
The shares were purchased in suppliers, the four principles of which are: to agree payment an on-market programme of buying back the companys shares, terms at the outset and stick to them: to explain payment initiated in November 2003, as part of the companys procedures to suppliers: to pay bills in accordance with any shareholder distribution strategy.
290 million shares have been 44 BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006 Report of the directors Filename: 824560 03.3d Time: 14:33:49 Date: 20 05 06 Checksum: -12013197 retained as treasury shares.
At 17 May 2006, 22 million STATEMENT OF BUSINESS PRACTICE treasury shares had been transferred to meet the companys To reinforce our commitment to achieve best practice in our obligations under its employee share plans.
standards of business integrity and ethics, BT has had in place a written statement of business practice The Way We Work for RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS nearly seven years.
The statement covers all our operations.
A Senior executives, led by the Chief Executive and the Group copy of the statement has been sent to every employee and is Finance Director and including, as appropriate, the other available in eight languages.
Copies are also sent to the executive directors, hold meetings with the companys principal employees of newly acquired subsidiaries.
institutional shareholders to discuss the companys strategy, These high-level principles are supported by a continuing financial performance and specic major investment activities.
and comprehensive communications programme and online The Deputy Chairman also attends, at his discretion and in training.
A condential helpline and dedicated e-mail facility are consultation with the Chairman and the Chief Executive, also available to employees who have questions about the meetings with shareholders during the year.
All non-executive application of these principles.
The helpline number is published directors have an invitation to attend investors meetings if they externally as part of the statement of business practice.
The company also maintains contact with investors, when continue to require our agents and contractors to apply these appropriate, through the chairman of the Remuneration principles when representing BT.
BTs new Undertakings code Committee and other senior executives to discuss overall of practice It Matters forms part of BTs statement of business remuneration policies and plans.
Contact with institutional practice and is consistent with it.
shareholders and with financial analysts, brokers and the media is controlled by written guidelines to ensure the PENSION FUNDS protection of share price sensitive information that has not BTs two main pension funds the BT Pension Scheme and the already been made generally available to the companys BT Retirement Plan are not controlled by the Board but by shareholders.
The directors are provided with either full or separate trustees who are company and union nominees, under summarised reports and other written briengs from the independent chairmen.
The trustees look after the assets of the companys major shareholders and analysts and are regularly funds, which are held separately from those of the company.
informed by the Secretary about the holdings of its principal The pension funds assets can only be used in accordance with shareholders.
The Secretary also surveys the companys retail their respective rules and for no other purpose.
shareholders about the quality of the companys shareholder communications and share registration services.
INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT We are continuing our policy that shareholders vote on the The Board is responsible for the groups systems of internal annual report at the AGM.
Shareholders will also again be asked control and risk management and for reviewing the to vote separately on the Report on directors remuneration.
effectiveness of those systems, which it does annually.
Such It is part of our policy to involve shareholders fully in the systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk affairs of the company and to give them the opportunity at the of failure to achieve business objectives: any system can provide AGM to ask questions about the companys activities and only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material prospects.
We also give the shareholders the opportunity to misstatement or loss.
vote on every substantially different issue by proposing a The Board also takes account of significant social, separate resolution for each issue.
environmental and ethical matters that relate to BTs The proxy votes for and against each resolution, as well as businesses and reviews annually BTs corporate social abstentions, will be counted before the AGM and the results will responsibility.
The companys workplace practices, specic be made available at the meeting after the shareholders have environmental, social and ethical risks and opportunities and voted on each resolution on a show of hands and at the end of details of underlying governance processes are dealt with in the the meeting.
It is our policy for all directors to attend the AGM Business review Motivating our people and living the BT if at all possible.
Whilst, because of ill health or other pressing values and Our commitment to society.
reasons, this may not always be possible, in normal BT has processes for identifying, evaluating and managing circumstances this means that the chairmen of the Audit, the significant risks faced by the group.
These processes have Nominating and Remuneration committees are at the AGM and been in place for the whole of the 2006 financial year and have are available to answer relevant questions.
All the directors continued up to the date on which this document was attended the 2005 AGM.
The processes are in accordance with the Internal The Annual Review and Notice of Meeting 2006 and, if Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code first requested, the Annual Report and Form 20-F, are sent to published in the UK in September 1999. shareholders in the most cost-effective fashion, given the large Risk assessment and evaluation takes place as an integral number of shareholders.
We aim to give as much notice as part of the groups annual strategic planning cycle.
The group possible and at least 21 clear days, as required by the has a detailed risk management process, culminating in a Board companys articles of association.
In practice, these documents review, which identies the key risks facing the group and each are being sent to shareholders more than 20 working days business unit.
This information is reviewed by senior before the AGM.
management as part of the strategic review.
The groups Established procedures ensure the timely release of share current key risks are summarised in Business Review Group price sensitive information and the publication of the companys risk factors.
financial results and regulatory financial statements.
All external The key features of the risk management process comprise announcements are also reviewed for accuracy and compliance the following procedures: requirements by a committee of senior executives, the s senior executives, led by the Secretary, review the groups Disclosure Committee, which is chaired by the Secretary.
key risks and have created a group risk register describing the risks, owners and mitigation strategies.
This is reviewed Report of the directors BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006 45 Filename: 824560 03.3d Time: 14:33:50 Date: 20 05 06 Checksum: 493764336 by the Operating Committee before being reviewed and Group Finance Director have also provided the certications approved by the Board.
required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
s the lines of business carry out risk assessments of their There were no changes in BTs internal control over financial operations, have created registers relating to those risks, reporting that occurred during the year ended 31 March 2006 and ensure that the key risks are addressed.
that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to s senior management reports regularly to the Group Finance materially affect, BTs internal control over financial reporting.
Director on the operation of internal controls in its area of Preparations are well advanced for BT to be able to comply with responsibility.
the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
BT s the Chief Executive receives annual reports from senior is required to report under Section 404 in the 2007 Annual executives with responsibilities for major group operations Report and Form 20-F. with their opinion on the effectiveness of the operation of The code of ethics for the Chief Executive, Group Finance internal controls during the financial year.
Director and Director Group Financial Control and Treasury, s the groups internal auditors carry out continuing adopted for the purposes of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, is posted assessments of the quality of risk management and control.
on the companys website at www.
com ethics Internal Audit reports to the management and the Audit Committee on the status of specic areas identied for THE NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE improvement.
Internal Audit also promotes effective risk The company, as a foreign issuer with American Depositary management in the lines of business operations.
Shares listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE, is s the Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, considers the obliged to disclose any significant ways in which its corporate effectiveness of the operation of internal control procedures governance practices differ from the corporate governance in the group during the financial year.
It reviews reports from listing standards of the NYSE.
the internal auditors and from the external auditors and The company has reviewed the NYSEs new listing standards reports its conclusions to the Board.
The Audit Committee has and believes that its corporate governance practices are carried out these actions for the 2006 financial year.
consistent with them, with the following exception where the New subsidiaries acquired during the year have not been company does not meet the strict requirements set out in the included in the above risk management process.
The standards state that companies must have a included for the 2007 financial year.
Material joint ventures and nominating corporate governance committee composed entirely associates, which BT does not control, outside the UK have not of independent directors and with written terms of reference been dealt with as part of the group for the purposes of this which, in addition to identifying individuals qualied to become internal control assessment.
board members, develops and recommends to the Board a set The Board has approved the formal statement of matters of corporate governance principles applicable to the company.
which are reserved to it for consideration, approval or oversight.
BT has a Nominating Committee chaired by the Chairman Sir It has also approved the groups corporate governance Christopher Bland.
It does not develop corporate governance framework, which sets out the high level principles by which the principles for the Boards approval.
The Board approves the group is managed and the responsibilities and powers of the groups overall system of internal controls, governance and Operating Committee and the groups senior executives.
The Board and the Nominating of this framework the development and implementation of Committee are made up of a majority of independent, noncertain powers relating to group-wide policies and practices are executive directors.
reserved to identied senior executives.
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the SEC and NYSE introduced rules on 31 July 2005 requiring the company to comply with certain US SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 provisions relating to the Audit Committee.
These include the BT has securities registered with the US Securities and independence of Audit Committee members and procedures for Exchange Commission SEC.
As a result, BT is obliged to the treatment of complaints regarding accounting or auditing comply with those provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act matters.
The company is fully compliant with these applicable to foreign issuers.
BT complies with the legal and requirements.
regulatory requirements introduced pursuant to this legislation, in so far as they are applicable to the group.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS With the appointment of Phil Hodkinson, it is the opinion of So far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant the Board that the Audit Committee now includes a member who information that has not been disclosed to the companys is an audit committee financial expert, and who is auditors and each of the directors believes that all steps have independent as dened for this purpose.
The Board considers been taken that ought to have been taken to make them aware that the Committees members generally have broad of any relevant audit information and to establish that the commercial and business leadership experience, having held companys auditors have been made aware of that information.
various roles in accountancy, financial management and A statement by the directors of their responsibilities for supervision, treasury and corporate finance and that there is a preparing the financial statements is included in the Statement broad and suitable mix of business, financial and IT experience of directors responsibility.
The directors statement on going on the Committee.
concern is included in the Operating and financial review The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, after Financial review Capital resources on page 37. evaluating the effectiveness of BTs disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report and Form 20-F, have concluded that, as of such date, BTs disclosure controls and procedures were effective to ensure that material information relating to BT was made known to them by others within the group.
The Chief Executive and 46 BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006 Report of the directors Filename: 824560 03.3d Time: 14:33:50 Date: 20 05 06 Checksum: -1145075363 AGM RESOLUTIONS The resolutions to be proposed at the AGM at the Barbican Centre, London, on 12 July 2006, together with explanatory notes, appear in the separate Annual Review & Notice of Meeting 2006 sent to all shareholders.
By order of the Board Larry Stone Secretary 17 May 2006 Report of the directors BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006 47
