Business and financial review Howden Axial flow fan hub undergoing balancing in the Howden Hua facility in Weihai, China Howden is an international applications engineer with a world-leading position in the design, supply and servicing of air and gas handling equipment.
Its use of sub-contractors has risen over the past three years and Howden increasingly only manufactures components that are performance critical.
Howden also uses its manufacturing processes to protect its technology and maintain its markets.
Howdens core products include centrifugal and axial fans, air and gas rotary preheaters and compressors.
Howden also manufactures and supplies turbo-blowers.
Howdens core market is the power generation industry, where fans and heaters are integral parts of the coal-fired boiler and emission control systems including the processes for flue gas desulphurisation and denitrification.
Howden also supplies a wide range of other industries including oil and gas, petrochemical, iron and steel, mining, smelting of aluminium and other metals, cement, nuclear, pulp and paper, transport and ventilation fans for tunnels.
Howden derives approximately one-quarter of its revenues through aftermarket sales which benefit from its extensive installed product base.
Howden supplies products that are manufactured or assembled at its factories and other sites across the globe.
Howdens principal operations are located in Europe, China and North America.
18 Charter plc Annual Report 2006 Mission statement Howden will continue to be the global market leader in air and gas handling and related products providing application engineering and lifetime customer service in markets where quality and reliability are paramount.
Howden engineers attend a Variax axial flow boiler draught fan on a coal fired power station 2006 highlights Turnover increased by 24.5 per cent to 429.5 million: this was principally due to increases in volumes.
2006 2005 Increase Howden increased operating profit to 49.3 million m m % 2005: 33.5 million and its operating margin improved from Revenue 429.5 345.1 24.5 9.7 per cent in 2005 to 11.5 per cent in 2006, before taking into account profit on the sale of property of 4.8 million.
Order book 361 304 18.8 Howdens order book grew to 361 million 2005: 304 million, Operating profit 49.3 33.5 47.2 1 an increase of 18.8 per cent, of which China accounted for 98 million 2005: 131 million.
Share of profits of associates post tax 1.5 1.1 In China: Capital expenditure 4.4 3.6 Howden increased sales to China to 148.9 million Depreciation 2.8 2.6 2005: 97.1 million : Operating margin 11.5% 9.7% 1 Additional product ranges were successfully introduced to the Chinese market during the year: and Employees 3,015 2,804 1 excluding profit on the sale of property of 4.8 million in 2006 Significant progress was made on the compressor manufacturing facility due to open in the first half of 2007.
Howden achieved aftermarket sales of 110.2 million 2005: 122.0 million, whilst increasing both margin and profit.
As part of the strategy to increase its presence in the petrochemical and oil and gas industries, Howden acquired the outstanding 51 per cent of Howden Compressors which consequently became a wholly-owned subsidiary.
Howden has positioned itself to benefit from the large potential oil and gas, petrochemical and mining markets in India and Russia through the establishment of sales offices in these regions.
Charter plc Annual Report 2006 19 Business and financial review Howden continued Sinter waste gas fans Iron ore sintering provides one of the more arduous applications for a centrifugal fan.
This process is used in steel-making to agglomerate particles of iron ore into larger lumps which are suitable for use in a blast furnace.
The Howden waste gas fan draws hot dust-laden air through the sinter bed and a key factor in successful plant operation is to maximise the life of the fan.
Howdens success in this application is due in part to its replaceable blade liner design.
Once erosion occurs on a Howden fan, the client can replace the liner, and very quickly get the fan back in service.
This eliminates the need to weld a hard-facing directly onto the blade surface, which can distort the blade and significantly increase power consumption on a fan which can be rated in excess of 6,000kW.
Working in collaboration with Siemens, which supplies the Howdens deep understanding of the mechanical, aerodynamic, variable speed drives for the fans, Howden has established a and acoustic behaviour of the rotor contributes to its leadership leading market position in China, currently the largest market in this field.
With analysis methods to determine stresses in in the world for steel plants.
the rotor, to predict the dynamics of the support system and to model the flow through the impeller, Howden sinter waste gas fans provide a cost-effective solution to the plant operators needs.
Overview of performance Industries and segmentation Howden achieved another set of excellent results in 2006 with As at the end of 2006, the total market for Howden products was sales of 429.5 million 2005: 345.1 million, an increase of estimated at 1.7 billion, of which the power, petrochemical and 24.5 per cent, and operating profit for the period, before taking oil and gas industries are the largest components.
Other users of into account a profit of 4.8 million on the sale of property, of Howden products include the mining and iron and steel industries.
49.3 million 2005: 33.5 million, an increase of 47.2 per cent.
The products supplied by Howden to its principal global end-user Net operating margin before property profit increased substantially market segments include: to 11.5 per cent 2005: 9.7 per cent.
power generation fans and rotary heat exchangers for The sales increase reflected higher volumes for new equipment boilers, flue gas desulphurisation FGD plant and denitrification and stable selling prices, partially offset by lower aftermarket processes: cooling fans for dry cooling systems: sales.
Of the 24.5 per cent increase in sales, the net impact of foreign currency movements was negligible.
petrochemical plant and oil and gas fans and compressors for refineries, ethanol and methanol production, and other The closing order book grew to 361 million 2005: 304 million, processes.
Compressors and specialised fans for offshore with the increase occurring in the first half of the year.
Although platforms: cooling fans for gas pipelines and underground China still represents the largest and most important market storage compression stations: to the Howden business, its relative importance reduced during the year such that, as at 31 December 2006, the Chinese market iron and steel heavy duty fans for iron ore beneficiation plant accounted for 27 per cent of the order book, compared with sintering and pelletising, and for basic oxygen and electric 43 per cent at 31 December 2005, with the proportion of the arc furnace steelmaking: order book accounted for by customers in Europe and North mining high integrity fans for coal, gold and other underground America increasing.
mining: and The substantial increase in operating profit achieved by Howden industrial processes fans and compressors for a wide range in 2006 reflects the continued strong underlying demand of industrial processes including pulp and paper, cement for Howden products, in particular, from the electricity supply manufacture, smelting and sulphuric acid.
industry and the oil and gas sectors.
Howden continued to benefit from ongoing operational benefits due to higher volumes Industry overview and greater factory efficiency as well as other benefits from Demand the restructuring programmes completed in recent years.
Demand for new Howden equipment is strongly influenced by The increased use of sub-contractors also contributed the construction of new coal fired power stations, environmental to improved operating margins.
legislation in particular as it relates to emissions from coal fired power stations and other heavy industrial plant, the production Howden recorded slightly lower aftermarket sales of 110.2 million of petrochemicals and oil and gas, the consumption of steel 2005: 122.0 million, due to low margin service work being and demand for deep mined commodities such as gold and eliminated in Europe, a number of projects being completed diamonds.
As with many capital goods industries, the aftermarket in Australia and the depreciation of the South African currency.
represents an important part of the total market.
Despite this, profit and margin both increased as the business refocussed on higher margin work.
20 Charter plc Annual Report 2006 Potential market for Howden The total market for Howden products in 2006 is estimated as 1,700 million.
The growth seen from the turn of the century up to 2006, driven by the construction of new power generating Aftermarket Power Petrochemical, oil and gas capacity in China, is expected to be followed by a period of Deep mining Steel Other consolidation, during which a gentle decline in the power market m will be matched by growth in sales to the petrochemical, oil and gas industries.
The aftermarket is expected to show further 1,800 steady growth.
1,600 1,400 1,200 1,000 800 600 400 200 0 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007f 2008f 2009f 2010f 2011f Source: Howden estimates Since the turn of the century, there has been a spike in construction where Howden originally supplied a high proportion of the original of coal-fired plants in China, which is now seen to be easing back equipment, and Australia, where recent new build activity has towards the rate of growth of the Chinese economy as a whole.
The aftermarket in China is still in its infancy following However, in other emerging economies, such as Central and the rapid new build programme in the last few years.
Eastern Europe, and in more mature economies, such as Howden supply chain Western Europe and North America, there is increasing new build, Manufacturing locations accompanied by the refurbishment and upgrading of existing Howden has manufacturing facilities in each of its principal markets plant and the return of mothballed plant to service.
With the of Europe, China and North America.
Equipment is generally continued high price of natural gas and concerns over its future produced in the same region as the customer is located, although supply, as well as the ongoing public debate over nuclear power, Howden does export product between regions, particularly from coal is increasingly seen as an attractive primary energy source.
its manufacturing facilities in Europe.
Sales in regions outside Governmental regulations stimulate demand for a number of Howdens principal markets, such as Asia excluding China, Howden products, particularly in the environmental protection South America and the Middle East are relatively small but sector, where Howden supplies equipment for use in processes growing, and are generally supplied from Howden facilities which reduce atmospheric pollution generated by industrial plant.
The existing governmental programme to reduce the quantity Human resources of sulphur dioxide being emitted from power stations in China A key component in Howdens supply chain is the quality and is expected to continue.
The USA and, to a lesser extent, Europe quantity of its engineers.
During 2006, Howden increased the will continue to develop as a market for this technology.
total number of engineers it employs by over 100.
At the end of 2006, Howden employed just under 250 engineers in China, Increased demand for Howden products is expected from the 30 more than last year.
petrochemical and oil and gas industries.
The oil price, whilst below the levels seen in most of 2006, remains high by historic Raw materials standards, supported by forecasts of increasing demand from The principal raw material used in the manufacturing process is China and other developing economies.
This continues steel, the prices of which remained relatively stable during the year.
to stimulate upstream and downstream plant construction, Sub-contractors particularly in the refining sector.
Howden has achieved growth in its production capacity through Competitive environment increased investment in new plant and increased use of subHowden has strong positions in the specialised markets that contractors, such that the number of man-hours subcontracted it supplies.
is estimated to have increased by around 50 per cent in 2006, whilst the number of man-hours in-house remained relatively Howden has an estimated market share of some 50 per cent constant.
This has allowed Howden to meet peaks in demands of the combined worldwide markets for heavy-duty fans and heat without significantly extending its own cost base.
Howden exchangers, and as such it is the clear world-leader in this field.
has primarily sub-contracted manufacturing to China, Thailand, Howden is one of the five leading worldwide manufacturers Hungary and Poland.
of screw compressors for use in the petrochemical industry.
Together these manufacturers are believed to represent around 85 per cent of the market.
Howdens share of the aftermarket varies between regions.
The share is particularly high in some locations, such as Africa, Charter plc Annual Report 2006 21 Business and financial review Howden continued Howden: order book composition During 2006, the order book grew to 361 million 2005: 304 million, an increase of 19 per cent.
The absolute and relative dependency on China has reduced, and orders from China Europe North America South America customers in other parts of the world, especially Europe and Rest of the world North America, have increased.
The winning of orders in Germany, Italy and Spain is an encouraging sign that Howden is being successful in accessing markets in which it has not traditionally been very active.
m 400 200 0 2005 2006 Source: Howden estimates Intellectual property Regional overview of performance Technology and the Howden brand are key parts of Howdens Howdens revenue by destination is summarised in the table supply chain.
According to recent customer research, Howden overleaf.
In 2006, Howden achieved significant growth in China, has maintained its position of technology leadership in its principal North America and South America.
The research also emphasised the strength Regional markets of Howdens brand which is seen as representing engineering China excellence, customer service, global reach, technology Sales in China amounted to 148.9 million 2005: 97.1 million, leadership and quality.
an increase of just over 50 per cent.
This was primarily as Revenue and cost analysis a result of demand from the power supply industry for new During 2006, Howdens sales were 429.5 million 2005: generating capacity.
345.1 million, an increase of 24.5 per cent.
It is estimated that total generating capacity rose by slightly over The largest product area continued to be heavy-duty fans, 100GW during the year to 622GW.
Of this increase, coal-fired followed by heat exchangers and compressors.
capacity, where Howden has a strong market position, accounted for over 90GW, emphasising the continued importance of coal Aftermarket sales were 110.2 million 2005: 122.0 million, in the generation of electricity.
In relation to environmental control, representing 25.7 per cent 2005: 35.4 per cent of total sales.
including FGD, a large portion of the current retrofit programme Sales prices for new equipment were maintained during the has been completed, and the future market will be more year, with the improved operating margins being largely due focussed on FGD for new power plant.
to increased volumes resulting in improved factory loading and In other sectors, Howden has won a number of orders for main efficiency.
In 2006, both the margin and the profit on aftermarket ventilation fans for use in underground coal mining and in the sales increased compared with 2005. expanding petrochemical industry.
Howden has continued to supply highly sophisticated fans used in the production of sintered iron ore, from both its Chinese and British companies.
Howden is expanding its manufacturing capabilities for various highly engineered products associated with the oil and gas and petrochemical sectors.
These will be fully operational in mid 2007.
22 Charter plc Annual Report 2006 Air preheater upgrade The air preheater on a fossil-fuel fired boiler captures waste heat from the exhaust gas and uses it to pre-heat the combustion air, increasing the plant efficiency and typically reducing fuel consumption and CO emission by 10 per cent.
Rotary 2 heat exchangers, of which Howden is one of the worlds major suppliers, are used for this purpose in well over 90 per cent of the worlds utility power plants.
Many of the air preheaters in use today were installed over 25 years ago and since then their performance has declined and technology has advanced.
Many have benefited from being upgraded to the latest Howden technology, for example fitting more efficient heat transfer surfaces and improving the sealing systems.
On a typical upgrade on a coal fired power station the boiler efficiency is increased, the auxiliary fan power is reduced and the cost of a retrofit flue gas desulphurisation plant is lowered significantly.
Most recently Howden has carried out such modifications in Mexico, Saudi Arabia, Spain and China.
Howden: revenue by destination Increase 2006 2005 decrease m m % China 148.9 97.1 53.3 Europe 100.5 96.7 3.9 North America 87.6 60.6 44.6 South America 12.6 8.9 41.6 Rest of world 79.9 81.8 2.3 Total 429.5 345.1 24.5 Europe Revenue 100.5m Growth 3.9% North America Revenue 87.6m China Growth 44.6% Revenue 148.9m Growth 53.3% South America Revenue 12.6m Growth 41.6% Rest of world Revenue 79.9m Growth 2.3 % Charter plc Annual Report 2006 23 Business and financial review Howden continued Europe Rest of world Sales to customers in Europe increased by 3.9 per cent to Africa 100.5 million.
Reported growth was reduced as, during the In Howden Africa Holdings Limited HAHL, in which Howden period, Howden exited from low margin aftermarket work.
has a holding of some 55 per cent, sales declined by 6 per cent Activity levels at Howdens facilities in Europe were high as to 40.7 million in the year, as increased equipment and product was exported, particularly to China and North America.
aftermarket sales to the power sector were more than offset by falls in the value of the South African Rand.
The European power market has been showing continuing signs of strengthening, with project activity evident throughout the In May 2006, HAHL announced a proposed internal business region, but with an emphasis on Germany.
Howden Ventilatoren, and financial re-organisation of the companies within the HAHL based in Germany, which supplies ventilation equipment for group, including a cash payment to shareholders of ZAR 2.41 road, rail and wind tunnels in addition to serving the local power per share.
This was paid in July 2006 and Howdens share generation market, had an excellent year.
Other industrial markets amounted to ZAR 87.7 million equivalent to 6.9 million.
continue to be active and Howden, with its wide European In February 2007, HAHL reached an agreement to dispose of its presence, is well placed to participate.
42 per cent holding in Pump Brands Pty Limited for an expected North America consideration of 2.4 million.
Howden Buffalo Inc is headquartered in Camden, South Carolina HAHLs future contribution to the Companys results is subject and has four other main facilities, one of which is located in to further depreciation of the South African Rand and political Mexico City.
Sales to customers in North America increased and economic uncertainty in South Africa.
to 87.6 million, with the power market particularly strong.
Most other markets for new build also remained strong throughout Asia Pacific excluding China the year, particularly cement, petrochemical and coal mining.
Howdens sales in Asia Pacific excluding China are predominantly The aftermarket was flat compared with 2005, due to the deferral to the mining, industrial and power supply industries in Australia, of power station outages following the relatively mild winter.
and have benefited from favourable commodity prices and The growth in the order book during the period reflected the buoyant conditions in the mining sector.
continued strength of the market for new build and pollution Associated undertakings control in the power industry and across a number of other sectors.
In 2006, Howdens share of the post tax profits of its associated South America undertakings amounted to 1.5 million 2005: 1.1 million.
Sales increased from 8.9 million in 2005 to 12.6 million in 2006 Howden has, for some time, held a 49 per cent interest due to additional projects within the iron and steel industry and, in Howden Compressors Limited, a Scottish based and in particular, Companhia Vale do Rio Doce in Brazil.
incorporated company, which designs and manufactures high Howdens principal market in the region is Brazil, the worlds quality compressors for use in the refrigeration and oil and gas biggest exporter of iron ore, which is significantly expanding its sectors worldwide.
On 22 December 2006, Howden acquired capacity to produce iron ore pellets used throughout the world from Carrier Corporation the remaining 51 per cent shareholding as a blast furnace feedstock.
Other opportunities are seen in the in Howden Compressors Limited, and its affiliated US sales oil and gas and biofuels industries.
company, at a cost of 12.9 million including 2.5 million in respect of Carrier Corporations share of the estimated cash in these companies at completion.
As noted above, agreement has recently been reached to dispose of HAHLs holding in Pump Brands Pty Limited.
24 Charter plc Annual Report 2006 Growth of sub-contracting man-hours 000 During 2006, the total of man-hours utilised by Howden increased from approximately 2.9 million to 3.6 million.
Nearly all this increase was in the number of sub-contracted manSub-contract In-House hours.
Howdens use of sub-contractors, especially in the manufacture of non-critical components, has enabled it to meet the peaks in demand without investing in significant new capacity.
It also enables better control of working capital and ultimately a lower price to customers.
Howden continues to 000s of man-hours manufacture performance critical components, or where it is 4,000 necessary to protect its technology or maintain its markets.
Principal sub-contractors are located in China, Thailand, 3,000 Hungary and Poland.
2,000 1,000 0 2005 2006 Source: Howden estimates Future developments and longer term growth prospects Aftermarket Market expansion Howden is focusing on strengthening its aftermarket presence, In China, Howden is taking steps to grow the range of products particularly in the servicing of, and supply of spare parts for, it supplies to the petrochemical, oil and gas, mining and other its substantial installed base.
As part of this strategy, it has industries through the introduction of an increased range of locally withdrawn from certain low margin business.
The rate of growth of electricity Howden is well positioned to benefit from the large potential generating capacity in China is likely to slow from the exceptional aftermarket in China, where it has now established a dedicated levels seen in recent years, but it is still anticipated that appreciable aftermarket presence.
The new equipment installed over the new capacity will be added before the end of the decade.
past ten years is beginning to require servicing, spare parts Demand for new power plants in Europe and North America and refurbishment.
increased during 2006 and this trend is likely to continue in New products and applications the future.
The majority of the order book increase came from Howden is currently carrying out development work on the new equipment sales in these markets as demand for power thermal performance, enamelling and on-line cleaning of rotary increased and much of the existing plant, which was built heat exchangers, and on variable pitch axial fans, all of which during the boom period of the 1960s and 1970s, is reaching are applicable both to the new equipment and aftermarket sectors the end of its useful working life.
In addition, ever more stringent of the power generation and environmental control sectors.
environmental protection legislation requires that power generating companies invest in plant that has efficient atmospheric During 2006 Howden supplied and successfully commissioned pollution systems.
a submerged helium blower for the Pebble Bed Modular Reactor Project helium test facility in South Africa, which is another step In Russia, high prices for oil and gas are stimulating investment in forward in the development of this emerging nuclear technology.
This is expected to be followed by growth in other sectors: for example in the power generation Development of the Sirocco fan range has been completed.
industry where significant increases in capital expenditure This is a new range of pre-engineered centrifugal fans suitable are forecast.
Howden is strengthening its presence in Russia for use in many different industries.
This project significantly by establishing a sales office in Moscow that will coordinate reduces the time required to supply a fan, enabling Howden activities throughout the region.
to offer shorter delivery times.
A local representative office is also in the process of being New processes emerging in response to carbon abatement established in India where there are considered to be significant programmes, such as hydrogen fuel cells and carbon capture future sales opportunities, particularly from the anticipated and storage, will provide growth opportunities for a number of growth in demand for power.
The International Energy Agency Howden products.
A number of clean coal and carbon capture has forecast that growth in demand in India over the next and storage projects are in various stages of engineering, which 25 years will be over 5 per cent per year, slightly ahead of the Howden will continue to support.
Howdens development of new products and applications South America continues to show potential for growth.
will be weighted by value towards the power generation Howden South America, based in Brazil, is currently growing and petrochemical markets, where increasing plant capacity its share of the industrial fan markets primarily in the steel, and efficiencies impose new demands on equipment suppliers.
oil and gas, petrochemicals and biofuels sectors throughout the South American region and, in conjunction with other Howden companies, is expanding its product range to include compressors.
