Directors report The Directors present their report, together with the audited financial Auditors successfully applied to the High Court for an order that the statements for the year ended 31 December 2006. claims be struck out.
City Index has appealed to the Court of Appeal against that order.
Activities and review of operations A review of the activities and operations of the Company and its Corporate governance subsidiaries is given in the Chairmans statement on pages 4 and 5, A review of the Companys application of the principles and provisions the Chief Executives statement on pages 6 and 7 and the Business of the Financial Reporting Councils Combined Code on Corporate and Financial review on pages 8 to 30.
These are incorporated into Governance can be found on pages 39 to 42. and form part of this report.
Directors indemnities Business and Financial review Each of the Directors has been granted an indemnity by the Company The Business and Financial review, which forms part of this report, to the extent permitted by law in respect of certain liabilities incurred can be found on pages 8 to 30.
This is a review of the development as a result of their office.
In accordance with the Companys articles of and performance of the business, including the financial performance association each Director is indemnified against liability to third parties, during the year ended 31 December 2006 and a description of the excluding criminal liability and regulatory penalties and certain other principal risks and uncertainties facing the business.
In addition, the Company may pay the Directors legal costs as they are incurred, subject to reimbursement if the Director is Dividends convicted, or if judgement is given against the Director in an action The Directors have decided not to recommend a final dividend for the brought by the Company.
No interim dividend was paid for the six months ended 30 June 2006 2005: nil.
As mentioned in the Financial instruments Chairmans statement on pages 4 and 5, the Directors intend to review The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Company dividend policy later in the year and envisage that the Company including interest rate, currency and credit risk are outlined in Note 21 will declare a final dividend in respect of the financial year ending of the Companys consolidated financial statements.
31 December 2007 provided that the general economic environment Annual General Meeting and the Companys trading and financial condition are at least broadly The Companys AGM will take place at 12 noon on Tuesday 26 June in line with the Boards current expectations.
2007 at the offices of ABN AMRO, 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA.
Directors The Notice of Meeting the Notice can be found on pages 92 to 94.
A list of the current Directors, including brief biographical details, appears The special business to be considered at the meeting is as follows: on pages 34 and 35.
All Directors with the exception of James Deeley, Authority to allot shares and disapplication of pre-emption rights Legal Director and Company Secretary, served throughout the year.
The Directors wish to renew for a further year the general authority Details of the Directors interests in the share capital of the Company, granted to them on 27 June 2006 under section 80 of the Companies their remuneration and service contracts can be found in the Act 1985 to allot ordinary shares.
Approval of shareholders will be Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 49. sought at the AGM by the passing of an ordinary resolution whereby Grey Denham and Andrew Osborne are retiring by rotation under the the Directors will be authorised to allot authorised but unissued ordinary Companys articles of association and, each being eligible, offers himself shares representing one third of the issued share capital of the Company.
for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM.
The wording of the proposed resolution is set out in Resolution 9 of the In addition, John Neill also offers himself for re-election as he has served Notice and the total number of shares in respect of which this authority as a Non-Executive Director of the Company for more than nine years is sought is set out in the note to such resolution.
This new authority will and James Deeley will stand for election having been appointed since expire at the 2008 AGM of the Company.
The Directors are also proposing a special resolution under section 95 During the year, ESAB Holdings Limited, a subsidiary of the Company, of the Companies Act 1985 to renew the disapplication of statutory entered into an arms length consultancy agreement with Unipart Logistics pre-emption rights in respect of ordinary shares having an aggregate Limited Unipart Logistics for the provision of Lean-manufacturing and nominal value of 166,688 representing 5 per cent of the ordinary shares logistics consultancy services to ESAB Global.
John Neill, a Non-Executive in issue.
The wording of the proposed resolution is set out in Resolution Director of the Company, is currently Group Chief Executive of the Unipart 10 of the Notice.
This authority will expire at the 2008 AGM of the Company.
The total charges paid to Unipart Logistics during The Directors have no present intention of exercising these authorities, the year were 682,155. except for allotments of shares pursuant to the Companys long term In addition, Hoeganaes Corporation Hoeganaes Corp, a wholly owned incentive schemes, and would not seek to issue more than 7.5 per cent subsidiary of GKN plc, supplied powdered metal to two subsidiaries of of the Companys ordinary share capital for cash, other than to existing the Company, being ESAB Group Inc and ESAB Mexico SA fide CV, during shareholders, in any rolling three-year period without prior consultation the year under review with a total sales value of $1.8 million.
There was with the investment committees of the Association of British Insurers a further trading transaction between Hoeganaes Corporation Europe SA and the National Association of Pension Funds.
Hoeganaes Europe, a wholly owned subsidiary of GKN plc and ESAB Kft, Authority to purchase own shares a subsidiary of the Company, for a value of approximately12,000.
The Directors wish to renew for a further year the authority to allow the The relationship between both GKN subsidiaries and the Companys Company to purchase its own ordinary shares on a recognised investment subsidiaries is ongoing, on an arms length basis and in the ordinary exchange.
The authority is restricted to 16,668,885 ordinary shares, course of trade.
Grey Denham, a Non-Executive Director of the Company, representing 10 per cent of the current issued share capital and will expire is Company Secretary of GKN plc but has no day to day involvement at the 2008 AGM of the Company or, if earlier 26 September 2008.
The in the management of Hoeganaes Corp or Hoeganaes Europe.
resolution also sets out the maximum and minimum prices at which the No other Directors had any interest in contracts with the Company shares may be purchased.
Purchases will only be made if the Directors or its subsidiaries at any time during the period other than service expect this to result in an increase in the Companys earnings per share contracts and indemnity agreements.
and consider this to be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Settlement with City Index Any shares purchased in this way not held in treasury will be cancelled On 7 February 2006, the Company announced that it had settled and the number of shares in issue will be reduced accordingly.
Other its legal proceedings against City Index in respect of losses incurred as than in relation to shares bought back and held in treasury as described a consequence of certain unauthorised payments having been made by above, it is not the Directors current intention to offer to purchase shares a former employee.
The Board is aware that, following the settlement in the market for any particular period.
The wording of the proposed with the Company, City Index sought to continue to pursue claims for resolution is set out in Resolution 11 of the Notice.
contribution against certain current and former Directors of the Company The Directors intend to seek renewal of this power at subsequent AGMs.
and against the Companys Auditors.
Those Directors and the Companys Charter plc Annual Report 2006 37 Directors report continued Charitable and political donations Substantial shareholdings The Company intends to seek authority to make donations to EU Political Prior to 20 January 2007, the Company maintained a register of substantial Organisations not exceeding 25,000 in total and to incur EU Political shareholdings pursuant to section 211 of the Companies Act 1985.
Expenditure not exceeding 25,000 in total.
The Company does make At 19 January 2007 the Company had been notified of the following a number of charitable donations as described below, but it does not holdings exceeding 3 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the currently make any political donations.
Whilst there is no current intention Company: Barclays PLC 7.08 per cent, Lazard Asset Management LLC to change this policy, the meaning and implications of the Political 4.09 per cent and Legal & General Group PLC 3.13 per cent.
Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 remain unclear, and could On 20 January 2007, the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules came extend to routine activities undertaken by the Company in the ordinary into force and replaced the provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
As at course of business that are not political or party political in any usual 14 March 2007, the Company had been notified of the following holdings meaning of those terms.
The wording of the proposed resolution is set exceeding 3 per cent in the total voting rights attached to the issued out in Resolution 12 of the Notice and further information regarding the share capital of the Company: Barclays PLC 3.46 per cent, Standard background to this resolution is contained in note viii to the Notice.
Life Investments Limited 4.75 per cent, Schroder plc 5.49 per cent and JP Morgan Chase & Co 7.68 per cent.
An update will be given Electronic communications in the Notice.
The Directors intend to take advantage of the new provisions in the Companies Act 2006 and the Financial Service Authoritys FSA Corporate social responsibility CSR Disclosure and Transparency Rules concerning electronic communications The Companys report on CSR, including its approach to environmental and will propose a resolution to allow the Company to send or supply issues, can be found on on pages 31 to 33. documents or information to shareholders by making such documents Statement of disclosure of information to Auditors available on the Companys website.
So far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information Full details of all resolutions can be found in the notes to the Notice that is, information needed by the Companys Auditors in connection on pages 93 and 94.
The Directors believe that the adoption of all the with preparing their report of which the Companys Auditors are resolutions set out in the Notice is in the best interests of the Company unaware, and each Director has taken all reasonable steps that he ought and its shareholders as a whole.
Accordingly, the Directors unanimously to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant recommend that shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions, as they audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware intend to do in respect of their beneficial holdings.
Employees Auditors The Companys policy is to encourage effective communication A resolution Resolution 7 to reappoint  LLP and consultation between employees and management.
Subsidiary as Auditors to the Company and a further resolution Resolution 8 undertakings develop their own consultation and communication to authorise the Board to fix the Auditors remuneration will be proposed procedures as part of their employment practices.
Full details can at the AGM.
be found in the Corporate social responsibility report on pages 31 to 33.
By order of the Board The Company and its subsidiary undertakings give full and fair James R Deeley consideration to applications for employment made by disabled people, Company Secretary having regard to their aptitudes and abilities.
Should employees become 14 March 2007 disabled during employment, they would be considered for any necessary retraining and available work within their capabilities.
For the purposes Registered office:- of training, career development and promotion, disabled employees 52 Grosvenor Gardens are treated in the same way as other employees.
London SW1W 0AU Creditor payment policy Registered in England Number 2794949 The creditor payment policy of the Company and its subsidiaries provides that local practice must be observed in the countries in which they operate standard payment terms in each country may also be varied by negotiation with individual suppliers.
The policy is to settle amounts due to creditors in accordance with agreed terms.
The Company had no trade creditors at the year end.
Charitable and political contributions During the year the Company and its subsidiaries donated 58,000 2005: 84,000 to charities of which 8,000 2005: 6,000 was to charities in the United Kingdom.
Within the United Kingdom, donations were made in the year to support charities working in education 1,000, medical research support 4,000 and community support 3,000.
There were no political donations made during the year 2005: nil.
Research and development The Company and its subsidiaries continue to place strong emphasis on research and development to meet the changing needs of the markets they serve.
Research and development expenditure, which excludes engineering and production support costs, totalled 9.1 million 2005: 7.5 million for the year of which 6.7 million 2005: 5.3 million has been charged to the income statement for the year and 2.4 million 2005: 2.2 million has been capitalised as intangible assets.
