Board of directors and other key management Board of directors David Gawler Executive Chairman 67 E, N Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in December 2000 and became an Executive Director on 15 March 2001 prior to being appointed as Chairman and Chief Executive on 25 April 2001.
He was formerly Chief Executive of Semara Holdings Plc.
He qualified as a chartered accountant in South Africa.
Michael Foster Chief Executive 54 E, N Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in December 2001 and became an Executive Director on 1 January 2005.
He was formerly Executive Director, responsible for UK, USA and Ireland at RMC Group p. l. c. He gained a Degree in Engineering and Electrical Sciences at Cambridge University and is qualified as a solicitor.
Robert Careless Finance Director 53 E Joined Charter in 2002 and was appointed Finance Director on 22 April 2004.
He qualified as a chartered accountant with KPMG and was formerly Finance Director and Company Secretary of Semara Holdings Plc.
He has a Degree in Physics from Oxford University.
James Deeley Legal Director and Company Secretary 43 E Appointed as Legal Director and Company Secretary on 10 July 2006.
He qualified as a solicitor with Slaughter and May before moving to Charter plc as Group Legal Adviser.
He has subsequently held positions as Director of Legal Services at Regus plc, Head of Group Legal at DS Smith plc and was most recently Corporate Services Director and Company Secretary of Numerica Group plc.
Key to Committee membership: A Member of Audit Committee E Member of Executive Committee N Member of Nomination Committee R Member of Remuneration Committee 34 Charter plc Annual Report 2006 The Hon.
James Bruce Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 58 A, R, N Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in December 2001.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of Yes Television plc and Cadogan Group Limited.
He is a chartered accountant and was formerly an investment banker with Robert Fleming and Jardine Fleming.
John Biles Independent Non-Executive Director 59 A, R, N Appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 April 2005.
He is a chartered accountant and was previously Finance Director of international engineering group FKI plc for six years until 2004.
Currently serves on the boards of ArmorGroup International PLC, Viridian Group Plc and Hermes Pensions Management Limited as a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
John Neill CBE Non-Executive Director 59 Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in 1994.
He is currently Group Chief Executive of the Unipart Group of Companies Limited and a Non-Executive Director of Royal Mail Group plc.
He was formerly a Director of the Bank of England.
Grey Denham Independent Non-Executive Director 58 A, R, N Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in February 2005.
He is currently Company Secretary of GKN plc in addition to being a Director of GKN Holdings plc and GKN United Kingdom plc.
He is also president of GKN America Corp, Chairman of the GKN plc board sub-committee on governance and risk and a Non-Executive Director of the charity Young Enterprise UK.
Andrew Osborne Independent Non-Executive Director 40 A, R, N Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in February 2005.
He is a chartered accountant and Finance and Corporate Development Director of Geoffrey Osborne Limited.
Charter plc Annual Report 2006 35 Board of directors and other key management continued Other key management Jon Templeman Chief Executive of ESAB Global ESABs worldwide operations, excluding North America 44 E Joined Charters head office in 2001 and later that year became Chief Financial Officer of ESAB Global prior to his appointment as Chief Executive Officer in 2003.
He became a member of Charters Executive Committee in March 2006.
He was formerly a director at , London and has a Degree in Modern History from Oxford University.
Bob Cleland Chief Executive of Howden Global Howdens worldwide operations, excluding North America 60 E Joined Charter as Chief Operating Officer of Howden Global in 1998 and was appointed Chief Executive Officer of Howden Global in 1999.
He was formerly Group Operations Director of Triplex Lloyd Plc.
He has a Degree in Mathematics and Physics from Glasgow University and a Masters Degree in Operations Research from Lancaster University.
1 Del Tanner President and Chief Executive Officer of Anderson Group Inc the holding company which manages the North American operations of ESAB and Howden 55 Joined Anderson Group Inc in May 2005.
He was formerly President and Chief Executive Officer of RMC USA Inc.
He has a Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering and a Masters of Business Administration, both from Arizona State University.
Key to Committee membership: A Member of Audit Committee E Member of Executive Committee N Member of Nomination Committee 1 On 24 April 2007 Mr Tanner left the employment, and ceased to be a director, of AGI.
R Member of Remuneration Committee Mr Neil Schemm, VP General Counsel, has assumed the role of Chairman of AGI.
