FIN ANCIAL ST A TEMENTS 2006 Directors and Professional Advisers Ian F R Much Non-Executive Chairman Joined the Group as a non-executive director in Kenneth C Scobie December 2004.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Joined the Group as Non-Executive Chairman in June 1997.
Previous appointments include Chief Executive of Former Chairman of Allied Leisure plc.
Chairman, fide La Rue plc and T&N plc, and non-executive director of Chief Executive and non-executive director of a wide range Admiral plc, Camelot plc and Manchester United plc.
Currently a non-executive director of Senior plc and Aged 68.
Executive Directors Dr David J Price Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss KBE CB AFC MA FRAeS Chief Executive Joined the Group as a non-executive director in May 2004.
Joined the Group in April 2005 as Chief Executive.
Formerly Currently Chairman of Microturbo Limited, Senior Military Managing Director, Naval Marine at Rolls-Royce plc.
Adviser of VEGA Group PLC and consultant within the Previous appointments in the aerospace sector include aerospace and defence sectors.
Formerly Deputy Chief of Managing Director of Thomson UK Holdings Ltd and Defence Procurement Operations and Controller Aircraft.
Chief Executive of Thomson-Thorn Missile Electronics Ltd Past President of the Royal Aeronautical Society.
both now part of the Thales Group.
Fellow of the Institute of Aged 62.
Electrical Engineers and the Institute of Marine Engineering, Science & Technology.
Sarah Ellard FCIS Paul A Rayner FCA Professional Advisers Finance Director Auditors Joined the Group in June 1994 and acted as Finance Director Deloitte & Touche LLP, Southampton to several Group companies before being appointed to the Board in August 1999.
Formerly a Senior Audit Manager with Solicitors Deloitte & Touche.
Seyfarth Shaw, Washington Non-Executive Directors Bankers David R Evans Bank of Scotland, Southampton Joined the Group in 1987 as Managing Director of the Countermeasures business and appointed to the Board in Stockbrokers 1988.
He took up his current position as a non-executive Investec Henderson Crosthwaite, London director in April 2005, after stepping down as Chief Executive, a position he had held since January 1999.
Managing Director Headquarters and Registered Office of the Marconi torpedo business prior to joining the Group.
Chemring House, 1500 Parkway, Whiteley, Fareham Currently a non-executive director of Whatman PLC.
co. uk Joined the Group as a non-executive director in May 2006.
Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Currently a Consultant Registration Number formerly Partner to  and Chairman 86662 of Thales UK plc.
He is also on the main Board of Thales S. A. France.
Chairman of Cambridge University Board RegistrarsTechnology Transfer Office.
Partner with Lehman Brothers Computershare Investor Services PLC Investment Bankers between 1969 and 1985.
Member of The Pavilions Parliament from 1983 to 1997.
Made a Privy Councillor Bridgwater Road in 1993.
Membership of Board committees during year: Audit Remuneration Nomination P 23
