CHEMRING GR OUP PLC Directors Report for the year ended 31 October 2006 The directors present their annual report, together with the Information required as to directors shareholdings is set out in audited financial statements of the Group and the Company, for the Directors Remuneration Report.
Substantial Shareholdings Principal Activities At 22 January 2007 the following interests in the ordinary share The principal activities of the Group are the design, manufacture capital of the Company exceeding 3% had been notified to the and sale of countermeasures and energetic materials.
Company under the provisions of section 198 of the Companies Act 1985: Business Review % The Statement by the Chairman, the Review by the Chief Name Interest Executive and the Review by the Finance Director on pages 3 to 15, together with the Business Review on Prudential Corporation PLC 4.83 pages 16 to 22, provide a review of the Groups business Legal and General Investment Management 4.01 development, performance and position during and at the end of Barclays PLC 3.94 the financial year: its strategy and likely future developments: key performance indicators: and a description of the principal risks Standard Life Group 3.92 and uncertainties facing the business.
Further information regarding financial risk management policies and financial instruments is given in Notes 19 and 23 of the financial Employees statements.
Details of the Groups employment policies are set out in the Business Review on page 22.
Results and Dividends The profit attributable to the Groups shareholders for the year Charitable and Political Donations was 13.8 million 2005: 8.8 million.
The directors Charitable donations amounting to 18,000 2005: 9,620 were recommend a final dividend of 11.20p per ordinary share, which made during the year.
No political donations were made during together with the interim dividend of 4.80p per ordinary share the year 2005: nil.
paid in August 2006, gives a total for the year of 16.00p 2005: 10.50p.
The final dividend is subject to approval by Policy on Payment of Suppliers shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 22 March 2007, It is the policy of the Group that each of the Group companies and accordingly has not been included as a liability in these should agree appropriate terms and conditions for its transactions financial statements.
These will range from standard written terms to individually negotiated contracts.
Creditor days of the Group as Directors and their Interests at 31 October 2006 amounted to 59 days 2005: 66 days.
The present directors are shown on page 23.
The Rt Hon Lord Freeman was appointed as a director on 26 May 2006.
He will be seeking re-appointment under Article 87.1 of the Companys Articles of Association at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting on 22 March 2007.
He does not have a service contract with the Company.
Mr K C Scobie will be retiring by rotation at the Annual General Meeting and will be offering himself for re-election.
Details of Mr Scobies service contract with the Company are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 31.
None of the directors had a beneficial interest in any contract of significance to which the Group was a party during the year to 31 October 2006.
P 24 FIN ANCIAL ST A TEMENTS 2006 5% of the present issued ordinary share capital free of the The Chemring Group Performance requirements of section 89 of the Act.
No issue of these shares Share Plan the PSP will be made which would effectively alter the control of the The following conditional awards were made under the PSP Company without prior approval of the shareholders in during the year: general meeting.
Total Number of Statement of Directors Responsibilities number participants of shares receiving The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and Date of award awarded awards the financial statements.
The directors have chosen to prepare 23 March 2006 121,420 19 accounts for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs.
Company law requires 27 September 2006 7,256 1 the directors to prepare such financial statements in accordance Total 128,676 20 with International Financial Reporting Standards, the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys The Chemring 1998 Executive Share Option financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This Scheme the 1998 ESOS requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, On 1 February 2006, options were granted over 50,000 ordinary other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions shares.
During the year options over 95,000 ordinary shares were and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses exercised.
Additional information is set out in Note 30. set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial The Chemring Group PLC Share Based Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will Incentive Scheme the ESOP be achieved by compliance with all applicable International No options were granted during the year and there were no Financial Reporting Standards.
Directors are also required to: options outstanding under the ESOP at 31 October 2006. properly select and apply accounting policies: Share Capital Under the provisions of section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 present information, including accounting policies, in a manner the Act the Board is prevented from exercising its powers that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable under the Articles of Association the Articles to allot shares information: without an authority in terms of the Act contained either in the Articles or in a resolution of the shareholders in general meeting.
provide additional disclosures when compliance with the The authority, when given, can last for a maximum period of five specific requirements in International Financial Reporting years, but the Board proposes that renewal should be sought at Standards is insufficient to enable users to understand the each Annual General Meeting.
Such proposal is set out as impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions resolution 7 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
on the entity's financial position and financial performance: Section 89 of the Act requires that an allotment of shares for cash for the Company financial statements, state whether applicable may not be made unless the shares are first offered to existing UK accounting standards have been followed: and shareholders on a pre-emptive basis in accordance with the terms of the Act.
In accordance with general practice, to ensure that prepare the accounts on a going concern basis unless, having small issues of shares can be made without the necessity of assessed the ability of the Company to continue as a going convening a general meeting, the Board proposes that advantage concern, management either intends to liquidate the entity or be taken of the provisions of section 95 of the Act to not apply to cease trading, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
Accordingly, a special resolution set out as resolution 8 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting will be proposed which, if passed, will have the effect of granting the directors the power to allot not more than P 25 CHEMRING GR OUP PLC Directors Report - continued The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting Close Company Provisions records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the As far as the directors are aware, the close company provisions of financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for the Taxes Acts do not apply to the Group nor has there been any taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud change in that respect since 31 October 2006. and other irregularities, and for the preparation of a Directors Report which comply with the requirements of Auditors the Companies Act 1985.
A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom Annual General Meeting governing the preparation and dissemination of financial The resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
be held on 22 March 2007, together with explanatory notes, appear in the separate Notice of Annual General Meeting sent to The directors confirm that suitable accounting policies, all shareholders.
consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgments and estimates, have been used in the preparation of the Approved by the Board of Directors on 23 January 2007. financial statements, and that applicable accounting standards have been followed.
Signed on behalf of the Board Provision of Information to Auditors Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report S L Ellard - Secretary confirms that: so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and the director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
