Operating and Financial Review Retail sector Retail sales growth Out-of-town versus in-town Growth % pa % out-of-town share of total sales 8.8 billion invested total property including 12 34 under management 12.4 billion 32 10 30 8 28 6 26 Andrew Jones 4 Co-Head of Asset Management 24 2 Retail market 22 Retail sales continue to be under scrutiny as consumer expenditure 0 20 growth fluctuates.
Trading remains extremely competitive and 1995 1997 1999 2001 2003 2005 2007 2009 retailers experience in the current market varies, but demand for the Out-of-town LHS In-town LHS right locations and accommodation remains healthy.
Total LHS Out-of-town % Share of Total Sales RHS Total retail sales are forecast to continue to grow over the next five years, with out-of-town shopping locations maintaining the trend Verdict, May 2006 of taking an increasing share.
Out-of-town is expected to see sales growth of 3.1% per annum with in-town at 1.7% per annum.
Retailers schemes we can manage overall to provide better facilities in find the size and layout of out-of-town space advantageous and the an environment which will increase shoppers dwell time and overall costs of occupation and servicing such locations are typically improve sales densities for our retailers, while keeping lower.
Migration or expansion by tenants from the high street to occupational costs at a reasonable level out-of-town is continuing with several utilising new store formats, generating strong demand for the types of retail parks in which in each case to benefit the retailers trading and our opportunities to we are invested.
The preferred features of flexible use and unit generate rental growth.
configuration are also producing higher than average rental growth, resulting in outperformance of these assets.
We are pursuing acquisitions and disposals which continue to strengthen the portfolio in these larger, open A1 use schemes.
Sales Out-of-town 6.5 billion portfolio: in the year amounted to 510 million our share 401 million of retail 181 retail schemes, including superstores warehouses primarily occupied by bulky goods tenants where providing 1.8 million sq m 19 million sq ft demand for space is weaker.
HUT has invested 97 million in the year arranged in 1,402 retail units in four retail parks in Lincoln, Bristol, Glasgow and Hayle, all with let to 482 tenants open A1 or open restricted use.
We calculate that we are the largest owner of UK superstores, Strategy and positioning other than the occupiers themselves.
In an increasingly restrictive British Land has a distinctive portfolio, being the largest investor planning environment and with limited new supply, these assets are in UK out-of-town retail warehouses and superstores.
The supermarket retailers continue to require more warehouse parks we favour open A1 planning consents where supply and larger, flexible stores and are prepared to commit to full lease is extremely restricted and demand remains high.
Our occupier led lengths of over 20 years.
The resultant profile of rental growth with strategy is focused on these assets which, due to these factors, are highly secure income is an attractive asset to British Lands portfolio.
The Meadowhall Shopping Centre of 132,800 sq m 1.4 million sq ft is also an important component of our out-of-town portfolio and Key features in the out-of-town portfolio are: probably the best scheme of its kind in the UK, with exceptionally strong open A1 use, applying to 71% of our retail park schemes plus a ongoing customer appeal.
Our strategy is to leverage these strengths further 10% open restricted, which can attract high street retailers across the broader retail portfolio whilst positioning Meadowhall itself for larger schemes, usually over 9,300 sq m 100,000 sq ft, capable attractive low risk growth through active management and ongoing of dominating their catchment area refurbishment.
This may be complemented by introduction of a Fund flexibility of unit size and configuration, to ensure that we can format to the assets ownership structure in the future.
offer retailers their preferred floorplate at both shopping parks and superstores The British Land Company PLC 21 Operating and Financial Review department stores 0.9 billion In-town 2.3 billion portfolio: These stores are fully let to Debenhams and House of Fraser with 9 shopping centres 363,000 sq m 3.9 million sq ft a weighted average term of over 30 years.
Income growth from 39 department stores 525,000 sq m 5.7 million sq ft these assets is underpinned by provisions in the leases for 67 high street shops guaranteed increases in rent, such that gross rents will increase 11 supermarkets by at least 6 million 14% over the next five years.
All the stores are located in town centre retailing locations Key features: and a number of opportunities for adding value are being shopping centres 1.0 billion explored including development.
Our focus for in-town shopping centres is on those which have specific asset management opportunities.
The centres are typically: high street shops 0.4 billion located within large catchment populations Disposals in the year of 16 high street shops, and six in-town well anchored and the dominant retail scheme in the area supermarkets have been made, for a total of 135 million, of sufficient size to enable future redevelopment to provide tightening our focus in the sector, and where particularly good new retail sales space market prices have been achieved.
where we believe income growth can be achieved through proactive asset management Asset management and development initiatives continue apace, where we can introduce additional customer facilities which including the acquisitions and disposals, lettings, rent reviews, unit will also be income generating, such as catering and leisure reconfigurations, refurbishment and developments as set out earlier operations.
In summary across the retail portfolio, during this year: 192 rent reviews were concluded at 8.0 million per annum BL share above the previous rent and overall 5.8% above ERV 179 lettings and renewals generated 8.9 million per annum BL share of new rent planning consents for over 53,000 sq m 570,000 sq ft of new retail gross lettable space have been achieved including three approvals received in April 2006 a development of 11,000 sq m 117,000 sq ft retail park completed at Orpington, which is letting well.
Further developments are in prospect at another six locations.
The market is very competitive in the UK and we are expanding in Europe, through PREF and our own developments, also as set out earlier in this review.
Parkgate Retail Park, Rotherham 22 The British Land Company PLC
