Financing Policy Interest rate management British Lands financing policy is to To manage exposure to interest rate fluctuations the Main Board enhance equity returns through strategic determines a range for the proportion of forecast debt to be leverage while maintaining a risk-averse maintained at fixed or capped rates of interest.
At present the target is 85% subject to a 5% tolerance either side over a rolling three to debt structure.
A loan to value ratio five year time horizon.
With financing raised at both fixed and variable across the entire business in the range rates, derivatives are used to achieve the desired interest rate profile.
of 45-55% is currently targeted, subject The use of derivatives is managed by the Board of British Land to the Boards view of the market, the Financing Limited and its Derivative Sub-Committee, which includes three executive directors, and also retains a specialist external firm prospects of the portfolio and its of consultants.
The Groups exposure to each derivative counterparty recurring cash flows.
is monitored on a regular basis, as are their external credit ratings.
The principal objectives under this policy are to: Foreign currency management minimise the cost of capital through a mix of debt and equity The Groups policy is to have no material unhedged net assets or finance: liabilities denominated in foreign currencies.
The currency risk on raise debt from a variety of sources and maintain a spread overseas investments is hedged via foreign currency denominated of maturities, including longer-term financing supported by borrowings and derivatives.
committed income under long leases: When attractive terms are available to do so, the Group borrows maintain significant committed undrawn loan facilities, to support in freely available currencies other than Sterling.
The Group fully current and future business requirements: hedges its foreign currency risk on such borrowings through actively manage financial risks, including interest rate, foreign derivatives.
exchange, liquidity and counterparty risks.
Liquidity and cash management The Funds and Joint Ventures are financed separately, without The Group maintains a high level of undrawn revolving bank facilities recourse to the Group see page 33, as required by their individual to provide financial liquidity.
The property portfolio is continuously business plans and they adopt similar risk management policies.
reviewed to identify appropriate properties for sale, converting noncash assets into cash as required.
Deposits are placed to optimise Liability management the rate of return, subject to the creditworthiness of the counterparty.
Liability management is not a profit centre no speculative transactions are undertaken.
The Groups debt and derivative Profit and loss account and balance sheet management positions are continuously reviewed to meet current and expected The Group monitors its current and projected financial position debt requirements.
using several key internally generated reports: cash flow, borrowing, The Group maintains a balance between longer-term and debt maturity and derivatives schedules.
The Group also undertakes shorter-term financings.
Acquisitions may be funded initially by sensitivity analysis to assess the impact of proposed transactions shorter-term credit facilities and then refinanced when market and movement in interest rates on the key balance sheet, liquidity conditions are favourable.
Short-term financing is principally raised and profitability ratios.
through bilateral and syndicated revolving bank facilities, which can be repaid at will without penalty and redrawn again when the need arises.
All bank facilities are unsecured and on standard terms to maintain operational flexibility.
Medium to longer-term financing comprises public and private bond issues, including private placements and securitisations.
Financing risk is spread by using a variety of types of debt.
The maturity profile is managed by spreading the repayment dates and extending and expanding facilities.
50 50 The British Land Company PL The British Land Company PLC C
