Valuation Certificate The Directors The properties have been valued individually and not as part of The British Land Company PLC a portfolio.
10 Cornwall Terrace We are of the opinion that the aggregate Market Value of your Regents Park interests in the properties, as at 31 March 2006, was: London NW1 4QP 11,750,071,370 Eleven billion, seven hundred and fifty million, seventy one Dear Sirs, thousand, three hundred and seventy pounds.
The British Land Company PLC Valuation as at 31 March 2006 The valuations are categorised as follows: Long Part freehold Short Basis of Instruction Freehold leasehold part leasehold leasehold In accordance with the terms of our appointment as External Valuers A Held as to The British Land Company PLC, we have valued the freehold and investments leasehold properties detailed below, as at 31 March 2006, for balance owner occupied 10,431,341,020 623,575,000 22,800,000 14,450,000 sheet purposes and inclusion in your financial accounts.
The B Held for properties are predominantly held for investment and in some development 91,075,350 7,500,000 instances held for development or in the course of development or C In the course of occupied by the Company.
development 502,830,000 56,500,000 We have excluded from this Report those properties held by way Total value 11,025,246,370 687,575,000 22,800,000 14,450,000 of Joint Ventures or through Limited Partnership arrangements.
These valuations have been prepared in accordance with the Included within the aggregate are a number of negative values RICS Appraisal and Valuation Standards, Fifth Edition, issued by The amounting to minus 240,000 two hundred and forty thousand Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
These have been deducted from the positive values to arrive at a net aggregate figure.
Compliance and Independence Certain properties are held on very long leases, for terms of We can confirm that: approximately 999 years at fixed peppercorn or nominal rents.
For Knight Frank LLP is appointed by The British Land Company PLC categorisation purposes these have been included in the freehold as External Valuers, as defined by the RICS Appraisal and categories.
Short leasehold properties are classified as having less Valuations Standards.
Knight Frank LLP was appointed in the role as valuer in September 2005.
These valuations have been undertaken under Valuation procedures and assumptions the overall supervision of the joint signatories, who have been The properties were inspected during the last nine months.
responsible for this instruction since that time.
As agreed, our valuations are based on measurements which In relation to Knight Frank LLPs preceding financial year, the have been provided by the Company and which were carried out in proportion of the total fees paid by The British Land Company accordance with The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors Code PLC the Company and its joint venture partners to the total fee of Measuring Practice.
In some cases the areas provided are as income of Knight Frank LLP was substantially less than 5%.
agreed with the tenants following rent review or letting.
We recognise and support the RICS Rules of Conduct and have Our valuations assume that the properties have good and established procedures for identifying conflicts of interest.
marketable titles and are free of any undisclosed onerous burdens, outgoings or restrictions.
We have not seen planning consents and, Valuation except where advised to the contrary, have assumed that the The Properties have been valued on the basis of Market Value in properties have been erected and are being occupied and used in accordance with the RICS Appraisal and Valuation Standards.
This is accordance with all requisite consents and that there are no an internationally recognised basis and is defined as: outstanding statutory notices.
The estimated amount for which a property should exchange on We have not read all documents of title or leases and, for the the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an purpose of our valuations, have accepted the details of tenure, arms-length transaction after proper marketing wherein the parties tenancies and all other relevant information with which we have been had each acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
When considering the covenant strength No allowance has been made for expenses of realisation or for of individual tenants we have not carried out credit enquiries but have any taxation which might arise, and our valuations are expressed reflected in ourvaluations our general understanding of purchasers exclusive of any Value Added Tax that may become chargeable.
likely perceptions of tenants financial status.
We have, in addition, Our valuations reflect usual deductions in respect of purchasers discussed with the Company any bad debts or material arrears of rent costs and, in particular, full liability for UK Stamp Duty as applicable and have considered this information in arriving at our valuations.
72 The British Land Company PLC Valuation Certificate We were not instructed to carry out structural surveys of the Messrs. Knight Frank LLP properties, nor to test the services, but have reflected in our valuations, 20 Hanover Square where necessary, any defects, items of disrepair or outstanding London W1S 1HZ works of alteration or improvement which we noted during the course of our inspections or of which we have been advised.
Our Dear Sirs valuations assume the buildings contain no deleterious materials and that the sites are unaffected by adverse soil conditions, except Valuation as at 31 March 2006 where we have been notified to the contrary.
We have not carried out any investigation into past or present uses I confirm our instructions for you to prepare the valuation at the above of either the properties or any neighbouring land to establish whether date for inclusion in our Annual Report & Accounts, of all the properties there is any potential for contamination from these uses or sites to the owned by The British Land Company PLC and its subsidiaries.
We understand that the Company has established For this purpose we will make available to you all the information procedures for the inspection of newly acquired properties to be you may require which we will update through to 31 March.
We will carried out with particular reference to environmental matters, and that also advise you of any transactions that we are aware of that may any such matters identified receive appropriate attention.
Unless we impact on value.
have been provided with information to the contrary, we have assumed Your valuation is to be undertaken in accordance with the fifth that the properties are not, nor are likely to be, affected by land edition of the Appraisal and Valuations Standards The Red Book contamination and that there are no ground conditions which would published in 2003 by The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
affect the present or future uses of the properties.
Your valuation is for a Regulated Purpose and you are to confirm that Our valuations assume that the properties would, in all respects, you have followed professional standards and procedures with be insurable against all usual risks including terrorism, flooding and regard to independence and quality assurance.
rising water table at normal, commercially acceptable premiums.
You will conduct appropriate inspections of each of the properties For properties in the course of development, we have reflected the and measure, in those cases where you have not been provided with stage reached in construction and the costs remaining to be spent at floor areas as agreed between the landlord and tenant, at the time of the date of valuation.
We have had regard to the contractual liabilities rent review or the initial letting.
Title Reports and leases will be made of the parties involved in the developments and any cost estimates available to you.
that have been provided by professional advisers to the projects.
For In accordance with established practice, you will attend meetings recently completed developments we have taken no account of any as required by the Companys auditors and the Audit Committee to retentions, nor made allowance for any outstanding development discuss your work and conclusions.
costs, fees, or other expenditure for which there may be a liability.
Yours faithfully General Conditions This report and our valuations therein have been prepared on the For and on behalf of The British Land Company PLC basis that there has been full disclosure of all relevant information and facts which may affect them.
Our report and valuation is for the use only of the party to whom it is addressed and no responsibility is accepted to any third party for the whole or any part of its contents.
If our opinion of value is disclosed to persons other than the addressees of this report, the basis of valuation should be stated.
If it is proposed to publish the Michael I Gunston FRICS figure, the form and context in which the figure is to appear should be Chief Surveyor approved by us beforehand.
19 January 2006 Yours faithfully R J S Johnson BSc MRICS R D Norman MRICS Partner Partner Commercial Valuations Commercial Valuations For and on behalf of Knight Frank LLP 20 Hanover Square, London W1S 1HZ 10 April 2006 The British Land Company PLC 73
