Operating and Financial Review As a result we now believe that the value of propertys rental flows 1 Increase in value in portfolio and growth prospects with its strong, bond-like, downside protection are fairly reflected overall in the market and consequently we expect 2 All retail 12.6% 13.3% adjusted valuation growth rates to slow.
2 Retail warehouses 14.4% 16.3% adjusted Base returns from the UK property market overall in the next Superstores 16.0% few years may be estimated at around 7% per annum, based on an Shopping centres 7.1% average initial yield of 5% and expected average rental growth of Department stores 17.7% High street shops 12.2% 2% per annum, though it is quite possible that a little more yield shift All offices 15.5% also benefits the next year.
Our target is that British Lands prime City offices 14.3% portfolio, with gearing and our asset management activities, will West End offices 13.1% improve upon this level of return and we expect total returns from Business parks & provincial 14.9% property to continue to be attractive versus other asset classes Development 23.7% on a risk adjusted basis.
Going forward, we expect that returns will be driven more by 1 Includes valuation movements in developments, purchases and capital expenditure, rental growth than by yield shift, and there will be greater and excludes sales 2 Pro-forma for Pillar from April to July 2005 i. e. full 12 months differentiation in relative asset performance.
Outperformance will require the right portfolio positioning and effective assessment of the Performance against IPD benchmark risk-reward position of prime versus secondary property.
Stock selection within the sectors, coupled with intense asset On an ungeared basis British Lands property portfolio total return management, will have a greater effect on portfolio performance.
was 1.1% less than the IPD index in 2005 6.
This element of underperformance occurred in the first half of the year perhaps influenced in part by the change in valuers.
In the second half the Portfolio positioning ungeared total return of 11.5% outstripped IPD for the same period 14.4bn Total Assets by 0.5%.
61% Retail 36% Offices British Land targets absolute risk adjusted returns: we are not an 73% Out-of-town 96% Central London index-tracker, and do not seek to mirror the composition of the benchmark assets, though it is a goal to produce better returns over Retail warehouses 22% a multi-year period.
In 2005 6 secondary property more represented Superstores 12% in the IPD Benchmark portfolio saw greater yield shift than prime.
Meadowhall 11% Additionally the capital expenditure cycle at Meadowhall held back In-town shopping centres 7% performance there, while the residential portfolio, since sold, had a Department stores 6% dull year.
High street 3% Nevertheless, British Lands leveraged total return significantly Central London offices 30% outperformed at 34.6% EPRA basis, excluding refinancing charges.
Office development 5% Business parks & provincial 1% Property market outlook Other 3% In 2005 6 the UK property market saw: another year of strong gains driven by yield shift and compression yields for more secondary properties have moved closer to The British Land portfolio, well let on long leases to strong tenants, those for prime assets as their risk factors such as location, age, has leading positions in the two main sectors with the best prospects lease length, covenant strength or income growth prospects for rental growth over the next five years: have been discounted by investors in retail warehouse parks and superstores, where there is a the investment market continuing to be strong transaction favourable supply and demand imbalance for the types of levels have been high, with demand from both UK and overseas accommodation on which we are focused to meet tenants investors, supported by availability of debt finance and relatively requirements, and low interest rates increasing recently in London offices, where there are clear signs of an upturn in the rents remain affordable in most sectors and the economys occupational market, we are fully invested in prime assets.
The prospects should support continued modest growth.
accelerated office development pipeline is designed to deliver, on a phased basis, further prime space into the improving market.
20 The British Land Company PLC
