Directors and Officers The British Land Company PLC Michael Cassidy 59 CBE, BA, MBA Non-Executive Director Michael Cassidy was appointed a non-executive director of Sir John Ritblat 70 FRICS, Hon FRIBA Chairman British Land in 1996.
He is a practising solicitor and consultant Sir John Ritblat became Managing Director of Union Property with DLA Piper and Chairman of Trinity Capital PLC.
He is also Holdings London Ltd in 1969, Managing Director of British Land President of the London Chamber of Commerce and Industry and in 1970 following the merger with Union and Chairman in 1971.
Chairman of the Museum of London.
He was formerly Chairman He is the non-executive Chairman of Colliers CRE PLC.
He is of the Policy and Resources Committee of the Corporation Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Wallace Collection, of London.
Chairman of the Board of Governors of London Business School, and an Honorary Fellow and Member of the Council of The Royal Robert Bowden 63 BSc, FRICS Property Investment Director Institution.
He served on the Board of The British Library Robert Bowden, a former senior partner of Conrad Ritblat & Co. between 1995 and 2003, is Vice President of the Tennis & joined British Land in 1992 as head of property investment and Rackets Association and President of Snowsport GB formerly acquisitions.
He was appointed an executive director in 1997.
The British Ski & Snowboard Association.
He is Deputy Robert Swannell 55 FCA Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Royal Academy of Music.
Robert Swannell became a non-executive director of British Land Sir Derek Higgs 62 BA, FCA Deputy Chairman in 1999.
He is Vice-Chairman of Citigroup Europe.
He is a Sir Derek Higgs joined British Land as a non-executive director in member of the Industrial Development Advisory Board of the July 2000, became Deputy Chairman in March 2001 and was also Department of Trade and Industry.
Until recently, he was also a Chairman of the Remuneration Committee until 30 September member of the Regulatory Decisions Committee of the FSA.
He was appointed as Chairman of Alliance & Leicester PLC Graham Roberts 47 BA, FCA Finance Director in October 2005.
He is also Chairman of Partnerships UK Plc and Graham Roberts joined British Land in January 2002 as an Bramdean Asset Management LLP, Deputy Chairman of Business executive director and was appointed Finance Director in March in the Community and a non-executive director of Jones Lang 2002.
He was previously senior real estate partner at Andersen.
LaSalle Inc. Until recently he was Senior Adviser in the UK to UBS Investment Bank and held non-executive directorships of Egg Dr Christopher Gibson-Smith 60 BSc, PhD, MS PLC and Allied Irish Banks, p. l. c. He is also a Pro-Chancellor of the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director University of Bristol and, amongst his charitable interests, has Chris Gibson-Smith joined British Land as a non-executive been a Trustee of The Textile Conservation Centre for 25 years.
He is the Senior Independent NonSir Derek Higgs will retire at the Companys AGM on 14 July 2006.
Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
He is Chairman of the London Stock Exchange, a Trustee of Arts Stephen Hester 45 BA Chief Executive and Business, a Trustee of London Business School and a Stephen Hester joined British Land as Chief Executive in director of Qatar Financial Centre Authority.
Formerly he was a November 2004, from Abbey National plc.
At Abbey he was Chief Group Managing Director of BP plc and until recently he was Operating Officer, having joined in May 2002 as Finance Director.
Chairman of National AirTraffic Services Limited, a non-executive For the previous 19 years he was at Credit Suisse First Boston, director of Lloyds TSB Group plc and a Trustee of the Institute of holding various Investment Banking roles until becoming Chief Public Policy Research.
Financial Officer in 1996 then Global Head of the Fixed Income Division.
Amongst other interests he is a trustee of The Royal David Michels 59 Non-Executive Director Botanic Gardens, Kew Foundation.
David Michels was appointed a non-executive director of British Land in January 2003.
Until earlier this year he was Group Chief John Weston Smith 74 MA, FCIS Chief Operating Officer Executive of Hilton Group plc.
He is a non-executive director of John Weston Smith joined British Land as Secretary in 1971 Marks and Spencer Group PLC and Easyjet PLC and was from N. M. Rothschild & Sons Limited and was appointed an previously a non-executive director of Arcadia Group plc.
He is executive director in 1973.
He is Chief Operating Officer.
also President of the Hilton in the Community Foundation, Previously he was Joint General Manager of the Abbey National Chairman of the British Hospitality Association and a Trustee of Building Society.
John Weston Smith will retire at the the Anne Frank Trust.
54 The British Land Company PLC Directors and Officers Recommended for Election Patrick Vaughan 58 Executive Director Patrick Vaughan joined British Land on 28 July 2005, following Andrew Jones 37 BSc Hons, MRICS the acquisition of Pillar Property PLC.
He was a member of Pillars Co-Head of Asset Management Executive Committee at the companys formation in 1991 and Andrew Jones joined British Land in July 2005 after the joined its Board as Chief Executive in July 1994.
Patrick Vaughan Companys acquisition of Pillar Property PLC.
He was appointed will retire at the Companys AGM on 14 July 2006. to the Executive Committee in August 2005.
He will be recommended for election to the Board of the Company at the Kate Swann 41 Non-Executive Director AGM on 14 July 2006.
He joined Pillar in 1995, becoming an Kate Swann was appointed a non-executive director of British executive director in 2002 with responsibilities for Retail Park Land on 1 April 2006.
She is Chief Executive of WH Smith PLC investment and asset management.
At British Land he is a and a non-executive director of Lambert Howarth Group PLC.
Co-Head of Asset Management, primarily responsible for the Before joining WH Smith PLC she had been Managing Director of Companys UK Retail Property sector including Retail Fund Argos Ltd, within GUS plc, since 2000 and before that Managing advisory roles.
Director of Homebase, within J Sainsbury PLC.
She began her career in marketing at Tesco and went on to hold senior Tim Roberts 41 BSc Hons, MRICS marketing roles with Homepride Foods, Coca-Cola and Dixons.
Co-Head of Asset Management Tim Roberts joined British Land in 1997 and was appointed to the Lord Turnbull 61 KCB, CVO Non-Executive Director Executive Committee in August 2005.
He will be recommended Andrew Turnbull was appointed a non-executive director of the for election to the Board of the Company at the AGM on 14 July Company on 1 April 2006.
He retired in July 2005 as Secretary of 2006.
At British Land he was appointed Joint Head of Asset the Cabinet and Head of the Home Civil Service, 2002-05.
Management in 2002 with responsibilities including investment He was Permanent Secretary of HM Treasury, 1998-2004: and sales and purchases.
Currently Co-Head of Asset Management before that Permanent Secretary at the Department of the he has responsibility over the Office and Other sectors of the Environment, 1994-1998.
He entered the House of Lords in 2005.
Before joining British Land he was a partner He is also a non-executive director of Prudential PLC, Frontier at Drivers Jonas, an Investment Agency.
Economics Ltd, and the Arup Group.
He is a part-time Adviser to the London Partners of Booz Allen Hamilton.
Secretary Anthony Braine LLB, FCIS Member of the Executive Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Nomination Committee The British Land Company PLC 55 It is impossible for an Englishman to open his mouth without making some other Englishman hate or despise him.
