Operating and Financial Review British Land has delivered a total return of 34.6%.
The principal drivers were valuation uplifts in properties and investments.
The reasons for the valuation gains and the gains in property Financial performance disposals against the March 2005 values are fully set out earlier in this review.
Underlying profits, the refinancing charges and goodwill are explained further below.
Underlying profits Underlying profits have increased from 181 million in 2005 to 228 million.
The 47 million increase is summarised below: Graham Roberts Finance Director m New lettings and rent reviews net of lease expiries 15 Total return Songbird dividend 16 1 Pillar 8 months 3 British Land has delivered a total return of 34.6% in the year, before Debenhams and Spirit purchases 14 refinancing charges, compared with 18.8% restated for IFRS in the Effect of other purchases and sales 7 previous year.
The valuation gains from active management and Broadgate & Sainsburys refinancings 13 positive market conditions were amplified by our gearing levels, 2 Non-recurring items 7 which went up during the year as a result of the Pillar acquisition and Other 8 reduced through revaluation surpluses and disposals later in the year.
Increase 47 3 1 March 2006 March 2005 % increase Net of 6 million management and 20 million performance fees 2 1 Closure of Pillar offices, several small business units, redundancies and pension costs, NAV per share 1486p 1128p 31.7% net of new approach to rent review recognition and realignment of JV year ends Dividends paid per share 16.1p 14.87p 8.3% 1 Total return per share 378p 161p 134.8% The Group has prepared a proportionally consolidated income 1,2 Total return 34.6% 18.8% statement and balance sheet which are included on page 108 for the 1 benefit of stakeholders who wish to see the results of the Groups EPRA basis note 2 2 excludes refinancing charges note 2 interest in Funds and Joint Ventures on a look through basis.
The 3 restated for IFRS following commentary refers to financial information of the Group as reported under IFRS where the after tax results of Funds and Joint The principal drivers of total return were valuation uplifts on Ventures are shown as a single line on the income statement.
properties and investments in the Group and Joint Ventures which added 1,771 million or 337 pence to NAV.
Our capital structure Revenue returns proved its worth during a period of high asset value growth as this increase represents 30% of the NAV at the beginning of the year.
Gross rental and related income for the year is up 14.2% to Sales of properties added a further 182 million, 35 pence per 690 million and net rental income increased 13.9% to 589 million.
share, as we sold properties into the strong investment market, The substantial acquisition and disposal programme over the last two reducing the higher level of debt created by our acquisition of Pillar.
years being the key drivers of change, as follows: Underlying profits added a further 228 million, 44 pence per share before tax, 185 million after tax.
Gross rental and related income m Year ended 31 March 2005 restated for IFRS 604 Valuation movements and capital profits Purchases 69 Sales 14 The revaluation surplus for the year was 1,771 million, 1,316 million New lettings and rent reviews 29 arising from wholly owned properties, 363 million from our share of Lease expiries 12 Funds and Joint Ventures and 92 million from investments Other 14 principally Songbird Estates PLC.
Our Songbird investment is now Year ended 31 March 2006 690 valued at 233 million.
The British Land Company PLC 25 Operating and Financial Review The growth principally arises from the benefit of a full year of Administration expenses acquisitions made in 2005 and new lettings net of the impact of Administration expenses are 81 million, some 32 million more than sales.
Significant sales were made late in the year e. g. the residential the prior year.
The increase reflects increased staff numbers, primarily portfolio and our investment in Plantation Place and so had a due to the acquisition of Pillar and recruitment of additional property relatively small impact on this years rents.
Their full year impact will professionals to support our intensified asset management and be visible in 2007.
The impact of the purchases of the Spirit and portfolio reshaping activities.
18 million of costs represent Debenhams portfolios purchased in 2005 includes the effect of the performance-related compensation from bonus and share-related minimum guaranteed rent increases of 2.5%.
Administration costs include one-off costs of 13 million, require these increases to be spread over the lease term resulting in including the costs of the closure of the Pillar head office, redundancies earlier recognition of the income in the initial years of the lease.
and changes to actuarial assumptions in the Pension Scheme.
Our Net rental income is 85.4% of gross rental and related income, administration costs, representing 0.4% of Funds under management, after development costs and individual asset management initiatives continue to demonstrate efficient management of the portfolio.
The growth in rental income on a like for like basis including our share of Joint Ventures and Unit Trusts that Financing is excluding purchases, sales, developments and adjusting for asset management initiatives was 2.7%, ahead of the market overall IPD at Net interest payable before refinancing charges is some 13.2% 2.1%.
The 2.7% reflects 1.1% on offices and 4.0% on retail properties.
higher at 369 million, representing the increase in debt due to the The accounting policy for the recognition of rent reviews has Pillar acquisition earlier in the year, net of the savings made from been changed in the year to recognise the benefit of rent reviews refinancing Broadgate in 2005.
The level of interest expense is from the date of review.
This has increased rents by 4 million.
expected to reduce as a result of the sales programme reducing the level of debt in the second half of the year.
As announced on Funds and Joint Ventures 28 February 2006, the Group has restructured the financing of the Sainsburys portfolio and this has given rise to an exceptional charge.
The contribution to underlying profit from Funds and Joint Ventures In addition, as a result of the sales programme and consequent is 39 million, an increase of 25.8% from 31 million reflecting the reduction in debt, certain derivatives have been closed out in purchase of the Fund interests as part of the Pillar acquisition in July accordance with our financial risk management policies.
To make the timing of reporting of Joint Ventures consistent items give rise to a charge in the year of 122 million.
The interest with the Group, the results of December year end ventures have been charge in future is estimated to reduce by 11 million as a result included for a 15-month period to March resulting in a one-off of the cheaper finance available under the new securitisation from increase of 4 million to underlying profit.
As required by IFRS the BL Superstores Finance PLC.
Interest cover remains stable with reported results for Funds and Joint Ventures are included on a post underlying profit before interest and tax representing 1.5 times the tax basis as a single line with profits totalling 311 million, an net interest charge.
increase of 96.8% on the prior year.
This profit includes financing costs 67 million, profits on sale and valuation gains 378 million Net valuation gains and a taxation charge 106 million.
The most significant contribution to IFRS profits are net valuation Other income gains amounting to 1,462 million, reflecting revaluation surpluses on the Groups properties and investments of 1,295 million and Our fees and other income are up by 42 million to 50 million profits on disposals of 167 million.
This compares to total comprising dividends from our investment in Songbird and revaluation gains in 2005 of 610 million.
The increase is due to the performance and management fees from the newly acquired Fund strong revaluation performance due to continued yield shift and Management business.
the profitable disposals made in the year.
This amount ignores In November 2005 we received our first dividend of 16 million revaluation gains of 378 million included within the results of Funds in respect of our holdings of A & B shares in Songbird, which owns and Joint Ventures see above and on developments of 102 million, 60.8% of Canary Wharf Group PLC.
which are shown in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
The fees comprise 20 million of performance fees and 6 million of management fees.
The management fees are based on Intangible assets and goodwill a percentage of the portfolio value.
The performance fees are earned by exceeding stretching targets in the calendar year measured IFRS require the Group to recognise an intangible asset of against a benchmark.
The third party element only of the fee earned 75 million upon acquisition of Pillar representing the estimated is recognised.
fair value of anticipated future income from Fund Management Half of the performance fee earned is recognised immediately contracts.
In accordance with IFRS this intangible asset is being while the balance is released over a vesting period provided there is amortised over the life of the contracts.
Consequently a non-cash not significant underperformance against the benchmark in later charge of 10 million relating to this amortisation has been released.
The vesting period runs to the end of the Trusts life.
Fees of 14 million are deferred.
26 The British Land Company PLC Operating and Financial Review A non-cash impairment charge of 240 million has been recognised Cash flows in respect of goodwill arising from the acquisitions of Pillar and the Net cash flow from operating activities is broadly unchanged.
An Spirit and Debenhams portfolios.
Accounting Standards require us to increased level of interest expense following the acquisition of Pillar provide in full for deferred tax on corporate acquisitions and not the has led to the decrease in pre-investment and financing cash flows.
fair value of the contingent tax liability absorbed on acquisition, and The Group has been a net seller of property during the year leading this inflates the value of goodwill on the balance sheet.
This charge to the 1 billion net investment cash inflow following net investment eliminates the goodwill that has arisen on these acquisitions.
outflow of 527 million in the prior year.
These net proceeds have been used to repay 1 billion of debt.
Taxation March 2005 The underlying tax rate this year is 18.8% 2005: 23.2%.
This low rate m arises principally through the effect of non-taxable dividends, capital March 2006 restated allowances and capitalised interest.
The actual corporation tax m for IFRS liability is lower than 18.8% due to the cost of refinancing of our Net cash flow from operating activities 455 464 Sainsburys portfolio which has been used to relieve taxable profits in Net cash flow after JV dividends, Unit Trust distributions, the current year.
The rate of tax on disposals is low because the interest, tax and working capital movements 104 126 Groups pool of capital losses and the Sainsburys refinancing costs Net investment cash flows 986 527 have been used to relieve gains in the current year.
Financing 1,025 459 Dividends 84 77 Earnings per share Diluted earnings per share rose to 240 pence from 126 pence in Key performance indicators 2005.
Underlying earnings per share have increased from 27 pence Property is a long-term business.
Decisions taken to create to 36 pence, as a result of strong growth in underlying profits and the value over time frequently affect current years earnings and so reduced underlying tax rate.
the Board measures performance over a range of time periods.
Our proposed final dividend of 11.8 pence per share continues Our management judgements over asset selection, sector views, our progressive dividend policy growing the level of distribution by redevelopments, financial structure, corporate and community 8.3%.
Total dividends per share declared for the year are 17 pence responsibility all combine to deliver a single set of financial returns 2005: 15.7 pence.
Underlying profits after tax twice cover dividends.
and these should be judged against the risk profile adopted.
As required by IFRS final dividends are only reflected in the financial In measuring and benchmarking performance the Group uses a statements once approved by shareholders and as such the final number of key performance indicators to indicate the impact of 2006 dividend is not included in these results.
At the total company level, the three most visible indicators are profits growth, total shareholder return and Net assets total return over one, three and five year periods reflecting the Net assets rose significantly as a result of the geared impact of geared performance of the whole business.
Benchmarking is revaluation gains and retained earnings for the year.
undertaken against our major quoted peers Land Securities, Hammerson, Liberty and Slough and the FTSE Real Estate Index.
We March 2005 believe that the total returns of the Company to be most important as restated these represent the returns our Shareholders experience.
The low March 2006 for IFRS % increase 1 risk nature of our portfolio, focused on prime properties with long NAV per share 1486p 1128p 31.7% 1 leases and strong tenant covenants and with a modest proportion of EPRA net assets 7,802m 5,913m 31.9% development activity, enables the Group to finance itself at a higher Net assets 6,016m 4,783m 25.8% level of gearing than its peer group.
1 EPRA basis note 2 The British Land Company PLC 27 Operating and Financial Review The key performance indicators demonstrate British Lands strong EPRA track record in relative and absolute value creation over the last one, To assist stakeholders, British Land has worked closely with other three and five years.
major European property companies and the European Public Real Estate Association to publish guidelines on a standard net 1 2 3 asset value and earnings per share calculation, designed to aid Profits growth Total shareholder return Total return comparability between companies following implementation of IFRS 1 1 30% 60% 35% and to assist in understanding the reported figures compared to 1 previous accounting practices.
The EPRA calculations are set out in 1 30% 25% 50% note 2 as well as a reconciliation to our underlying earnings per 25% share, which reflects company only adjustments.
20% 40% 1 20% 1 1 15% 30% Accounting judgements 1 15% 2 Significant accounting policy judgements are highlighted in our 10% 20% 10% accounting policy note.
The most important judgement affecting 5% 10% comparability with other property companies is our approach to 5% deferred tax.
Many but not all have adopted our policy of 0% 0% 0% calculating deferred tax consistent with the principle of an ultimate 5 YRS 3 YRS 1 YR 5 YRS 3 YRS 1 YR 5 YRS 3 YRS 1 YR sale of investment properties capturing all available tax reliefs.
4 British Land Major peers FTSE Real Estate Index Some others assume no sale.
Both methods are appropriate under IFRS dependent on company specific strategies and practices.
1 Growth in underlying profits excluding exceptional items, profits on disposals and revaluation gains 2 Growth in share price plus dividends per share Finance and capital structure 3 Growth in adjusted, diluted net asset value per share plus dividends per share 4 Average of major peers Land Securities, Hammerson, Liberty and Slough British Land is managed on an integrated basis to produce secure some differences in year ends and attractive risk adjusted returns to shareholders.
Risk One year, IFRS, others based on UK GAAP Number represents British Lands ranking compared to its major peers management is a distinctive skill at British Land where the mix of assets, leases, developments and debt are managed together to International accounting standards ensure the most effective result.
Overall, the Groups prime assets and their secure rental income present lower risks than many other property portfolios, enabling the returns to be enhanced using First time implementation financial leverage.
A 45-55% loan to value ratio is currently targeted, This is the first year the Group reports its results under International subject to the Boards view of the market, the prospects of the Accounting Standards IFRS which were adopted on 1 April 2005. portfolio and the recurring cash flows of the business.
The financing This change to the accounting basis arises from legislation requiring policy, outlined below, is set out in more detail later in this report, all EU listed companies to apply these standards to their financial together with our principal debt instruments.
Comparative figures for 2005 have been restated in Since we seek to maximise shareholder returns, we prefer to avoid accordance with IFRS.
The principal impacts of adopting IFRS, along equity issuance, except where the commercial opportunity clearly with comparatives for the year ended 31 March 2005 contained merits it.
We also would expect to return capital to shareholders within this report, were published in a press release on 14 July 2005. if a surplus arises over what we believe can be attractively deployed Further details and reconciliations explaining the transition to IFRS in the business.
are available on the Groups website, www.
As Debt is raised from a variety of sources with a spread of maturity permitted by IFRS the Group has adopted material exemptions from dates.
Longer term debt is raised principally through securitisations full retrospective application of IFRS accounting policies in respect and debentures.
Securitisations have a range of benefits, including of Business Combinations, where combinations that took place long maturities at competitive rates with no recourse to other before 1 April 2004 have not been restated, and Employee Benefits companies or assets in the Group, and without financial covenants where the accumulated actuarial gains and losses in respect by British Land.
Debentures also have long maturities and no of employee defined benefit plans have been recognised in full amortisation.
Unsecured revolving and committed bank facilities tend to be for terms of five to seven years.
We aim to spread the maturities of the different facilities from a wide range of banks.
28 The British Land Company PLC Operating and Financial Review The Group borrows at fixed and floating rates and uses derivatives to Within unit trusts the most notable financing activity was the achieve the desired interest rate profile: currently the policy is to restructuring of the debt in HUT, completed in September 2005, maintain around 85% subject to 5% tolerance of debt at fixed or reducing its average cost of debt.
Three bank loan facilities, with capped rates.
This interest rate profile is closely monitored combined debt of 758 million, were repaid or reduced with the as part of our management of the overall financial effects of proceeds of a new 1 billion securitisation.
The seven year issue, transactions in the Group.
The year end position of 95% fixed capped secured against 16 retail parks, incorporated significant asset reflects our expectation of increasing floating rate debt as we fund management flexibility.
The Scottish Retail Property Partnership a Joint Venture with The Joint Ventures are separately financed, and have their own Land Securities PLC was refinanced in April 2005 by a seven year interest rate derivatives, all with no recourse to British Land.
securitisation, raising 430 million, most of which was returned to the partners.
Financing statistics 31 March 2005 31 March restated Risks and rewards 2006 for IFRS The Company generates returns to shareholders through long-term Group: investment decisions relating to both income and capital growth.
Net debt 5,593m 6,061m These decisions require us to evaluate opportunities arising in the Weighted average debt maturity 15.0 yrs 14.3 yrs following core areas: Weighted average interest rate 5.71% 6.00% demand for space from occupiers against available supply % of net debt at fixed capped interest rates 95% 90% 1 including new developments : Interest cover 1.51 1.46 differential pricing for premium locations and buildings: Loan to value debt to property & investments 42% 50% alternative use for buildings particularly redevelopment : Unsecured debt to unencumbered assets 26% 42% demand for returns from investors in property, compared to other Undrawn committed facilities and cash 2,415m 969m asset classes: Group and share of Funds and Joint Ventures: price differentials for capital to finance the business: Net debt 6,684m 6,538m legislative initiatives, including planning consents and taxation: Weighted average debt maturity 13.4 yrs 13.5 yrs 1 economic cycles, including their impact on tenant covenant Interest cover 1.52 1.50 quality, interest rates and inflation: and Loan to value debt to property & investments 46% 52% mis-pricing of property assets by the equity markets for example, 1 Underlying profit before interest and tax net interest excluding refinancing charges share buy-backs or opportunistic investments.
Gearing increased on the acquisition of Pillar and then decreased These opportunities can also represent risks.
Demand for property over the year to 46% loan to value, including share of Funds and and ability of tenants to pay rent can be affected by general Joint Ventures as a result of asset value growth and repayment of economic conditions at both a macro and local level.
Excessive debt following property disposals.
levels of supply of property can also lead to falling rental levels.
During the year we have been active in both the banking and debt Rising interest rates may impact the security of the tenant base, capital markets to arrange financing of the business.
We raised over lower development margins significantly and reduce investment 1.5 billion of new or renewed bank lines, including 790 million appetite.
Property values are also affected by changes in planning, arranged in a successful, oversubscribed syndicated facility with 25 taxes, technology and lease structures.
Interest rates, bond yields banks, taking advantage of favourable market pricing.
In addition, and the relative attractions of other asset classes also impact more than 700 million resulted from a number of bilateral property values.
These risks in the UK property sector can be agreements with banks on similar or improved terms.
amplified by development exposure and gearing.
In February 2006 we completed the refinancing of the Superstores portfolio.
BL Superstores Finance PLC issued 753 million of bonds Operating and financial review at an average interest rate of 4.96%, with an average life of 13.4 years.
In preparing this OFR we have had regard to the recommendations in The weighted average cost of debt has been reduced as at 31 March 2006 to 5.7% 2005: 6.0% and the weighted average debt Reporting Standard 1: Operating and Financial Review issued by the ASB in 2005 insofar as we consider they are relevant to our maturity has increased to 15 years 2005: 14.3 years.
At 31 March 2006, the market value of the Groups net debt was business model and industry.
We have provided herein a detailed management commentary on our markets, activities and prospects.
384 million more than book values 386 million including shares of Joint Ventures.
This reflects the higher historical cost of debt Users will understand that where we make forward looking statements they reflect our current views: the future depends on compared to levels at which it might be available today.
Tax relief currently available for the higher interest would not be available if many factors and interactions which may cause outcomes to differ from those anticipated in this assessment.
British Land were to become a REIT.
The British Land Company PLC 29
