Directors Report The Directors present their report and the audited accounts for the Substantial shareholdings year ended 31 December 2006.
At 26 March 2007 the following interests had been notified to the Company in accordance with the provisions of the Disclosure and Business of the Group Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority: The principal business of the Group, being the Company and its Issued Ordinary share capital 270,225,559. subsidiary undertakings, within the meaning given by the Companies Percentage of Act 1985, is property investment and development, together with Number of issued Ordinary the management of its properties.
A list of the Companys principal Name Brixton shares share capital subsidiary undertakings as at 31 December 2006 is given on Government of Singapore Investment page 57.
Corporation Private Ltd 28,033,995 10.37% Business Review HBOS plc 27,442,246 10.16% Stichting Pensioenfonds ABP 14,095,383 5.22% A comprehensive review of the development and performance of Legal & General Group plc 9,278,757 3.43% the Companys business for the year to 31 December 2006 and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Barclays PLC 8,675,073 3.21% Company are included in the various reviews which precede Until 19 January 2007 the Company maintained a Register of this report.
Interests in Shares in accordance with the provisions of Section 211 of the Companies Act 1985.
On 20 January 2007 the Dividends Companies Act 1985 provisions in respect of substantial An interim dividend of 4.3p per share has been paid on the Ordinary shareholdings were repealed.
All the interests disclosed above shares and the Directors are now recommending a final dividend have been notified to the Company since 20 January 2007. of 7.9p per Ordinary share on the issued Ordinary share capital.
This makes a total dividend of 12.2p per share and represents an Annual General Meeting increase of 3.4% over the total dividend per Ordinary share paid The Notice of the Annual General Meeting to be held at 10.30 am in respect of 2005.
If approved, the final dividend will be paid on on Thursday 17 May 2007 is sent separately to shareholders with 2 July 2007 to shareholders on the register at the close of business this report.
The venue for this meeting is the May Fair Hotel, on 1 June 2007.
The ex-dividend date will be 30 May 2007.
This dividend will be an ordinary dividend with no property income distribution PID element under the UK-REIT regime.
Dividends Authority to allot shares and dis-application of pre-emption rights for 2007 will contain both a PID element, subject to withholding tax for certain shareholders, and a non-PID element.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting includes two resolutions dealing with the allotment of Ordinary share capital.
Directors Resolution 8 deals with the authority of the Directors to allot and The present membership of the Board is shown on page 11. grant rights over the unissued share capital of the Company.
Stephen Harris was appointed as a Director on 1 September 2006 This authority was last renewed at the Annual General Meeting held and all of the other Directors listed were in office throughout the year.
If approved, the renewed authority will authorise At the Annual General Meeting AGM to be held on 17 May 2007, the Directors to allot up to an aggregate nominal amount of Louise Patten and Tim Wheeler will retire by rotation and, being 12,343,610 for a five year period from the date of the passing of eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
In addition Stephen Harris the resolution.
12,343,610 is the total unissued Ordinary share will also retire and offer himself for re-election as the 2007 AGM will capital of the Company and represents 18.27% of the Companys be the first since his appointment.
Louise Patten and Stephen Harris issued Ordinary share capital as of 26 March 2007.
The Directors do not have service contracts with the Company.
presently have no intention of exercising this authority.
The Company does not currently hold any shares in treasury.
Michael Moore and John Rink, who served on the Board from January 1997 and March 2003 respectively, retired at the conclusion The Directors are of the view that it would be helpful to have at their of the AGM on 10 May 2006. disposal a relatively small number of Ordinary shares which may be excluded from the normal pre-emption provisions, where this is of Details of Directors interests in the Companys shares are shown on benefit to the Company.
Therefore resolution 9 authorises the page 22.
Directors to allot equity securities and to reissue any shares which may have been held in treasury for cash, without first offering them Properties to existing shareholders.
Other than in connection with a rights An external professional valuation of the Groups properties on an issue, the authority contained in this resolution will be limited to an open market basis was carried out as at 31 December 2006. aggregate nominal value of 3,377,819 being 5% of the Companys The result of the valuation was a surplus of 231.4m after allowing issued Ordinary share capital on 26 March 2007.
This authority was for disposals and capital expenditure on properties and the valuation last renewed at the Annual General Meeting held on 10 May 2006. has been included in the balance sheet.
Details of the valuation and movements in the Groups properties during the year are set out in note 12 on page 35.
12 Purchase of own shares Statement by the Directors on compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code The Companies Act 1985 allows a company, if authorised by its shareholders, to purchase its own shares.
Shareholders approval is The Board has reviewed the Companys compliance with the revised now being sought to authorise the Company to purchase on the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, originally published in London Stock Exchange not more than 27,022,555 Ordinary shares July 2003, following the review of the role and effectiveness of being 10% of the issued Ordinary share capital of the Company at Non-executive directors carried out by Sir Derek Higgs the a maximum price for each issued Ordinary share, exclusive of Higgs Review, which applies to the Company for the year ending expenses, of 5% above the average of the middle market quotations 31 December 2006.
Following a review of the Combined Code by as taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the the Financial Reporting Council in 2005 a small number of changes five business days preceding the date of purchase.
The minimum were made to the code and these have been incorporated into the price for each Ordinary share, exclusive of expenses, will be 25p, revised version of the Combined Code that was issued in June which is the nominal value of an Ordinary share.
When the revised version of the Combined Code has been formally appended to the Listing Rules the Company will comply The effect of any such purchase will clearly depend on the price at with its requirements.
The power will only be exercised if the Board is satisfied that such purchases are in the long-term interests of The Company has, throughout the year, been in full compliance with shareholders and will result in an increase in net asset value per the principles and provisions set out in Section 1 of the revised share and or an improvement in earnings per share.
The Directors Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial believe that the share purchase proposals are in the best interests of Reporting Council in June 2006, with the exception of the point the Company and accordingly, resolution 10 will be proposed as a noted in the second paragraph of The Workings of the Board and Special Resolution at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Directors presently have no intention of exercising this authority.
The workings of the Board and its Committees As at 26 March 2007, options were outstanding over 2,513,784 Ordinary shares in the Company, such number of shares The Board representing 0.9% of the total number of issued equity shares in the The Non-executive directors comprise the majority of the Board and Company as at that date.
If the Company were to purchase 10% are kept fully informed of all areas of the Companys activities so that of its Ordinary shares, in exercise of its power under this paragraph, they are able to participate fully in all aspects of the Companys shares subject to options would comprise 1.0% of the Companys strategy and control.
Louise Patten is Chairman of the Board and Tim Wheeler is the Electronic Communications with Shareholders Chief Executive of the Company.
Their roles are separate and clearly defined.
David Scotland was appointed the Senior Independent The Notice of the Annual General Meeting also includes a resolution Non-executive director on 6 February 2006.
The current NonResolution 11 to adopt revised Articles of Association.
executive directors, being Louise Patten, Nicholas Fry, Stephen The revised Articles of Association would enable the Company to Harris and David Scotland are considered by the Board to be take advantage of the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 the independent.
Non-executive directors are not appointed for specified 2006 Act which came into force on 20 January 2007 and which terms, as recommended by the Combined Code, but are subject to enable companies to communicate electronically or via website with election and re-election by shareholders at least every three years.
all shareholders including, for example, providing the annual report The Non-executive directors understand that the Board will not and accounts by such means unless a shareholder specifically automatically recommend their re-election by shareholders.
requests in writing that he or she should continue to receive hard The biographies of the members of the Board appear on page 11. copy documents.
These demonstrate a range of experience of sufficient calibre to The Directors are of the view that these new provisions would add bring independent judgement on the issues of strategy, greater flexibility to how the Company communicates with performance, resources and standards of conduct that is vital to the shareholders and would be beneficial to both the Company and to success of the Company.
The Board is responsible to shareholders shareholders as a whole.
If this resolution is passed, the Company for the proper management of the Company.
A statement of will write to shareholders in accordance with the 2006 Act, inviting Directors responsibilities in respect of the financial statements is set those shareholders who wish to continue to receive hard copy out on page 23 and a statement on going concern is set out on documents to contact the Company.
As this will only take place page 15. after the Annual General Meeting shareholders need take no action The Board meets regularly reviewing financial performance, ensuring at present.
adequate funding, setting and monitoring strategy, examining major acquisitions and disposal possibilities and reporting to shareholders.
Corporate governance The Non-executive directors have a particular responsibility to ensure The Company is committed to high standards of corporate that the strategies proposed by the Executive directors are fully governance.
The Board is accountable to the Companys considered.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors shareholders for good corporate governance.
The Statement below receive appropriate and timely information.
Briefing papers are describes how the principles of corporate governance are applied to distributed by the Company Secretary to all Directors in advance of the Company and reviews the Companys compliance with the Board meetings.
The Directors may take independent professional Combined Code.
The Board has adopted a formal corporate advice in appropriate circumstances at the Companys expense.
governance manual which is updated on an ongoing basis.
13 Directors Report continued During the year there were six Board meetings, three meetings of The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with both the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee and private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
two meetings of the Nomination Committee, all of which had full The Chairmen of each of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration attendance except that John Rink was unable to attend three Board Committees are normally available at the Annual General Meeting to meetings and one meeting of both the Remuneration Committee answer questions.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the and the Nomination Committee.
Annual General Meeting on 17 May 2007 can be found in the Notice of the Meeting.
It is intended to indicate the level of proxies lodged A Board evaluation was carried out during the year which covered on each resolution and the balance for and against the resolution structure and content of Board meetings and all Board processes after it has been dealt with on a show of hands.
The results of the evaluation were considered at a meeting of the Board.
Internal control Separate meetings were also held between the Chairman and the The Board recognises that it is responsible for the Companys Non-executive directors to evaluate the Executive directors system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a performance and between the Non-executive directors only to system can only provide reasonable assurance and not absolute evaluate the Chairmans performance.
assurance against material misstatement or loss, as it is designed to Evaluations were also carried out during the year of the Audit, manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
The following Committees deal with the specific aspects of the The Combined Code introduced a requirement that the effectiveness Companys affairs.
The Board has approved terms of reference for of the system of internal control, including financial, operational and these Committees and the Company has published these terms on compliance controls and risk management, is reviewed by the its website.
In addition, Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Report was published in September Audit Committee 1999, to provide guidance to Directors in respect of this The Audit Committee is chaired by Nicholas Fry and its current requirement.
An updated guidance was issued by the Financial membership is set out on page 11.
The Committee meets not less Reporting Council in October 2005 which applies to the Company than twice a year and meetings are also attended, by invitation, by for the year ending 31 December 2006.
In this respect, the Board the Executive directors.
can confirm that it has the necessary procedures and policies to fully comply with the requirements of the Turnbull Report for the year The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing a wide range of under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report matters including the half-year and annual financial statements and Accounts.
before their submission to the Board and monitoring the controls which are in force to ensure the integrity of the information reported The Board carries out a review of significant business risks and to shareholders.
The Audit Committee advises the Board on the formally considers the scope and effectiveness of the Companys appointment of external auditors and on their remuneration and system of internal control annually.
This review covers all controls, discusses the nature, scope and results of the audit with the including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk external auditors.
The Audit Committee may also meet with the management.
The risks are identified by the Executive directors Companys valuers.
using their detailed knowledge of the Companys activities and of those areas of the property and financial markets which impact on Nomination Committee its objectives.
The Board considers risk management and internal The Nomination Committee is chaired by Louise Patten and its control on a regular basis during the year.
There is an ongoing current membership is set out on page 11.
The Committee is process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks responsible for, reviewing the size, structure and composition faced by the Company.
required of the Board, making recommendations on changes to and As the Company has a small number of employees there is a high considering succession planning for Directors and other senior level of senior executive involvement in the majority of business executives.
In appropriate cases, recruitment consultants are used transactions.
An Executive Management Committee runs the to assist the process.
Company at executive level and reports to the main Board.
Remuneration Committee The four person Committee comprises the two Executive directors of Brixton plc and the Managing Directors of the Companys main The Remuneration Committee is chaired by David Scotland and its operating subsidiaries, Brixton Investments Ltd and B-Serv Ltd.
The current membership is set out on page 11.
The Report on Directors day to day activities of the Company are managed by an Operations Remuneration is set out on pages 17 to 22.
This Board currently comprises the four members of the Executive Management Committee, three Senior Operations Relations with shareholders directors and seven senior executives.
Communications with shareholders are given high priority.
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function, The various reviews on pages 2 to 10 include a detailed review of but has decided that because of the scale and focus of the the business and future developments.
There is regular dialogue Company it is not justified.
However, it is a matter that is kept under with, and presentations are made to, institutional and prospective regular review.
The Board has a number of processes in place to monitor the overall effectiveness of the system of internal control.
In addition, the Board undertakes annually a specific effectiveness review of the Companys system of internal control against the requirements outlined in the Turnbull Report.
No significant weaknesses have been identified during the year under review.
14 Going concern With growing international concern about climate change, Brixton has made a commitment to be carbon neutral in 2007 for energy The financial statements, which appear on pages 25 to 49, have and transport.
This will be achieved through efforts to reduce energy been prepared on the going concern basis as, after making use, purchase green energy and offset the remaining carbon dioxide appropriate enquiries, the Board has a reasonable expectation that CO emissions through tree planting.
In 2006 energy use within the 2 the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational common parts of Brixtons property portfolio and its own offices existence for the foreseeable future.
resulted in emissions of approximately 500 and 100 tonnes of CO 2 respectively.
Payment of suppliers Brixton has been working with The Carbon Neutral Company to The Board maintains a policy of paying suppliers promptly in offset its CO emissions from business travel for a number of years.
2 accordance with the terms and conditions agreed with them.
At the In 2006 a total of 190 tonnes of CO was offset by investing in tree 2 year-end its trade creditors represented 17 days 2005: 26 days planting schemes which absorb CO from the atmosphere.
Brixton also participates in local environmental initiatives in the areas Corporate Responsibility its properties are located.
In Park Royal, Brixton has been working with the Park Royal Partnership PRP on their carbon Brixton is committed to being a socially responsible company.
Jackie Sadek, Chief Executive of PRP, said We seek to enhance our relationships with stakeholders and Brixton is to date the only agency, public or private, who has manage risks in key areas such as health and safety and land offered us any tangible support whatsoever with the project.
Customers All the information published on corporate responsibility CR is assured by WSP Environmental WSP and their assurance Brixtons goal is to be the landlord of first choice in our chosen statement can be found under the Corporate Responsibility section markets and customer service is a key priority.
The statement states that in WSPs opinion Brixtons Customer Service Managers visit all our customers regularly, on CR public reporting provides a fair and balanced representation of average every eight weeks, and a 24-hour helpdesk is available.
the progress made during 2006 and that there are processes in We measure customer satisfaction ratings on an annual basis place for identifying, managing and understanding CR issues.
through an independently commissioned survey.
In 2006 Brixton How we manage corporate responsibility achieved first place in the Real Service Group Engagement Index for customer service, an improvement from second place in 2005.
Brixton has a CR Policy Statement plus a range of more detailed policies to guide employees on specific aspects of CR.
Employees Tim Wheeler, the Chief Executive, is the Board member with overall Brixton has an equal opportunities policy and monitors the diversity responsibility for CR.
Steve Lee, Managing Director of B-Serv, profile of employees.
Women accounted for 40% of staff and 26% oversees Brixtons CR programme and provides an annual report to of managers as at 31 December 2006.
During 2007 Brixton plans to the Board on performance.
Brixtons CR Committee is made up of promote further awareness of the equal opportunities policy and managers from different areas of the business and meets quarterly.
encourage a culture of good work-life balance.
Implementation and day-to-day management of CR policies is the All employees receive an annual performance appraisal and training responsibility of the Companys senior managers.
is provided to help employees develop their skills and reach their Every employee at Brixton can play an important role in CR.
Brixtons Code of Conduct sets out the standards of their annual performance appraisal, employees are asked to expected from employees and forms part of the employment consider how they can contribute to the Companys CR values.
Brixton is included in the FTSE4Good Index and also participates in Local communities the Business in the Community BITC Index.
In the 2005 BITC Brixton supports community organisations local to its property Index Brixton was included in the list of top 100 Companies that portfolio as well as various charities.
In 2006 Brixton supported the Count with an overall score of 78.5%.
following community partnership projects in its three main locations: Environment Heathrow donation of 25,000 to London Cyrenians Housing Brixtons most significant environmental risk is land contamination to refurbish accommodation for homeless people in Hounslow.
due to past industrial activities or fuel spillages.
Environmental audits Trafford Park donation of 15,000 to Henshaws School for are carried out prior to the acquisition of new properties to identify Blind People to fund Skill Step, a training course for visually any potential contamination.
During 2006 Brixton spent impaired people.
approximately 400,000 on costs associated with investigating, monitoring and remediation of contaminated land.
Park Royal donation of 20,000 to St. Mungos to build a new garden and outdoor area at a long term care home.
A key challenge for the property sector is to incorporate sustainability into the design of new buildings.
Our new warehouse Brixton allows employees to take one day off work per year for development at Polar Park includes two wind turbines, energy volunteering.
Thirteen employees participated in the Park Royal efficient lighting, use of recycled materials and a green travel plan.
The Company also matches money Brixton is introducing in 2007 a checklist of environmental criteria for raised by employees for charity up to an agreed maximum.
This will ensure that green design features such A payroll giving scheme was established in 2006. as renewable energy, rainwater collection reuse and sustainably Brixton takes great care to be considerate towards neighbours and sourced timber are considered at the outset of new building works hard to keep sites tidy and in good decorative order.
A similar checklist for use on building refurbishment all contractors on new developments major refurbishments will be projects will be developed during 2007. required to sign up to the Considerate Constructors Scheme.
15 Directors Report continued Business partners Disclosure of Information to the auditors Brixton seeks to build long-term relationships with a small number So far as each person who was a Director at the date of approving of best in class business partners.
An annual Supply Chain Award this report is aware, there is no relevant audit information, being is given to Brixtons partner of the year.
Brixton reviews the information needed by the auditor in connection with preparing its performance of business partners involved in the delivery of estate report, of which the auditor is unaware.
Having made enquiries of services on a monthly basis.
These reviews provide an opportunity fellow directors and the Groups auditor, each Director has taken all to discuss CR issues.
Brixton is developing a new process for the steps that he she is obliged to take as a Director in order to have assessing in more detail the CR performance of existing and new made himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to business partners within the estates services supply chain.
establish that the auditor is aware of that information.
Further information is available in the Corporate Responsibility Auditors section of our website www.
Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in Health and safety office as auditors.
A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as The Board is committed to continuously improving the management auditors to the Company and authorising the Directors to determine of health and safety.
An independent, external consultancy carries their remuneration will be submitted at the Annual General Meeting.
out an annual audit of health and safety at Brixton.
Their findings and By order of the Board recommendations are reported to the Board as part of its annual review of health and safety.
An action plan is developed and Simon Wilbraham Company Secretary implemented to deal with any issues identified during the audit.
26 March 2007 The Company has an established Health & Safety Management System which sets out the Groups detailed policies and procedures.
In addition a new health and safety policy was introduced in November 2006.
Chris Sheedy, Senior Operations director, Development Management is accountable to Tim Wheeler, the Chief Executive, for implementation of the health and safety policy.
A Health and Safety Committee, chaired by Chris Sheedy and comprising managers from different areas of the business, meets four times a year to review health and safety policy and practice and to suggest ways in which the management of health and safety can be improved.
Regular risk assessments are carried out at all properties managed by B-Serv.
This includes vacant units and common areas of multi-let properties.
Appropriate action is taken to address any risks identified during these assessments.
Development, refurbishment and maintenance work at Brixton properties is carried out by independent contractors on our behalf.
We work closely with contractors on health and safety issues and a contractors health and safety record is an important consideration in their selection.
Construction activities are managed in accordance with the requirements of the Construction Design and Management Regulations 2007.
All employees share responsibility for maintaining a safe workplace and health and safety training is part of induction training for all new employees.
Additional health and safety training is provided for any Brixton employees working on or visiting construction sites.
The Company is pleased to report that there were no work-related lost time employee accidents in 2006 2005: nil.
Charitable donations During the year the Group made contributions of 95,000 2005: 65,000 to UK charitable organisations.
Political donations The Groups policy is not to make any political donations and none were made during the year.
