Directors 36 Capital & Regional Annual Report 2006 Standing, from left: Philip Newton, PY Gerbeau, Martin Barber, Manjit Wolstenholme, Tom Chandos, Kenneth Ford Sitting, from left: Paul Stobart, Hans Mautner, William Sunnucks, Andrew Lewis-Pratt, Xavier Pullen, Alan Coppin 37 Capital & Regional Annual Report 2006 Executive Directors Non-executive Directors Martin Barber, Chief Executive, 62 Tom Chandos, Chairman, 54 Member of Nomination Committee Chairman of Nomination Committee Martin was a founder director of the Company in 1979 and has Tom is Chairman of Invista European Real Estate Trust and Queens been involved in commercial property as a developer and investor Walk Investment.
He is also on the board of Global Natural Energy plc and a number of private companies.
In addition to his board for over 30 years.
Martin was, until March 2006, co-Chairman of positions, he has worked in investment banking and alternative CenterPoint Properties Trust, a real estate investment trust, listed investment areas such as venture capital and hedge funds.
He on the New York Stock Exchange and formerly a subsidiary of is a Labour member of the House of Lords.
He was appointed as Capital & Regional.
a director of the Company in 1993 and as Chairman in 2000.
William Sunnucks MA ACA, Finance Director, 50 Hans Mautner, Non-executive, 69 Member of Responsible Business Committee Member of Nomination Committee William was appointed Group Finance Director in October 2002.
Hans is President of the International Division of Simon Property He has been Finance Director of a number of large companies, Group SPG, the worlds largest publicly traded retail real estate including Securum International and English, Welsh and Scottish company.
In addition, Hans is Chairman of Simon Global Limited, Railways.
He is a chartered accountant and has an MBA from the SPGs London-based entity.
He is also a Director of a number of London Business School.
William has responsibility for the Groups Dreyfus Corporation managed funds and a member of Lehman finances, including funding, reporting and financial control.
Brothers European Real Estate Private Equity Advisory Council.
Hans was appointed as a director of the Company in 2003.
Xavier Pullen, Deputy Chief Executive, 55 Member of Responsible Business Committee Paul Stobart, Non-executive, 49 Xavier was a founder director of the Company in 1979 and has been Chairman of Audit Committee and member of Remuneration active in the property industry for over 30 years.
Xavier focuses and Nomination Committees primarily on the supervision of the Groups fund management After qualifying as a chartered accountant with Price Waterhouse, business together with the co-ordination of all property matters Paul spent five years in corporate finance with Hill Samuel and the development of new business initiatives including Germany.
before joining Interbrand, an international marketing services consultancy, in 1988.
He joined The Sage Group plc in 1996 as Kenneth Ford BSc FRICS, Managing Director of Shopping Business Development Director, becoming Chief Executive Officer, Centres, 53 UK and Ireland, in 2003.
Paul was appointed as a director of the Ken has been a director of Capital & Regional since 1997 and, as Company in 2003.
Chief Executive of The Mall, is responsible for the funds shopping centre portfolio.
Ken has been involved in commercial property for Alan Coppin, Non-executive, 56 over 30 years.
Chairman of Responsible Business Committee and Member of Audit Committee Andrew Lewis-Pratt BSc ARICS, Managing Director of Retail Alan is currently Chairman of Redstone plc, the telecoms and IT Parks and Trade Parks, 49 solutions provider and a non-executive director of Berkeley Group Member of Responsible Business Committee Holdings plc, the urban regenerator and residential developer.
His Andrew has been a director of Capital & Regional since 1997 and, previous positions have included being Chief Executive of Wembley as Chief Executive of The Junction, is responsible for the funds retail plc and, in the charity sector, Chairman of The Princes Foundation park portfolio and the newly acquired trade parks portfolio.
Andrew for the Built Environment.
Alan was appointed a director of the has over 20 years experience within the retail and leisure sector.
PY Gerbeau, Managing Director of Leisure, 41 Philip Newton, Non-executive, 58 PY was appointed to the Board in 2003, and as Chief Executive of Member of Remuneration Committee X-Leisure in 2003.
He has over 15 years experience in the leisure Philip is the former CEO of Merchant Retail Group plc, owners of industry.
PYs career to date has included Vice President of Park The Perfume Shop, a 150-store chain that he developed from its Operations at Disneyland Paris and Chief Executive of the Dome.
His early career was in the District Valuers Office and PY has an MBA from one of Frances leading business schools, then the property development industry.
Philip was appointed as teaches on the MBA programme at the London Business School and a director of the Company in 2006. has a Chair of Entrepreneurship at the Imperial College, running a module on the Experienced Economy and Corporate Rescue.
Manjit Wolstenholme, Non-executive, 42 Chairman of Remuneration Committee and member of Audit Committee.
After qualifying as a Chartered Accountant with Coopers & Lybrand now part of  Manjit spent 13 years at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein, latterly as co-Head of Investment Banking, where she was responsible for managing the division as well as advising clients on a wide range of transactions.
She is now a consultant to Gleacher Shacklock, a privately-owned investment banking firm specialising in high level mergers, acquisitions and strategic advice.
Manjit was appointed as a director of the Company in 2006.
