Joint venture and other interests 34 Capital & Regional Annual Report 2006 C&R continues to invest in properties For C&R it is an opportunity to exploit some asset management opportunities and to use its leisure and co-venturing expertise on its own account and in joint ventures.
These ventures are strictly screened to Capital Retail Park, Cardiff ensure that we have the management The Capital Retail Park Partnership is a 50:50 joint venture with capability and also to ensure that they PMG Estates Ltd, a Welsh developer based in Cardiff.
do not fall within the fund investment The project involves the construction of a 283,000 sq ft retail criteria.
Where there is a potential park in Cardiff, with a land sale of part of the site to Asda for conflict of interest, the properties are a 90,000 sq ft foodstore.
offered first to the relevant fund.
Cardiff Council is constructing a new football stadium for Cardiff City Football Club on an adjacent site.
Construction is expected to Joint venture and C&R start in June 2007 following acquisition of the site.
other interests Partners share Xscapes Great Northern Warehouse, Manchester Milton Keynes Client of Rockspring 50% Castleford Client of Rockspring 66.67% This property is now wholly owned by C&R and has delivered a Braehead Capital Shopping Centres 50% strong performance in 2006 with a gross asset value increase of Glasgow Fort British Land 50% 4.25 million which is not reflected in our balance sheet because Manchester Arena GE Real Estate 30% Capital Retail Park, Cardiff PMG Estates Limited 50% the property is held as a trading property.
The increase in value is Gt.
Northern Warehouse, Manchester 100% mainly attributable to the practical completion and opening of the Leisure World, Hemel Hempstead 100% SNO!zone, ski slope operator 100% London Clubs International Casino, Manchester235, in 45,000 sq ft of the vacant warehouse space.
The residual space is under offer to Luminar Leisure PLC subject to planning and licensing.
Applications The Xscapes for both are now pending.
We now have Xscapes operating in Milton Keynes, Castleford and Braehead.
These landmark leisure destinations offer the public real Leisure World, Hemel Hempstead snow skiing, bowling, dining, cinema and a host of other leisure This first generation leisure park let to Luminar Leisure PLC was activities.
In February 2007 the first two Xscapes, at Milton Keynes acquired to provide a refurbishment redevelopment opportunity.
and Castleford, were acquired by the X-Leisure Fund for a combined The redevelopment of the park for a mixed use scheme continues price of 192 million paid in units, assumption of debt and cash.
to be appraised and positive discussions have been held with planners, key city stakeholders and potential occupiers.
In 2007 The Xscape in Milton Keynes was completed in 2000 at a cost of we anticipate finalising a scheme to take forward.
The price paid by the X-Leisure Fund reflected a value of 116 million in February 2007, proving that with the right SNO!zone management the format is highly profitable.
The successful SNO!zone is the ski operator which rents the real snow slopes in settlement of the majority of the rent reviews at rents ahead the three Xscapes.
It is wholly owned by C&R, which built it up of rental values adds further evidence to support this.
out of the bankruptcy of Leisurenet in 2001.
It is the largest and most profitable indoor ski operator in the UK, but expects more The Xscape in Castleford was completed in 2003 at a cost of competition from new operators and venues in the future.
It was sold to the X-Leisure Fund for 76 million in February 2007.
Xscape Castleford has gained significant publicity 2006 was a highly successful year, with operating profit before and awareness through numerous awards most notably in 2006 it adjustment for tenant incentives growing to 2.7 million.
was joint winner with The London Eye of Visit Britains Best Paid for Attraction Award.
The increase in profit was largely from organic growth at existing locations.
Following intensive marketing and business development The Xscape in Braehead opened in April 2006.
It is 90% let and the initiatives, turnover grew by 16% at Milton Keynes and 13% retail and catering units are trading well, despite a delay in opening at Castleford.
SNO!zone operating profit Glasgow Fort 2006 2005 This highly successful fashion park was developed in partnership m m with Pillar Property, now part of the British Land Group.
It was Income 13.1 9.3 sold to the Hercules Fund in 2004 but C&R has a financial interest Cost of sales 9.3 7.0 in further phases.
In 2006 C&R received 6 million in cash and a Management expense 1.1 0.6 further 2.7 million in profit was taken into account.
Operating profit 2.7 1.7 Tenant incentives 0.9 Profit after adjustment 1.8 1.7 Manchester Arena In July 2006, we acquired 30% of the Manchester Arena in a co-venture with GE Real Estate.
The property is located on an eight acre site in the heart of Manchester city centre and comprises the 20,000 seat MEN Arena, 120,000 sq ft of offices, a 1,075 space car park and ancillary retail space.
35 Capital & Regional Annual Report 2006 Management: This business requires highly specialist management focused on increasing spend per head in each of its key market segments.
It now has its own independent management team within our leisure division, which is achieving organic growth at Milton Keynes and Castleford as well as building up a new business in a very different market in Scotland.
Our team is now well established in an increasingly strong leisure market.
It has been asked to look at a number of opportunities to operate leisure attractions which do not compete with the Xscape real snow offer, and which could prove interesting for the future.
New marketing initiatives have been plentiful.
The management has developed the SNO!academy, Kids Camp and tours conscious of the growth and development of our youth and the athletes of the future.
SNO!zone has hosted numerous very successful events throughout the year.
Focusing on providing an exciting ever changing environment, it launched its programme of concerts, events on the snow, airbags on the slope, obstacle courses, and night training which increases the customer experience and maintains interest for return visits.
The strength of SNO!zone within the market has attracted very professional and successful businesses to align themselves with the Company, through sponsorships and other agreements.
Future strategy: The business is clearly prospering under C&R ownership, and it makes sense for us to keep the expertise within the Group to help in the development of further Xscape venues.
Joint Ventures and other property interests C&R Size Number of Property Description share sq ft Principal occupiers lettable units Valued at 10 million to 25 million Leisure World: James Field, First generation leisure park acquired in 2005 for 100% 122,056 Luminar Leisure, Odeon Cinema, 1 Hemel Hempstead redevelopment or refurbishment.
Valued at 25 million to 70 million Manchester Evening News Arena Largest indoor arena in the country with additional 30% 154,769 SMG UK Limited, Network Rail, 5 mixed use and retail space.
JD Williams & Co Limited Valued at 70 million to 100 million Great Northern, Manchester Located in Manchester city centre, this converted 100% 360,130 AMC Cinema, Virgin Active, 47 Victorian warehouse includes bars, restaurants, London Clubs International a health and fitness centre, shops and a multiplex cinema.
Xscape Milton Keynes This destination is anchored by the UKs largest indoor 50% 423,698 SNO!zone, Cineworld, Virgin Active, 45 real snow slopes.
Spirit Group, Ellis Brigham Xscape Castleford, Leeds As well as a real indoor snow slope, this destination also 67% 370,809 Cineworld, SNO!zone, Bowlplex, 46 features a skate park and indoor air park.
Ellis Brigham, Evans, Frankie & Bennys Xscape Braehead, Glasgow This newest Xscape has all the extreme sports of 50% 374,112 Odeon, SNO!zone, Bowlplex, Ellis Brigham 37 Xscape Leeds and MK but also includes golf and football attractions.
Transferred to the X-Leisure Fund on 23 February 2007.
