Directors report 38 Capital & Regional Annual Report 2006 Introduction Share options The directors present their report together with the audited Details of outstanding share options granted to the directors under financial statements for the year ended 30 December 2006. the 1988 and 1998 Share Option Schemes, are disclosed in the directors remuneration report on page 45.
Results and proposed dividends The consolidated income statement is set out on page 52 and Substantial shareholdings shows a profit on ordinary activities after taxation of 222.3 million In addition to the interests of the directors, the Company has 2005: 202.7 million.
been notified pursuant to Section DTR5 of the FSA Disclosure & Transparency Rules of the following notifiable interests in its issued The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 17p share capital as at 10 April 2007 the latest practicable date prior per ordinary share on 15 June 2007 to members on the register to the issue of this report : at the close of business on 20 April 2007, which together with an interim dividend of 9p per ordinary share, paid in 2006, makes a Number of shares % total dividend of 26p per share for the year.
Fidelity Investments 6,687,518 9.24 Neuberger & Berman 5,488,916 7.58 Principal activities, trading review and future developments Morley Fund Management 4,523,226 6.25 ABP Investments 3,789,356 5.23 The principal activity of the Group is that of a co-investing asset Morgan Stanley Investment Management 3,386,765 4.68 manager.
United Nations Pensions 3,270,000 4.52 Legal & General Investment Management 2,774,859 3.83 ING Investment Management 2,521,800 3.48 A review of the activities and prospects of the Group is given in the F&C Asset Management 2,413,562 3.33 Chairmans statement, on page 5 and the Operating and Financial Martin Barber 2,365,897 3.27 Review on page 6. Business Review Charitable donations The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business The main thrust of our support to charities is at local level through Review including key performance indicators and post Balance our fund investments as described on page 50.
At Group level we sheet events can be found in the Operating and Financial Review have made small donations during the year totalling 12,500 on pages 6 to 35 which is incorporated in this report by reference.
More detail on the financial risks facing the Company is set out Payment of suppliers in note 20 on page 75.
The policy of the Company is to settle supplier invoices within the terms of trade agreed with individual suppliers.
Where no specific The purpose of this annual report is to provide information to the terms have been agreed, payment is usually made within one month members of the Company.
The annual report contains certain forwardof the receipt of the goods or service.
At the year end, the Company looking statements with respect to the operations, performance and had an average of 28 days 2005: 37 days purchases outstanding.
financial condition of the Group.
By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause Compliance with combined code results and developments to differ materially from those anticipated.
A statement on corporate governance is set out on pages 46 to 48.
The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this annual report and the Responsible business Company undertakes no obligation to update them.
Nothing in The responsible business statement is set on page 49. this annual report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Employees Directors The Company is committed to a policy that treats all its employees The directors of the Company during the period were: M Barber, and job applicants equally.
No employee or potential employee T Chandos, D Cherry retired 5 June 2006, A Coppin, K Ford, receives less favourable treatment or consideration on the grounds PY Gerbeau, A Lewis-Pratt, H Mautner, X Pullen, P Stobart, of race, colour, religion, nationality, ethnic origin, sex, sexual W Sunnucks, P Newton appointed 28 July 2006 and orientation, marital status, or disability.
Nor is any employee or M Wolstenholme appointed 17 August 2006. potential employee disadvantaged by any conditions of employment or requirements of the Company that cannot be justified as In accordance with the Articles of Association, T Chandos, M Barber, necessary on operational grounds.
M Wolstenholme and P Newton will retire from the Board by rotation and offer themselves for re-election.
During the year, the Company maintained arrangements to provide employees with information on matters of concern to them, to The Company maintains insurance for the directors in respect regularly consult employees for views on matters affecting them of liabilities arising from the performance of their duties.
and to make all employees aware of financial and economic factors affecting the performance of the Company.
Directors interests The directors and, where relevant, their connected persons Stakeholder pensions within the meaning of Section 346 of the Companies Act 1985 As a result of the Governments introduction of stakeholder are interested in 4,281,626 issued shares representing 5.91% of pensions in April 2001, employers must provide their employees the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as detailed in with access to a stakeholder pension scheme.
The Company the directors remuneration report on page 44. appointed consultants, who put such a scheme in place, and also nominated a stakeholder pension provider at that time.
Employees There were no contracts of significance subsisting during or at the have had access to join this scheme since May 2001. end of the year in which a director of the Company was materially interested.
No director had a material interest in the share capital Dividend Reinvestment Plan of other Group companies during the year.
In 1999, the Company introduced a service whereby shareholders 3 39 9 Capital & Regional Annual Report 2006 can use their cash dividends to buy more shares in the capital of are set out in note 21 to the accounts.
The directors will only the Company.
The plan was introduced for those shareholders exercise this authority if they consider that it will result in an preferring capital appreciation rather than income from their increase in asset value per share for the remaining shareholders shareholding, and has been available to all shareholders from the and that it will be in the best interests of the Company to do so.
The total number of options to subscribe for new ordinary shares in The timetable for the 2006 final dividend is set out on page 96. the Company as at 13 April 2007 was 514,970 representing 0.71% of Details of the terms and conditions of the Dividend Reinvestment the Companys issued share capital as at 13 April 2007.
Such number Plan can be obtained by contacting the Company Secretary at the of options to subscribe for new ordinary shares would represent registered office.
approximately 14.19% of the reduced issued share capital of the Company assuming full use of the authority to make market Registered office purchases sought under resolution 11.
The Companys registered office address is 10 Lower Grosvenor Place, Amendments to the Companys Articles of Association London SW1W 0EN.
Resolution 12 to be proposed at the AGM, is proposed in order to Auditors information approve an amendment to the Companys articles of association in Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this relation to the indemnification of directors.
annual report confirms that: The Companies Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise So far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit Act 2004, which came into force on 6 April 2005, made certain information of which the companys auditors is unaware: and changes in relation to the indemnification of directors.
The director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have The law now permits companies to grant wider-ranging indemnities taken as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any so that, broadly, directors may be indemnified against liability to relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys third parties arising through negligence, default, breach of duty or auditors are aware of that information.
breach of trust by the directors and a company may purchase and This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance maintain insurance against such liability.
However, this is subject with the provisions of s234ZA of the Companies Act 1985. to certain exceptions which prevent a company from indemnifying a director against liability to the company or any associated Auditors company, or against the costs of any unsuccessful defence in Deloitte & Touche LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in criminal proceedings, or for penalties imposed in criminal office and a resolution to re-appoint them will be proposed at the AGM.
proceedings or by any regulatory authority.
Special business of the Annual General Meeting In addition, a director could previously only receive reimbursement Directors authority to allot securities of his or her defence costs from the company once final judgement Authority to allot securities, Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985, in the directors favour had been made.
However, the law now requires shareholders authority for the directors to allot new shares permits a company to provide funds to directors to cover defence or convertible securities, other than shares which may be allotted costs as they are incurred through the granting of a loan in both under employee share schemes.
Under resolution 9, which is civil and criminal cases.
If the director is not exonerated, the loan proposed as an ordinary resolution, the directors seek authority must be subsequently repaid although the costs incurred in civil to allot shares having a nominal value of 2,412,957 representing cases involving third parties could be paid by the company under one-third of the nominal value of the Companys currently issued the indemnity discussed above.
The authority will expire at the conclusion of the Companys AGM in 2008.
The Board believes that providing appropriate indemnities to directors and agreeing to fund where permitted a directors defence costs as Pre-emption rights they are incurred affords a reasonable level of protection for the Shares allotted for cash must normally first be offered to directors and is also essential in order to recruit and retain directors.
shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings.
Under resolution 10, which is proposed as a special resolution, the directors The Companys current Articles of Association already provide for seek to renew their annual authority to allot shares for cash as if the directors to benefit from an indemnity and reimbursement for the pre-emption rights contained in Section 89 1 of the Companies costs in proceedings where judgement is given in favour of the Act 1985 did not apply up to a maximum of 5% of the Companys director and the ability to purchase and maintain insurance against issued share capital.
However, the Board proposes that the Companys Articles of Association be amended to reflect the Authority to purchase own shares new statutory provisions.
At the AGM in 2006, the Company was granted authority to make purchases in the market of its own shares, subject to specified The proposed resolution is a special resolution to replace articles limits.
This authority, which has not as yet been exercised, expires 186 and 187 by the insertion of new articles 186, 187, 188 and 189 at the conclusion of the Companys 2007 AGM.
Therefore by to reflect these new provisions.
The directors consider the proposal resolution 11, it is proposed as a special resolution that this to amend the articles of association to be considered at the AGM to authority in respect of the Company is renewed and also that the be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a Company may cancel any bought-in shares immediately or hold whole.
By order of the Board The authority is sought until the conclusion of the 2008 AGM, or for F Desai 15 months after the date on which the resolution is passed, Company Secretary whichever is the earlier.
Details of the current issued share capital 20 April 2007
