MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS continued two non-GAAP financial measures assuming the current Key Performance Indicators period currency exchange rates have remained constant with We use net cruise revenues per ALBD and net cruise costs the prior years rates, or on a constant dollar basis, in order per ALBD as significant non-GAAP financial measures of our to remove the impact of changes in exchange rates on our cruise segment financial performance.
We believe that this is a useful revenue yields are commonly used in the cruise industry to measure indicating the actual growth of our operations in a measure a companys cruise segment revenue performance.
fluctuating currency exchange rate environment.
This measure is also used for revenue management purposes.
On a constant dollar basis, net cruise revenues and net In calculating net revenue yields, we use net cruise revenues cruise costs would be $9.21 billion and $5.69 billion for fiscal rather than gross cruise revenues.
We believe that net 2006, respectively.
On a constant dollar basis, gross cruise cruise revenues is a more meaningful measure in determining revenues and gross cruise costs would be $11.42 billion and revenue yield than gross cruise revenues because it reflects $7.91 billion for fiscal 2006, respectively.
In addition, our nonthe cruise revenues earned by us net of our most significant U. S. cruise operations depreciation and net interest expense variable costs, which are travel agent commissions, cost of were impacted by the changes in exchange rates for fiscal air transportation and certain other variable direct costs asso- 2006 compared to 2005. ciated with onboard and other revenues.
Substantially all of All the prior periods financial information presented herein our remaining cruise costs are largely fixed once our ship have been adjusted to reflect the retrospective application of capacity levels have been determined, except for the impact the change in our method of accounting for dry-dock costs, of changing prices.
as more fully discussed in Note 2 in the accompanying finanNet cruise costs per ALBD is the most significant measure cial statements.
we use to monitor our cruise segment costs rather than gross cruise costs per ALBD.
In calculating net cruise costs, we Critical Accounting Estimates exclude the same variable costs that are included in the calcuOur critical accounting estimates are those which we lation of net cruise revenues.
This is done to avoid duplicating believe require our most significant judgments about the these variable costs in these two non-GAAP financial measures.
effect of matters that are inherently uncertain.
A discussion We have not provided estimates of future gross revenue of our critical accounting estimates, the underlying judgments yields because the reconciliations of forecasted net cruise and uncertainties used to make them and the likelihood that revenues to forecasted gross cruise revenues would require materially different estimates would be reported under differus to forecast, with reasonable accuracy, the amount of air ent conditions or using different assumptions is as follows: and other transportation costs that our forecasted cruise passengers would elect to purchase from us the air sea mix.
Ship Accounting Since the forecasting of future air sea mix involves several Our most significant assets are our ships and ships under significant variables that are relatively difficult to forecast and construction, which represent 88% of our total assets.
We the revenues from the sale of air and other transportation make several critical accounting estimates dealing with our approximate the costs of providing that transportation, manship accounting.
First, we compute our ships depreciation agement focuses primarily on forecasts of net cruise revenues expense, which represented approximately 10% of our cruise rather than gross cruise revenues.
This does not impact, in costs and expenses in fiscal 2006, which requires us to estiany material respect, our ability to forecast our future results, mate the average useful life of each of our ships, as well as as any variation in the air sea mix has no material impact on their residual values.
Secondly, we account for ship improveour forecasted net cruise revenues.
As such, management ment costs by capitalizing those costs which we believe will does not believe that this reconciling information would be add value to our ships and depreciate those improvements meaningful.
over their estimated useful lives, while expensing repairs In addition, because a significant portion of our operations and maintenance and minor replacement costs as they are utilize the euro or sterling to measure their results and financial incurred.
Finally, when we record the retirement of a ship condition, the translation of those operations to our U. S. dollar component that is included within the ships cost basis, we reporting currency results in increases in reported U. S. dollar estimate its net book value to determine the amount of ship revenues and expenses if the U. S. dollar weakens against component retired.
these foreign currencies, and decreases in reported U. S. dollar We determine the average useful life of our ships and revenues and expenses if the U. S. dollar strengthens against their residual values based primarily on our estimates of the these foreign currencies.
Accordingly, we also monitor our weighted-average useful lives and residual values of the ships page 34 | Carnival Corporation & plc
