Accordingly, these estimated current period amounts have not been previously reported, but are being disclosed in accordance with the requirements of SFAS No.
In addition, as a result of this change in accounting method Trademarks retained earnings at November 30, 2003 decreased by $43 The costs of developing and maintaining our trademarks million to $7.15 billion from $7.19 billion.
However, for acquisitions made after June 2001, we have allocated a portion of the purchase Goodwill price to the acquirees identified trademarks.
The trademarks We review our goodwill for impairment annually, or, when that Carnival Corporation recorded as part of its acquisition of events or circumstances dictate, more frequently.
All of our P&O Princess, which are estimated to have an indefinite usegoodwill has been allocated to our cruise reporting units.
ful life and, therefore, are not amortizable, are reviewed for There were no significant changes to our goodwill carrying impairment annually, or, when events or circumstances dictate, amounts since November 30, 2004, other than the changes more frequently.
Our trademarks would be considered impaired resulting from using different foreign currency translation rates if their carrying value exceeds their estimated fair value.
at each balance sheet date and a $20 million reduction to goodwill in fiscal 2006 resulting from the resolution of certain Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities P&O Princess Cruises plcs P&O Princess tax contingency We utilize derivative and nonderivative financial instruments, liabilities that existed at the time of the DLC transaction.
such as foreign currency swaps and foreign currency debt Our goodwill impairment reviews consist of a two-step obligations to limit our exposure to fluctuations in foreign process of first determining the fair value of the reporting unit currency exchange rates, and interest rate swaps to manage and comparing it to the carrying value of the net assets alloour interest rate exposure and to achieve a desired proportion cated to the reporting unit.
Fair values of our reporting units of variable and fixed rate debt see Notes 5 and 10. were determined based on our estimates of comparable market All derivatives are recorded at fair value, and the changes prices or discounted future cash flows.
If this fair value exceeds in fair value are immediately included in earnings if the derivathe carrying value, which was the case for our reporting units, tives do not qualify as being effective hedges.
If a derivative no further analysis or goodwill write-down is required.
If the is a fair value hedge, then changes in the fair value of the fair value of the reporting unit is less than the carrying value derivative are offset against the changes in the fair value of of the net assets, the implied fair value of the reporting unit is the underlying hedged item.
If a derivative is a cash flow allocated to all the underlying assets and liabilities, including hedge, then changes in the fair value of the derivative are both recognized and unrecognized tangible and intangible recognized as a component of accumulated other compreassets, based on their fair value.
If necessary, goodwill is then hensive income AOCI until the underlying hedged item written-down to its implied fair value.
If a derivative or a nonderivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of our net Carnival Corporation & plc | page 11
