Directors report T Th he e d diir re ec ct to or rs s p pr re es se en nt t t th he eiir r r re ep po or rt t a an nd d t th he e n na an nc ciia all s st ta at te em me en nt ts s ffo or r t th he e y ye ea ar r e en nd fide ed d 3 31 1s st t D fide ec ce em mb be er r 2 20 00 05 6.. R Re es su ullt ts s a an nd d d diiv viid fide en nd d profit before tax was 150.4m 2004: 91.1m and profit for the year amounted to 116.7m 2004: 72.6m.
The directors recommend profit before tax was 242.8m 2005: 150.4m and the profit for the year amounted to 182.2m 2005: 116.7m.
For technical reasons a c o n nn ae l d ctiv eid d e w nid th o tfh 9 e. 7 co 2m 5p p p an ey r o s rm din er ag ry e rs, h th ae re b. o Ta hrid s, w wilh l e nn o tt a bk ee p nr o wp ito hs tih ne g itn hte e rp im ay d m iv eid ne t n od f a o f n 3a.
9 l d 2i5 vp id p en ed r s. h Ina irte s, p pla aic fide o, n a s 7e th c o Nn o d v e inm teb rie m r 2005, gives a total dividend of 13.65p 2004: 12.50p per ordinary share payable in respect of the results for the year ended 31st December 2005, dividend of 10.525p per ordinary share was paid on 23rd February 2007, which was equivalent to the expected final dividend.
This, when a ta m ke on u n w tiin th g tth oe in 7t.
O dirv d id inean rd y d oifv 4 id.
2 en 2d 5s p p pa eird o d rd uirn in ag ry 2 s 0h 0a 5 r e a, m po aiu dn o te nd 6 tto h N 6o.
6 w 5a ps added to retained earnings.
per ordinary share payable in respect of the results for the year ended 31st December 2006 amounting to 7.9m 2005: 7.2m.
Ordinary dividends paid during 2006 amounted to 7.5m 2005: 6.8m, after which 174.7m 2005: 109.9m was added to retained earnings.
Principal activities, trading review and future developments T Ph rie n c pirp ina cli p aa clt a iv cit tiiv eit sie, s tr o afd tih ne g g re ro vu ie pw a ra en td ho fs ue tu o rfe p d ro ep five erlo typ in m five en sttm s ent, refurbishment and redevelopment, and trading.
A review of the business and comments on the future outlook for the group can be found within the chairmans statement, operating review and financial The principal activities of the group are those of property investment, refurbishment and redevelopment.
A review of the business and r ce ovm iem w e on nt s p o ag n e th s e 4 ftuo t u 2r3 e. outlook for the group can be found with the chairmans statement, operating review and financial review on pages 4 to 23.
Directors The directors of the company during the year and their interests in the share capital of the company, including shares over which options Directors h Ta hv ee d b ire ee cn to g rs ra o nft teh d e, c ao re m sp ha on w yn d b ue riln og w t. h A el l yo efa tr h a en se d itn hte eirre is ntts e ra ers et s h e inld t h be e s nh ea c re ia c lly a. pital of the company, including shares over which options have been granted, are shown below.
All of these interests are held beneficially.
On 4th January 2006, Mr Silver sold 44,920 ordinary shares.
This reduced his holding to 226,439 ordinary shares.
There have been no other changes in directors shareholdings between the year end and 21st March 2006.
During the year, directors exercised options over On 1st February 2007, the company merged with London Merchant Securities plc and four new directors were appointed to the board.
18,450 shares at an exercise price of 237p: 12,966 shares at an exercise price of 345p: 45,500 shares at an exercise price of 569p: 46,750 As at that date, the interests of these directors were as follows: shares at an exercise price of 553p and 55,000 shares at an exercise price of 501.5p.
No new options were granted to directors during the Ordinary shares of 5p each Options year.
Full details of the options held by directors, together with their interests in the groups long-term incentive plan, are given in the report o Rn.
A d. ir R ea cy to nr es remuneration, which commences on page 53.
4,333,872 382,746 N. R. Friedlos 10,333 20,780 IJ n. a dc ec M oro dlla en r ce with the articles of association, Messrs Ivey, Burn s and Farnes re tire by ro2 ta, t 9io 8n 5, and, being eli g ible, offer themselves for re-election.
Biographies of all the directors are given on page 62.
D. Newell 1,492 Other than as disclosed in note 36, the directors have no interest in any material contracts of the company.
Mr Raynes interest in 3,221,327 of the above shares is non-beneficial.
There have been no changes in any of the directors interests between the year-end or the date of appointment and 20th March 2007.
Non-current assets T Dh ue ri n gg ro tu hp e s y e fra ere, h do ire ldc a to nrd s le ex ae sre ch is o eld d io np five tio stn m s e on vte p r r2 o7 p, e 2r5 ti0 e s s h w ae re re s p arto a fe ns e sx io en rc ails ly e r p er via cle u e od f 5 a5 t 3 3p 1:s 1 t 9 D, e 0c 0e 0m sb he ar re 2s0 a 0t5 a, n re e sx ue ltric nig s e in p a ri c se u ro pfl u 5s 0 1 o. f 5p: 126.1m, before deducting the lease incentive adjustment of 2.0m.
The freehold and leasehold investment properties are included in the 35,000 shares at an exercise price of 723.5p: 20,250 shares at an exercise price of 672.5p and 77,000 shares at an exercise price of g 4r 2o 6u.
p 5p b. a N lao n n ce e w sh o ep etti o an t s a w ca er rr ey g inrg a n vta elu fide t o o fd ir1 e, c 0t1 o5 rs.
Full details of the options held by directors, together with their interests in the groups long-term incentive plan, are given in the report on directors remuneration, which commences on page 57.
Financial instruments Details about the use of financial instruments by the group and the company are set out in note 23 of the financial statements and are In accordance with the articles of association, Messrs N Q George, P M Williams and S J Neathercoat, retire by rotation and, being eligible, d ofis fe cru ts hs ee m ds in e lv th ee s fo nra rn ecie alle rc etv io ie nw.
Io n n a d pd ag itie o n 2,3 M. rs J fide Moller and Messrs R A Rayne, S A Corbyn, N R Friedlos and D Newell having been appointed since the last annual general meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for election.
Biographies of all the directors are given C on h a pr aig ta eb 6 le 7. donations During the year, the group made charitable donations amounting to 53,000.
Other than as disclosed in note 38, the directors have no interest in any material contracts of the company.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2006 49 Directors report The business review required by s234 ZZB of the Companies Act 1985 is given on pages 8 to 23.
The disclosures in respect of financial instruments, as required by Schedule 7 of the Companies Act 1985, is given on pages 40 to 41.
Fixed assets The groups freehold and leasehold investment properties were professionally revalued at 31st December 2006, resulting in a surplus of 224.3m, before deducting the lease incentive adjustment of 1.0m.
The freehold and leasehold investment properties are included in the group balance sheet at a carrying value of 1,274m.
Charitable donations During the year, the group made charitable donations amounting to 67,000 2005: 53,000.
Substantial shareholders In addition to those of the directors disclosed above, the company has been notied of the following interests in the issued ordinary share capital as at 20th March 2007.
Percentage Number of issued of shares share capital Michael Conn 6,483,156 6.13 Trustees of the Rayne Foundation 5,548,731 5.20 Stichting Pensioenfonds ABP 5,200,586 5.17 Lady Jane Rayne 4,093,838 4.07 ISIS Asset Management 3,352,127 3.33 Creditor payment policy It is the groups policy to agree terms of business with suppliers prior to the supply of goods or services.
In the absence of any dispute, the group pays in accordance with these agreed terms.
For the year ended 31st December 2006, the average payment period for trade creditors was 19 days 2005: 19 days.
Disclosure of information to auditors The directors who held ofce at the date of approval of this directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditors are unaware and each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information.
Corporate Governance Compliance The board supports the principles of good governance and believes that the company has, except as noted, complied with the main and supporting principles of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the Financial Reporting Council and which is appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
The company has not complied with code provision A.
2.2, concerning the independence of the chairman on appointment.
The companys position is described in the following section.
A number of other code provisions were not applicable in the current year.
The board Until 23rd May 2006, the board comprised Mr Ivey, the non-executive chairman, five executive directors, Messrs Burns, Silver, Odom, George and Williams and three non-executive directors, Messrs Neathercoat, Yeatman and Farnes.
As anticipated in last years report, on 23rd May 2006, Mr Corbyn joined the board to replace Mr Yeatman who did not stand for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Following the merger with London Merchant Securities plc on 1st February 2007, Mr Friedlos joined the board as an executive director, Mr Rayne was appointed as non-executive chairman with Mr Ivey becoming deputy chairman, and Mrs fide Moller and Mr Newell joined as non-executive directors.
In assessing the independence of the non-executive directors with regard to the guidance on independence contained in code provision A.
3.1, the board notes that Mr Rayne and Mr Ivey are not automatically deemed independent.
The board is also aware that code provision A.
2.2 requires a new chairman to be independent on appointment.
6 of the code, the board has reviewed the roles and performance of all directors.
This review considered, amongst other matters, the independence of both Mr Rayne and Mr Ivey.
50 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2006 Directors report Mr Rayne is not deemed independent, having served in an executive capacity at London Merchant Securities plc prior to the merger.
However, the board consider that the circumstances presented by the merger and the contribution Mr Rayne will make as chairman of the enlarged board justify his appointment.
Mr Ivey is not deemed independent, having served on the board for more than nine years.
Again, the board considered his expertise and the manner in which he carried out his duties and concluded that shareholders should have no cause for concern that his independence is in any way impaired.
Furthermore, the directors considered the composition of the board and noted that, having determined Mr Ivey to be independent, the board meets the requirement of code provision A.
Not withstanding this arithmetical compliance, the directors believe that the board is suitably structured to satisfy the requirements of good corporate governance.
A formal schedule, which has been approved by the board, sets out the division of responsibilities between the Chairman, who is responsible for the effectiveness of the board, and the Chief Executive officer, who is responsible for the day-to-day operations of the business.
Mr Neathercoat is the senior independent director.
Biographies of the directors are given on page 67.
The board is responsible for setting the companys strategic aims, ensuring that adequate resources are available to meet its objectives and reviewing management performance.
The formal list of matters reserved for the full boards approval is maintained and reviewed periodically.
The full board met seven times during the year and six meetings are scheduled for 2007.
Extra meetings will be arranged if necessary.
Additionally, the executive board, which consists of the executive directors met eight times in 2006.
The board is provided with comprehensive papers in a timely manner to ensure that the directors are fully briefed on matters to be discussed at these meetings.
Since 1993, the board has maintained a number of board committees.
The terms of reference of each committee are available on the groups website.
Set out below are details of the current membership and duties of the three principal committees.
Remuneration committee The committee comprises of Mr Neathercoat, Mr Corbyn, Mrs fide Moller and Mr Newell under the chairmanship of Mr Farnes.
It is responsible for establishing the companys remuneration policy and individual remuneration packages for the executive directors.
There were two meetings of the committee in 2006.
The report on directors remuneration is set out on pages 57 to 62.
Audit committee Mr Neathercoat is chairman of the committee, which is served by Mr Corbyn, Mr Farnes, Mrs fide Moller and Mr Newell.
The committee is responsible for considering the application of financial reporting and internal control principles and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the companys auditors.
The committee met four times during 2006.
The report of the audit committee is on page 63.
Nominations committee Mr Ivey is chairman of this committee which consists of all of the non-executive directors.
The committees responsibilities include identifying external candidates for appointment as directors and, subsequently, recommending their appointment to the board and, if requested, making a recommendation concerning an appointment to the board from within the company.
The committee also carries out the annual appraisal of the performance and effectiveness of the board and its three committees.
The committee met only once during the period under review.
The nominations committee report is on page 64.
Directors attendance at board and committee meetings during the period under review was as follows: Full Executive Remuneration Audit Nominations board board committee committee committee Number of meetings 7 8 2 4 1 Executive directors J. D. Burns 7 8 S. P. Silver 7 6 C. J. Odom 6 7 P. M. Williams 6 7 N. Q. George 6 6 Non-executive directors J. C. Ivey 7 1 S. J. Neathercoat 7 2 4 1 I. Yeatman to 23rd May 2006 1 1 1 R. A. Farnes 7 2 4 1 S. A. Corbyn from 23rd May 2006 5 1 2 1 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2006 51 Directors report Performance evaluation During 2006, the nominations committee carried out a formal appraisal of the performance of the board and its committees.
The remuneration committee performed appraisals of each of the executive directors, as part of the salary review process.
The performance of the chairman was evaluated by the non-executive directors under the chairmanship of the senior independent director.
All of the appraisals were conducted internally using questionnaires based on the guidance contained in the Higgs Report.
Directors Appointment of a director from outside the company is on the recommendation of the nominations committee, whilst internal promotion is a matter decided by the board unless it is considered appropriate for a recommendation to be requested from the nominations committee.
All new directors must stand for election at the first annual general meeting following their appointment.
Existing directors must submit themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
If considered appropriate, new directors are sent on an external training course addressing their role and duties as a director of a listed public company.
Existing directors monitor their own continued professional development and are encouraged to attend those courses that keep their market and regulatory knowledge current.
All directors have access to the services of the company secretary and any director may instigate an agreed procedure whereby independent professional advice may be sought at the companys expense.
Cover is maintained by the company in respect of directors and ofcers liability insurance.
Communication with shareholders The company has always recognised the importance of clear communication with shareholders.
Regular contact with institutional shareholders and fund managers is maintained, principally by the executive directors, through the giving of presentations and organising visits to the groups property assets.
The board receives regular reports of these meetings.
The annual report, which is sent to all shareholders, reinforces this communication.
The annual general meeting provides an opportunity for shareholders to question the directors and, in particular, the chairman of each of the board committees.
An alternative channel of communication to the board is available through the senior independent director.
Internal control The directors recognise that they have overall responsibility for ensuring that the group maintains a sound system of internal control that provides the board with reasonable assurance regarding the effective and efficient operations, internal financial control and compliance with laws and regulations.
Such a system can only manage business risk, not eliminate it, and cannot provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Accordingly, the system is designed to provide reasonable assurance that material risks and problems are identied and appropriate remedial measures taken on a timely basis.
The board as a whole retains responsibility for the groups system of internal controls and risk management and performs an annual review of the effectiveness of the system.
Following this years review it believes that an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the group has been in place from 1st January 2006 to 20th March 2007.
During the year the board has continued to monitor the operation of the system with a view to further integrating it into the business processes where possible and to ensure that the system is modied to reect changes in the risk environment.
The board has considered the need for an internal audit function but continues to believe that this is unnecessary given the size and complexity of the group.
Going concern Having made due enquiries, the directors have reasonable expectation that the company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Therefore, the board continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Corporate social responsibility CSR The board recognises that the groups activities have an impact on the economy, community and environment within which it operates.
These matters are considered to be the responsibility of the whole board and the potential risks arising therefrom are monitored by the groups system of internal control.
In assessing whether the groups controls are adequate to manage the risks to the group, the board gave due consideration to key characteristics of the groups business i. e. the group does not operate in any countries which have unacceptable human rights records: the group operates from a single ofce in central London: the group manages, refurbishes and redevelops a portfolio of central London properties.
52 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2006 Directors report Accordingly, it continues to believe that formal policies are only required concerning the environment and health and safety, these being the elements of CSR that present significant risks to the group.
Details of the measures taken by the group in 2006 in the areas of environment and health and safety, together with the informal policies adopted in other areas of CSR, are given below.
Environmental awareness The board has produced an environmental policy, and its aim is to carry out its business whilst minimising the impact it has on the environment, by not only meeting the requirements of legal compliance but by moving beyond this with a detailed environmental strategy to engender continuous improvement.
During 2006, the group reviewed all related policies, measured its performance in a number of key areas and set out a series of objectives for the future.
Working towards sustainability Of the portfolio under management, much has either already been refurbished by the group or is included in the pipeline of future projects.
This emphasis on the re-use of existing buildings is by denition intrinsically sustainable as it minimises the use and transport of raw materials in the construction process and avoids using undeveloped land.
Where a building is obsolete, minimising the environmental impact of its redevelopment is given a high priority from the design stage.
The group uses the Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method BREEAM for Ofces as a benchmarking tool.
For major refurbishment projects, a desk top BREEAM assessment is carried out.
The target is to achieve the equivalent of Very Good.
Review of environmental performance Timber Wood and wood based products are used extensively during refurbishment.
The group aims to have an input and influence design decisions to work towards using timber from certied sources only.
Timber use is closely monitored in all projects.
In all cases architects are expected to select materials that can be shown to come from sustainably managed sources and where there is a high possibility of obtaining evidence of certication.
Any hardwoods selected as a feature in the property, which historically would have been from tropical hardwoods, are now selected with this policy in mind.
Using The Johnson Building, a 2006 project, as an example, the group is able to demonstrate that the MDF panel products were FSC certied and the door cores were PEFC certied both of which are recognised certication for the sourcing of sustainable timber.
The suppliers also claim to source the temperate hardwoods tulip and tropical hardwoods sapele from sustainable sources although evidence of certication is awaited from the supply chain.
Ozone depletors A programme of surveying all properties within the portfolio for ozone depleting substances ODS has been carried out.
The ODS survey has shown that whilst no CFCs are present, R22 HCFC22 is present in a number of air conditioning units.
The board recognises that R22 is an ODS and that whilst its continued use is allowed until 2010 for virgin HCFCs and 2015 for recycled HCFCs, it will look to implement a policy to completely phase out the use of this refrigerant.
There are no halon re extinguishing systems within the portfolio.
Energy usage Where a site is redeveloped, energy efficiencies are incorporated in the basic design of the building where possible.
When the group refurbishes existing buildings, limited changes can be made to the external design of the building, but there is scope to modify the internal design and consequently increase energy efficiencies.
Although little control can be exerted over the amount of energy that tenants use, an awareness-raising programme for tenants, highlighting the benets of energy efficiency, has been undertaken.
Complete data sets for energy use for the past four years are available and a lot of variability in total energy use and consequent carbon emissions is visible.
This is a reection of the complexities of the portfolio, with properties at varying stages of refurbishment and levels of occupation.
For 2007, the objective is to identify a method of collating data in a form that will allow meaningful year on year comparison and benchmarking.
Transport The group has included initiatives within the management of its portfolio to encourage the use of bicycles rather than private cars.
Property acquisitions The groups strategy, in line with the current emphasis by the government to build on browneld sites, determines that only city and browneld sites will be acquired for redevelopment.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2006 53 Directors report All the properties purchased are subject to an environmental assessment including an assessment of asbestos content.
A rolling programme of asbestos audits is maintained for the entire portfolio.
Waste The Derwent London approach to waste management operates on two tiers: 1 internally within the groups head ofce and 2 contractor management.
Internally, products that can be recycled have been identied and recycling bins provided throughout 25 Savile Row.
Waste produced during redevelopment is the one area where the group considers itself to have a high impact on the environment, albeit indirectly via contractors.
Given the lack of direct control over this waste production, influence is sought over contractors by establishing a closer working relationship and monitoring quantities of waste produced and percentage recycled.
An example of this approach in 2005 06 is The Johnson Building project at which a total of 1,378 tonnes of construction waste was generated.
This data was recorded by the company which handled all waste arising.
Recycling of waste generated from the managed portfolio started in 2004.
Water Due to the size of the portfolio, it is recognised that water consumption volumes are significant and therefore attempts should be made to minimise usage where possible.
Each building within the portfolio is reviewed with regard to the potential for installing water meters.
This is normally carried out as part of refurbishment and or building realignment.
A copy of the groups environmental policy is available on request and a summary can be found on the groups website.
Health and safety The groups formal health and safety policy is issued to its contractors and professional advisers and is embedded in the management regime for the development sites.
To ensure compliance with the policy, an executive is assigned to each project to monitor the performance of the main contractor who in turn monitors the subcontractors and reports back to the executive.
All sites are registered with, and inspected under, the Considerate Contractor Scheme.
The board receives regular reports from each site together with notication of any accidents that require reporting under the Health and Safety regulations.
The Health and Safety policy is reviewed at regular intervals and revised as necessary.
To ensure continued compliance with the Disability Discrimination Act, new developments are all audited by independent access consultants.
Community society No formal policy has been adopted concerning this aspect of corporate responsibility.
However, the board is aware of the benets to the group of Londons status as a centre of business and that, through sensitive planning and involvement with local initiatives, it can contribute to preserving and enhancing this status.
The group supports the Crossrail link, which represents a major addition to Londons transport infrastructure.
Mr George is a director of the Chancery Lane Society and the group is represented in the New West End Company, The Westminster Property Owners Association, and the Paddington Business Improvement District.
All these bodies address some of the key problems facing London, namely security, planning and transport.
The group also contributes to the Paddington Waterside Partnership.
The group recognised the problems that could be caused by a confrontational relationship between landlord and tenant and was a member of the first group of landlords to adopt a voluntary code which offers tenants more exible leases.
During 2006, the group continued to support Teenage Cancer Trust by providing coordinated advice for the trusts development programme, and sponsored postgraduate students at the London Contemporary Dance School in Camden.
Annual general meeting The notice of meeting includes four resolutions to be considered as special business.
Resolution 12 permits the Company to serve any notice or send or supply any other document or information to a member by making the notice, document or information available on a website or sending or supplying it in electronic form.
Resolution 13 renews the authority under Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 for the directors to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,676,112 representing about one third of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares at the date of the notice of meeting.
The directors have no present intention of issuing shares except on the exercise of options under the companys share option scheme.
The authority will expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting after the passing of the resolution.
54 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2006 Directors report Resolution 14 is a special resolution, proposed annually, renewing the directors authority under Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985.
The resolution empowers the directors to allot or, now that the company may hold shares as treasury shares as further described below, sell shares for cash in connection with pre-emptive offers with modications to the requirements set out in Section 89 of the Companies Act 1985.
The resolution further empowers the directors to allot or, in the case of treasury shares, sell shares for cash, otherwise than on a pre-emptive basis, up to an aggregate nominal value of 251,416.80 which is equivalent to approximately 5% of the issued share capital at 3rd April 2006 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document.
Resolution 15 is proposed to renew the authority enabling the company to purchase its own shares.
This authority enables the directors to act quickly, if, having taken account of all major factors such as the effect on earnings and net asset value per share, gearing levels and alternative investment opportunities, such purchases are considered to be in the companys and shareholders best interest while maintaining an efficient capital structure.
The special resolution gives the directors authority to purchase up to 10% of the companys ordinary shares and species the maximum and minimum prices at which shares may be bought.
The Companies Act 1985 now permits the company to hold any such bought-back shares in treasury, with a view to possible re-issue at a future date, as an alternative to immediately cancelling them as had previously been required by the legislation.
Accordingly, if the company purchases any of its shares pursuant to resolution 15, the company may cancel those shares or hold them in treasury.
Such decision will be made by the directors at the time of purchase on the basis of the companys and shareholders best interest.
As at the date of the notice of meeting, the company held no shares in treasury.
The total number of options to subscribe for ordinary shares outstanding at 20th March 2007 was 1,159,266, which represented 1.15% of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares at that date.
If the company were to purchase the maximum number of ordinary shares permitted by this resolution, the options outstanding at 20th March 2007 would represent 1.28% of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares.
Auditors BDO Stoy Hayward LLP have expressed the willingness to continue in ofce and, accordingly, a resolution to re-appoint them and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the annual general meeting.
This is resolution 11 set out in the notice of meeting.
By order of the board T. J. Kite ACA Secretary 20th March 2007 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2006 55
