Directors R. A. Rayne, 57 Non-executive chairman The Hon R A Rayne joined the board following the merger with London Merchant Securities plc where he had been chief executive since 2001.
He has been on the boards of a number of public companies, including First Leisure Corporation plc and Crown Sports plc and is currently chief executive officer of LMS Capital plc, a company listed on AIM.
He is also a non-executive director of Weatherford International Inc. an international oil services company quoted on the New York Stock Exchange, and chairman of Energy Cranes International Limited.
J. C. Ivey, 65 Non-executive deputy chairman A chartered accountant, Mr Ivey is a director of RWS Holdings plc and was formerly chief executive of The Davis Service Group plc.
He has served on the board since 1984 and chairs the nominations committee.
J. D. Burns, 62 Chief executive officer Mr Burns has been a director of the company since 1984 and has overall responsibility for group strategy, business development and day-to-day operations.
He is a non-executive director of The Davis Service Group plc and a partner in Pilcher Hershman & Partners, estate agents.
S. P. Silver, 56 Mr Silver has overall responsibility for acquisitions, design and development projects.
He became a director in 1986 and is also a partner in Pilcher Hershman & Partners.
C. J. Odom, 56 Mr Odom joined the board in 1988.
He is a chartered accountant and has overall responsibility for financial strategy, treasury, taxation and financial reporting.
N. Q. George, 43 A chartered surveyor, Mr George was appointed to the board in 1998.
He has responsibility for acquisitions and investment analysis.
P. M. Williams, 47 Mr Williams is a chartered surveyor and was appointed to the board in 1998.
His responsibilities include asset management and supervision of refurbishment and development projects.
N. R. Friedlos, 49 Mr Friedlos joined the board following the merger with London Merchant Securities plc, where he had been a director since 2003.
Previously, he was a partner at  from 1992 to 1998 and finance director for Land Securities Trillium from 1998 to 2002.
S. J. Neathercoat, 58 Senior independent director Mr Neathercoat is a chartered accountant.
He joined the board in March 1999 and chairs the audit committee whilst serving on the remuneration and nominations committees.
He was previously a managing director of Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein.
R. A. Farnes, 61 Non-executive director Mr Farnes is a chartered surveyor.
He was previously the chairman of CB Hillier Parker and joined the board on 1st April 2003.
He chairs the remuneration committee and is a member of the audit and nominations committees.
S. A. Corbyn, 62 Non-executive director Mr Corbyn was appointed to the board in May 2006.
He is also chief executive of the Cadogan Estate, one of the principal private estates in London, and a former president of the British Property Federation.
J. fide Moller, 59 Non-executive director Mrs fide Moller joined the board following the merger with London Merchant Securities plc, where she had been a non-executive director since 2002.
She is a non-executive director of Temple Bar Investment Trust plc and Archant Limited.
Previously, she was managing director of Carlton Communications Plc and a non-executive director of Cookson Group plc, BT plc, AWG plc and J Sainsbury plc.
D. Newell, 64 Non-executive director Mr Newell joined the board following the merger with London Merchant Securities plc, where he had been a non-executive director since 1998.
Mr Newell was senior partner of Hillier Parker May & Rowden until 1998, co-chairman of the Europe, Middle East and Africa division of CB Richard Ellis Services Inc until December 2000 and a past president of the British Council of Ofces.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2006 67
