Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2006 35 Report of the directors Business review 1 April 2006 and 24 May 2006.
No director had any interest in The principal business of the Group is the investment in, and the Companys debenture stock, convertible bonds or loan development of, freehold and leasehold properties.
A review notes, nor in the shares of any subsidiary undertaking, or of the performance and development of the Groups business contract with the Company or any subsidiary undertaking other during the year including KPIs, its position at the year end and than service contracts during the year.
its prospects is set out in the sections covering our business and financial position on pages 20 to 29.
A description of the Significant shareholdings principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group can be found As at 12 May 2006, the Company had been notified of the on page 38. following beneficial or discretionary interests amounting to 3% or more of the issued share capital: The purpose of the Annual Report is to provide information to Number the members of the Company.
The Annual Report contains of shares % certain forward-looking statements with respect to operations, Garville Limited acting as performance and financial condition of the Group.
By their general partner to the nature, these statements involve uncertainty since future events Giraffe Limited Partnership 41,484,528 25.43 and circumstances can cause results and developments to differ from those anticipated.
Nothing in this Annual Report M&G Investment should be construed as a profit forecast.
Management Limited 10,119,222 6.20 Henderson Global Investors Limited 8,036,781 4.93 Results and dividends for the year Stichting Pensioenfonds ABP 6,547,810 4.01 The Group results for the year are set out on page 48.
Barclays PLC 6,141,728 3.76 An interim dividend of 3.67 pence per share was paid on 4 January 2006, and the directors propose to pay a final Legal & General dividend of 7.33 pence per share, making a total of 11 pence Investment Management Limited 5,872,685 3.60 per share for the year ended 31 March 2006.
If approved by the F&C Asset Management plc 5,382,773 3.30 shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on Owned by real estate private equity funds managed by subsidiaries of Morgan Stanley.
6 July 2006, the proposed dividend will be paid on 11 July 2006.
Freehold and leasehold properties Directors A valuation of the Groups investment property portfolio at Anthony Graham retired as a director on 8 July 2005 and 31 March 2006 was carried out by CB Richard Ellis on the Phillip Rose was appointed a director on 11 April 2005. basis of market value which amounted to 1,015.2 million, the John Whiteley resigned as a director on 31 July 2005 and difference between the book value of 1,023.7 million and the Timon Drakesmith was appointed a director on 12 September market value relates to the capitalisation of finance leases.
The other directors whose names appear on page 34 No account has been taken of any additional value which may served as directors of the Company throughout the year to be attributed to the portfolio if it were to be grouped judiciously 31 March 2006.
Toby Courtauld and John Edgcumbe are the prior to sale.
directors retiring by rotation at the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, the Board is recommending that they offer Annual General Meeting themselves up for reappointment.
Mr Edgcumbe has served The Notice of Meeting on pages 72 to 73 sets out the on the Board for six years and his re-election for a further term resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
is being sought to ensure a smooth transition whilst a new Resolutions 1 to 8 comprise ordinary business and resolutions non-executive director is appointed.
Consequently, he is likely 9 to 13 special business.
to serve for only a short additional period.
As a non-executive director Mr Edgcumbe does not have a service contract.
Resolution 9 will seek to approve amendments to the rules Mr Drakesmith will retire pursuant to Article 103 and, being of the Great Portland Estates Long-Term Incentive Plan the eligible, will offer himself for reappointment.
The amendments to the LTIP will: i increase the maximum annual award potential from 125% to 150% of a Directors shareholdings participants base salary: ii allow awards to vest upon a At 31 March 2006 At 31 March 2005 participant ceasing to be a director or employee of the number of number of Companys group by reason of retirement, subject to the shares shares satisfaction of the applicable performance conditions: Richard Peskin and family iii provide that where an award is capable of vesting upon beneficial 200,000 1,160,000 a participant ceasing to be a director or employee of the Companys group that award will normally vest on the third trustee 198,000 798,000 anniversary of grant unless in exceptional circumstances the Toby Courtauld 20,000 20,000 Remuneration Committee allows it to vest on the date of Robert Noel 29,600 29,600 cessation: and iv provide that participants in the LTIP will be Timon Drakesmith 31,000 entitled to receive a payment in cash and or shares on or shortly following the vesting of their award of an amount John Edgcumbe and family 36,800 36,800 equivalent to the dividends that would have been paid on the Kathleen ODonovan 800 800 vested shares between the date of grant and the date of Charles Irby 3,000 3,000 vesting.
In addition, the performance conditions applying to Phillip Rose 2,000 awards made under the LTIP after the AGM will be changed.
Further details of the proposed amendments to the LTIP and Or at date of appointment.
the LTIP performance conditions are given in the Directors All directors shareholdings are in ordinary shares and are remuneration report found on pages 42 and 46 of the beneficial, unless otherwise stated.
There have been no Annual Report and in the Circular dated 2 June which changes in the shareholdings of any director between accompanies the Notice of AGM.
36 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2006 Report of the directors Resolution 10 will seek to approve the establishment of a new The Board has responsibility for the approval of policy relating long-term incentive arrangement the Great Portland Estates to social, environmental and health and safety matters, and is Share Matching Plan 2006 the SMP.
determined to apply high standards to social, environmental and ethical issues in all areas in which the Group operates.
Further details of the proposed new SMP are given in the The Board receives an annual report from the Corporate Social Directors remuneration report found on page 44 of the Responsibility Committee, chaired by the Property Director, Annual Report and in the Circular dated 2 June which Robert Noel, and regular reports from the Health and Safety accompanies the Notice of AGM.
and the Environmental Executive Committees also chaired Resolution 11 will seek to renew the authority for the directors by Mr Noel.
to allot up to 54,339,573 ordinary shares, representing 33.3% of The Company is a member of the FTSE4Good UK index, the existing issued share capital of the Company at 24 May a benchmark index of companies which meets criteria 2006.
The directors have no present intention of exercising the set down by EIRIS Ethical Investment Research Service authority, if granted.
on environmental, social and corporate governance Resolution 12 will seek to authorise the directors to allot equity performance, takes part in the Business in the Communitys securities for cash including any shares held in treasury up to annual Corporate Social Responsibility survey, which is an aggregate nominal amount of 1,019,886 representing 5% independently verified by Buroveritas and in 2006 was of the existing issued share capital of the Company at 24 May included in Business in the Communitys Top 100 Companies 2006 in respect of rights and other pre-emptive issues, in each for corporate responsibility.
case as if the pre-emption requirements of section 89 of the Companies Act 1985 did not apply.
Ethics policy All employees receive a copy of the Companys Ethics Policy Resolution 13 will seek to renew the authority enabling the which sets out the Companys core values and approaches Company to purchase its own shares in respect of 24,460,967 in its relations with tenants and the local community, shares representing 14.99% of the issued share capital of the shareholders and other investors, employees, suppliers, Company at 24 May 2006.
The directors intend to exercise and the government.
this authority if to do so would, in their opinion, enhance shareholder value.
If Resolution 13 is passed at the Annual Investors General Meeting, the Company will have the option of holding The Board believes in the importance of effective as treasury shares any of its own shares that it purchases communication.
The Company seeks to improve investors pursuant to the authority conferred by this resolution.
and potential investors understanding of its objectives, This would give the Company the ability to sell treasury strategy and performance.
In the year to 31 March 2006 over shares, providing the Company with additional flexibility in the 85 presentations were made by a combination of the Chief management of its capital base.
No dividends will be paid on Executive, Property and Finance Directors in order to explain shares whilst held in treasury and no voting rights will attach the Companys business and financial performance and to to the treasury shares.
Whilst in treasury, the shares are answer questions.
All such meetings are conducted within the treated as if cancelled.
Any shares purchased by the Company guidance provided by the UKLA Listing and Disclosure Rules on under this authority would be cancelled unless the shares are the dissemination of price sensitive information.
being purchased by the Company to hold and re-sell as treasury shares.
The maximum number of ordinary shares The Company subscribes to the London Stock Exchanges which may be purchased under the proposed authority will be Corporate Responsibility Exchange, an online platform 24,460,967.
The price paid for ordinary shares will not be less designed to meet the corporate responsibility requirements of 1 than the nominal value of 12 2 pence per share and not more institutional investors and fund managers.
than the higher of 5% above the average of the middle market The Companys approach to corporate governance is set out on quotations of the Companys ordinary shares as derived from pages 39 to 41. the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days preceding the day on which the ordinary shares Property industry are purchased and the amount stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Directors and senior management are encouraged to represent Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003. the Companys views and contribute towards the development There were no purchases of shares by the Company during the of the property industry.
Toby Courtauld is on the Board of the year.
At 31 March 2006, the number of shares which may be Central London Partnership and a member of the Policy purchased under the shareholders authority given at the 2005 Committee of the British Property Federation BPF with the Annual General Meeting was 24,354,974 and the number of Company actively supporting BPF initiatives such as the Code shares in issue was 163,181,906. of Practice for Commercial Leases in England and Wales.
Robert Noel is on the Council of the Westminster Property At 24 May 2006, the Company held no shares in treasury.
Owners Association and on the Management Board of the New The authorities granted under Resolutions 11, 12 and 13 will West End Company, a formal Business Improvement District expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting encompassing Bond Street, Oxford Street and Regent Street.
or on 5 October 2007, whichever is the earlier.
Tenants and the community Corporate responsibility The Company recognises that local initiatives are important in Great Portland Estates recognises the importance of its impact enhancing various aspects which serve to improve and promote on society and the environment through its operations and central London, and supports a number of groups including interaction with its key stakeholders, including investors, The Westminster Property Owners Association, London First employees, communities, customers and suppliers.
and the New West End Company in their work to address issues such as planning, transport and security.
In respect of the New West End Company, the Company has made voluntary contributions to match those of the Companys tenants.
Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2006 Report of the directors 37 Principal contractors on all developments and major All accidents, incidents and near misses occurring in areas refurbishments are required to be members of the Considerate managed by the Group are recorded and reported and Contractors Scheme.
The Disability Discrimination Act is appropriate action is taken.
A formal investigation of all considered as an integral part of all new schemes and serious accidents is conducted by the Safety, Health and refurbishments, and the Company has an action plan to Environmental Manager.
During the year ended 31 March address, where appropriate, areas not currently compliant.
2006, there was one reportable accident arising from the Groups activities.
The Company has continued with its tradition of encouraging staff to be involved in, and of supporting their, charitable Environment activities.
In particular, the Company targets charities involved The Company is committed to effective environmental in health, the homeless and the community, and, where management, and regards regulatory compliance as a practicable, allows temporarily vacant buildings to be occupied, minimum standard.
An Environmental Policy Statement is at no cost, by charities seeking premises.
In September 2005, in reviewed annually by the Board and may be viewed on the partnership with Westminster Education Authority a Primary Companys website, www.
The Companys School Volunteer scheme was established with St. Vincents Environmental Management System is controlled and school in Marylebone and 20% of the Companys employees administered by the Safety, Health and Environmental now participate in helping pupils at the school to learn to read.
Manager, and audited by external consultants on a regular On its move to 33 Cavendish Square the Company also donated basis.
The management system comprises of detailed IT equipment, office furniture and supplies for use by the school.
checklists based upon legislation requirements and best practice measures, and is used to monitor energy and water Employees consumption.
In order to monitor our contractors compliance Our employees are a key resource of our business and we seek with environmental legislation and to ensure the energy to attract and retain the best people through competitive efficiency of our plant and equipment, maintenance contractors remuneration and benefits packages.
The Company is are required to confirm that agreed environmental protection committed to equal opportunities, and employees are checks have been carried out.
External consultants are encouraged to develop their skills.
To facilitate this, each used to provide the Company with accurate information on employee is regularly appraised with a view to maximising his energy and water usage and are instructed to monitor any or her potential and contribution and a formal training fluctuations in consumption and to ensure that supplies programme of both external courses and in-house seminars is are re-tendered annually.
The Company encourages career development through the provision of relevant training with funding and study An Environmental Executive Committee chaired by the Property leave to support professional development.
Meetings involving Director, meets on a quarterly basis, and reports to the Board all employees are held on a quarterly basis to keep them annually.
The Committee monitors the Groups compliance with informed of matters affecting the Group and to act as a forum environmental legislation and best practice across the portfolio, for the executive directors to answer questions.
and agrees procedures to be followed on key environmental issues.
The Groups environmental objectives and targets, Health and safety and Environmental Management Plan and clearly allocated Great Portland Estates is committed to managing health and responsibilities, have been developed in line with the Groups safety to a consistently high standard.
All employees are given key aspects and impacts identified through our Environmental specific training, where appropriate, and the Group employs a Management System.
Key environmental areas for the Group Safety, Health and Environmental Manager, reporting directly include energy and water consumption, waste management, to the Property Director, Robert Noel, to manage and review water and air pollution, ozone depletion, contractor and tenant health and safety compliance.
A Health and Safety Management awareness, and the environmental impact of developments and System designed to comply with ISO 19001 requirements is major refurbishments.
Energy audits are also undertaken to maintained for all properties managed by the Group, and ensure that energy savings are identified and implemented.
includes on-site inspections by external consultants, reviews of All property acquisitions are subject to an environmental audit: risk assessments, and a regular update of procedures at least major developments are also subject to BREEAM with a target on an annual basis.
A Health and Safety Executive Committee to achieve a Very Good rating and a sustainability report is which is chaired by Mr Noel meets on a quarterly basis, and commissioned at the appropriate stage for all developments monitors performance, the achievement of key objectives, the and major refurbishments.
A refurbishment policy including results of safety audits and inspections, changes in legislation, the re-use and efficient recycling of materials is in place to the development of new procedures, and the allocation of address the environmental impact of our developments and resources to Health and Safety.
refurbishments, and is sent to all parties involved with major Detailed surveys are undertaken prior to acquisition of works on behalf of the Company.
The policy can be viewed on new properties to ensure that where possible hazardous www.
Consultants and contractors are required to materials are identified and are dealt with as soon as comply with its contents and a questionnaire is completed by practicable on completion.
the scheme Project Manager at the end of a project as a way to ensure standards are maintained.
As one of the significant Health and Safety risks to the business is the control of contractors, a contractor and consultant An environmental guidance note explaining the Groups selection scheme is in place, under which all contractors and environmental procedures is distributed to all tenants on an consultants are vetted for their Health and Safety performance annual basis to encourage them to adopt similar standards.
At our construction sites, our Safety, Health All contractors and consultants are required to comply with the and Environmental Manager liaises closely with Planning refurbishment policy during refurbishment and development Supervisors and Project Managers to ensure regular monitoring work and on all developments and refurbishments processes and review is undertaken to provide effective health and safety exist to ensure efficient recycling of materials.
Environmental management of our development projects.
This includes site guidance and a purchasing policy are provided to employees visits with regular feedback to our in-house Project Managers.
through the Groups Policies and Procedures Manual.
38 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2006 Report of the directors Environmental training is included in employees induction Attracting and retaining the right people training.
Employees are also given training on environmental Achieving the Companys aims requires people of the highest issues pertinent to their work, including sustainability in calibre.
Attracting and retaining the right people is, therefore, construction, general environmental awareness and training key.
To achieve this the Company has a remuneration system on the Environmental Management System.
Waste generated that is strongly linked to performance and a formal appraisal at our offices is recycled with 93% of rubbish collected at system to provide regular assessment of individual 33 Cavendish Square recycled, 6% incinerated and 1% going performance and the identification of training needs.
Wherever possible, recycling schemes are implemented at properties where waste collection facilities Financing and treasury risk are provided.
The Group faces liquidity, interest rate and counterparty risks in managing its funding.
An updated Treasury Policy has been Business risks recently implemented which includes objectives to: The key business risks facing the Company are considered in n regularly monitor the Groups cash flow and funding needs detail by the Board as part of the Groups annual strategy under different market and operational scenarios: review, and the resulting potential impacts and mitigation n thereof are monitored at board meetings throughout the year.
increase the availability of undrawn credit facilities to Day-to-day monitoring of the Groups risks is also undertaken maximise flexibility: by the Executive Committee and is subject to regular review by n diversify the Groups funding sources across a range of bank the Audit Committee.
Key risks facing the business and the and bond markets: processes in place by which the Company aims to manage n those risks are: manage funding maturities across the short-, mediumand long-term: Market risk n maintain the proportion of floating rate interest exposure The Company operates within its stated strategy of being a between 20-40% of forecast total interest cost: and central London specialist.
Central London has a diverse real n estate market although it is geographically limited and like all operate strict counterparty limits on deposits.
real estate markets is cyclical in nature.
Its performance depends on a combination of supply and demand for floor Creditor payment policy space as well as the overall return aspirations of investors.
It is the Companys policy that suppliers be paid in accordance The Company has a dedicated resource whose remit is to with those terms and conditions agreed between the Company constantly research each of the sub-markets within central and the supplier, provided that all trading terms and conditions London seeking the right balance of investment and have been complied with.
For the year ended 31 March 2006, development opportunities suitable for current and anticipated the average payment period for trade creditors was 25 days market conditions.
Opportunities within the Groups existing 2005: 25 days.
portfolio are actively worked on to ensure their maximum potential by both the asset management and development Charitable and other donations teams.
Both these aspects of the business are reviewed on During the year the Company made donations for charitable a weekly basis by the Executive Committee consisting of the purposes amounting to 99,700: no contributions for political Chief Executive, the Property Director, the Finance Director purposes were made.
and the Head of Development.
Statement as to disclosure of information to auditors The impact of changes in legislation particularly in respect of Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of taxation and the obtaining of planning permissions this report confirms that: The Company is an active participant in various industry n so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit representative bodies, including the British Property information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: Federation, which participate directly in discussions with the and: Government to understand and, if possible, influence the n direction and content of legislative proposals.
In addition, the director has taken all steps that ought to have been taken through both the use of experienced professional advisors and as a director in order to be made aware of any relevant audit direct contact, senior Group executives spend considerable information and to establish that the Companys auditors are amounts of time ensuring that the Companys structure aware of the information.
continues to be appropriate within the changing tax By order of the Board environment and that relationships with planning authorities are developed in the proper manner.
Developments The Companys development projects are managed by an inhouse team consisting of development management, project management and letting specialists.
They are supported by a Desna Martin wide range of leading advisors and specialists with the Secretary overriding objective of delivering an acceptable risk adjusted return for each project.
Managing construction contracts, the 24 May 2006 timing of development completions and the commercial terms of lettings are all key components of the success of the Groups development programme and progress is continually monitored to seek to improve against the expected returns.
