34 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2006 Directors Richard Peskin MA, LLM Toby Courtauld MA, MRICS Robert Noel BSc, MRICS Timon Drakesmith BSc, FCA Chairman, Non-Executive Chief Executive Property Director Finance Director Joined the Company in 1967, With MEPC from 1991 to 2002, A director of Nelson Bakewell Formerly Group Director of appointed to the Board in 1968 joined the Group and appointed from 1992 to 2002, joined the Financial Operations at Novar plc, and Chairman since 1986. to the Board in 2002.
A nonGroup and appointed to the Board previously with Credit Suisse and A non-executive director of Royal & executive director of Liv-ex, and a in 2002.
A member of New West Barclays.
Joined the Group and Sun Alliance, London Board, and member of the Policy Committee End Company Management Board appointed to the Board in 2005. formerly a member of the General of the British Property Federation.
and a Member of the Council of the Member of the Finance Committee Council of the British Property Aged 38.
Westminster Property Owners of the British Property Federation.
Federation and the Estates Association.
Committee of the M. C. C. Aged 62.
KathleenODonovanBSc Econ, FCA Charles Irby FCA John Edgcumbe BSc, FRICS Phillip Rose MA, FSIA, MSI Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-executive director and Chairman of Aberdeen Asset A non-executive director of Tilfen Chief Executive Officer of Alpha member of the Audit Committees Management and a non-executive Land, and formerly a partner of, Real Capital and a non-executive of Prudential and EMI and director of North Atlantic Smaller and a non-executive director of, director of Hermes Property Unit Chairman of the Invensys Companies Investment Trust and Hillier Parker and HSBC Property Trust.
Head of Real Estate for Pension Fund Trustee Board.
ABN Amro from 2002 to 2005 and Previously a non-executive director the Board in 2004.
Appointed to the Board in 1999. formerly Chief Operating Officer of and Chairman of the Audit Aged 62.
TrizecHahn Europe and Managing Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of the Court of the Director of Lend Lease Global Committee and Member of the Member of the Remuneration Bank of England and a nonAudit Committee.
Member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Chairman of the Nomination and Audit Committees and Member of the Remuneration Committee.
