Seniormanagement UK 1 Andrew Locke Director Dunc n Be rdsley Group Treasurer 9 Phil Groom Director, Human 12 John Mulqueen Director, London Group Development Duncan joined Hammerson in 1996 Resources Investment Management Andrew joined Hammerson in as Group Treasurer and is responsible Phil has spent the last ten years London Group 2005 and was recently appointed for raising finance and treasury risk in Human Resources and joined John joined Hammerson in 2003 from Director of Development within management.
He oversees the Hammerson in 2005.
Prior to joining Liverpool Victoria Asset Management.
the London Group assuming groups investments in Value Retail the Company he held HR roles at He was appointed Director of additional responsibility for the and its projects.
Schering Plough and Racal Electronics.
Investment Management within office development portfolio.
the London Group in February 2007.
Andrew Thomson Information 10 Nick H rdie UK Finance Director John is responsible for maximising 2 J mes Aitchison Director Systems Director Nick joined Hammerson in 1995 and value within the central London of Taxation Andrew joined Hammerson in 1994 is a director of the UK Board.
He spent office portfolio and new business James has been Hammersons Director as Property Analyst.
He was appointed eight years at Marks & Spencer in opportunities.
of Taxation for nine years having to his current role of Information a number of roles, latterly as Group previously worked for another leading Systems Director in 2005 and joined Financial Planning Manager.
Prior to 13 Chris Smith Director of property company.
He is Chairman of the UK Board in June 2006. that he spent three years at United Corporate Affairs the British Property Federation Tax Biscuits.
Chris joined Hammerson in 1990 Jon Emery Managing Director, Committee and played a leading role as Director of Corporate Affairs.
UK Development 11 Vinod Th kr r Director, in the introduction of UK REITs.
He has responsibility for the Since joining Hammerson in 1989, Project Management Companys corporate communications 3 Stu rt H ydon Company Secretary Jon has been responsible for Vinod joined Hammerson in 1994 programme and marketing activities.
Stuart joined Hammerson in 1992 managing several of the groups major as Senior Project Manager on the His early career was spent in the and was appointed Company developments including The Oracle, refurbishment and extension of Brent City and he subsequently held senior Secretary in 1996.
He is responsible Reading and Bullring, Birmingham.
In 2005 he roles in a number of advertising for the groups statutory obligations He was appointed Head of UK was promoted to Director of Project and corporate communications and corporate governance.
Prior to Development and Construction in Management focusing on the groups consultancies.
joining Hammerson he held company March 2005 and is a director of the developments in Bristol, Leicester secretarial positions at other UK Board.
14 Andrew Berger-North Director, companies in the financial sector.
Retail Parks 8 Sheil King Director, Retail Leasing Andrew joined Hammerson in 2003 4 W rren Austin Group Sheila joined Hammerson in 1994 and was appointed Director, Retail Financial Controller from Capital Shopping Centres and Parks in 2005.
Andrew is responsible Warren spent five years with Coopers is responsible for leasing across for all aspects of the retail parks & Lybrand in London before joining the UK retail portfolio and for portfolio, including acquisitions, Hammerson in 1995.
At Hammerson letting strategies for all new retail disposals, development and asset he is responsible for financial reporting developments.
3 1 4 2 11 13 9 12 10 8 14 14 AnnualReport2006 France V ness Forster Director, Retail Asset 1 Mich el Krief Director, IT 18 Je n-Louis Coqu nd Director, 22 M rie-Fr noise Cholin Director, Management not pictured Michael joined Hammerson in 2002 Retail Development Retail Letting Vanessa joined Hammerson in 1995 as MIS Manager and was appointed Jean-Louis was appointed Director, Marie-Francoise joined Hammerson and was appointed Director of Retail Director of IT for France in 2004.
He is in 1998 as Retail Letting Manager, Asset Management in 2002.
She is responsible for the developments working on Les 3 Fontaines, Espce 1 V lrie Courtecuisse Director, responsible for the asset management at Parinor and Villebon 2.
Saint-Quentin, Les 3 Quartiers and Acquisitions of the UK shopping centre portfolio.
She was appointed Retail Valrie joined Hammerson in October 19 Je n-Philippe Mouton Director Letting Director in 2004.
Bruce Isles Director, Retail 2006 as Director, Acquisitions.
She of Operations, France Development not pictured began her career with Bouygues in Jean-Philippe joined Hammerson 23 Olivier M rguin Director, Bruce joined Hammerson in 2001 the UK in 1999 before transferring in 2003 as Managing Director of Mixed Buildings Asset Management having previously been a partner to France.
In February Olivier was appointed Director, of Donaldsons, Chartered Surveyors.
2006 he was appointed Director of Mixed Buildings Asset Management 1 D vid Seg rd Director, He is responsible for the UK city Operations and is in charge of the in February 2006 having joined Retail Parks centre retail development pipeline.
management of the French portfolio.
Hammerson in 2004 as Office David was appointed Retail Parks Letting Director.
He is 20 L urent S nti go Director, responsible for the creation and Project Management Ingrid J nssen Director, management of a retail parks Laurent joined Hammerson in Communications and Marketing portfolio.
Prior to joining the 1997 as Project Manager and not pictured Company, David spent seven years was appointed Director, Project Ingrid was appointed Director, with Immochan as Retail Parks Management in 2001.
He has Communications and Marketing Director for the northern area managed most of Hammersons in 2002 having joined Hammerson of France.
in 1999 as Marketing and Communications Manager.
21 Eddie Bohbot Director, Retail Management Eddie began his career with Habitat France, subsequently joining Immobilire Carrefour, Segc and SNCF.
He joined Hammerson in 2005 as Director, Retail Management with responsibility for management of the French shopping centres.
