BoardofDirectors 4 2 1 3 1 John Nelson FCA, Ch irm n 3 D vid Atkins BSc, MRICS John Nelson, a Chartered Accountant, David Atkins, a Chartered Surveyor, was appointed Chairman in 2005 joined the Company in 1998 and and is a member of the Remuneration was appointed to the Board of the Committee and Chairman of the Companys UK business in 2003.
He is Deputy was appointed an Executive Director Chairman of Kingfisher plc, a nonof Hammerson on 1 January 2007 executive director of BT Group plc and is responsible for the groups UK and Senior Advisor to Charterhouse retail properties.
In addition, he is Capital Partners LLP.
responsible for insurance and health and safety throughout the group.
2 John Rich rds BSc, FRICS, Chief Executive 4 John Cl re CBE, BSc John Richards, a Chartered Surveyor, John Clare was appointed a Nonjoined the Company in 1981 as Executive Director of Hammerson a development surveyor and was in 1999 and is a member of the appointed a Director of the Company Audit, Nomination and Remuneration in 1990.
He was responsible for the Committees.
He is Chief Executive Companys UK operations from 1993 of DSG International plc.
He will to 1998 and was appointed Chief become the Senior Independent Executive of Hammerson in 1999.
Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in May 2007.
12 AnnualReport2006 12 8 9 11 13 10 John B rton CA, MBA John Byw ter FRICS 9 Gr rd Dev ux HEC, FRICS 12 Anthony W tson BSc Econ, John Barton was appointed a NonJohn Bywater, a Chartered Surveyor, Grard Devaux was appointed an B rrister t L w, ASIP, FSI Hon Executive Director of Hammerson joined Hammerson as an Executive Executive Director of Hammerson in Tony Watson was appointed a Nonin 1998 and is the Senior Director in 1998 having previously 1999.
He is Chairman of Hammersons Executive Director on 1 February Independent Director, Chairman been a partner of Donaldsons.
He continental Europe Management 2006 and is a member of the of the Remuneration Committee is Chairman of Hammersons UK Board.
He joined the Company in Remuneration Committee.
He will and a member of the Nomination Management Board.
He will be retiring 1986 as general manager and a become a member of the Nomination Committee.
He will be retiring from from the Board on 31 March 2007. director of the groups operations Committee in May 2007.
He was the Board at the Annual General He is a non-executive director in France, assuming responsibility for formerly Chief Executive of Hermes Meeting on 3 May 2007.
He is of Workspace Group plc, British operations in continental Europe in Pensions Management.
He is Chairman of Next plc and a nonWaterways Board and West 1999.
He is a director of the National Chairman of the Strategic Investment executive director of WH Smith plc.
Council of Shopping Centres in France.
Board Northern Ireland, a member of the Financial Reporting Council, a nonPeter Cole BSc, MRICS 8 D vid Edmonds CBE, D. Litt, BA 10 John Hirst BA, FCA, ACT, CCMI executive director of Witan Peter Cole, a Chartered Surveyor, David Edmonds was appointed a NonJohn Hirst, a Chartered Accountant, Investment Trust PLC and Vodafone joined the Company in 1989 as a Executive Director of Hammerson in joined the Board as a Non-Executive Group plc and Chairman of Marks & senior development surveyor and 2003 and is a member of the Audit Director in 2004 and is Chairman of Spencer Pension Trust.
was appointed to the Board of the Committee.
He acts as Chairman to the Audit Committee.
He is Chairman Companys UK business in 1993.
He the Hammerson Pension Fund of ASBISc Enterprises plc and of the 13 Simon Melliss BA, FCA was appointed an Executive Director Trustees.
He is a non-executive Trustees of the Fund for Epilepsy.
Simon Melliss, a Chartered of Hammerson in 1999 and is director of Wincanton plc, William Hill Accountant, joined the Company 11 J cques Espin sse BBA, MBA Managing Director Group Investment plc and Keele University Science and in 1991 as group financial controller, Jacques Espinasse has been appointed and Development.
He is a general Business Park Limited and is Chairman having worked in various financial as a Non-Executive Director and a council member and past President of NHS Direct and NHS Shared positions for other companies and member of the Audit Committee with of the City Property Association.
He is a member was appointed Group Finance effect from 1 May 2007.
He is Chief of the Legal Services Commission.
He is a member Financial Officer of Vivendi and a nonof the Committee of Management executive director of SFR, Maroc of Hermes Property Unit Trust.
Telecom, Universal Music Group, Canal France, SES-Global and LBPAM.
