G F Page CBE, DL, MA, FRAeS, DSc held senior finance positions at British Airways plc and was 7.
J W Edington PhD, DSc, FIM, FREng Non-executive Chairman deputy group financial director of Cable and Wireless plc.
Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Appointed to the Board in 1990, Gordon Page, age 63, joined Appointed to the Board as a Non-executive Director in 2002 Appointed to the Board as a Non-executive Director in 1996 the Group as managing director of Flight Refuelling Limited 4.
A J Stevens BSc, CEng, FIET, FRAeS and first elected by shareholders in 2003, Peter Hooley, who and first elected by shareholders in 1997, Jeff Edington, age having previously been Commercial Director military engines Chief Operating Officer is a chartered accountant, is aged 60 and was group finance 67, was, until his retirement, executive director, technology of Rolls-Royce plc.
He was appointed Deputy Chief Executive Appointed to the Board in 2003, Andy Stevens, age 50, joined director of Smith & Nephew plc until mid-2006.
During the with Corus Group plc formerly British Steel plc where he in 1991, Chief Executive in 1992 and chairman in November the Group as managing director of the Aerospace Systems year he was appointed non-executive chairman of BSNmedical had responsibility for product and process technology, the 2001.
He is Chairman of the Department of Trade and Group.
Prior to joining he qualified as a chartered engineer Luxembourg Holdings Sarl a group engaged in medical textile environment and information technology.
Prior to joining Industrys Industrial Development Advisory Board, nonat Dowty Group and subsequently became chief operating products.
Previously he was a non-executive director of British Steel in 1992, he was vice-president, research and executive chairman of Hamworthy plc, FKI plc and Air Tanker officer of Messier Dowty International before joining Powell Duffryn plc from 1997 to 2000.
He is Chairman of the technology at Alcan Aluminium Limited based in Montreal.
Holdings Limited and a director of Lockheed Martin UK Rolls-Royce as managing director, defence aerospace.
He audit committee and also a member of the nomination and He is chairman of RecovCo Limited, a technology-driven Holdings Limited.
He is president of the Royal Aeronautical was appointed Chief Operating Officer in September 2005. remuneration committees.
recycling company, and a member of Cobhams nomination, Society and is a past-president of The Society of British audit and remuneration committees.
Aerospace Companies Ltd and of the Chartered Management 5.
J S Patterson MBChB, FRCP, Fmed Sci Institute.
He is Chairman of the nomination committee.
Group Managing Director, Cobham Services Independent Non-executive Director 10.
M H Ronald CBE, BA, BScEE, MScEE Appointed to the Board in 2002, Alex Hannam, age 61, joined Appointed to the Board as a Non-executive Director in Independent Non-executive Director 2.
A E Cook BSc, CEng, FRAeS the Group as managing director of FR Aviation Group Limited 2005, John Patterson, age 59, qualified in medicine Appointed to the Board as a Non-executive Director in Chief Executive in that year.
Prior to joining, he was managing director of in 1971 and obtained a Membership now Fellowship 2007, Mark Ronald, age 65, will be proposed for election Appointed to the Board in 2001, Allan Cook, age 57, joined Alenia Marconis radar systems division, a position he had held of the Royal College of Physicians in 1974.
He joined ICI by shareholders at the 2007 AGM.
He was, until his the Group from BAE Systems where he was group managing since 1995.
He is responsible to the Board for the performance now AstraZeneca in 1975 and in December 2004 John retirement at the end of 2006, chief operating officer of director of programmes and managing director of Eurofighter.
of the Cobham Services Division.
was appointed to the main Board as executive director BAE Systems plc and chief executive officer of BAE Systems He was formerly group managing director of GEC-Marconi responsible for development.
He is a director of the Inc, its wholly-owned US subsidiary.
Previously he was viceAvionics and chief executive of Hughes Aircraft Europe.
M Beresford CBE, MAMechSc, FIEE British Pharma Group and is a former President of the president, program management with Litton Industries and He is also a vice-president of the Society of British Aerospace Independent Non-executive Director Association of the British Pharmaceutical Industry, a former chief operating officer of AEL Industries.
Mark is currently a Companies Ltd.
He is a member of the nomination committee.
Appointed to the Board as a Non-executive Director and first non-executive director of Amersham PLC and a former non-executive director of ATK Inc and DynCorp International elected by shareholders in 2004, Marcus Beresford, age 64, member of the supervisory board of the UK Medicines Inc and non-executive chairman of BAE Systems Inc.
W G Tucker BSc, ACA, MBA is chairman of Ricardo plc and was a non-executive director Control Agency.
He is Chairman of the remuneration member of the nomination and remuneration committees.
Group Financial Director of Spirent PLC until late 2006.
He was an executive director of committee and a member of the nomination and Appointed to the Board in 2003, Warren Tucker, age 44, GKN plc from 1992-2002 and chief executive from 2001-2002. audit committees.
joined the Group as Group Financial Director.
Prior to joining He is the senior independent director and is a member of the he qualified as a chartered accountant, worked at Lazard, nomination, audit and remuneration committees.
24 Cobham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 25
