Directors report The directors submit their report and the audited Group and parent remuneration report on pages 32 to 38.
Mark Ronald and Marcus The following major interests in the Companys Ordinary Shares Scheme and the Cobham Share Incentive Plan.
Under the former, company financial statements of Cobham plc for the year ended Beresford do not have a service contract with the Company.
have been notified to the Company since 20 January 2007 employees can acquire shares through the exercise of options 31 December 2006.
Jeff Edington will retire from the Board at the conclusion under the Financial Service Authoritys disclosure rules and granted at a 20% discount to market value with savings made of the forthcoming AGM and will not seek re-appointment.
transparency rules: over three, five or seven years.
Under the latter, shares may be Business review purchased out of pre-tax income.
Number of Percentage of The Chairmans statement on page 4 of the Annual Report together Directors indemnity arrangements Date Shareholder voting rights voting rights with the Chief Executives review on pages 5 to 7, the Business The Company has entered into qualifying third party indemnity Corporate Responsibility 12.02.07 Aviva plc and subsidiaries 42,662,810 3.77 review on pages 10 to 15, the Financial review on pages 16 to 20 arrangements for the benefit of all its directors in a form and scope Information in relation to the Groups commitment to Corporate 07.03.07 Legal & General Group plc 79,350,882 7.00 and the Corporate Responsibility section on pages 21 to 23 contain which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
Responsibility including additional information in relation to 14.03.07 Lloyds TSB Group plc 87,813,744 7.75 information that fulfils the requirements of the statutory business employment matters is set out on pages 21 to 23. review and are incorporated in this Directors report by reference.
Directors interests Financial instruments The statutory business review is addressed only to shareholders and None of the directors is or was materially interested in any Creditors payment policy Note 25 of the notes to the Group financial statements and its purpose is to provide a review of the business and to explain the significant contract during or at the end of the financial year Payment is generally made by Group companies to their creditors in note 10 of the Notes to the parent company financial statements principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
particulars of which are required to be disclosed by the Companies accordance with agreed terms of business provided that those terms contain disclosures relating to the use of financial instruments.
Act 1985 or the Financial Services Authoritys Listing Rules.
It is the policy of the parent company that all invoices The Annual Report contains certain forward looking statements are paid within 30 days following the end of the month in which the People with regard to the operations, performance and financial condition Details of directors share interests and of their rights to subscribe invoices are approved.
The total amount of the parent companys At the end of 2006, Cobham employed 9,300 people on five of the Group.
By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty for shares are shown in the Directors remuneration report on trade creditors falling due within one year at 31 December 2006 continents with major population centres in the UK, continental since future events and circumstances can cause results to differ pages 32 to 38. represents 46 days 2005: 45 days worth as a proportion of the total Europe, North America and Australia.
Nothing contained in this Annual Report amount invoiced by suppliers during the year ended on that date.
should be construed as a profit forecast.
Corporate governance Across Cobham, progress was made in the implementation of The Companys statement on corporate governance is set out Political and charitable gifts organisational structures designed to support the Groups declared Principal activities on pages 28 to 31.
No contributions were made to political organisations.
The amount strategy of building its capabilities across all functions with an Cobhams principal activities are the design, manufacture, donated during the year for charitable purposes was 77,846 emphasis on collaboration to better utilise resources and increase qualification and support of: Share capital 2005: 51,469.
Of this sum, donations in excess of 200 to UK opportunities for personal and professional development.
In support Air refuelling and auxiliary mission equipment including weapons Details of movements in the share capital of the Company during charities were made to the value of 13,018 to health charities, of this the Group Director of Human Resources led activity in the carriage and release systems the year are given in note 26 of the Notes to the Group financial 5,425 to rescue service charities, 11,100 to business enterprise areas of long term incentive and benefit design, talent management Off-the-shelf and custom state-of-the-art antenna components, statements and note 7 of the Notes to the parent company charities and 5,114 to local interest charities.
and employee performance management, as well as supporting sub-systems and products that support communications on financial statements respectively.
strategic staffing initiatives across the Company as a whole.
the move Auditors and disclosure of information Equipment for the avionics, law enforcement and national security, At the AGM held on 7 June 2006 the Company was authorised to Each director states that: Cobham is committed to equal opportunities for all of its and search and rescue markets purchase up to 112,705,565 Ordinary Shares.
This authority will So far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information that employees.
The Group aims to ensure that the workplace Microwave components, integrated assemblies and sub-systems, expire at the conclusion of the 2007 AGM.
Although no Ordinary is, information needed by the Companys auditors in connection is free from discrimination: recruitment, selection and career tactical military vehicle intercom systems, soldier and ground Shares have been purchased by the Company during the period with preparing their report of which the Companys auditors are development are based on competence and job requirements, vehicle situation awareness products from 7 June 2006 to the date of this report, a special resolution unaware: and irrespective of race, sex, sexual preference, religion, or disability.
Aviation oxygen equipment, safety and survival products, cooling will be put to shareholders at the AGM to renew the authority He has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Cobham recognises that there is work to be done to fully achieve systems, actuation and control mechanisms and components for to make market purchases of the Companys shares up to a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit its objectives in this area, but has already achieved some significant the space market maximum of 10% of the share capital of the Company.
information and to establish that the Companys auditors are successes including the successful implementation of UK pensions The operation, modification and maintenance of fixed and rotary aware of that information.
simplification legislative requirements as well as a review and wing aircraft in the aerospace and defence markets for military Research and development upgrading of employment policies to reflect the requirements training, outsourced special mission flight operations, freight and The Group continues to invest in the important area of Research and The auditors,  LLP, have indicated their of UK age discrimination legislation introduced during the year.
passenger services and the maintenance of large military aircraft.
During the year the Group expended 49.3m 2005: willingness to continue in office and a resolution to re-appoint These build on the successes of previous years which include: 47.9m on non customer funded Research and Development.
The them will be proposed at the AGM.
the provision of job share and part time working opportunities: Dividends management of each Group business is responsible for identifying running internal seminars to increase management awareness An interim dividend of 1.11p per Ordinary Share 2005: 1.01p was and carrying out research and development programmes which are Annual General Meeting of equality issues and attending disability job fairs.
With regard paid in December 2006.
The directors are recommending a final suitable having regard to particular market and product needs.
The Companys AGM will be held at 12 noon on Wednesday, to employees who become disabled, the policy is to take all dividend of 2.64p per Ordinary Share 2005: 2.40p payable on 6 July 6 June 2007 at the offices of Dresdner Kleinwort at 30 Gresham reasonable steps, including retraining, to ensure that they can 2007 to ordinary shareholders on the register as at 1 June 2007, Further information on research and development appears on Street, London, EC2P 2XY.
A circular containing the notice remain in employment wherever practicable.
making a total ordinary dividend for the year of 3.75p 2005: 3.41p.
pages 7, 8 and 17. convening this meeting, together with an explanation of the business to be conducted, is enclosed with this Annual Report.
The importance of employee development and training is Board of Directors Major interests in shares recognised and Group businesses are required to encourage The current directors are listed, together with short biographical notes, Major interests in the issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company employees to take advantage of available and relevant training on pages 24 and 25.
They held office throughout the year with the appearing in the register maintained in accordance with Section 211 By order of the Board programmes and opportunities for advancement.
exception of Mark Ronald, who was appointed on 8 January 2007. of the Companies Act 1985 as at 19 January 2007 were as follows: John Pope Company Secretary The Group encourages employee participation and consultation Percentage The Companys articles of association require directors who have 28 March 2007 Number at date of at all levels and also the sharing of relevant business information.
been appointed by the Board since the previous Annual General of shares notification Such an approach facilitates the development of new ideas and Meeting AGM or who have held office for three years or more Legal & General Group plc 73,891,634 6.57 practices that add value to the business, promotes team member since their previous appointment by shareholders to retire from office.
Gestin y Asesoramiento commitment and helps to focus company and employee Accordingly, Mark Ronald, Allan Cook, Warren Tucker, Andy Stevens Rio Ebro S. L. 57,000,000 5.04 expectations.
In-house newsletters, intranet, extranet and internet and Marcus Beresford will retire from office at the forthcoming AGM Lloyds TSB Group plc 55,033,770 4.87 communications, Company announcements, team meetings and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-appointment.
Allan The Estate of Sir Michael Cobham 49,831,000 4.43 and suggestion schemes all play a part in this process.
UK Cook, Warren Tucker and Andy Stevens each has a service contract Aviva plc 44,813,890 3.98 employees are given the opportunity to become shareholders in with the Company, details of which can be found in the Directors Barclays plc 35,223,469 3.13 the Company through the Cobham Savings Related Share Option 26 Cobham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 27
