Corporate governance This part of the Annual Report, together with the Directors Non-executive Directors are appointed for specified terms of The Boards role is to lead the Group with a view to the creation of a The PSI committees main function is to establish and implement remuneration report set out on pages 32 to 38, describes how the three years which can be extended by agreement provided that strong, sustainable financial performance and long-term shareholder internal policies, systems and controls to ensure that potential Company has both applied the principles contained in the revised the individuals performance continues to be effective.
In doing so, it reviews and agrees Group strategy, ensures inside information is communicated to it, considered, verified and Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in July 2003 executives have confirmed they will have sufficient time to meet that the necessary resources are in place, monitors management released to the market where required.
The general purposes the Code and complied with the provisions contained in section 1 what is expected of them and copies of their appointment letters performance, and supervises the conduct of the Groups activities and PSI committees meet as and when required.
are available on request to the Company Secretary.
Under within a framework of prudent and effective internal controls.
the Companys articles of association, directors are subject to During the year Board members participated in a meeting held Nomination committee report Board composition re-appointment by shareholders at the first AGM after their over two days devoted to the consideration and development of Gordon Page is the Chairman of this committee.
The other The Board comprises a Non-executive Chairman Gordon Page, a appointment by the Board: if they have held office for three years the Groups strategy.
This will be repeated during the current year.
members are Jeff Edington, Allan Cook, Peter Hooley, Marcus Chief Executive Allan Cook, three other Executive Directors and or more since their previous appointment by shareholders: and, Beresford, John Patterson and Mark Ronald appointed 8 January five other Non-executive Directors of whom Marcus Beresford is in the case of Non-executive Directors, if they have held office for The Board has adopted a schedule of matters reserved for its specific 2007.
The majority of the members of the committee are the senior independent director.
Mark Ronald, a Non-executive nine years or more since first being appointed by shareholders.
The schedule provides the framework for those decisions independent.
Details of their qualifications and experience are Director, joined the Board with effect from 8 January 2007.
The nomination committee report on page 29 explains the process which can be made by the Board and those which can be delegated set out on pages 24 and 25.
During the year the committee for selection of directors and succession planning.
either to committees or otherwise.
Among the key matters on met formally on four occasions.
All Non-executive Directors, with the exception of the Chairman, are which the Board alone may make decisions are the Groups business considered to be independent.
The Board is, in particular, satisfied, The Chairman is, among other things, responsible for chairing strategy, its five year plan, its consolidated budget, Group policies, The committees terms of reference, which have recently having regard to his character and experience, that Jeff Edingtons Board meetings and leading the Board.
The Chief Executives dividends, acquisitions and disposals, and all appointments to and been reviewed, are available on the Companys website or on independence is not compromised as a result of the fact that he has responsibilities include operational performance and the removals from the Board.
Authority is delegated to management application to the Company Secretary.
The committees main served on the Board for more than 9 years since the date of his first development of strategy.
The Boards policy is that the roles of on a structured basis in accordance with the provisions of the duties are to review the structure, size and composition of the election.
Jeff is planning to retire from the Board at the 2007 AGM.
Chairman and Chief Executive should be performed by different Corporate Framework, which was revised and reissued during Board, to consider succession planning for directors and other people.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairmans the year, ensuring that proper management oversight exists at senior executives and to identify and nominate for Board approval Biographies of the directors, giving details of their experience and role and that of the Chief Executive is documented and clearly the appropriate level.
Matters delegated in this way include, within candidates to fill Board vacancies.
The committee dealt with other significant commitments, are set out on pages 24 and 25 and, understood and no conflicts arise, in the directors view, from defined parameters, the approval of bids and contracts, capital all of these matters during the year and, in addition, made in relation to those directors offering themselves for re-appointment the fact that the Chairman held, until 2001, the position of expenditures and financing arrangements.
recommendations regarding the re-appointment of certain at the AGM, in the accompanying shareholder circular.
directors at the 2006 AGM, and was engaged in searching, ranging experience and backgrounds of the Non-executive Directors The Board has adopted procedures relating to the conduct of its with the assistance of external recruitment consultants, for enable them to debate and constructively challenge management in With effect from 1 March 2007, Andy Stevens, the Chief business, including the timely provision of information, and the new Non-executive Directors.
relation to both the development of strategy and the performance of Operating Officer, assumed responsibility and accountability Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that these are the Group.
The attendance of directors at Board and principal Board for the operational management and performance of the five observed and for advising the Board on corporate governance Mark Ronald was appointed a Non-executive Director with committee meetings during the year is set out in the following table.
technology divisions so that Allan Cook can focus more on the matters.
The Company Secretary John Pope is appointed, and effect from 8 January 2007.
Mark was initially identified as a long term growth development of the Group, its people and can only be removed, by the Board.
potential appointee to the Board by a committee member and was Board Audit Remuneration Nomination customer relationships.
recommended for appointment following meetings with external Number held 9 4 8 4 Board committees recruitment consultants, who reported back to the committee on The senior independent directors responsibilities include the The Board is supported in its work by a number of committees.
his suitability, members of the committee and, subsequently, Number attended provision of an additional channel of communication between the Information relating to the nomination and audit committees other Board members.
1 G F Page 8 3 Chairman and the Non-executive Directors and another point of appears below and the activities of the remuneration committee A E Cook 9 4 contact for shareholders if they have reasons for concern which are described in the Directors remuneration report on pages Directors professional development 2 communications through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief 32 to 38.
The Company Secretary, acts as secretary to all Board On appointment, directors undertake a structured induction A J Hannam 8 W G Tucker 9 Executive or Group Financial Director have failed to resolve, or committees.
Committee chairmen provide oral reports on the programme in the course of which they receive information 3 A J Stevens 8 where these contacts are inappropriate.
work undertaken by their committees at the following Board about the operations and activities of the Group, the role of the 3 J W Edington 8 4 8 4 meeting and minutes are made available to all directors.
Board and the matters reserved for its decision, the Companys 4 The directors have the benefit of a directors and officers liability corporate governance practices and procedures and their duties, P Hooley 8 4 6 4 4 M Beresford 8 4 6 4 insurance policy and the Company has entered into qualifying third Other Board committees include the executive committee, the responsibilities and obligations as directors of a listed public 5 J Patterson 5 3 8 2 party indemnity arrangements with them, as permitted by the general purposes committee and the price sensitive information limited company.
This is supplemented by visits to key locations Companies Act 1985.
They can take independent legal advice at the PSI committee.
The Executive Directors are members of and meetings with, and presentations by, senior executives.
1 Gordon Page did not attend an unscheduled Board meeting and was not required Companys expense within set limits in furtherance of their duties.
to attend a nomination committee meeting.
The unscheduled Board meeting was Training for directors is available as required and is provided mainly called to approve documentation in connection with the disposal of Drger The Board and its proceedings The terms of reference of the executive committee were reviewed by means of external courses or in-house presentations.
During the Aerospace GmbH the Drger meeting and was, by agreement, attended only Board meetings scheduled in accordance with the annual during the year and its purpose is to assist the Chief Executive year a presentation was given to the Board as a whole on director by certain Executive Directors as the disposal had already been agreed in principle timetable take place eight times a year and otherwise as required.
in the performance of his duties.
These include developing the liabilities and individual directors received training in a number of by the Board.
2 Alex Hannam did not attend a Board meeting for compassionate reasons.
There is contact between meetings to progress the Groups Groups strategy for Board consideration and approval, making areas including the Transparency Directive.
In addition, directors 3 Andy Stevens and Jeff Edington did not attend the Drger meeting.
Meetings were held during the year for the recommendations as to acquisitions and disposals, reviewing knowledge of the legal and regulatory environment is updated 4 Peter Hooley and Marcus Beresford did not attend the Drger meeting and two most part at Wimborne.
They also take place at other operational operational activities and managing the significant risks faced by through the provision of information by the Groups advisers and unscheduled remuneration committee meetings.
locations and at the Companys London office from time to time.
This committee meets on eight occasions during the by means of regular briefings from the Company Secretary.
5 John Patterson did not attend two Board meetings and one audit committee In addition, meetings take place between the Non-executives in year and its membership comprises the Executive Directors under meeting due to conflicts with his commitments to AstraZeneca plc.
In addition, he did not attend a Board meeting and two nomination committee meetings, due to the absence of the Chairman and or the Executive Directors.
the chairmanship of the Chief Executive.
absence on holiday, and did not attend the Drger meeting.
The duties of the general purposes committee are varied and include the discharge of obligations arising under the Companys share plans, the determination of the remuneration of the Non-executive Directors, and the approval of banking facilities.
28 Cobham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 29
