Corporate governance continued Performance evaluation to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve The committee believes that the current arrangements comprising Communication with shareholders takes place via RNS During the year, the Board undertook an evaluation of its own business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not a rotational programme of internal financial control review visits announcements, the Companys website, the annual and interim performance and that of individual directors and of the audit, absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
to subsidiaries by head office personnel, business reviews carried reports and the AGM.
The AGM is attended by all directors and remuneration and nomination committees.
out by the Chief Executive and Group Financial Director and a shareholders have the opportunity to hear a statement as to The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, process of self-assessment of internal financial controls by all progress made during the year, to question the Board on its Having in previous years carried out evaluations with the evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
subsidiaries provides appropriate internal audit coverage of the stewardship of the Company and to meet directors informally.
assistance of external consultants and by using specialist This process, which has been in place for the year under review Groups activities.
Internal financial control reviews are carried The results of the votes on the resolutions proposed at the evaluation software, the Chairman, on this occasion, led at a and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and financial out by a dedicated function which reports to the audit committee.
AGM are published on the Companys website.
meeting of the Board a constructive discussion on various statements, is regularly reviewed and accords with the guidance Where weaknesses have been identified, plans for remedying questions relating to performance.
The Board noted both that for directors on internal control issued by the Turnbull Committee.
them are developed and progress monitored.
Responsibility statements progress had been achieved in a number of areas, for example Statements relating to the responsibilities of the directors are on the development and implementation of Group strategy, and The Board receives reports on a regular basis from the executive The committee and the external auditors have safeguards to page 39 and those relating to the auditors are on pages 40 and 87. that there were areas where performance could be improved, and audit committees in relation to the effectiveness of the avoid the possible compromise of the auditors objectivity and particularly in relation to the efficient despatch of Board business.
Groups system of internal control and has, accordingly, reviewed independence.
These include the adoption by the committee of Compliance statement As a result, various actions have been identified with a view the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control in a policy regarding the supply of audit and non-audit services and The Board confirms that it complied throughout 2006 with all to further improving performance.
respect of 2006. of a policy on the employment of external audit staff.
Non-audit relevant provisions contained in section 1 of the Code.
services involving the review of interim financial information, The principal Board committees have considered their own Audit committee report tax services and accounting advice, and acquisition-related due performance.
The performance of individual directors was The Chairman of the committee is Peter Hooley.
He is an diligence can be supplied subject to pre-approval by the committee considered by the Chairman and the Chief Executive and the independent director and the Board is satisfied, since he was a where the cost of any individual engagement exceeds a pre-defined senior independent director discussed the Chairmans own finance director of a FTSE 100 company until mid-2006 and is limit.
The committee has also received reports from the external performance with him.
a chartered accountant, that he has relevant and recent financial auditors confirming their independence and objectivity.
experience as required by the Code.
Financial reporting Fees paid to the external auditors during the year ended In the directors view, the Annual Report and Accounts for 2006, The other members of the committee, all of whom are 31 December 2006 are set out in note 2 of the notes to the together with the Interim and other reports made during the year, independent directors, are Jeff Edington, Marcus Beresford and Group financial statements.
present a balanced and understandable assessment of the John Patterson.
Details of their qualifications and experience are Companys position and prospects.
During the year the committee met Shareholder relations on four occasions.
During the year the Chief Executive and Group Financial Director The directors have adopted the going concern basis in preparing held regular meetings with institutional investors, fund managers the Annual Report and Accounts as stated in the Financial review The committees terms of reference, which were reviewed during and investors to discuss information made public by the Group.
on pages 16 to 20. the year, are available on the Companys website or on application to the Company Secretary.
The committees main duties are to monitor In April, June and December briefings were given on three of the Internal control and risk management the integrity of the Companys financial statements and any formal new Divisions: Cobham Antennas, Cobham Defence Electronic The Group operates under a system of internal controls which has announcements relating to its financial performance, to consider Systems, and Cobham Avionics and Surveillance.
These formed been developed and refined over time to meet its needs and the the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial control systems, part of a series which started in October 2005 with the Cobham risks and opportunities to which it is exposed.
These controls are to monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups internal Life Support Division.
contained in the Corporate Framework and the Group Finance audit activities, to make recommendations as to the appointment, Manual.
They include a strategic planning process involving the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditors Presentations were also given on the announcement of the preparation of a five year plan, a comprehensive budgeting system and to monitor and review the external auditors independence preliminary and interim results.
Copies of the presentation with an annual budget which is approved by the Board, the regular and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process.
materials can be accessed via the Companys website at revision of forecasts for the year, the monitoring of financial www.
performance and the appropriate delegation of authorities to Meetings of the committee are normally attended by the Company operational management.
Chairman, the Group Financial Director, senior employees with The Chairman and John Patterson, Chairman of the remuneration responsibilities in relation to finance and internal control, and the committee, wrote during the year to various major shareholders Risk management is an integral part of the system of internal external auditors.
In addition, the committee holds sessions with by way of consultation on proposals relating to executive control.
Divisional Managing Directors and Presidents are required the external auditors and the head of financial assurance in the remuneration.
to ensure that appropriate processes, including the maintenance absence of executive management.
Attendance of non-members of divisional risk registers, exist to identify and manage risks and, is at the discretion, and by invitation, of the committee.
The Chairman also wrote to a number of major shareholders as part of the five year planning exercise, to regularly carry out reminding them of his availability, and that of Marcus Beresford, formal risk assessments.
The executive committee undertakes At the majority of its meetings the committee considered reports the senior independent director, should there be issues which a top-level review of significant risks and reports regularly to from the external auditors and also on risk management and they might wish to raise.
In the absence of any request from the Board on their mitigation.
In addition, the audit committee controls and financial assurance.
Management generated reports shareholders no meetings involving the Chairman and the senior monitors the adequacy of internal financial controls and were also considered on a number of matters including the independent director have in fact taken place.
Shareholders were compliance with Group standards through a self-assessment pension scheme deficit and funding plans, pension accounting also offered the opportunity to meet Mark Ronald, the recentlyprocess involving all subsidiaries, supplemented by regular assumptions, revenue recognition, appropriateness of accounting appointed Non-executive Director.
financial assurance reviews and visits internal audit.
policies, provisions, assets held for disposal, the going concern basis for accounts preparation and corporate governance issues.
The Board is kept informed of investors views through the The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal The Group has formal anti-fraud and whistleblowing policies.
distribution of analysts circulars, the receipt of regular reports control, the aim of which is to manage risks that are significant The committee receives and considers regular reports on these from the Companys brokers and updates from the Chief to the fulfilment of the Groups business objectives and to matters.
Under the whistle-blowing policy, individuals can obtain Executive and Group Financial Director.
Correspondence contribute to the safeguarding of shareholders investment and independent advice in relation to possible improprieties in financial with shareholders is also made available.
It is also responsible for reviewing the reporting and other matters from Public Concern at Work, an effectiveness of the system.
However, such a system is designed independent organisation.
30 Cobham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 31
