Directors remuneration report This report provides the information required by the Directors During the year, the committee undertook a detailed review of the For Executive Directors, financial performance is measured through The committee believes that the use of TSR as a performance Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the Regulations.
It also Companys remuneration policy to ensure that it remains in line with EPS growth and cash generation against budget.
Personal measure is justified because it aligns the interests of directors describes how the Company applies the principles of the Code in the Boards policy, shareholder expectations and recent changes in objectives for the Chief Executive are set and assessed by the with shareholders by requiring superior TSR performance relation to remuneration.
The report has been approved by the Board market practice.
As a result of the review, certain changes have been Chairman, and by the Chief Executive for the other Executive compared to those companies in the comparator group.
The and shareholder approval will be sought at the forthcoming AGM.
made to the annual bonus for 2007 and shareholders will be asked at Directors.
The committee reviews and approves annual bonus committee will ensure that EPS is calculated on as consistent the 2007 AGM to approve new long term incentive arrangements.
awards for the Executive Directors and the key senior executives.
a basis as is feasible following the transition to International The remuneration committee These changes are described in more detail later in this report.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, and that any arbitrary results The committees main duties are to make recommendations The 2006 bonus awards for the Executive Directors other than driven by such things as the fair valuing of derivative financial to the Board on the Groups policies on Executive Directors In defining Cobhams remuneration policy, the committee takes into Alex Hannam were in the range of 58% to 61% of base salary.
remuneration and to determine, on the Boards behalf, the specific account best practice guidelines set by institutional investor bodies As disclosed in last years report, the maximum annual bonus remuneration packages of the Chairman, Executive Directors and such as the Association of British Insurers.
The Chairman of the opportunity for Alex Hannam for 2006 was increased to 120% of In assessing whether performance conditions have been met, key senior executives, the majority of whom are members of the Company ensures that the Company, through the committee and base salary following his agreement to continue in office for a year the committee during 2006 relied upon performance status and Cobham Divisional Executive.
The committees terms of reference its Chairman, maintains contact with principal shareholders about beyond his normal retirement date and in recognition of the fact that verification reports prepared by Inbucon.
In respect of the LTIP are available on the Companys website or on application to the remuneration matters.
he is not eligible to receive further LTIP or executive option awards.
awards made in 2004 and for which the performance period Company Secretary.
His actual bonus award for 2006 accordingly amounted to 98% ended 31 December 2006, the Companys TSR was below Around half of each Executive Directors remuneration is variable of base salary.
median of the comparator group, with the result that none of The committee consists exclusively of independent Non-executive and is linked to performance.
The following chart illustrates the these awards will vest on 28 April 2007, their third anniversary.
Directors and its members are John Patterson Chairman, Jeff proportions of the remuneration package comprising fixed i. e. salary Long term incentives Edington, Peter Hooley, Marcus Beresford and Mark Ronald from and pension and variable elements of pay, assuming target annual Executive Directors, senior managers and certain other staff Executive share option scheme 8 January 2007.
The committee met on eight occasions during bonus and expected values of long term incentives are achieved.
are eligible to participate in the Companys long term incentive The ESOS was approved by shareholders at the 2004 AGM and 2006.
The Chief Executive and Chairman of the Company are arrangements.
In 2006, these included the LTIP and the Cobham includes an Approved plan, which has been approved by the invited to attend meetings of the committee, other than when Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS.
The aggregate value of Inland Revenue, and an Unapproved plan which is not designed E Ex xe ec cu ut tiiv five e d diir re ec ct to or r p pa ay y m miix x, 2 20 00 06 6 their own remuneration is being discussed.
shares awarded to any individual excluding senior executives in the for Inland Revenue approval.
Options to acquire Cobham Ordinary USA under the LTIP and ESOS in any year is not to exceed 1.5 Shares may be offered to participants up to a maximum annual B Base salar ase salary y Annual bonus Annual bonus The committee appointed in April 2006, and received advice times base salary unless warranted by exceptional circumstances, value of 100% of base salary.
Options are granted at a price not L Lo ong ng T Term Incentiv erm Incentive Plan e Plan during the year from, Kepler Associates on remuneration strategy, for example, the recruitment or promotion of a senior executive.
less than the market value of the Companys Ordinary Shares on, Ex Executiv ecutive share option sc e share option scheme heme incentive design and market data.
Additional advice was received or shortly before, the date an option is granted.
These can be P Pe ension nsion from the Group Director of Human Resources and Company Long Term Incentive Plan exercised between three and ten years after grant, subject to Secretary.
Inbucon provided total shareholder return monitoring Conditional share awards of up to a maximum value of 75% of certain conditions as described below.
advice to the committee during 2006.
Kepler Associates and base salary may be granted annually under the LTIP.
During 2006, Inbucon provide no other services to the Group nor have any awards were made to 28 senior executives, including the Executive The vesting of options is conditional upon the Companys underlying connection with the Group.
Vesting of LTIP awards is based on the Companys three EPS growth exceeding inflation by at least 3% per annum over a year TSR relative to a comparator group comprising companies in three year period.
If average real EPS growth over three years is Remuneration policy Dilution the FTSE engineering and machinery sectors, and the aerospace between 3% and 5% per annum, shares under option with a value The Boards policy is to recruit, motivate and retain Executive Cobham operates its share schemes within an overall dilution limit and defence sectors.
Companies in the comparator group for between 50% and 100% of the participants base salary would Directors of high calibre by rewarding them for good performance of 10% of issued share capital in any ten year period.
Of this, 5% awards granted in 2006 were: become exercisable.
If average real EPS growth exceeds 5% with competitive remuneration packages.
In particular, the may be used in connection with the Companys discretionary share per annum, the option would become exercisable in full.
If the AGA Foodservice Group plc Senior plc executive pay policy for the current and subsequent financial schemes e. g. the Cobham Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and performance target is not met, the options lapse.
Re-testing BAE Systems plc Halma plc Severfield-Rowen Plc years is designed to retain those executives with the skills the executive share option schemes.
As of 31 December 2006, of the performance condition is not permitted.
Bodycote International plc Hill & Smith Holdings plc Smiths Group plc and experience necessary to enable the Group to achieve 68.6m 6.1% and 37.6m 3.3% shares have been, or may be, Castings plc Holdings plc Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc its objectives and satisfy shareholder expectations.
issued pursuant to awards made in the previous ten years in During 2006, options were granted to 84 directors and Charter plc IMI plc Tomkins plc connection with all share schemes and discretionary schemes senior executives.
Chemring Group plc Meggitt plc Ultra Electronics The current remuneration strategy is to position base salaries respectively.
Awards that are made but then lapse or are forfeited Cookson Group plc Metalrax Group plc UMECO plc Enodis plc Morgan Crucible plc Vitec Group plc around the median of the market and to provide an opportunity are excluded from the calculations.
In the event of a change of control, vesting of ESOS awards Fenner plc Rolls-Royce plc VT Group plc to enhance this through both short term and long term is not automatic and would depend on the extent to which the FKI plc Rotork pl.
These incentives are selected Base salary committee determines the performance conditions had been in line with the Companys strategic and financial goals.
Executive directors salaries are reviewed annually with changes met at the time.
Any vested awards not exercised within one Awards vest only if Cobhams TSR over the three year performance implemented from 1 January.
Salaries are benchmarked by the month of the change of control would lapse.
period achieves at least median, at which point 30% of an award The main elements of the remuneration package focus on committees advisers against comparable roles in i global UK-listed would vest.
Awards vest in full at upper quartile performance.
Awards supporting different objectives, as illustrated below: aerospace and defence companies and ii UK-based companies EPS growth is considered by the committee to be an appropriate vest on a straight-line sliding scale for performance between median with a similar market capitalisation as the Company.
When measure of the Companys performance for the purposes of and upper quartile: no awards vest if performance is below median.
Element Purpose Based on: reviewing salaries the committee also assesses individual the ESOS as it is based on underlying financial performance In addition, no awards vest unless the Companys underlying EPS Salary Provide competitive base pay Employment marketplace responsibilities, experience, performance and achievement and complements the share price growth needed for the ESOS and individual responsibilities growth has exceeded inflation by an average of 3% per annum over of personal objectives.
To the extent that the performance target is Annual bonus Motivate achievement of Earnings per share EPS key annual objectives growth, cash flow, personal not met over the three year performance period, awards will lapse, Annual bonus Other share schemes objectives i. e. there is no re-testing of the performance condition.
The Company operates an annual cash bonus scheme for its The Cobham Savings Related Share Option Scheme is an Inland Long term incentives Incentivise profitable growth Total shareholder return Executive Directors.
Bonuses were awarded by the committee in Revenue approved scheme open to UK employees.
The maximum and sector outperformance TSR, EPS growth In the event of a change of control, vesting of LTIP awards is respect of 2006 having regard to the performance of the Group and that can be saved each month is 250 and savings plus interest Reward relative share price not automatic and would depend on the extent to which the personal performance objectives for the year.
The maximum annual may be used to acquire shares by exercising the related option.
and dividend growth TSR-based performance condition had been met at the time.
bonus opportunity for Executive Directors was 80% of base salary, Options have been granted at a 20% discount to market value.
Provide alignment with shareholders interests of which 81% was determined by financial performance.
The Executive Directors are permitted to participate in the scheme.
32 Cobham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 33
