48 Retail Land Securities Annual Report 2006 49 Operating and financial review continued Retail Every year we receive 300 million 2 customer visits to our 1.9 million m retail portfolio.
Thats a lot of footfall which might explain why every four seconds one of those customers will walk away with a pair of new shoes from one of our100 specialist shoe shops.
Land Securities Annual Report 2006 50 Retail Achievements Retail share of operating profit 243.7m Like-for-like valuation surplus of 15.6% 1.5bn of acquisitions, including the purchase of Tops Estates and the LxB portfolio 0.3bn of disposals Current development programme to provide 2 221,070m of new accommodation 2 Proposed developments to create 143,110m of oorspace Land Securities Annual Report 2006 51 Retail Operating and financial review continued Following a year of unprecedented activity we have now assembled a retail property portfolio of substantial scale, providing 5.8% of the retail oorspace in our core markets.
This provides real competitive advantage in a fragmented market place.
Richard Akers Managing Director, Retail Our retail business represents 53.3% of the combined portfolio and produced 193.2m of the Retail portfolio by value 6.9bn 2 Groups operating profit together with 50.5m of joint venture profit.
We own 1.9 million m of retail accommodation including 30 shopping centres and 30 retail parks which represent a core Shopping centres and shops market share of 5.8%.
We have over 1,600 occupiers across this portfolio.
Many of our retail Retail warehouses properties form the central shopping districts of major cities and towns across the UK and 2.3 4.2 Other over a year, we estimate that some 300 million visits are made by consumers to our locations.
2 We are also investing 1bn to create the next generation of retail locations through a 64,000m development pipeline.
The retail market UK retail sales growth The past year was noticeably tougher for retailers as retail sales growth slowed and rising costs, price deation and increasing competition made trading conditions considerably more difficult than in 10 previous years.
The impact of this on like-for-like retail sales has been widely reported.
While like-for- 8 like performance is an important indicator of the underlying health of the retail market the most 6 important trend indicator for us, as a retail property owner, is absolute sales performance.
The 4 reason is that to grow absolute sales in the face of at or declining like-for-like sales, a retailer needs 2 to take on new or improved oor space.
The trend here remains positive and our experience to date, 0 especially when it comes to letting our retail developments, is satisfactory.
-2 02 03 05 06 -4 04 There has also been an increasing polarisation of spend away from the traditional high street Like-for-like sales Total sales towards supermarket and large format stores which provide consumers with more choice and Source: British Retail Consortium KPMG perceived value for money while providing retailers with more cost effective trading formats.
The internet, which is, for the most part, focused on specic market segments is growing its market share but still has some way to go in terms of overall impact on retail sales.
Recent research from Verdict showed that in 2005 the internet represented almost half of retail sales growth but that it still only accounted for around 3% of total retail sales.
Although the long-term economic outlook at present is still reasonably benign, market conditions remain difficult for retailers.
A further indicator of consumer confidence is the housing market and, while Government statistics show that house price ination has slowed, the market has not gone into a period of decline and has recently picked up in London and parts of the south-east.
The UK retail property market Retail property oorspace 2 The retail property market extends to some 115 million m and is highly diversied both in terms of Market LS % market 2 2 Type of retail property million m million m share ownership and type.
This is exemplied by looking at any medium-sized town in the UK where you Shopping centres 14.9 1.2 8.0 will nd high street shops, covered parades, a shopping centre and on the edge of town, retail parks Retail parks 14.5 0.5 3.4 and a supermarket.
A number of different owners will be involved too, from private individuals and Total core markets 29.4 1.7 5.8 owner-occupiers to property companies, pension funds and institutional investors.
Furthermore Other retail markets 85.5 0.2 n a each retail location is unique, with different catchment populations, transport infrastructure, local Total 114.9 1.9 n a economy and townscape.
Source: Property Market Analysis Ofce of the Deputy Prime Minister Certain retail market sectors are also highly constrained in terms of supply side growth, as a result of planning restrictions aimed at preventing new development on greeneld sites and the huge Land Securities Annual Report 2006 52 Retail complexity of developing town and city centre sites in multiple ownerships.
This effectively prevents the development of new out-of-town retail parks and major regional shopping centres and slows down in-town development, resulting in a highly competitive investment and development market for existing assets and development opportunities.
Against this background it is hardly surprising that retailers can experience frustration with the difficulties of procuring and occupying retail property.
It is here that major retail property owners like Land Securities can benefit both from the way we manage our relationship with retailers as well as our considerable expertise in urban regeneration.
Our strategy Over the last year we have continued to strengthen our position as a leading owner of retail property through: Investment in dominant retail assets Regeneration and renewal of the portfolio Provision of market leading levels of customer service and property management In pursuit of the above we had an extremely active year.
We made a further 1,543.3m of acquisitions, and sold 336.8m of properties.
We invested 76.9m in the development programme including the redevelopment of Exeter and starting on site at Bristol.
We carried out further customer satisfaction surveys and, as described earlier in the review, developed a new occupier portal and reviewed the way in which we provide property management services across the portfolio.
Our performance Retail In terms of valuation the retail portfolio continued to perform well.
On a like-for-like basis this 31 03 06 31 03 05 portfolio increased in value to 4.0bn with a 15.6% valuation surplus over the year.
The retail park Combined portfolio valuation 6,877.8m 4,750.4m portfolio again demonstrated the strongest absolute growth, driven by strong investment demand Like-for-like investment portfolio valuation 3,978.5m 3,388.9m for this type of asset and continued supply side constraints.
While the continued yield shift was a Rental income 207.4m 193.1m factor in the performance of the retail portfolio, rental value growth of 4.0% also made a Gross estimated rental value 236.7m 223.8m contribution.
In addition, our skills are also making a difference with the valuation increases of Voids by estimated rental value 8.1m 4.9m the five top performing properties being driven by development or asset management activity.
Gross income yield 4.9% 5.6% Combined portfolio extracted from Business Analysis and by reference to the The portfolio is 12.8% net reversionary and void levels remain low at 3.4% on a like-for-like basis.
combined portfolio reconciliation tables on page 150.
Our contribution to performance Over the past few years we have focused our retail portfolio in response to the longer-term trends in the retail markets, particularly retailers desire for more efficient retail units.
We have been successful in executing this strategy as we discuss in more detail in the sections below.
Investment in dominant retail assets Top five retail destinations Land Securities ownership We have substantially restructured the portfolio which now predominantly comprises larger and more dominant retail assets.
The drivers behind this approach is our belief that these properties will London West End Oxford Street and Tottenham Court Road perform better over the long term and are more likely to benefit from changing consumer trends.
Birmingham Bullring Our research shows that shopping is now the third most popular way that a family will spend time Glasgow Buchanan Galleries together, with over 40% of respondents seeing shopping as a way in which they spend quality time Leeds Leeds Plaza and White Rose together.
It is our view that a great proportion of that time is spent in shopping destinations similar Nottingham No major ownership to those that we own dominant shopping centres.
Source: Experian Retail Ranking 2004 Land Securities Annual Report 2006 Gunwharf Quays, Portsmouth This sensitive and innovative development has proved so popular, even the ocean-going yachts on the Volvo Round the World Yacht Race stop over for a spot of retail therapy.
Sometimes shopping isnt the main attraction 54 Retail A dominant shopping centre is one which has a large local population catchment area for whom it is their primary shopping destination.
All but one of our shopping centres are located in central in-town shopping districts, many providing the prime retail accommodation and main consumer shopping experience.
As a result of our portfolio restructuring efforts, we no longer have any substantial exposure to high street retail in smaller towns, the segment which we believe in the longer term will be most impacted by the changing retail environment.
Over the year we invested further in shopping centre assets with the acquisition of Tops Estates with a portfolio valued at 566.7m.
This added a further six properties to our shopping centre portfolio after the profitable disposal of one of the centres.
Since acquisition, the Tops Estates properties have shown a combined increase in underlying value of 43.0m, an uplift of 8%.
A further manifestation of the changed nature of our shopping centre portfolio is our greater Shopping exposure to the leading retail destinations in the UK, which we believe perform better in a less buoyant retail environment.
We measure the number of visits to our shopping centre portfolio and benchmark We are also keen to create strategic joint ventures to provide enhanced asset management or this against a national footfall indicator.
In development opportunities or to increase our exposure to specic market segments.
The Scottish 2005 the number of visitors to our portfolio Retail Property Limited Partnership is an example of the former while the Metro Shopping Fund LP increased by 1.3% whereas overall the demonstrates the latter.
national footfall indicator registered a modest decline.
In terms of changing consumer trends, consumers have more choice and are more mobile so it is important to provide an exceptional experience to attract them and encourage longer stays and repeat visits.
At Gunwharf Quays, Portsmouth, for example, the unique environment and mix of uses has resulted in a 16% increase in net income over the year.
In the period under review we acquired a further designer outlet centre, The Galleria, Hateld and agreed to forward purchase a development at Banbridge in Northern Ireland.
Another trend is for convenience, accessibility and good car parking.
Here we have invested signicantly in retail parks and supermarkets.
Bulky goods retailers have found trade to be more difficult but high street retailers have been keen to expand into this larger format with lower rents and operating costs.
During the year we acquired the LxB retail park and supermarket portfolio, comprising 14 properties, all of which benefit from open A1 planning consent.
As a result of this acquisition, together with 108.6m of selective disposals, our retail park portfolio is now 70% open consent.
Changing demand for retail park accommodation has helped us improve the average passing 2 2 rent on this portfolio from 162 per m to 177 per m and combined with supply side constraints, make this segment one of the most attractive property investments.
This is evidenced by the 14.1% valuation surplus of this portfolio driven partially by yield shift but also by our asset management activities.
Regeneration and renewal of the portfolio In a competitive investment market, we are able to use our skills to develop new retail shopping centres of a calibre seldom available to purchase on the open market.
We are fortunate to benefit here from the development opportunities inherent within the portfolio as well as our approach to developing in partnership with other leading retail property owners.
2 Our current development programme will provide 221,070m of new retail and leisure 2 accommodation with a further 143,110m of proposed developments in the pipeline.
Land Securities Annual Report 2006 55 Operating and financial review continued 2 Schemes in progress today include Exeter, a 44,600m scheme scheduled to open next year.
Our lettings programme is on target here, with 56% of the retail accommodation already let 2 or in solicitors hands.
At Bristol, a 140,000m partnership development with Hammerson plc, due to complete in Autumn 2008, 36% of the retail accommodation is let or in solicitors hands.
Christs Lane, Cambridge started around 15 months later than originally planned due to delays 2 in obtaining freeholders consent to redevelop.
The 7,150m mixed-use scheme, comprising eight shops, a caf overlooking Christs Piece and 15 residential apartments, has already secured lettings with H&M, Zara, Bank and Giraffe caf ahead of its scheduled completion in Autumn 2007.
We also have three further proposed developments which we are planning to start this year.
The St Davids 2 development, undertaken in partnership with Capital Shopping Centres, will bring the 2 first John Lewis department store to Wales, anchoring the 103,600m retail-led scheme in Cardiffs city centre.
New retail, cafs, restaurants and 300 homes will be created as well as new public spaces and amenities which include a state-of-the-art public library.
2 2 At Livingston, our proposals will create an additional 32,000m of new retail space, 5,670m of leisure space, 28 one and two-bedroom ats, including affordable housing, an 84-bed hotel and new public spaces in the town centre.
At Corby our proposals for Willow Place comprise 2 16,260m of retail accommodation in 27 units, the first phase of our regeneration activity in this high-growth town.
We are also in the process of carrying out development appraisals in Leeds, Liverpool and Building 2 Glasgow which could offer a further 100,000m of development over the next five years.
These and other schemes at the feasibility stage should provide a continued stream of future We are already building in Exeter and development opportunities, even though, due to the complexities of the UK planning system, Bristol and this year plan to start on further it may be several years until we actually start on site.
retail-led development schemes in Cardiff, Livingston and Corby.
In addition to our major new development schemes we carry out smaller scale development activities across our retail park and shopping centre portfolio to recongure and improve these 2 properties.
Such activities covered 26,300m of accommodation in the past year.
Two prime examples are: White Rose, Leeds: we agreed a reduction in the size of the existing Sainsburys store from 2 which an additional 6,720m was created in five new units with lettings to Next, River Island, Zara and Schuh 2 Ravenside Retail Park, Bexhill: this 24,710m park, comprising 14 units, has recently undergone 2 a 2,720m extension and facilities upgrade.
These significant improvements attracted fashion 2 2 retailer Next to a 930m unit.
In addition, the main anchor, Tesco, has occupied a 1,115m extension.
This activity has improved ERVs by 30% Provision of market-leading levels of customer service and property management The final strand of our strategy is our desire to provide market leading levels of customer service and property management.
In addition to the obvious benets this provides in terms of relationship management with our direct customer, the retailer, there are also a number of benets to our indirect customer, the visitor to our retail assets.
Land Securities Annual Report 2006 56 Retail Customer satisfaction surveys Shopping centres Each year we conduct surveys across the occupiers of our shopping centre and retail park portfolios 2004 2005 2005 Objective Actual Target Actual to establish how we are performing as a landlord.
We publish the most pertinent key performance Understanding needs 3.59 3.80 3.66 indicators annually.
Communication 3.84 3.90 3.87 Willingness to recommend us 94% 92% 94% In the shopping centre survey we are very pleased to note that our efforts have resulted in improved Responsiveness 3.93 3.80 3.85 performance across all our key indicators as detailed below.
This is our fourth year of conducting this Overall satisfaction 3.97 3.75 3.97 survey and we are enthusiastic about the benets to us and our customers.
It is only the second year of surveying our retail park customer.
In terms of management, these are Retail parks very different as historically they do not benefit from an on-site management presence.
We believe 2004 2005 2005 Objective Actual Target Actual that this is one of the factors explaining the lower level of customer satisfaction across this portfolio.
Understanding needs 2.98 2.95 3.03 We are currently addressing this through a trial using Land Securities Trillium Building Services Communication 2.74 2.69 3.21 Managers to visit a sample of retail parks regularly to provide support and a communication Willingness to recommend us 84% n a 89% channel for the retail managers.
Responsiveness 3.24 n a 3.25 Overall satisfaction 3.27 n a 3.33 We have also conducted a trial whereby retail park occupiers use our customer service centre to Note: Customer satisfaction surveys are for calendar year period.
notify us of any problems on site, especially maintenance and security issues.
These initiatives are, Scale: 1 very poor, 5 excellent we believe, unique to Land Securities and demonstrate the way in which we are benefiting from Group synergies in terms of service provision.
Evaluating our own performance improves the delivery of services to our customers but it does not provide an opportunity for us to compare how we perform against our competitors.
Last year saw the introduction of a new benchmark for shopping centre customer service of which we are a founder member.
We hope that as this benchmark becomes established we will also be able to publish our performance as compared to our peers.
Environment management We take the impact of our retail activities on the environment seriously and seek to progress incremental improvements across our retail portfolio each year.
To this end we are currently progressing two projects: Evaluating how we can benchmark our shopping centres carbon footprint and exploring various avenues to offset this impact Progressing an MSc research project with Imperial College, to provide a cost benefit analysis of introducing environmentally friendly cleaning at our shopping centres following our success on this front at Sunderland, where we have replaced all our cleaning products with green products We are also pleased to have successfully reduced the amount of waste we are sending to landll by increasing our recycling ratio across the shopping centre portfolio to 25.8%.
Land Securities Annual Report 2006 57 Retail continued Operating and financial review continued Whitefriars, Canterbury Historic cities cannot live only in the past: they need new life breathed into them.
Our retail development in Canterbury has made it a very successful shopping destination.
Giving an ancient city a new lease of life 58 London Portfolio Land Securities Annual Report 2006 59 Operating and financial review continued London Portfolio Our development schemes neighbour cultural and historic sites as well as transport and pedestrian links, like Londons Millennium Bridge which has joined our Bankside scheme behind Tate Modern to the City.
Land Securities Annual Report 2006 60 60 London Portfolio Achievements London share of operating profit 276.5m Development valuation surplus of 42.4% 0.6bn of acquisitions 0.4bn of disposals Current development programme to provide 2 211,250m of new accommodation 2 Proposed developments to create 60,210m 2 of ofce accommodation and 29,610m of retail oorspace Land Securities Annual Report 2006 61 London Portfolio Operating and financial review continued London development made a substantial contribution to our returns this year and we have positioned our portfolio to benefit from the rental growth predicted for our core markets.
Mike Hussey Managing Director, London Portfolio Our London business represents 46.0% of the combined portfolio and produced 276.5m of the London Portfolio valuation breakdown 5.9bn 2 2 Groups underlying operating profit.
We own 940,000m of ofce accommodation and 90,000m of retail oorspace.
Our ofce portfolio represents approximately 4% of the total central London ofce 0.7 1.1 Inner London offices oorspace with over 650 occupiers accommodating more than 50,000 people.
We are also investing West End offices 1.5bn on development, responding to our customers needs with innovative, relevant buildings and 1.1 Mid-town offices top quality customer service.
2.4 City offices 0.6 London retail London economy It is worthwhile considering what it is that makes London so different to the rest of the UK in terms of its economy.
It is undoubtedly one of the worlds leading financial centres but it is also the heart of Government and a major tourist destination with outstanding cultural, arts and retail experiences.
More than that, it is home to some seven million people as well as numerous businesses and Gross domestic product forecast growth benets from a highly-skilled and exible workforce.
4% Londons economy is also growing at a faster rate than that of the rest of the UK, being forecast 3% to grow by 2.7% per annum over the next four years compared to UK growth of 2.4%.
As London grows it will need continued investment in new buildings, homes and infrastructure.
We have been 2% investing in Londons commercial landscape since 1944 and predict that over the next few years we 1% will invest more in our capital city than at any time previously, timing our investment to benefit from Londons forecast growth.
0% 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 London ofce markets London GDP UK excluding London estimated 2 The London ofce market extends to some 19.8 million m across several geographic locations.
The Source: Centre for Economics and Business Research Limited West End, Mid-town, City, South Bank and Docklands form the core of a highly diversied market.
The majority of our portfolio is located in three of these markets: the West End, Mid-town and the City, but we have also expanded away from our traditional market place and invested in the South Bank, on the edge of the City and, more recently, in Docklands.
West End and City vacancy rates While the London market is very fragmented in terms of ownership and type of property, it has the 16% added complexity of a highly diversied occupier base.
It provides commercial accommodation to 14% numerous international and domestic organisations typically located in clusters of similar 12% businesses across its core markets.
10% 8% The London ofce market has been historically more volatile than the retail market.
This reects 6% general economic conditions and the health of the occupier markets, particularly that of the 4% 2% financial services industry.
It is also affected by the supply of new development stock and vacant 0% space.
In terms of market conditions today, they are much improved compared to the past few 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 years, particularly 2002 and 2003.
As we predicted last year, the West End market now has low Jan levels of vacancy and positive rental growth is well established.
In the City, vacancy levels have West End City Source: Knight Frank dropped to 10.5% overall, with Grade A stock at 3% or less and there is evidence of emerging rental growth for good quality accommodation.
Land Securities Annual Report 2006 62 London Portfolio Ofce oorspace by market and type of occupiers Land Securities Market current Market Land current oorspace vacancy Market Securities Market oorspace Note 2 31 03 06 development development 2 2 2 2 m m %m m Type of occupiers West End 8,247,100 285,600 6.7 258,400 88,960 Government and NGOs, media technology, telecoms, HQs, consulting South Bank Note 1 46,500 Note 1 35,550 Media, HQs, consulting Mid-town Note 1 77,800 Note 1 62,340 Legal, accountancy and consulting practices City 10,253,200 263,500 10.5 478,400 15,020 Sub-total 10,253,200 387,800 10.5 478,400 112,910 International and domestic financial institutions, related support services Docklands 1,253,200 24,300 7.1 n a As City Total 19,753,500 697,700 8.7 736,800 201,870 Source of market data Knight Frank Note 1 No separate market data is available analysing the areas and vacancy rates between South Bank, Mid-town, Inner London and City.
2 Note 2 Empress State Building, SW6, 41,290m, is not included within the above analysis.
London retail We have discussed in detail the market conditions facing retailers at present.
It is worth noting, however, that in London, retail is also dependent on tourism and trends in overseas visitors.
So, for example we expect London retail to benefit from the Olympic Games in 2012 as well as in the preceding and following years.
Our strategy Against a background of more volatile markets in London we are seeking to: Redeploy capital to maximise portfolio growth prospects while realising value as it is created Enhance returns through development activities Create strong relationships with occupiers in the London ofce and retail markets We have acquired 643.4m and sold 396.3m of property, including the 272.5m sale of our recently completed development in Gresham Street.
We have also made substantial progress on our 2 development programme: we spent 185.2m over the year on development, started 107,330m of 2 new projects, achieved 38,100m of lettings including those secured after our financial year end 2 and submitted planning applications for a further 118,480m of commercial accommodation.
Our performance London Portfolio We were very pleased with the performance of the London Portfolio this year which, on a like-for- 31 03 06 31 03 05 like basis, increased in value to 3,658.2bn representing a 16.3% valuation surplus over the year.
Combined portfolio valuation 5,932.4m 4,486.8m Like-for-like investment portfolio valuation 3,658.2m 3,131.9m Specic properties within the London ofce portfolio remain over-rented but the amount of overRental income 213.0m 221.3m rented income has reduced from 14.0% to 9.3%.
Taking into account reversionary income, the net Gross estimated rental value 228.8m 217.8m position is that the like-for-like London ofce portfolio is now 1.2% over-rented.
Void levels have Voids by estimated rental value 9.5m 9.9m reduced over the year and stand at 4.5% for London ofces on a like-for-like basis.
London retail is Gross income yield 5.8% 6.7% 10% reversionary and retail voids in London remain low at 3.1% on a like-for-like basis.
Combined portfolio extracted from Business Analysis and by reference to the combined portfolio reconciliation tables on page 150.
Our contribution to performance We recognised some time ago that the London occupational markets would be returning to a period of growth and have targeted our activities to benefit from this.
This is evidenced by the restructuring of our portfolio together with our development activities where we were especially pleased to note that we created a 42.4% valuation surplus over the year.
Land Securities Annual Report 2006 Cardinal Place, London We create buildings that appeal to the people who live and work in and around them, by providing beautiful gardens, clean environments, places to meet and spaces for public art.
Communities welcome new developments if you invite them to get involved 64 London Portfolio Redeploy capital to maximise future growth prospects while realising value as it is created An idiosyncracy of the institutional lease is that, in a market downturn, such that we experienced London office portfolio 1 in London in 2002 03, the investment value of a property is partially protected by the security 2 2 30.93 ft 333 m of the underlying rental income, especially where this is higher than the current market rent.
As 2 2 30.10 ft 324 m occupational markets improve, this over-renting creates a drag on future income growth resulting in lower levels of capital value growth.
In anticipation of a return to market growth and particularly London acquisitions 2 given the very high levels of demand for well-let London ofce investments, we have made and 2 2 28.50 ft 307 m will continue to consider selective disposals from the portfolio to enable the redeployment of 2 2 29.43 ft 317 m capital in properties with better medium-term growth prospects.
Examples of this type of capital redeployment are purchases such as: Average passing rent Average ERV 1 Excluding voids and properties in the current development programme Ashdown House, SW1 acquired for 166.9m on a net initial yield of 5.8% and a passing rent on 2 Acquisitions completed between 1 April and 31 March 2006 2 ignoring the vacant property acquired at 140 Aldersgate Street, EC1 the ofces of 380 per m and the trading property at Wilton Plaza Holborn Gate, WC1 acquired for 85.8m on a net initial yield of 6.2% at an average passing rent 2 of 360 per m 6 7 Harbour Exchange and 8 9 Harbour Exchange, E14.
These properties were acquired for 2 82.6m at a combined net initial yield of 5.9% at an average passing rent of 200 per m In total our acquisitions during the year have been at an average initial yield of 5.6% and have low 2 average rents of only 307 per m with good prospects for future rental income growth and asset management opportunities.
A further strand to our investment approach is our desire to acquire or develop clusters of properties in key locations enabling us to provide managed environments and an enhanced experience for our occupiers.
In Victoria, for example, Ashdown House is strategically located directly opposite our Cardinal Place development.
Not only will the ofce element of this property benefit from the rental growth now emerging in this market, but we have the opportunity to improve the retail element of this scheme taking advantage of the renewed enthusiasm from retailers for this location as a result of the success of Cardinal Places retail offer.
A further example is at New Street Square in Mid-town where we have recently acquired two properties, IPC Tower and Hill House, that will benefit from our expenditure on the adjacent development and the subsequent regeneration of this location.
The final strand to our investment approach in London is to ensure that we crystallise value as it is created.
This is demonstrated by Gresham Street where, following the successful letting to Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein, we sold this property to GIC Real Estate.
Enhance returns through development activities At this stage in the cycle it is also opportune that we have expanded our London development activities.
Over the year, developments underway in London contributed just under a third of the valuation surplus but represented only 16.4% of the capital employed with a particularly strong performance from Cardinal Place which has now reached practical completion.
Developments 2 2 currently on site will provide 143,050m of new ofce accommodation together with some 7,650m of retail oorspace.
At Cardinal Place, the retail element which opened earlier this year is virtually fully let with only one unit available.
Of the ofce accommodation, 52% is let or in solicitors 2 hands at an average rent of 600 per m. This is now the only large Grade A newly-developed ofce accommodation available in the West End.
It is interesting to note that we have attracted a new and diverse range of occupiers to Victoria including Wellington Asset Management, P&O, 3i and KCCI and we expect this trend to continue.
Land Securities Annual Report 2006 65 Operating and financial review continued 2 At New Street Square, we initially started construction of three buildings totalling 43,370m, two of which have been pre-let to Deloittes and are due for occupation in Spring 2008.
To capitalise further on improving market conditions, we have also started the fourth and final building comprising 2 21,950m of ofces.
On the South Bank, we completed Bankside 1 which we forward sold to IPC 2 and are making good progress with Bankside 2 and 3, where we are creating some 35,550m of 2 speculative ofce accommodation together with 3,170m of retail accommodation in two buildings.
The third development project we started during the year was One Wood Street which we pre-let in its entirety to Eversheds just after the financial year end.
This global law rm has taken an 18-year 2 lease on all of the 15,020m ofce accommodation and will occupy all eight oors, with an option 2 to lease back 1,860m to Land Securities.
In addition to the ofce space, the building incorporates 2 1,500m of ground oor retail which is being let separately.
As a result of our success to date in terms of both the timing and letting of development, we have Designing decided to proceed with our development at One New Change, close to St Pauls Cathedral, a Jean 2 2 We develop alongside Londons iconic Nouvel designed scheme which will provide 30,790m of ofce accommodation and 20,550m of architecture, which requires vision and retail oorspace.
Given the sensitive location of the site and our innovative proposals we were very creativity.
As a result we have sought the pleased to achieve a resolution to grant planning consent for this project.
worlds leading architects enabling us to plan a new generation of iconic buildings.
As we progress our development programme, we are also looking to secure a pipeline of future projects so that we are in a position to respond to occupier requirements as appropriate.
To this end 2 we are advancing a further 109,000m of schemes, in Oxford Street and Fenchurch Street, through 2 the planning system.
At Oxford Street, we have made a planning application for a 30,000m mixedused scheme incorporating retail, ofce and residential accommodation.
At Fenchurch Street, the 2 City Corporation is currently considering our application for a 79,000m ofce tower, designed by Raphael Vinoly.
We have also contributed to the Victoria Station Area Planning Brief proposals for a large site to the north of Victoria Station Bressenden Place where we have significant holdings.
We are delighted with our progress to date on development and the level of interest in our current schemes.
As with One New Change, we will only bring a scheme forward if we feel comfortable with the timing and fundamentals of the project in the context of the market.
Securing planning does not necessarily mean we will develop.
We have described the complexity of developing across the UK.
This is particularly pertinent to London where, as well as the significant planning and consultation issues, sustainability brings a number of challenges.
Many of these can be turned to our advantage, since we believe that the environmental credentials of buildings will become a more important factor for occupiers, particularly in relation to energy usage and costs.
We report fully on this in our Corporate Responsibility Report 2006 but highlight here a number of achievements: We have used borehole technology at Eastbourne Terrace to provide heating and cooling to the building reducing the need for non-renewable sources of energy We introduced a Sustainability Charter at New Street Square with external evaluation of our performance against the Charter provided by Element 4, a specialist construction consultant.
The impact of this has been significant in terms of waste management and procurement Land Securities Annual Report 2006 66 London Portfolio We have a dedicated London Community Liaison Manager to manage relationships with the communities surrounding our London projects We included 1.0m of specially commissioned public art at Cardinal Place and opened the SW1 Art Gallery All of our schemes are rated by BREEAM with a target of Very Good.
Of those rated, many of which are still under construction, seven out of nine achieved this target, with five achieving a rating of Excellent Create strong relationships with occupiers in the London ofce and retail market The London occupier market is highly competitive.
To differentiate Land Securities from other property owners we have sought to strengthen our relationship with existing occupiers and more actively target new occupiers through an innovative marketing campaign, Capital Commitment.
We have also introduced new lease terms and new ways for occupiers to procure property services, most distinctly through Landex, which offers lease exibility, service guarantee and price certainty.
Landex 2 Our Landex portfolio now incorporates 65,500m of business accommodation across four buildings 2 and we are actively seeking to acquire more property as we expand this over time to 150,000m of 2 2 accommodation.
The size of letting across this portfolio varies between 250m to 43,000m, with an 2 average inclusive rent of 400 per m. During the year under review we introduced two new Landex buildings.
The first is 140 Aldersgate 2 Street, an 8,270m newly developed, vacant building which we acquired for 40.3m.
This building is now 62% let and provides accommodation to three companies, on a variety of lease lengths ranging 2 from 10 to 12 years at an average inclusive charge of 520 per m. The second is our newly developed building at 40 Eastbourne Terrace, W2, which we completed and let during the financial year.
The letting we achieved here for the entire building demonstrates how our new approach to occupier management is benefiting the Group.
CB&I Limited, a leading Working international engineering contractor, are existing occupiers of our neighbouring property at 10-30 At the end of a working day in London some Eastbourne Terrace where they occupy about 50% of the available accommodation.
CB&I had 50,000 people will head home having spent expressed a desire for new accommodation in response to which we agreed a new 15-year lease 2 the day in a Land Securities owned ofce.
at a rent of 377 per m for the whole of 40 Eastbourne Terrace.
We have also agreed to provide a range of Landex property services through a separate agreement and to take back the existing accommodation.
This solution to their property requirements has secured the income on the recently completed building while enabling us to evaluate the possibility of refurbishing 10-30 Eastbourne Terrace as a possible additional Landex facility.
Customer service Customer satisfaction surveys London ofces More than 70% of our London Portfolio is multi-let and we provide a full range of management services to these buildings.
The property management restructuring carried out recently 2004 2005 2005 Objective Actual Target Actual has been implemented to improve the way in which we provide those services.
Understanding needs 3.74 3.50 3.67 Communication 3.77 3.65 3.75 In addition to the customer service initiatives across the London Portfolio, we are also responsible Willingness to recommend us 94% 92% 94% for the provision of energy and waste management to our managed properties.
This is an area where Responsiveness 3.77 3.80 3.88 we can influence positively the environmental impacts of our portfolio.
On the energy front, our Overall satisfaction 3.70 3.75 3.79 managed ofce portfolio participates in the carbon trading emissions scheme where, for the fourth Note: Customer satisfaction surveys are for calendar year period.
calendar year running, we have beaten our energy reduction target.
Given the nature of our occupier Scale: 1 very poor 5 excellent base, it is more difficult to introduce waste management schemes similar to those at the shopping centres.
However, we persevere on this front and have introduced waste recycling schemes at three of our managed ofce properties.
Land Securities Annual Report 2006 Devonshire House, London This is on the market demonstrating our commitment to recycling capital to reinvest in higher growth activities.
We dont keep allour trophies in thecabinetforever
