68 Property Outsourcing Land Securities Trillium Land Securities Annual Report 2006 69 Operating and financial review continued Property Outsourcing We think warmly about customers at Land Securities Trillium, not surprising when we look after nearly 3,000 2 boilers across 3.3 million m of accommodation, taking pressure off our customers so they can focus on what is important to them.
Land Securities Annual Report 2006 70 70 Property Outsourcing Achievements Land Securities Trillium share of Group operating profit 96.6m Exceptional profit of 293.0m from our sale of Telereal DWP contract performed ahead of our expectations Customer satisfaction of 90% across the DWP contract 2 55,360m of development underway for clients Land Securities Annual Report 2006 71 Property Outsourcing Land Securities Trillium Operating and financial review continued We generated substantial profits for the Group this year through the sale of Telereal, leaving Land Securities Trillium poised to grow its business through new contracts in new markets.
Ian Ellis Chief Executive, Land Securities Trillium Land Securities Trillium produced 17% 96.6m of the Groups operating profit.
This was a small decline on last year despite the disposal of Media Village, White City in March 2005 and the sale of the Telereal joint venture in September 2005.
This business has a commercial portfolio totalling 2 3.32 million m and six clients for whom we provide business accommodation services to 175,000 people.
Land Securities Trillium provides innovative property outsourcing solutions offering a more efficient approach to owning and managing property by eliminating the complexity of property management and provision of services while reducing the cost.
Also known as property partnerships, we provide property outsourcing solutions to the corporate and the public sector.
Property outsourcing and its markets Property outsourcing is the transfer of an organisations risks and management on some or all of its property to an expert property partner, converting its property assets and liabilities into an integrated property contract.
This allows organisations to align their property requirements with their business strategy, so that their accommodation supports their needs.
The target market for property outsourcing is corporate and public sector organisations which are Table 15: Contract features seeking to optimise their accommodation efficiency and transfer the responsibility and risk of Barclays BBC DVLA DWP NU Telereal II procuring and running their property estates to a third party.
Typically these are organisations who Freehold transfer are seeking to introduce change, either to the way in which they procure, occupy and manage Leasehold transfer property or to their business model.
While it is not easy to identify the addressable market, Estates strategy consultancy commercial organisations hold more than 250bn of assets while Local Government owns some New building 100bn and Central Government owns approximately 70bn.
These gures exclude any leasehold and workplace property which may also be included in a property outsourcing contract.
services Asset management implementation Full property outsourcing has been undertaken by a small number of major public sector Portfolio exibility organisations and Land Securities Trillium has won three of the four public sector contracts let Facilities management to date.
Property outsourcing is also a significant element of many PPP PFI projects.
It is for this Management reason that we have increasingly focused on this area and in particular on defence, education and provision of capital works community assets.
Because these are new markets, with non-property activities procured alongside Price predictability property, we have used joint ventures to address a number of these opportunities with QinetiQ on the Defence Training Review and through Investors in the Community in education and Table 15 illustrates how this business differs from Land Securities investment property business.
It demonstrates the unique features of each of the community assets.
contracts we currently have under management and the way in which we tailor our product offering to meet the clients individual requirements.
In the corporate sector, there is a wider variety of outsourcing models.
Some contracts are relatively wide-ranging from day one but others have typically included a smaller number of elements with the potential for the relationship to grow and evolve over time.
We expect this to remain the norm in this sector, with the focus on providing differentiated products and solutions tailored to the particular needs of the individual client at the time.
Land Securities Annual Report 2006 72 Property Outsourcing Land Securities Trillium Our strategy Land Securities Trillium has been pursuing a growth strategy and achieved its target of contributing 25% of the Group operating profit in 2005 ahead of plan.
It has rmly established itself as the market leader in property outsourcing in terms of the number of contracts it has won to date and is seeking to maintain this position by continuing to invest in the development of new property outsourcing models as well as developing market leading technological and customer service solutions.
Following this years sale of our share of the Telereal joint venture, we are now positioned to continue to grow our business by: Accessing new opportunities for outsourcing contracts in existing and new markets Growing our business with existing clients Leading innovation in the outsourcing industry Our performance Land Securities Trillium financial results The financial performance of Land Securities Trillium is measured differently to that of the 31 03 06 31 03 05 m m investment property business, focusing more on income growth since its operating properties Contract level operating profit are not revalued.
Once again this business had an excellent year, driven by the sale of its share Barclays 2.5 of the Telereal joint venture together with a strong performance from the DWP contract.
BBC 0.5 20.6 DVLA 1.0 Land Securities Trillium made a segment profit of 392.5m compared to 128.2m for the year to DWP 97.7 81.4 31 March 2005.
Excluding profit on the sale of xed assets, net surplus on revaluation and profit on Norwich Union 5.0 6.1 disposal of Telereal segment profit was 96.6m 2005: 97.7m.
This profit level was maintained Telereal II 6.9 despite the anticipated reduction in the BBC profit following the disposal of White City which Bid costs 7.4 2.6 generated capital receipts of 321.5m.
We achieved a stronger than expected performance from the Central costs 9.6 7.8 Department for Work and Pensions DWP contract together with positive contributions from 96.6 97.7 DVLA, Norwich Union and Barclays in line with our expectations.
Following our exit from the Telereal profit on sale of xed joint venture, which generated an exceptional profit of 293.0m, after costs, we entered into new asset properties 1.0 30.5 agreements maintaining our relationship with Telereal.
These new agreements are called Telereal II Net surplus on revaluation of and, over the last six months, have contributed 6.9m to operating profit.
investment property 1.9 profit on disposal of joint venture Telereal 293.0 Operating profit from the BBC reduced to 0.5m as a consequence of the sale of Media Village Segment profit 392.5 128.2 White City and the subsequent reduction in the unitary charge paid to us by the BBC.
As this left Distribution received from Telereal 11.7 65.4 no real estate in the partnership, we agreed with the BBC that it would be better to re-tender the remaining facilities management services, reecting the BBC desire for a shorter duration contract.
We did not bid for that business and following a procurement exercise will be transferring our facilities management responsibilities to a new provider at the end of June 2006.
The projects at Broadcasting House and Pacic Quays are unaffected by this change.
The increase in bid costs reects the considerable amount of activity on new bids, the largest of which, the Defence Training Review DTR, is still in progress.
The DWP has not utilised as much of its vacation allowance as we anticipated 12 months ago and additional services have also been contracted giving rise to an increase in the unitary charge.
While this delay in using its exible accommodation allowance has had a positive effect on our results to date, the impact of this is to create a bigger future allowance which will decrease our income and 2 profit more steeply as it is used.
The DWP has indicated that it intends vacating some 150,000m 2 of free exible space over the next two years and has given notice on 94,000m as compared to 2 26,000m this time last year.
Our contribution to performance When Land Securities acquired Land Securities Trillium, it had one contract as compared to the six and the Investors in the Community joint venture today.
Over the course of the past six years, Land Land Securities Annual Report 2006 Norwich Union, Norwich We integrated a group of disparate buildings under one huge glass atrium, and built cafs, bars and informal meeting spaces, that are a magnet for staff and ooded with natural light.
How do you help staff to be happy and more productive?
74 Property Outsourcing Land Securities Trillium Securities Trilliums performance has exceeded our expectations and delivered early on the Groups growth ambitions for this part of the business.
We believe that this can be attributed to the way in which Land Securities Trillium pursues its strategic objectives as detailed above.
Accessing new opportunities for outsourcing contracts in existing and new markets We have developed substantial expertise in the Government outsourcing markets and are now using that experience to bid for new contracts, examples of which are: Northern Ireland Civil Service NICS Workplace 2010 a 20 year partnership to transform the NICS ofce estate, improve the working environment for staff and facilitate new ways of working to enhance the delivery of services to the citizens of Northern Ireland.
This opportunity is likely to be delivered through a PFI solution.
Building Schools for the Future BSF the Government intends to invest 40bn in the BSF programme which is the largest ever Government schools investment initiative.
The programme aims to rebuild or renew every secondary school in England over the next 15 years.
To support this initiative, Land Securities Trillium has made an initial investment of about 20m into a 50 50 joint venture with the Mill Group called Investors in the Community IIC.
IIC is the preferred bidder for the Peterborough schools PFI and Bristol BSF projects and is shortlisted on the Leeds and Waltham Forest BSF projects.
In addition, IIC is progressing several further local government and health sector bids.
Defence Training Review DTR DTR is a PPP programme developed to modernise the delivery of professional and trade training in the military and the continued professional development of the armed forces.
The DTR is being procured by the MoD in two packages, with a combined estimated total value of about 13bn over a 25-year term.
Package 1 is primarily technical training, including aeronautical engineering and communications and information systems.
Package 2 incorporates logistics, joint personnel administration, security, languages, intelligence and photography as well as supply training.
We are bidding as part of the Metrix consortium, which is a special purpose 50 50 joint venture company between ourselves and QinetiQ.
Metrix is the only provider shortlisted in both packages.
The MoDs timetable currently envisages an announcement of Preferred Bidder in late 2006.
During the year we were one of two shortlisted parties bidding for MoDEL, a 200m MoD project to rationalise land holdings in West London.
Although unsuccessful in this bid we believe that the experience gained will assist us in appraising future opportunities arising around surplus land holdings.
Growing our business with existing clients We have worked with our existing clients to deliver extensions to their contracts to meet their changing needs.
During the year we agreed three contract extensions, the largest of which was the Telereal II agreement which involves the continued management of leasehold risk on part of BTs estate and the provision of other services.
The leasehold estate agreement runs until the end of 2031 although Telereal and Land Securities have the option to terminate the agreement at any time on or after 31 March 2010 with not less than three months notice.
Under these new agreements we will receive annual revenues of approximately 50m leading to anticipated pre-tax profits of some 14m per annum.
We also extended our relationship with Barclays Bank, where we assumed responsibility for an 2 additional 16 properties located across the UK, totalling 6,350m of accommodation.
These are shortleasehold properties that are surplus to Barclays requirements and are largely vacant as a result of its property rationalisation.
Barclays made a capped payment to reect the letting risk and we have assumed responsibility for all future benets and liabilities relating to the transferred interests.
Land Securities Annual Report 2006 75 Operating and financial review continued During the year we agreed an extension to our current Norwich Union operations to include a project delivering a new working environment and comfort cooling scheme at their Colegate facility in Norwich.
Our contract with Norwich Union is now completing its second year, and we are working with them to explore how we might extend further our partnership and service provision.
Leading innovation in the property outsourcing industry Competitive advantage comes from our ability to deliver a wide range of diverse services across property portfolios in an efficient and cost-effective manner.
Since inception we have built up internal and external competencies allowing us to do this.
We also believe we are unique in the way that we have structured our model into one integrated business.
We discuss below some of these elements.
Corporate Real Estate Group The role of our Corporate Real Estate Group is to work in partnership with our clients to develop and then implement an estate strategy suited to the clients business needs.
In addition to ongoing asset management activity, this also extends to the acquisition of new space, the refurbishment of existing space, and, where appropriate, the disposal of space no longer required.
In the past year we 2 2 2 acquired 14,000m of new space, while disposing of 49,000m and subletting 6,800m.
Customer service Customer satisfaction survey Our Service Centres are available 24 hours a day throughout the year to receive calls from our DWP customers, the 175,000 client staff who occupy our buildings.
In the past year we responded to over 03 89.6% 500,000 customer calls, the majority from our DWP client whose customer satisfaction survey recorded a 90% overall satisfaction level with our service delivery performance.
04 93.0% 05 90.0% Service delivery Our ability to deliver facilities management services and capital works extends across the UK, Strong levels of customer satisfaction continue across expanded portfolio enabling us to respond 24 hours a day to our clients property needs.
Through our well-established supply chain we delivered 223m of capital projects during the year, and responded to some 500,000 customer work requests, ranging from setting up meeting rooms or providing additional security services to the provision of a comprehensive maintenance service.
Health, safety and environment We are responsible for providing health, safety and environment services to certain of our clients, most notably the DWP.
On this contract we have introduced online interactive health and safety H&S training for all DWP staff.
Also in the H&S eld, we secured certication under Occupational Health & Safety Assessment Series 18001 for the DWP contract.
This challenging standard, which is the industry benchmark for H&S Management systems, provides external verication that our policies, procedures and systems are robust and being effectively applied.
Environment We focus strongly on the environmental aspects of our business, with our operations on the DWP contract being certied to ISO14001.
In this context we have been instrumental in helping the DWP achieve its sustainable development targets with 47% of all waste across DWP being recycled Government target 40% and 30% of energy being procured from renewable sources Government target 10%.
All our other contracts are run under the scope of our Environmental Management System which is certied to BS8555.
This requires all significant environmental aspects in our business to be identied, and for each major project we compile an Environmental Compliance Register through which we audit the project and our supply chain.
On our construction project at Norwich Unions headquarters we require that all timber is sourced from Forestry Stewardship Council-approved forests, and we have followed this timber trail through our supply chain back to its sources in Bavaria.
Land Securities Annual Report 2006 76 Urban Community Development Our Urban Community Development activities represent long-term investment by Land Securities in non-core markets which will, we believe, deliver above average returns for shareholders.
It is also an area where we can benefit from our balance sheet strength and development skills.
Our activities here have progressed from a predominantly strategic planning focus to a focus on delivery on the ground.
This is set against a background of lower growth but a stable residential housing market in the south east.
Kent Thameside Our efforts have been focused on concluding negotiations with Dartford Borough Council on the planning gain package for our proposed development in Eastern Quarry, where a resolution to grant planning permission was awarded in July 2005.
We have also made slow but steady progress in resolving outstanding issues with the Highways Agency regarding their objections to our application and remain confident that an acceptable solution will be found.
We therefore committed to a 8.6m earth-moving contract which will see the creation of the new landscape needed for the development of the eastern end of the Quarry.
2 We also completed the construction of and occupied our new 860m marketing and management centre creating the hub for our future activities in Kent Thameside.
At Ebbseet, where we have a 48.5% interest in the land surrounding the new Channel Tunnel Rail Link station opening in 2007, we have been working towards securing masterplan approval for part of the site.
This will provide the framework against which our development partners, Countryside Properties, can make a detailed application for the first phase of development of over 300 new homes at Springhead.
Our other joint venture with Countryside Properties at Waterstone Park continues with the development of the latest phase of new homes and apartments, which are selling well and achieving premium values for the location.
This supports our commitment to work with partners who share our aspirations to invest in and deliver innovative and quality design.
We agreed terms for the sale of our remaining interests at Crossways Business Park to Legal & General enabling a phased handover of the remaining development plots approx 15% of the overall area of the park to take place this year.
Stansted As part of the review of the Regional Spatial Strategy for the East of England RSS 14, we have promoted our 650 hectare 1,625 acre site at Stansted for a range of uses to serve the future expansion of Stansted Airport and the growth in housing being forecast by the Government in respect of the M11 Corridor.
We have also entered into a new option agreement with Aggregate Industries PLC for the rights to extract some four million tonnes of sand and gravel reserves on the site.
Land Securities Annual Report 2006 Eastern Quarry, Kent Thameside This is regeneration on a visionary scale.
On a 1,450-acre site we plan to deliver 2 13,000 new homes, 580,000m of 2 commercial space and 300,000m retail, leisure and community space.
Some developments are worth taking time over
