29 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The directors have pleasure in submitting their report together with the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006.
Results and dividends The consolidated income statement is set out on page 45 and shows a profit for the financial year of 80.1 million 2005: 64.6 million.
An interim dividend of 0.725p per share was paid on 29 September 2006 to ordinary shareholders.
The directors recommend a final dividend for the year of 1.175p per share which, if approved at the Annual General Meeting, will be payable on 31 May 2007 to ordinary shareholders registered at 4 May 2007.
The total dividend for the year will then amount to 1.90p per share 2005: 1.65p.
Principal activity The principal activity of the Company is that of a holding company based in London.
Its subsidiaries and related companies provide a broad range of services in the areas of media communications and market research.
Review of business and future developments A review of the business and likely future developments of the Group is given in the Letter to Shareholders on pages 4 and 5 and in the Business and Financial Reviews on pages 7 to 19.
These sections form part of, and are incorporated by reference within, this Directors Report.
Donations The Groups policy with respect to charitable donations and the amounts donated are detailed on page 25.
Employment policies The Group operates throughout the world and therefore has developed employment policies that meet local conditions and requirements.
These policies are based on the best traditions and practices in any given country in which it operates and are discussed on pages 21 to 23.
Health & safety policies The Group is committed to conducting its business in a manner which ensures high standards of health and safety for its employees, visitors and the general public.
It complies with all statutory and regulatory requirements.
Ethical, environmental & social issues The Group takes its ethical, environmental and social responsibilities seriously and details of our policies in these respects are given on pages 21 to 25.
Supplier payment Whilst the Company does not impose a formal code of payment practice on its subsidiaries, the Group nevertheless does have a policy toward the payment of its suppliers and details are given on page 23.
At 31 December 2006, the Group had 67 days purchases outstanding 2005: 61 days.
The creditor day analysis is not applicable to the holding company.
Directors The names of the directors at the date of this report and biographical details are given on page 27.
Mainardo fide Nardis was appointed to the Board on 18 August 2006.
With effect from 31 March 2007, Jeremy Hicks will retire as Chief Financial Officer and a director of the Company, and Alicja Lesniak will be appointed as his successor.
The interests of the directors in the shares of the Company are shown in the Remuneration Report on pages 40 to 42.
Re-election of directors In accordance with the Articles of Association, Mainardo fide Nardis, having been appointed to the Board since the last Annual General Meeting, offers himself for election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, Robert Lerwill, Charles Strauss and Leslie Van fide Walle retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Details of all the directors service agreements, including notice periods, are given in the Remuneration Report on page 39.
Directors indemnities A qualifying third party indemnity QTPI, as permitted by the Companys Articles of Association and sections 309A to 309C of the Companies Act 1985, has been granted by the Company to each of the directors of the Company.
Under the provisions of the QTPIs the Company undertakes to indemnify each director against liability to third parties excluding criminal and regulatory penalties and to pay directors costs as incurred, provided that they are reimbursed to the Company if the director is convicted or, in an action that is brought by the Company, judgement is given against the director.
30 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Substantial shareholdings At 14 March 2007 the Company had been notified of the following interests of 3% or more in its ordinary shares: NUMBER OF SHARES % Bollore Group 332,852,963 29.09 Fidelity Investments 91,669,467 8.01 Barclays Bank 46,800,696 4.09 Legal & General Investment Management 38,012,450 3.32 Share capital Details of share capital movements authorised and issued are given in note 23 to the financial statements on page 77.
Special business at the Annual General Meeting Details of the special business and the resolutions to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM are given in the enclosed circular, along with the Notice of Meeting.
Auditors Resolutions to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors to the Company and to authorise the directors to fix their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Directors confirmation Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report confirms that: so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and the director has taken all the steps he she ought to have taken as a director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
Directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements.
The directors are required to prepare accounts for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and have chosen to prepare Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UKGAAP.
In the case of the Groups IFRS accounts, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Groups financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
In the case of the Companys UK GAAP accounts, the directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit and loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a directors report and directors remuneration report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
John Ross Company Secretary 14 March 2007
