20 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Board of directors Reshaping our leadership -- we have thought long and hard about the leadership skills we need.
It is not just about looking at CVs: it is also about understanding what each personality brings to our business and how the team interacts.
01 Sir Roy Gardner 06 Peter Blackburn CBE Chairman Age 61 Non-executive director Age 65 Appointed Chairman in July 2006 having been appointed Appointed to the Board in April 2002.
He is a nonto the Board as Senior Independent Director in October executive director of SIG plc.
He is a senior advisor to Credit Suisse, President of Northern Foods plc, a past President of the Food and of Carers UK and Chairman of the Apprenticeship Drink Federation and a former Chairman and Chief Ambassadors Network.
He is a former Chief Executive Executive of Nestl UK.
Peter is a member of the Audit of Centrica plc, Chairman of Manchester United plc, and Nomination Committees and was awarded a CBE Finance Director of British Gas plc, Managing Director in 2003 for services to the food and drink industry.
of GEC-Marconi Ltd and a Director of GEC plc 07 Val Gooding CBE and a former non-executive director of Laporte plc.
Non-executive director Age 56 Sir Roy is Chairman of the Nomination and Appointed to the Board in January 2000.
She is Chief Corporate Responsibility Committees, a member of the Executive of BUPA, a non-executive director of Standard Remuneration Committee and received his Knighthood Chartered PLC and a former non-executive director of in 2002 for services to the gas and electricity industries.
BAA plc and Cable and Wireless Communications plc.
02 Richard Cousins She is a member of the Council of the University of Group Chief Executive Age 47 Warwick and co-chair of the Advisory Board of the Appointed to the Board in May 2006 and appointed Warwick Business School.
She is a trustee of the British Group Chief Executive in June 2006.
He was until Museum, Vice President of International Federation of December 2005 Chief Executive Officer of BPB plc, Health Plans and a non-executive director of the Lawn having held a number of positions with that company Tennis Association.
Val is a member of the Nomination since joining it in 1990.
He is a former non-executive and Remuneration Committees and was awarded a CBE director of P&O and his earlier career was with in 2002 for services to business.
Val will step down from Cadbury Schweppes plc and BTR plc.
Richard is a the Board on 31 December 2006. member of the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
08 Sven Kado 03 Andrew Martin Non-executive director Age 62 Group Finance Director Age 46 Appointed to the Board in April 2002.
He is Chairman of Appointed to the Board in March 2004.
He was Marsh & McLennan Holdings GmbH and was previously previously a partner with Arthur Andersen and held Chief Financial Officer of Nixdorf Computer AG, Chief senior financial positions with Forte Plc and Granada Financial Officer of Dyckerhoff AG and senior advisor Group PLC.
Following the disposal of the Hotels Division of Principal Finance Group Nomura International.
Sven in 2001, Andrew joined First Choice Holidays PLC as is a member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
He joined Compass Group in 2004.
He 09 Steve Lucas is an Associate of the Institute of Chartered Accountants Non-executive director Age 52 in England and Wales and an Associate of the Chartered Appointed to the Board in July 2004.
He is Group Finance Institute of Taxation.
Andrew is a member of the Director of National Grid plc having been previously Corporate Responsibility Committee.
Executive Director, Finance of Lattice Group plc.
He is 04 Gary Green a chartered accountant and has held a number of senior Group Managing Director USA, Canada finance positions with Shell International Petroleum and Latin America Age 49 Company and British Gas.
More recently he was Treasurer Appointed to the Board with effect from January 2007. at BG Group.
Steve is Chairman of the Audit Committee Joined the Group in 1986 in a senior finance role in the and is a member of the Remuneration and Corporate UK Division and became a UK divisional director in Responsibility Committees.
Relocated to the USA in 1994 as Chief Finance 10 Sir Ian Robinson Officer of the Groups North American Division and in Non-executive director Age 64 1999 became Chief Executive Officer.
Appointed Chief Appointed to the Board with effect from December 2006.
Executive Officer of the Americas in January 2005.
He is Chairman of Ladbrokes plc formerly Hilton Group 05 Peter Cawdron plc, a non-executive director of Scottish & Newcastle plc Senior Independent Director and and Siemens Holdings plc.
He is a former Chairman Deputy Chairman Age 63 of Amey plc, Chief Executive of Scottish Power plc Appointed to the Board in November 1993.
He is and non-executive director of ASDA plc and RMC plc.
Chairman of GCAP Media PLC and a non-executive Sir Ian is a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineers, director of a number of companies, including ARM Holdings a Fellow of the Institution of Chemical Engineers, PLC, Johnston Press PLC, Prostrakan Group PLC, a member of the Takeover Panel and received his Punch Taverns PLC and The Capita Group PLC.
Peter Knighthood in 2000 for services to the electricity industry.
is a former director of Arla Foods UK PLC, Christian Salvesen PLC and Grand Metropolitan PLC.
He is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Nomination Committee.
Peter will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the 2007 Annual General Meeting.
