12 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Acting responsibly in business Acting responsibly is not new to Compass.
Safety, health and the environment We believe that meeting stakeholder Our number one operational priority is safety, expectations is an essential building block health and environment.
We believe that each for business sustainability and growth in of us at Compass Group has a moral obligation shareholder value.
to safeguard each other, our customers and the environment by operating a safe, injury free and Governance of social responsibility healthy workplace, serving food that is always Our tradition of encouraging local ownership safe to eat and which minimises our impact on provides a firm foundation on which to build.
We believe there is more we can do and have this year set up a Corporate Responsibility We take our environmental responsibilities Committee, chaired by Sir Roy Gardner.
seriously, believing that effective environmental Its remit is to provide strategic direction and management is in the interests of both our guidance on all aspects of business practice business and our clients in whose premises we and responsibility ensuring consistent operate.
Our Environmental Policy sets out implementation everywhere we operate.
our commitment and our Safety, Health and Environment Forum SHEF promotes policy, Solid foundations to achieve sets standards and monitors best practice across industry leadership the Group.
In 2006 we have taken steps to improve our environmental, social and ethical performance.
We asked Trucost PLC to assess our Working with local We have put in place Speak Up lines so that environmental performance and our key producers, wherever our employees can raise any concerns about impacts.
Utilising the model used by the how we conduct our business on a confidential British Government to select the KPIs relevant they are in the world.
Most significantly, we have reviewed the to each sector of British industry they identified values that are at the heart of Compass.
They greenhouse gases, particularly CO emissions 2 Sourcing food responsibly guide us on how we conduct business regardless and waste as our key impacts.
Next year we We recognise the importance of working of where we are in the world.
Our values are will set out the actions we will take to better with suppliers in emerging markets to build Openness, Trust and Integrity: Passion for manage our direct impacts and thereafter we sustainable supply chains.
That is why we Quality: Win Through Teamwork: Can-Do will report annually on our progress.
are working with local producers to improve and last, but not least Responsibility, a clear their skills and production capabilities to help commitment to embedding responsible business Diet and nutrition them develop new markets and support their practice as part of our culture.
As a global foodservice company we know that local community.
we have an enormous influence on what our To help focus our attention we have also set out 20 million consumers a-day choose to eat and We have invested 0.2% of our revenues from a clear framework of responsibilities that are drink.
As such, our contribution to their diet Angola in local community projects and are specific to Compass as well as those which and nutrition is our most significant impact.
working with the Quenguela community project are common to all large businesses.
to source vegetables and eggs for our sites.
We are working closely with our clients, A future priority for us is to establish a common suppliers, governments and regulators across the set of performance indicators.
This will provide world to respond to the emerging public health us with a means to monitor and manage issues associated with obesity and diet.
We aim performance at a Group level complementing to provide a wide choice of menu items so that existing measures at an operating company level.
consumers seeking healthier options to suit their particular lifestyle are well served.
Our responsibilities Business integrity Culinary tastes vary across the globe, so The Compass Group Code of Ethics sets out we do not aim for a consistent approach, our social, ethical and environmental but rather basic principles that place healthy commitment towards each of our stakeholders eating as a primary responsibility across the and the communities in which we operate.
Priorities in North America will be The Code is the bedrock of our corporate very different from countries in, say the responsibility programme.
13 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Sourcing food responsibly Setting a course for industry leadership The purchasing decisions we make have Five-year goal implications for food production and Industry leadership in corporate responsibility environmental sustainability.
We expect our suppliers to have the same high social, ethical Developing a leadership position and environmental standards as we aspire to.
Priority corporate responsibility issues for foodservice companies Our people Diet & nutrition Climate change Local community Our people are our greatest asset and the face Salt, sugar, fat Energy & resource Employee volunteering Obesity Transport As an employer Compass presents to the world.
We want them Sourcing Local sourcing to be motivated and engaged, we value their diversity and are committed to providing them with development and training opportunities to Confirming our focus fulfil their potential.
We also encourage Corporate responsibility issues shared by FTSE 100 companies employee volunteering to support the Safety, health Business integrity Stakeholder Supply chain Governance and communities in which they live and work.
and environment Employability engagement risk management Diversity Community We have a strong track record in community engagement.
Compass in the Community, Firm foundations established a decade ago, recognises the best community-based initiatives from across the world.
Projects promote healthy lifestyles, tackle social exclusion, improve employability and promote sustainability and diversity.
Compass in the Community rewards successful teams with a donation to support their project.
External recognition such as inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index provides a benchmark for our performance.
Our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact, the Percent Club and other relevant organisations demonstrates our intent.
In 2007, we will be producing a Corporate Responsibility report which will explain our approach to managing our social, ethical, environmental and broader economic impacts in more detail.
