01 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Because of our shared values, everyone in Compass is committed to consistently delivering superior service in the most efficient way to create value for our 01 customers, shareholders and employees.
How our values help drive value We are specialists who help clients either Our values Financial highlights 2006 outsource or establish a foodservice or support These define what, collectively, we believe in service, or sometimes both, to suit their needs.
and govern the way we behave: Group revenue How we do that draws on our global resources Openness, trust and integrity and our understanding of different cultures and We set the highest ethical and professional 10,815m 2005: 10,073m market sectors.
We work in partnership with our standards at all times.
We want all our clients, usually in their premises.
And by using relationships to be based on honesty, respect, Total operating profit their facilities and equipment we keep capital fairness and a commitment to open dialogue investment to an absolute minimum.
508m 2005: 496m Looking at the world map today shows how Passion for quality far we have come since 1992.
We have grown We are passionate about delivering superior Basic earnings per share from a domestic operator to a global player.
food and service and take pride in achieving this.
That journey has given us a great platform We look to replicate success, learn from mistakes 11.4p 2005: 10.9p to build on and enabled us to benefit from and develop the ideas, innovation and practices opportunities far and wide.
Making the most that will help us improve and lead our market.
Free cash flow of these opportunities starts, as ever, by being clear about why we are in business.
Win through teamwork 265m 2005: 227m We encourage individual ownership, but work Our aim is to be the premium operator in the as a team.
We value the expertise, individuality contract foodservice and support services market and contribution of all our colleagues, working Return on capital employed with an outstanding reputation for quality, value in support of each other and readily share for money and client and consumer satisfaction.
good practice, in pursuit of shared goals.
10.7% 2005: 10.7% To achieve this means maintaining our market Responsibility leading positions in the worlds key regions with We take responsibility for our actions, All figures based on continuing operations.
major brands in our chosen business sectors.
But individually and as a Group.
Everyday, 2005 figures are restated to IFRS.
it also means applying fresh thinking to the way everywhere we look to make a positive Before exceptional items, including profit of associates.
we run our business, re-energising the talents that contribution to the health and wellbeing Before exceptional items and hedge accounting ineffectiveness.
have made us a leader while looking at new ways of our customers, the communities we of maximising value from our core operations.
work in and the world we live in.
We have to be more disciplined simplifying Can-do what we do and how we do it.
Focusing on our We take a positive and commercially aware core contract catering operations.
Leveraging can-do approach to the opportunities and client relationships by growing the range of our challenges we face.
Maximising synergies for clients, organic profit growth for us and enhanced value for our shareholders.
The whole organisation is focused on achieving this and our vision encapsulates this common purpose.
Quite simply we aspire to be a world-class provider of contract foodservice and support services, renowned for our great people, our great service, and our great results.
