Valuers summary report These relate to our appointment as property A high proportion of the total value of the To the Directors of Shaftesbury PLC and asset managers in respect of the Subsidiary Companies properties and In accordance with your instructions, we properties known as Wellington House 6-9 Properties is accounted for by properties have undertaken a valuation of the various Upper St Martin's Lane, 6-8 Shelton Street and Properties situated in adjacent and or commercial and residential freehold and & 7-13 Mercer Street, 10 11, 12, 13 14, adjoining locations in three specific areas long leasehold property interests as at 16-19 & 20 Upper St Martin's Lane, 124, of the West End of London: Carnaby Street 30th September 2006 the date of 125 126, 127 130 inc 1-3 Slingsby Place, and its environs, Chinatown and the valuation held by Shaftesbury Carnaby 132 135, 136 137, 138 Beckett House, adjoining area immediately west of Wardour Limited, Shaftesbury Covent Garden 140-142 & 143 Long Acre, 1, 3-5 &15 17 Street south of its junction with Shaftesbury Limited, Shaftesbury Chinatown Limited Mercer Street, London WC2 all of which are Avenue, and the areas around Seven Dials and Shaftesbury Charlotte Street Limited, owned by Longmartin Properties Limited, a in the western part of Covent Garden.
which are subsidiary companies collectively joint venture company owned in equal shares These areas are all dominated by retail referred to as the Subsidiary Companies by the Company and the Mercers' Company : and restaurant uses.
In our opinion, at of Shaftesbury PLC the Company, to our involvement in advising the Company the date of valuation, this particular as referred to in our valuation reports and Longmartin Properties Limited in respect unusual confluence of ownership and use dated 16th November 2006 our Reports.
of landlord and tenant and other matters: to characteristics may cause some prospective Our Reports were prepared for accounts our involvement in advising the Company or purchasers to regard parts of the portfolio purposes.
some of the Subsidiary Companies in when combined as having a greater value connection with the acquisition of certain than the aggregate of the individual values All properties have been subject to external properties and to our involvement on behalf of the combined properties and Properties inspections between August and November of the Company or one of the Subsidiary which make up those parts.
2006 and a number were subject to internal Companies in acting as letting agents in inspections.
As required by the provisions of the Red Book, respect of certain of the office accommodation.
"in undertaking our valuations, we have valued The valuations have been made in accordance DTZ Debenham Tie Leung is a wholly owned each property or Property separately, rather with the appropriate sections of the current subsidiary of DTZ Holdings plc the ""Group""."
than valuing the portfolio as a whole or in Practice Statements PS, and United In the Group's financial year to 30th April 2006, combinations of parts.
The total valuation Kingdom Practice Statements UKPS the proportion of total fees payable by the figure below is the aggregated value of the contained within the RICS Appraisal and Company and the Subsidiary Companies to separate properties or Properties within the Valuation Standards, 5th Edition the Red the total fee income of the Group was less various categories of tenure referred to below.
The valuations have been undertaken than 5%.
by external valuers, qualified for the purpose All valuations were on the basis of Market of the valuations.
In accordance with the provisions of Guidance Value.
We have assessed Market Value in Note 3 of the Red Book, in undertaking our accordance with PS 3.2 of the Red Book.
In accordance with UKPS 5.4, we are required valuations, we have lotted together certain Our opinion of the Market Value of each of to make certain disclosures in connection individual properties to form a separate the properties or Properties has been with this valuation instruction and our property a Property or Properties in primarily derived using comparable recent relationship with the Company and the the manner we consider to be most likely market transactions on arm's length terms.
John Bareham is to be adopted in the case of an actual sale.
the signatory of our Reports.
This is the We have not made any allowance for vendors We consider that lotting the properties first time that he has been the signatory sale costs nor for any tax liabilities which together on the basis reflected in our of valuation reports addressed to the may arise upon the disposal of any of the valuations would allow a purchaser to Subsidiary Companies.
DTZ Debenham Tie properties or Properties.
We have made capitalise on the estate management Leung has been carrying out this valuation deductions to reflect purchasers normal advantages and opportunities available instruction for the Company, and now the acquisition costs.
Subsidiary Companies, for a continuous A full explanation of the Assumptions made period since 1996.
As well as preparing our in our valuations and details of the sources of Reports, we also undertake valuations of information are contained within our Reports.
certain of the properties referred to in our Reports for other purposes, such as secured lending and for inclusion in shareholders circulars.
Currently, in addition to valuation instructions, there are other fee-earning relationships between DTZ Debenham Tie Leung and certain of the Subsidiary Companies or the Company itself.
Shaftesbury PLC Annual Report 2006 page 54 Valuers summary report continued We have measured certain of the properties, The Subsidiary Companies own a number The contents of our Reports are confidential or parts of properties, either on site or by of properties on a freehold basis where they to Shaftesbury PLC, Shaftesbury Covent scaling from floor plans.
The Company, its also hold long leasehold interests within the Garden Limited, Shaftesbury Carnaby managing agents or professional advisers freehold and have not merged the interests.
Limited, Shaftesbury Chinatown Limited have provided us with the floor areas of the For the purposes of the freehold long and Shaftesbury Charlotte Street Limited, remaining properties or parts of properties.
leasehold split below, we have included for the specific purpose to which they refer such properties within the freehold category.
and are for their use only.
Consequently, We have read the majority of the leases and and in accordance with current practice, related documents provided to us in respect Having regard to the foregoing, we are no responsibility is accepted to any other of the commercial properties.
Where we have of the opinion that the aggregates of the party in respect of the whole or any part not read leases, we have relied on tenancy Market Values, as at 30th September 2006, of the contents of our Reports or this information provided by the Company.
of the freehold and long leasehold property summary report.
Before our Reports or this interests owned by the Company and the Certain properties were subject to works of summary report, or any part thereof, are Subsidiary Companies, subject to the reproduced or referred to, in any document, repair or refurbishment at 30th September Assumptions and comments in our 2006, or were subject to outstanding circular or statement, the valuers written Reports dated 16th November 2006, approval as to the form and context of such retentions and fees in respect of projects were as follows:- already completed at that date.
In these publication or disclosure must first be Freehold 1,111,586,500 obtained.
For the avoidance of doubt such instances, the Company advised us of the properties One billion, one hundred amount of the outstanding costs.
The costs approval is required whether or not DTZ and eleven million, five Debenham Tie Leung are referred to by will be borne by the Company as they are hundred and eighty-six not recoverable from the tenants.
We have name and whether or not the contents of thousand, five hundred our Reports or this summary report are reflected these costs in our valuations.
The pounds total amount of such costs is 3,138,088 and combined with others.
details of the individual sums are included in Long leasehold 72,668,500 our Reports.
properties Seventy-two million, six John Bareham BSc Hons MRICS hundred and sixty-eight Director As referred to above, we have lotted together thousand, five hundred DTZ Debenham Tie Leung Limited certain individual properties to form a separate pounds International Property Advisers Property or separate Properties.
In the case One Curzon Street of three Properties which comprise a number Total 1,184,255,000 London W1A 5PZ of individual properties, the majority of such One billion, one hundred properties are held freehold but certain and eighty-four million, of them are held on long leases.
In order two hundred and fiftyto divide our valuation of these Properties five thousand pounds between the categories of freehold and long A long lease is one with an unexpired term leasehold, we have undertaken notional in excess of 50 years.
apportionments of value between the freehold elements and the long leasehold elements which together comprise the relevant Properties.
The amounts arising from these notional apportionments of value have been included in the figures representing the freehold and long leasehold categories below.
The amounts arising from the notional apportionments do not themselves represent the Market Value of the two elements.
Shaftesbury PLC Annual Report 2006 page 55
