Operating and Financial Review continued 40.
Marshall Lees President, North America Geographic Review Profile The USA business serves 61 customers, has 77 buildings, generates a rent roll of 58 million per annum, including 0.9 billion of property and 171 hectares of land, representing 12 per cent of the Group in terms of USA built space.
The business model is based on Flexible Business Space products but, unlike the European business, it is concentrated primarily on research and development facilities serving the biotechnology industry.
Its clients include some of the largest biotechnology companies Our 0.9 billion portfolio at in the world including Amgen and Genentech and SEGROs relationship the end of 2006 represents with many of its biotech clients dates back to when they were small business start ups.
The business is based in two main locations in a 28 per cent increase on the California, in the San Francisco Bay Area and in San Diego County.
end of 2005, reflecting our We focus on the mission-critical core property skills with most other development completions and functions being outsourced consequently it only requires nine direct increased market demand for employees to manage the business.
life sciences real estate assets.
Extensive information on the USA business, its assets and its development pipeline can be found in the Property Portfolio section of this report at page 125, further supplemented by detailed tables in the investor relations section of our corporate website.
Strategy The business focuses on the implementation of the USA biotechnology strategy and on value-adding opportunities in major life sciences clusters in the San Francisco Bay Area and San Diego County.
The business model concentrates on development, redevelopment, conversions and strategic acquisitions.
In 2006 investment momentum accelerated in response to life sciences industry activity during the Completed Investment Properties As at 31 December 2006 Value m 902.6 Area sq m 453,317 Rent Roll m 58.1 Net rental income m 2005 50.2 2006 60.4 Change % 20% Including Group share of joint ventures SEGRO Annual Report 2006 year, buoyed by increased funding from the major Market performance was mixed, with buoyant levels of 41. pharmaceutical companies and the venture capital activity in the San Francisco Bay Area offset to some community.
During the year, we have added several extent by softer conditions in San Diego County.
In the new clients to the portfolio, including OncoMed, Cordis, Bay Area we have experienced relatively high levels of Portola, Alexza, Covalent and Ligand, who have the enquiries and made solid progress in leasing vacant potential to provide opportunities for future expansion.
space, including several vacant units which are currently under negotiation.
The San Diego life sciences market In November 2006 SEGRO announced that, consistent suffered from the downsizing of several pharmaceutical with its previously stated strategy of focusing on the companies and is gradually recovering.
However, the provision of Flexible Business Space in the UK and in real estate fundamentals of this market are attractive, Continental Europe, it was exploring the strategic options featuring relatively low availability of vacant land entitled for its USA business.
It was announced that the process for development.
involved consideration of a range of possible options, including an immediate or phased divestment and also We acquired approximately 57 hectares of land in joint venturing or merging SEGROs USA business with a Central and Northern San Diego County over the past third party.
In assessing the options the Board has regard two years to exploit the value creation opportunity to all relevant considerations including the current and afforded by the increasing scarcity of sites against potential future value of the business as well as the tax the backcloth of the continued expansion of the life implications of the various options.
The process is well sciences industry.
We are confident that our patience underway and we anticipate making a further will be rewarded.
announcement during the second quarter of the year.
Key 2006 transactions included: further expansion 2006 Performance consolidation in existing life sciences clusters with The general US economy slowed during the year in acquisitions of several buildings to create over 37,000 sq m response to volatile and uncertain energy prices, a of development and redevelopment potential in the Bay slowdown in the housing market and interest rate Area and San Diego: major leasing transaction with increases.
Despite the economic slowdown during the Amgen to consolidate their campus life sciences latter part of the year, real estate markets experienced development in South San Francisco, adding four further cap rate compression and steady improvements buildings over 37,000 sq m to their existing 31,000 sq m: in occupancy and rental rates.
Against this general important leasing transactions with several new life backcloth, the life sciences industry experienced a sciences clients to add to our pipeline of future expansion resurgence in activity, with demand accelerating for our opportunities: continuing high levels of development with product and increased supply of funding to the sector, 69,000 sq m of buildings currently under construction and mainly through the major pharmaceutical companies.
a 48,000 sq m of completions in the year.
In 2006 our USA business SEUSA maintained its focus Acquisitions and Disposals on core life sciences portfolio, expanding and Our strategy of securing sites for future development, consolidating in existing locations through prudent redevelopment or conversion, was progressed with the acquisition and assembly of buildings with assembly of several existing industrial facilities in the redevelopment potential: marketing leasing existing Bay Area which will form the platform for the third vacant space aggressively: and executing major life phase of our Britannia Modular Labs concept as well sciences campus construction programmes for as a 21,400 sq m, three-building, life sciences campus.
In San Diego, we acquired the Ligand Pharmaceutical facility for 26.1 million, in an attractive sale and Our portfolio valuation for the year improved by 146.2 leaseback transaction that featured additional land million or 15.2 per cent which compares favourably with for two future life sciences buildings 7,700 sq m. the 127.6 million or 16.8 per cent achieved during 2005.
This increase reflects development completions and We evaluated several other opportunities during the year increased demand for life sciences assets as a real and will continue to acquire sites and product wherever estate investment class.
During the year, SEUSA added appropriate to expand our market position.
At the same 135.9 million of fixed assets to the balance sheet.
Gross time, we will maintain our strict investment criteria and property rental income excluding exceptionals disciplines to ensure that we focus on value creation increased by 15.4 million to 76.2 million.
This 25.3 per opportunities and do not over-invest in inventory in cent increase reflected both the 2006 resurgence in anticipation of demand.
activity in our life sciences markets and the full year At the end of January 2007, we acquired for 20.1 million benefit of some key lettings and acquisitions in 2005.
In the Sierra Point site in Brisbane, CA.
to the immediate 2006 we secured 86,000 sq m in leasing, with a year end north of our Oyster Point projects in South San Francisco, vacancy of 18.9 per cent or 88,000 sq m a similar CA.
The nine hectare parcel will feature a five-building, position to the 19.5 per cent at the end of 2005.
50,000 sq m, state-of-the-art, Silver LEED standard, life sciences project.
It is hoped this project will receive planning consent during the first half of 2007. www.
com Operating and Financial Review continued USA Geographic Review continued 42.
Development Lettings The construction of the Genentech campus is more than Although we ended the year with an 18.9 per cent half completed following the completion and leasing of vacancy rate, this figure masks substantial leasing the Phase I element comprising four buildings totalling activity during the year.
As part of our investment 42,000 sq m. Phase II is well underway with the delivery strategy, it is crucial to have available vacant space to of four buildings 31,000 sq m scheduled during 2007 accommodate the uncertain and volatile demand and 2008. patterns that characterise the industry.
There is no optimal inventory since demand can vary significantly We are also making excellent progress with the Amgen over space and time.
Of the 88,000 sq m of vacant space, campus at Oyster Point, with the delivery of two buildings 26,000 sq m is comprised of buildings in Poway and 17,000 sq m and commencement of construction on another 19,000 sq m in Torrey Pines, of which 12,000 sq Britannia Oyster Point II, a three-building, 29,000 sq m m were buildings vacated in mid-2006.
In the Bay Area, campus adjacent to BOP I, of which two buildings are we are anticipating leasing transactions during the first pre-leased to Amgen 22,000 sq m. part of 2007 that have the potential to largely eliminate the outstanding vacancies in our modular labs buildings Following the completion of our Britannia Modular and the Shoreline project.
Labs II facility during the year, we have entered into discussions with a major life sciences company to lease During the year, we agreed new leases on 86,000 sq m the entire building.
We have several enquiries and of new and existing space, and a pre-let to Amgen of proposals outstanding for Phase I of this exciting new 22,000 sq m. This was offset by vacancies of 39,000 sq life sciences product concept and anticipate that it will m, resulting in net absorption of 47,000 sq m. We have be leased during the coming year.
With the completion also been the beneficiaries of increasing demand of the assembly of three nearby industrial buildings, during the year which has delivered new lettings and SEUSA has embarked on the necessary planning a measurable improvement in the tone of our rental consents for a Phase III, 8,400 sq m, two-building, rates.
We expect this trend to continue throughout modular labs development.
2007, especially as we anticipate that the inventory of appropriate life sciences product should be Another four building assembly in south San Francisco steadily absorbed.
will provide a 21,400 sq m life sciences redevelopment opportunity in due course.
This site expands and Outlook consolidates our premier position in this critical life The solid if not spectacular economy together with sciences market and we are optimistic about the continued rapid growth in the life sciences industry fuels our optimism for development and leasing activities prospects for demand.
The wider real estate sector Another component of the life sciences strategy is the remains an investment commodity very much in demand profitable redevelopment of some of our existing life and the highly-competitive demand for real estate sciences business parks.
In this respect, we are in the product has driven up prices.
In spite of this, the process of securing consent for the redevelopment of the fundamentals of supply and demand are robust and we anticipate continued improvements in occupancy and original, four-building, 16,000 sq m core element of our rental rates.
The life sciences industry activity is Pointe Grand estate into a four-building, 45,000 sq m, expected to further strengthen in response to increased modern life sciences campus complex.
We are also funding from the pharmaceutical sector, but also due to reviewing various options to add density through the more approvals of the many drugs, vaccines and devices redevelopment of part of our Gateway life sciences that are in late-stage clinical trials or under review with campus in South San Francisco.
the FDA Food & Drug Administration.
We should also receive planning consent during the first Our strategy is firmly rooted in the development of quarter of 2007 for the development of a two-building, critical mass in major life sciences clusters and, over 28,000 sq m life sciences project on our Forbes site the years, we have been rewarded for maintaining in South San Francisco.
We are optimistic about our value-focused investment philosophy.
We have pre-leasing at least part of this project, but under the established a solid platform for the future expansion right circumstances will also consider a speculative of our life sciences portfolio in California.
SEGRO Annual Report 2006 In 2006 the life sciences industry experienced a resurgence in activity, with demand accelerating for our product and increased 43. pharmaceutical company funding for the sector.
The fundamentals of supply and demand are robust and in 2007 we anticipate continued improvements in occupancy and rental rates.
