Andrew Palmer Chairman # Non-Executive Director Appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 July 2006, Chairman of the Audit Committee # he became Chairman on 1 October 2006.
He is Deputy Appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 26 January Chairman of Xchanging Ltd, a Non-Executive Director 2004.
He is Group Finance Director of Legal & General of Pacific Assets Trusts and KGR Absolute Return PCC, Group plc where he has held a number of financial and and Deputy Chairman of Asia House, a charity promoting operational roles in the asset management, insurance cultural and other links with Asia.
He was previously and international businesses.
He is a Fellow of the Chairman of Exel PLC, CP Ships and Hamptons Group Ltd Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
and in his career he was Managing Director of Hongkong 05.
Christopher Peacock Land and then Jardine Matheson.
He is a Fellow of the Non-Executive Director Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 28 January 2004.
Ian Coull He is a Director of Howard fide Walden Estates Limited, a Chief Executive Director of Land Locator Company, and a member of the Appointed as Chief Executive on 1 January 2003.
He is also Strategic Advisory Board of Benson Elliot Real Estate on the London Regional Board of Royal & SunAlliance and Partners 11, L. P. He was previously President & Chief chairs the British Property Federations BPF REITs task Executive Officer of Jones Lang LaSalle.
He is a Fellow force, having been President of the BPF until July 2006. of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
Prior to joining Slough Estates he was a Director at 06.
Lesley MacDonagh J Sainsbury plc and held Board and Senior Management Non-Executive Director positions at Ladbrokes, Texas Homecare and Cavenham Appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 January 2007.
He is a Fellow of the Royal Institution of Chartered She is a Director of Lovells, the International Law Firm, Surveyors.
and a Non-Executive Director of Bovis Homes Group.
John Heawood She was previously a Governor of the London School of Group Executive Director, UK Property Economics, a member of the Property Advisory Group Appointed as a Group Executive Director on 4 November for the UK Government, and a Council Member of the Law Society.
He is responsible for the UK property portfolio.
Prior to joining Slough Estates, he was a Director at DTZ Debenham Tie Leung.
He is a Member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
Walter Hens Senior Independent Non-Executive Director # Managing Director, Continental Europe Appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 April 2001.
Appointed as a Group Executive Director on 1 January 2007.
He is Chairman of Interserve plc, a Non-Executive Director He is responsible for the Continental Europe property of Standard Life plc, a senior adviser to KPMGs Corporate portfolio.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of Intervest Finance practice, a Non-Executive Board Member of the Offices, a Belgian REIT.
He joined Slough Estates in 1989, Office of Fair Trading Limited, and Chairman of the was responsible for Belgian operations until 2004 and joined Centre for Policy Studies.
He was previously a partner the Executive Committee in September 2005.
Prior to joining with McKinsey & Company, Head of the Prime Ministers the Company, he was with Imofo now Banimmo.
He is a Policy Unit from 1995-97, Director of Group Development Fellow of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
at NatWest Group, and a Non-Executive Director of 11.
Marshall Lees The Corporate Services Group plc and Smartstream President, North America Technologies Ltd.
Appointed as a Group Executive Director on 25 March 1998.
Stephen L Howard He is responsible for the USA property portfolio.
He is Non-Executive Director also a Director of the Charterhouse Group International, Inc.
He joined Slough Estates in 1987.
Prior to joining the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee # Company, he was with British American Tobacco, obtained Appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 16 May 2001. an MBA at the London Business School and subsequently He is a Non-Executive Director of Balfour Beatty plc, holds joined Imperial Group Plc.
memberships of the advisory councils of various private and non-profit organisations, and is the Managing Director 12.
David Sleath of Business in the Community.
He was previously Group Group Finance Director Chief Executive of Cookson Group plc and then Novar plc.
Appointed as Group Finance Director on 1 January 2006.
Thom Wernink He joined Slough Estates as Deputy Finance Director in April 2005.
Prior to joining the Company, he was Finance Non-Executive Director # Director of Wagon plc and, for Arthur Andersen, he was Appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 23 May 2005. a partner and Head of Audit & Assurance for the Midland He is a Non-Executive Director on a number of property region.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered and investment companies based in Continental Europe.
Accountants in England and Wales.
He was previously Chairman of the European Public Real Estate Association and of Corio NV, a Netherlands-based Member of Nomination Committee property company with retail, office and retail interests # Member of Audit Committee across Europe.
Member of Remuneration Committee Executive Committee www.
