Section 5 Shareholder Annual Report and 61 Workspace Group PLC reporting Accounts 2006 In this section: Shareholder The Board Advisers and headquarters reporting Corporate governance, risk management and approach to social, environmental and ethical SEE issues Board and committee reports Directors remuneration report Notice of the Annual General Meeting 12 3 4 56 7 8 The photograph of the Board members 6 Patrick Marples MRICS was taken from the top of the new two Property Director floor extension of Enterprise House, SE1.
Patrick Marples 50 joined the Board in November 1996 as Property To find out more about this development Director responsible for the investment management of the Groups please see separate Workspaces Sustainability Report 2006. property portfolio.
He had previously worked as a property consultant for the Group since 1987 and prior to that he was an associate partner at fide&J Levy.
7 Christopher Pieroni BA Hons MSc Econ PhD Cantab Chris Pieroni 48 joined the Board in January 2000.
After teaching The Board economics at Cambridge University in the 1980s he was a management consultant before joining Colliers Erdman Lewis in 1 Antony Hales BSc 1993, becoming Chief Operating Officer and subsequently Head of Chairman International for Colliers CRE.
He is currently a director in the Tony Hales 58, joined the Board in November 2002 and was Corporate Finance department at KPMG, specialising in real estate appointed Chairman in December 2002.
He is currently Chairman and infrastructure.
of NAAFI Ltd and British Waterways and a non-executive director of Aston Villa plc.
He was previously Chief Executive of Allied Domecq 8 Mark Taylor BSc FCA plc and a non-executive director of HSBC Bank plc.
Finance Director Mark Taylor 55 joined the Board in October 1995 as Finance Director.
2 Harry Platt MA MRTPI He trained with Touche Ross and was previously employed for 16 years Chief Executive by John Laing PLC, latterly as Joint Managing Director of John Laing Harry Platt 54 joined the Board as Director and General Manager Developments and Director of Group Investments.
Following this he in April 1991, became Managing Director in April 1992 and Chief worked for a short period with the Ministry of Defence.
He was Chief Executive of Harlow District Council between 1983 and 1989 and before that Assistant Chief Executive Board Responsibilities Executive at the London Borough of Greenwich.
Prior to joining the Group he was Operations Director of Dixons Commercial Properties Harry Platt, Chief Executive Limited.
He is also a non-executive director of the CHE Hotel Group PLC.
Madeleine Carragher, Operations Director Responsibilities include: 3 John Bywater FRICS Estate management John Bywater 59 joined the Board in June 2004.
He is an executive Lettings director of Hammerson PLC and Managing Director of its UK Building Maintenance & Development activities.
John started his career with British Rail later moving to the Marketing Burton Group, Allied Lyons and Donaldsons, Chartered Surveyors.
Patrick Marples, Property Director 4 Madeleine Carragher FRICS Responsibilities include: Operations Director Property acquisitions and disposals Maddy Carragher 51 has worked for the Group since its Change of use opportunities establishment, initially as Estates Surveyor.
She is responsible for the Joint venture schemes development and implementation of the Groups marketing strategy Property valuation issues and the promotion, letting and overall management of the Groups estates.
She was promoted to the main Board in January 1996.
Mark Taylor, Finance Director Prior to joining the Group she was a surveyor at fide&J Levy.
Responsibilities include: Finance 5 Bernard Cragg BSc ACA Company Secretarial Bernard Cragg 51 joined the Board in June 2003.
He is Chairman Investor Relations of Datamonitor Plc and i-mate Plc, and a non-executive director of Workspace Energy Mothercare Plc, Bristol & West plc and Astro All Asia Networks PLC.
IT He was formerly Group Finance Director and Chief Financial Officer of Carlton Communications Plc and a non-executive director of Non-executive Member of Remuneration, Nominations and Audit Committees Arcadia plc.
