Section 2 Leading in a Annual Report and 12 Workspace Group PLC growth market Accounts 2006 Our flexibility: Flexible product, flexible manner, flexible buildings.
By offering a flexible lease we have to be flexible in helping our customers relocate as well as provide workspace that can be versatile in floor plan or use.
90% Over 90% of Workspace customers reported overall satisfaction with the service.
The Barley Mow Business Centre, W4 Offers a wide range of space: from 100 sq ft of business incubator space to 3,000 sq ft offices.
Section 2 Leading in a Annual Report and 13 Workspace Group PLC growth market Accounts 2006 Our flexibility Customer loyalty Flexibility is an essential feature of Workspace Group.
A key feature of our A A Lettings to former customers 37% product is the flexibility of our tenancy B Lettings to new terms.
Our SME customers can take customers 63% space confident in the knowledge that if their circumstances change, they can move on, often to new accommodation with us, without residual liability.
This B makes it easier for our customers to make the necessary commitment.
To do this 37% of customers, when looking for new business we in turn need to be flexible, to have the space find something suitable and move within capacity to manage the 25% per annum our portfolio.
churn that this flexibility creates.
This requires not only that we have the Minimum time to break clause management systems to accommodate Minimum lease term such churn but also the capacity to review G A F A 0-3 months 79% E our portfolio constantly and to test it against D B 3 months-1 yr 9% customer requirements to ensure that it C C 1-2 yrs 5% D 2-3 yrs 2% services their needs.
E 3-4 yrs 1% B F 4-5 yrs 1% G over 5 yrs 3% In turn this can create demands for flexibility in our buildings, in their capacity to reconfigure space to match the changing needs of our customers.
In all a flexible product supplied in a flexible manner in The majority of our customers occupy their units under an agreement that they can terminate within three flexible buildings.
months, so giving them the flexibility they need to change accommodation as their business dictates.
Length of stay with Workspace A A 1 yr 31% B 1-2 yrs 18% C 2-3 yrs 14% D 3-4 yrs 8% F E 4-5 yrs 8% F over 5 yrs 21% E B D C Although customers are generally not committed for more than three months their satisfaction with the service they receive at Workspace encourages them to stay for considerably longer.
