Section 2 Leading in a Annual Report and 14 Workspace Group PLC growth market Accounts 2006 Our added value: Releasing latent value and improving margins.
We track a large number of acquisitions and once bought extract value by improving the style of management, refurbishing, re-using or extending.
Workspace Group properties in areas for intensification 22 Workspace Group properties are subject to density increases currently or in the medium term.
Many of these properties are in areas of opportunity or for intensification as identified by The London Plan.
Opportunity and intensification areas, as highlighted by The London Plan.
Source GLA 2000 Wharf Road, N1 Workspace Group obtained planning consent in March 2005 for a mixeduse redevelopment of its site at Wharf Road, N1.
The consent Workspace Group properties subject to density increases in the medium term allows for the demolition of the Workspace Group properties subject to density increases and in current joint 25 existing units to be replaced venture or planning by a development comprising of Other Workspace Group properties 30,000 sq ft of small unit commercial Areas for opportunity and intensification, as highlighted by The London Plan space and 77 residential units in buildings of up to 10 storeys in To find out more about Workspace Group properties in areas for intensification, height, as shown in this computer download our Sustainability Report 2006 as a pdf, from workspacegroup.
Section 2 Leading in a Annual Report and 15 Workspace Group PLC growth market Accounts 2006 TradeLink TradeLink enables our customers to 45% communicate and trade throughout the of the properties in the portfolio Workspace Group are subject to intensification or customer community.
change of use on a 10-year basis Find out more at: workspacegroup.
co. uk tradelink 26 properties identified for intensification or possible change of use 11 estates are part of the Glebe redevelopment joint venture 200% potential increase in floor space at a number of identified intensification properties Our added value Latent value These currently extend principally to energy The Groups core activity is investment in, electricity and gas, business insurance, and the letting of, small-unit accommodation internet connectivity and telecoms services.
As such, it is not a property Whilst these provide a useful supplement to development company.
However, many of earnings, their main objective is to increase our estates are not densely developed, are the attractiveness of the Groups core at low capital values per sq ft and are in accommodation offering and support the areas targeted in the Mayors Plan for maintenance of high levels of occupancy London for intensification and change of and rental income.
We aim to steadily extract this latent development value.
We will do this in a At 31 March 2006 the Group supplied gas number of ways including through and electricity to 948 customers, had 682 partnerships with others with expertise business insurance customers, 248 internet in these areas and in other different ways.
connectivity customers and had 835 The Group has spent a considerable amount telephone users.
of time and effort analysing its portfolio to identify and prioritise the opportunities on For many years the Group has operated a those properties which have significant customers directory a yellow pages type potential for value enhancement in the near guide to services offered by our customers term see page 22. and preferential terms made available by them to other Workspace customers.
Improving margins Following the successful development of the The Group aims to be a good landlord and internet based version of this service which provide the highest levels of customer operates within the Customer Home section service.
It recognises that its standards and of the Groups website the service was efficiency of service, from the initial letting extended by the launch during 2005 06 of process through to moving in and occupation, TradeLink.
TradeLink goes beyond a service should allow customers to maximise time to Workspaces customers to source spent on their own businesses.
To do this suppliers by providing the opportunity to it has developed streamlined processes and network and establish collaborations with actively seeks out opportunities to others through which each may benefit.
