Section 4 Financial Annual Report and 29 Workspace Group PLC statements Accounts 2006 Report of the directors The directors present their report and the audited financial Donations statements for the year ended 31 March 2006.
The Group has made no political donations 2005: nil.
It has made charitable donations, principally through rental concessions and sponsorship, totalling 154,030 2005: 59,033.
Principal activities The Group is engaged in property investment in the form of letting of business accommodation to small and medium sized enterprises Health and Safety located in London and the South East of England.
At 31 March 2006 The Groups policy is to provide and maintain safe and healthy the Company had 11 active subsidiaries, 8 of which are engaged in working conditions, equipment and systems of work for all its the Group's core activities.
Details of the Company's subsidiaries are employees and to provide such information, training and supervision listed on page 52.
LI Property Services Limited procures insurance as they need for this purpose.
The Group accepts responsibility for on behalf of the Group.
Workspace Management Limited acts as the health and safety of other people, who may be affected by manager for all the Groups property investment companies.
Workspace Holdings Limited is an intermediate holding company and borrower under the Groups facility with Bradford & Bingley PLC.
Whilst all employees of the Group have a responsibility in relation to health and safety matters, certain staff have been designated workplace responsibilities or other co-ordinating responsibilities Operating and financial review throughout the Group, and ultimately, at Board level, the Chief A review of the Group's operations and financial affairs is set out on Executive has overall responsibility.
Reports on Health and Safety pages 6 to 28 of this Report.
are made to each Board meeting.
Profit and dividends Employment policies The Group profit after tax for the year attributable to shareholders The Group aims to create a working environment in which every amounted to 106.6m 2005: 58.5m.
The directors recommend the current or prospective employee is given equal opportunity in payment of a final dividend of 2.51p 2005: 2.28p making a total of selection, development and promotion.
During the year a Staff Forum has been established to improve Land and buildings communication and consultation with employees.
The Group's fixed assets include investment properties of 954.0m 2005: 716.5m, owner occupied property of 2.0m 2005: 2.0m Purchasing policies and payments and current assets include investment properties held for sale of The Group tries, wherever possible, to procure from within its own 8.2m 2005: nil.
The Group's investment properties have been customer base providing its customers are competitive on price and independently valued by CB Richard Ellis, Chartered Surveyors, quality.
The Groups policy is that unless agreed otherwise at the time at 31 March 2006 at open market value.
of the transaction, its own payments to others for goods and services received are made on average within a month of the date of invoice.
Directors and their interests Mr A J Hales, Mr H Platt, Mr J Bywater, Ms M Carragher, During the year to 31 March 2006 the average payment term from the Mr B Cragg, Mr J P Marples, Dr C J Pieroni and Mr R M Taylor date of invoice was 28 days.
served the Company as directors throughout the year.
A J Hales and B Cragg retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for Post balance sheet events and future developments re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Brief biographical details Following the year end the Groups interest in the Stevenage of each of the directors including those standing for election appear Business Centre was sold for a consideration of 3.2m, Wharf Road on page 61. for 7.0m and the Group purchased No 1 Morie Street, London SW18 for a consideration of 4.4m.
The Group plans to continue the The Company has a Directors' and Officers' liability insurance policy development and expansion of its business and has targeted the which indemnifies the directors and officers against breach of acquisition of at least 60m of new property in the current year.
Further, the Group plans to extend its activities to exploit the potential for improving, extending and changing the use of selected properties.
No director had, during the year, any beneficial interest in any Following the year end the Group advised that it had reached contract significant to the Company's business, other than a contract agreement to sell a portfolio of properties with potential for of employment.
improvement to a joint venture with a developer, Glebe, in which the Group would take a 50% stake.
Details of the directors shareholdings and options over shares are provided on pages 71 to 72.
Going concern After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation Substantial shareholdings in the Company that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to At 12 June 2006 the directors had been notified of the following continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this shareholdings, amounting to 3% or more of the ordinary share reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing capital of the Company: the accounts.
Holder % of share capital F&C Asset Management 10.0% Risk management The financial risk management objectives and policies of the ING Investment Management 7.9% Company are set out in note 17 g to the financial statements and Insight 5.5% in the Corporate Governance section of this report on page 46.
Standard Life 5.5% Legal and General 4.2% Key Performance Indicators Scottish Widows 4.0% The directors are required in the business review to comment Citigroup 3.9% upon the Groups key performance indicators.
These are reported ABP Investments 3.7% elsewhere in this Annual Report and key performance indicators Aegon Asset Management 3.5% are provided on pages 2 and 82.
Workspace Group ESOT 3.2% Dimensional Funds 3.1% Section 4 Financial Annual Report 30 Workspace Group PLC statements and Accounts 2006 Audit information This proposal should not be taken as an indication that the Company The directors are satisfied that there is no information needed by will purchase shares at any particular price or indeed at all.
The the Groups auditors in connection with preparing their audit report of directors will only consider making purchases if they believe that which the auditors are unaware.
The directors have taken all steps such purchases would result in an increase in earnings per share that they ought to have taken in order to make themselves aware of and are in the best interests of the shareholders.
Any shares any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys purchased under the authority would either be cancelled, and the auditors are aware of that information.
number of shares in issue would be reduced accordingly, or would be held in treasury.
Auditors The authority will expire on 31 July 2007 or, if earlier, at the The auditors  LLP have indicated their conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2007. willingness to continue in office and a resolution that they will It is intended to renew such authority and power at successive be reappointed is included as ordinary business at the Annual annual general meetings.
By virtue of the Company Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Annual General Meeting Shares Regulations 2003, certain listed companies which buy back The 20th Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at their own shares are now permitted, subject to certain restrictions, Magenta House, 85 Whitechapel Road, London E1 1DU on Tuesday to hold up to 10% of their issued shares in treasury rather than 1 August 2006.
Formal notice of the meeting is given on pages 75 cancelling them.
Instead, such repurchased shares may be held by and 76. companies as treasury shares and later resold for cash, transferred for the purposes of an employee share scheme, or cancelled.
Whilst Special business at the Annual General Meeting any shares are held in treasury, voting rights are suspended, In addition to the ordinary business of the meeting, three resolutions dividends are not paid and companies cannot take advantage of numbered 7 to 9 are proposed as special business and are statutory pre-emption rights in respect of the shares other than in concerned with the following matters: connection with a bonus issue of fully paid shares.
a Directors' powers to allot securities renewal of authority The directors would consider holding as treasury shares any shares By law, directors are not permitted to allot new shares or to grant which the Company repurchases pursuant to the authority provided rights over shares unless authorised to do so by shareholders.
To the extent that any shares repurchased by the addition, directors require specific authority from shareholders before Company are held in treasury, earnings per share will only be allotting new shares or rights in respect of shares for cash without increased on a temporary basis until such time as the shares are first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to their sold or transferred out of treasury.
Overall, the directors believe holdings.
Resolutions dealing with the authority of the directors to that the ability of the Company to hold shares in treasury will allot shares will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
provide the Company with greater flexibility in the management of its share capital.
Resolution 7 gives the directors the necessary authority for the period of five years from the date of the passing of such resolution to allot By order of the Board shares, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 5,650,321 being one R Mark Taylor third of issued share capital of the Company as at 12 June 2006.
Company Secretary 12 June 2006 Resolution 8 empowers the directors for the period of five years from the date of the passing of such resolution to allot shares for cash or transfer equity securities which are from time to time held by the Company in treasury otherwise than to existing shareholders on a pro rata basis up to an aggregate nominal amount of 847,548, which is equivalent to 5%.
of the issued share capital of the Company as at 12 June 2006.
It also enables the directors, in the case of an issue by way of rights, to deal with fractional entitlements and to make such exclusions or other arrangements as may be appropriate to resolve legal, regulatory or practical problems which might arise, particularly with regard to overseas shareholders.
It is intended to renew such authority and power at successive annual general meetings.
There is no present intention of issuing any ordinary shares, except in connection with the Companys share option schemes.
As at 12 June 2006 the Company held no equity securities in treasury.
b Companys power to purchase own shares renewal of authority Resolution 9 authorises the Company to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 of the Companies Act 1985 on the London Stock Exchange of up to an aggregate of 16,950,964 ordinary shares equivalent to 10% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 12 June 2006, at a minimum price per ordinary share of 10p and a maximum price of 105% of the average of the middle market quotations of the ordinary shares as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which that ordinary share is contracted to be purchased.
