Section 2 Leading in a Annual Report and 08 Workspace Group PLC growth market Accounts 2006 Our focus: Serving SMEs and local communities.
Our business centres must be both appealing in style as well as accessible to SMEs and the local community.
Enterprise House, SE1 A view from a porthole at Enterprise Houses new fifth floor focuses on the London Eye illustrating its central London location.
To make our space successful it has to be accessible and appealing.
Enterprise House also has the maximum Public Transport Accessibility Level PTAL rating of 6b, adding further value to the intensification works.
Section 2 Leading in a Annual Report and 09 Workspace Group PLC growth market Accounts 2006 Workspace Group properties by Public Transport Accessibility Level PTAL rating PTAL ratings provide London with a constant framework for assessing public transport accessibility.
About 30% of Workspace properties have a high PTAL rating of Level 5 or above.
1 Westway cluster 2 Enterprise House PTAL rating Areas of London by PTAL Level 1a 0.01 - 2.50 Level 5 20.01 - 25.00 rating, as highlighted by Level 1b 2.01 - 5.00 Level 6a 25.01 - 40.00 The London Plan.
Source: Transport for London Level 2 5.01 - 10.00 Level 6b 40.01 Level 3 10.01 - 15.00 No rating Level 4 15.01 - 20.00 To find out more about Workspace Group properties and their PTAL rating, download Our focus our Sustainability Report 2006 as a pdf, from workspacegroup.
co. uk It is imperative that Workspace Enterprise House has a PTAL rating Our focus on supplying space to SMEs in meets the varied demands of of 6b.
Though it is highly accessible London reflects the Citys focal points.
businesses when choosing their and benefits from excellent transport With its growing population and related business accommodation.
This connections, it does not feature transport issues, together with development means we must offer choice across significant shared or integral leisure initiatives such as the Olympics, new the portfolio to enable businesses to space.
The resulting customer base community hubs are emerging.
identify the best fit for their needs.
predominantly professional and Location is one obvious form of media services companies reflects London has always been a collection of demand and the PTAL map above these characteristics.
On the other illustrates the varied accessibility hand, the Westway properties of communities.
Our properties reflect this in ratings of our portfolio.
The style of Canalot Studios, Pall Mall Deposit the focused clusters we have assembled to each centre coupled with its location and Westbourne Studios have lower service these local markets.
Our properties significantly affects the businesses PTAL ratings from 2 to 5 but all themselves often act as a business focus subsequently attracted.
feature significant shared or integral within these local communities.
They tend leisure space, and attract a customer to attract groups of similar businesses, For example, given its central London base of design creatives.
whether it be designers in one property or location, it is not surprising that business services in another.
This clustering of activities is a reflection in part of the desire of the occupying businesses to be close to one another, to network.
It is also W10 encouraged by the working environments A property cluster forming the heart of a community we offer.
Our accommodation offer, whether it be by the size of unit, services within the Canalot Studios, Westbourne Studios and Pall Mall Deposit, all in unit, ambiance of the property, or simply its W10, form part of our Westway cluster and are located between location, is designed to be attractive to this Westbourne Park, Ladbroke Grove and Kensal Green tube stations.
All three attract creative businesses who demand properties of character which reflect well on their industries and lifestyles.
All three centres have impressive shared space for work and relaxation and include atriums, courtyards, cafs, late licence bars and nightclubs.
1 2 3 1 Canalot Studios, W10 2 Pall Mall Deposit, W10 3 Westbourne Studios, W10
