DIRECTORS' REPORT 35 Directors' report 1 The Directors present their annual report with RESULTS AND DIVIDEND The profit for the financial year after taxation the consolidated accounts of the company and its was 57.6m 2005: 53.9m.
subsidiaries for the year to 31st October 2006.
The Directors propose that a dividend of 9.7p per share be paid to holders of ordinary shares PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES which together with the interim dividend of 4.5p AND BUSINESS REVIEW makes a total for the year of 14.2p.
The principal activities of the group are residential housing and property development.
The Annual Review on pages 1 to 8 deals with the development SHARE CAPITAL of the group's business and its activities during the Details of shares issued during the year are set year.
Additional Key Performance indicators out in Note 19 to the accounts.
relevant to the business are included in the Information regarding substantial shareholdings Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 9 in the company is contained in the Shareholder to 14 and in the Five Year record on page 78.
GOING CONCERN ASSUMPTION DONATIONS The Directors have considered, as part of their During the year the group made contributions to annual budget process, the adequacy of the charities of 46,000 2005: 48,000.
There were groups banking and other facilities in relation to no political donations made in either year.
its profit and cash flow projections.
The Directors have reasonable expectations that the group has adequate resources to continue EMPLOYMENT POLICIES trading for the foreseeable future.
For this Arrangements exist to keep all employees reason they continue to adopt the going concern informed on matters of concern to them through basis in preparing the financial statements.
a variety of media including conferences, newsletters and meetings.
REPORT Annual Report and Accounts 2006 REPORT Annual Report and Accounts 2006 DIRECTORS' REPORT 36 It is the policy of the group that disabled DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION persons shall be considered for employment, TO AUDITORS training, career development and promotion on The directors who held office at the date of the basis of their aptitudes and abilities, in approval of this directors report confirm that, so common with all employees.
The services of any far as they are each aware, there is no relevant existing employee who becomes disabled are audit information of which the companys retained wherever possible.
auditors are unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any TRAINING relevant audit information and to establish that The group recognises that its reputation is very the companys auditors are aware of that Opposite dependent on the quality, effectiveness and skill information.
There is a commitment at Carters Grove, Kings Hill, West Malling, Kent Board level to ensure that its employees and management are properly inducted into the By Order of the Board company and given necessary training to fulfil N I HUGHES their roles.
With ever increasing customer Company Secretary demands, particular emphasis is placed on 25th January 2007 customer service and build quality skills training.
DIRECTORS The Directors of the company at the date of this report are shown on pages 15 and 16.
A statement of the Directors' share interests is set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 24 to 34.
ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY It is the company's policy to assess environmental issues which may be applicable to its business, customers and the general public and to take such measures consistent with being a responsible property development group.
CREDITOR PAYMENT POLICY The group's policy concerning the payment of its trade creditors is as follows: to agree the terms of payment at the start of business with the supplier to ensure that suppliers are aware of the terms of payment to pay in accordance with its contractual and other legal obligations not to alter payment terms without prior agreement of the supplier The company does not have trade creditors.
Creditor days for the companys subsidiary undertakings are shown in the financial statements of those undertakings.
DIRECTORS' REPORT 37 REPORT Annual Report and Accounts 2006 REPORT Annual Report and Accounts 2006 DIRECTORS' REPORT 38 1 Park Central, Birmingham, West Midlands 1
