Corporate governance Non-executive directors Remuneration Committee Croda complies with the Code in having experienced non-executive directors who represent a source of strong independent David Dunn Chairman advice and judgement.
At present there are four such directors, including the Chairman, each of whom has significant Michael Buzzacott commercial experience.
Their understanding of the Groups operations is enhanced by regular divisional presentations Martin Flower and by site visits.
Michael Ward No non-executive director nor the Chairman: The Remuneration Committee, which consists of non-executive directors, is responsible for advising on remuneration policy for senior executives and for determining the remuneration packages of the executive directors.
Following the June 2006 has been an employee of the Company or Group revision of the Code which permitted chairmen of boards to become members of the Remuneration Committee, Mr Flower has, or has had, a material business relationship with the Group was appointed to the Committee in December.
The Group Chief Executive normally attends its meetings.
The directors remuneration report is set out on pages 23 to 30 and a resolution will be proposed at the AGM to approve the report.
received, or receives remuneration other than a directors fee or share options or is a member of the Group pension scheme has close family or business ties with any of the Groups advisers, directors or senior employees Terms of reference are posted on the Companys website.
The Committee met five times in 2006.
A self evaluation of holds cross directorship or significant links with other directors through involvement in other companies or bodies the effectiveness of the Committee was undertaken with no significant issues revealed.
represents a significant shareholder Nomination Committee has served on the Board for more than nine years from the date of their first election.
Martin Flower Chairman Michael Buzzacott Details of the professional commitments of the Chairman and the non-executive directors are included in their biographies David Dunn on page 18 and 19.
The Board is satisfied that these do not interfere with the performance of their respective duties to the Mike Humphrey Company.
The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors can be inspected during normal business Michael Ward hours at the Companys registered office by contacting the Company Secretary and are available at the AGM.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for nominating, for approval by the Board, candidates for appointment to Board Committees the Board.
It meets on an ad hoc basis.
Terms of reference are posted on the Companys website.
The Board has three main Committees and their terms of reference are published on the Groups website.
Other executives attend the meetings of these Committees when invited to do so by the Committee chairman.
During the year the Committee met four times.
The Committee considered the appointment of a new non-executive director.
External search consultants, Spencer Stuart, were engaged to identify initial candidates.
The Chairman then Audit Committee met candidates before recommending a shortlist to the Committee.
Subsequently, Committee members and the Group Michael Ward Chairman Chief Executive have interviewed the candidates.
The appointment process is still ongoing and it is anticipated that an Michael Buzzacott appointment will be made in the second quarter of 2007.
David Dunn The Committee carried out its customary corporate governance review and was satisfied that the size, structure and The Audit Committee, which consists of the non-executive directors, meets at least twice a year.
It assists the Board in composition of the Board and the required time commitment from non-executive directors remained appropriate, all observing its responsibility for ensuring that the Groups financial systems provide accurate and up to date information on the non-executive directors continued to fulfil the criteria of independence and were able to commit the required time its financial position and that the Groups published financial statements represent a true and fair reflection of this position.
for the proper performance of their duties.
It also assists the Board in ensuring that appropriate accounting policies, internal financial controls, internal audit activities and compliance procedures are in place.
Terms of reference are posted on the Companys website, including its role and the Although the Committee would usually have reviewed the issue of succession planning for the senior management team, authority delegated to it by the Board.
as a result of the ongoing organisational and structural changes arising from the Uniqema acquisition it was agreed to defer the review until mid-way through 2007.
Committee members bring considerable financial and accounting experience to the Committees work.
Members have recent employment in either finance or accounting roles or comparable experience in corporate activities as set out in Training and briefings are available to all directors on appointment and subsequently, as appropriate, taking into account their biographies on pages 18 and 19.
Mr Buzzacott will assume the chairmanship of the Committee after the AGM.
existing experience, qualifications and skill sets.
Audit independence Board and committee evaluation The Committee and Board place great emphasis on the objectivity of the Groups auditors,  LLP Towards the end of the year a process of self evaluation designed to assess the effectiveness of the Board, the Chairman PwC, in their reporting to shareholders.
The PwC audit partner is present at all Audit Committee meetings to ensure and each of the Committees was conducted using a questionnaire.
The results were summarised and presented to the full communication of matters relating to the audit.
Board and were the subject of a frank and open discussion.
No items of contention were identified.
The overall performance of the auditors is reviewed annually by the Audit Committee, taking into account the views of management, and feedback is provided to senior members of PwC unrelated to the audit.
This activity also forms part of PwCs own system of quality control.
The scope of the forthcoming years audit is discussed in advance by the Audit Committee.
Audit fees are reviewed by the Committee and then referred to the Board for approval.
The rotation of audit partners responsibilities within PwC is required by their professions ethical standards, is actively encouraged and has taken place.
Assignments awarded to PwC have been, and are, subject to controls by management that have been agreed by the Committee so that audit independence is not compromised.
The chairman of the Audit Committee is required to give prior approval of work carried out by PwC and its associates in excess of predetermined thresholds: part of this review is to determine that other potential providers of the services have been adequately considered.
These controls provide the Committee with adequate confidence in the independence of PwC in their reporting on the audit of the Group.
32 Corporate governance Corporate governance 33 Corporate governance Other committees Internal control The management of the business is delegated by the Board to the Group Chief Executive.
He utilises a series of committees The Code principle C. 2.1 on internal control requires the directors to conduct, at least annually, a review of the effectiveness to assist him in this task.
of the Groups system of internal control, including financial, operational, compliance and risk management controls and report to the shareholders that they have done so.
In accordance with the Turnbull guidance and in order to discharge this Group Executive Committee responsibility, the directors have utilised an organisational structure with clear operating procedures, lines of responsibility Mike Humphrey Chairman and delegated authority.
Sean Christie Group Finance Director David Barraclough President Specialities Asia Pacific In particular there are clear procedures for: Miguel fide Bellis President Specialities Latin America capital investment, with detailed appraisal, authorisation and post-investment review Bryan Dobson President Uniqema Oleochemicals financial reporting, within a comprehensive financial planning and accounting framework Steve Foots President Specialities Europe Kevin Gallagher President Specialities North America monitoring of business risks.
During the year the Company has continued its formal procedures for the assessment and Keith Layden President Actives & Enterprise Technologies review of all business risks under the direction of the Risk Management Committee which reports regularly to the Board.
Kevin Nutbrown President Global Operations Such procedures have been embedded into the system of internal control.
Louise Scott Company Secretary & Legal Counsel There are also clear procedures for monitoring the system of internal financial control.
This is a process which involves: The Group Executive Committee comprises the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and the heads of regional reports from relevant senior executives and divisional directors concerning the operation of those elements of the business and operational functions.
It meets quarterly and its remit is responsibility for the development and implementation system for which they are responsible and a report from the Group Financial Controller concerning the operation of strategy, operational plans, policies, procedures and budgets, the monitoring of operating and financial performance, the of the system as a whole assessment and control of risk and the prioritisation and allocation of resources.
reports from the Group Financial Controller on the work carried out under the annual internal audit plan.
The internal audit work is carried out by both our own employees and personnel seconded from Deloitte & Touche LLP who report Finance Committee through the Group Financial Controller to the Audit Committee Mike Humphrey Chairman Group Chief Executive Sean Christie Group Finance Director reports from the external auditors.
Graham Myers Group Financial Controller Treasurer Kevin Nutbrown President Global Operations The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control in operation throughout the financial year and up to the date of approval of the annual report.
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the Groups system of internal The Finance Committee was established in September 2006 and it meets monthly to review monthly operating results, control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to mitigate rather than eliminate the risk of failure to identify operational and risk issues and examine capital expenditure proposals.
achieve business objectives and provides reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Risk Management Committee Going concern Sean Christie Chairman Group Finance Director The financial statements, which appear on pages 38 to 76, have been prepared on a going concern basis as, after making appropriate David Barraclough President Specialities Asia Pacific enquiries, including a review of forecasts, strategic plans and banking facilities, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Graham Myers Group Financial Controller Treasurer Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Kevin Nutbrown President Global Operations Compliance The Risk Management Committee evaluates, proposes policies on and monitors processes to control the business, The information contained in this report demonstrates how the Company has complied with the Code throughout 2006. operational and compliance risks faced by the Group.
It normally meets four times a year.
As noted in last years accounts, the one exception was the terms of Barbara Richmonds service contract which remained in force until her departure from the Group on 31 March 2006.
This provided for pre-determined compensation equivalent Routine Business Committee to eighteen months remuneration on termination without just cause.
New appointees to the Board are entitled to no more The Routine Business Committee comprises the two executive directors with the Company Secretary and Group Financial than one years compensation on termination.
The Committee may make decisions with one executive director and the alternate for the other executive director being present.
It attends to business of a routine nature and to the administration of matters, the The Company has chosen to adopt the provisions of the 2006 revision to the Code and has appointed the Chairman of the principles of which have been agreed previously by the Board or the Group Executive Committee.
Board as a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Investor relations The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its shareholders.
The Board uses the AGM to communicate with private investors.
It is normal practice for all members of the Board to attend the AGM and be available to answer questions raised by shareholders.
Major shareholders have been advised that the Chairman and Senior Independent director are available for personal meetings and discussion with major shareholders.
The annual report and accounts including notice of AGM are sent to shareholders at least twenty working days before the meeting.
The level of proxies lodged on each AGM resolution and the balance for and against each resolution is declared by the Chairman after the resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands providing there has been no call for a poll.
When appropriate, meetings are held between the executive directors and institutional investors.
There is a separate investor relations section on the Companys website www.
com which includes, amongst other items, presentations made to analysts.
