       WE WIN      n  n                      n n n n n n WE ARE NUMBER 1 IN OUR MARKET n n n n nnnnnnnnnnn nnn nnnnnnnnnn nnnnnnnnnn nnnnn nnnnnnnnn n n n n n n n n Ours is the most advanced technology n available and, not surprisingly, it lies at the heart of many of the worlds most n innovative wireless products.
 We work with the market leaders in every category in which we operate.
 From handsets and headsets to MP3 players, game consoles, satellite navigation  systems, PCs and cars, CSR technology underpins the futures of the most  demanding manufacturers.
 Our customers leadership depends on our leadership.
     Changing the way the world connects CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 KEY ACHIEVEMENTS Nearly half of all Bluetooth qualified GSM handsets contained CSRs Bluetooth Over 84% of all headsets qualified contained CSRs Bluetooth Provided connectivity for Samsungs Bluetooth MP3 player: the Yepp T9 Selected for the ground-breaking new Sony PlayStation 3 NUMBER 1 IN OUR MARKET continued WORKING WITH THE BEST rate to rise to between 40% 50% PC opportunities continue to grow We hate wires.
Consumers hate in 2007 as low end phones start fast with new wireless applications wires.
So we work with the leading to incorporate Bluetooth.
rapidly becoming established, companies, on many of the most such as streaming audio to headsets exciting developments in consumer HEADSETS and transferring pictures between electronics, to take the world wire-free.
During 2006, a total of 100 mono the PC and Bluetooth-enabled headsets were Bluetooth qualified.
As you can see on these pages, Of these, we won 90, an impressive the category leaders trust CSR 90% of all mono headsets qualified.
In MP3 players, we were proud to technology.
Our client list includes: In the same period, stereo headset be chosen by Samsung as partners qualifications numbered 57, with CSR for one of the first wireless MP3 players, Nokia in handsets winning 44, or 77%.
Overall, we the innovative Yepp T9 player.
Motorola in headsets succeeded in securing 84% of all Sony in gaming headset design wins during the year.
The market for game console Dell in PCs and controller chips is well over TomTom and Garmin Manufacturers and consumers simply 100 million units per year and Sony, in satellite navigation prefer the CSR experience and its the category leader, specified CSR an experience which is enhanced by for the ground-breaking new HANDSETS our close working relationship with PlayStation 3.
Using our proprietary The handset market continues innovative companies through our FastStream low latency technology, to drive our business.
The PlayStation 3 gamers experience Programme has enabled us to add the ultimate in response times.
Competition is most active in the best-of-breed performance to our For example, on a soccer simulation handset market.
However, although existing capabilities in many key areas game, a virtual striker will shoot as the chip pricing environment remains including: speech recognition: text to soon as the appropriate button is competitive, the differentiation and speech and speech to text: noise pressed, with none of the delayed quality of the chip manufacturers suppression and echo cancellation: actions that can be experienced in product offering is of high importance and HiFi quality at LoFi prices.
to the handset manufacturer in its A better gaming experience for choice of chip supplier.
Nearly half In early 2007 we produced a our customers customers.
of all Bluetooth GSM handsets qualified reference design for low cost mono during the year incorporated our chips headsets.
By reducing the electronic In Automotive, in-car communications and we continued to supply four of bill of materials to less than $6, for Audi, BMW and Saab, among the top six mobile manufacturers.
we expect the selling price of mono others, rely on CSR technology.
headsets to fall and for consumer 2006 saw excellent growth in The attach rate the percentage adoption to increase.
both the built-in and after markets, of handsets sold which feature largely driven by interest in the Bluetooth technology rose again PC, AUTOMOTIVE AND CONSUMER CSR-equipped satellite navigation in 2006.
It has now increased from Our market share in the PC, systems offered by TomTom in 14% in 2004 to 25% in 2005 to over Automotive and Consumer sectors Europe and Garmin in the USA.
We expect the attach is around 70% and provides diversity beyond our traditional handset and headset businesses.
14 | 15 For the Xda Atom, we needed our Bluetooth partner to supply a complete silicon and software product which could co-exist with its radio function and ensure that there would be no issue of signal stability.
CSR engineers worked with us to provide exactly that, allowing us to minimise our design cycle and release the product in time for Christmas.
Nils Wallnas Product and Service Vice President O2, Asia Pacific 01 01 Sony specified CSR for the ground-breaking new PlayStation 3.
02 We have equipped satellite navigation systems for TomTom in Europe and Garmin in the USA.
03 02 03 Our business continues to be driven by the handset market.
04 We continued to win business in MP3 players including partnering Samsung with the Yepp T9 player.
05 During the year we 04 succeeded in 84% of all headset design wins.
