       WHATS NEXT              n n n nn n nnnnn n nn n n n  n         n n n n n n WE CONTINUE TO MEET CONSUMER DEMANDS n n n The world is going wireless.
This isnt just  a prediction or a minor trend it is a fact of business life in consumer electronics.
 Whatever new products or applications  are developed to meet emerging consumer demands, there will be a key role for CSR  technology to play in transforming great ideas into practical reality.
     nnnnnn n nnnnnnnnn n nnnnnnn nnnnnnn n nnnnnnn n nnnnnnnn nnnnnnnn n nnnnn n nnnnnnnnn nnnnnnnnnnn n nnnnnnnnnnnn nnnnnnnn n nnnnn n nnnnnnnnn nnnnnnn n nnnnnnn n nnnnnnnn nnnnnn n nnnnnnnnn n nnnnnnn        Changing the way the world connects CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 MEETING CONSUMER DEMANDS continued To find out more about TOMORROW Our UniFi chip provides low power, by integrating both onto a single chip.
Bluetooth visit Bluetooth is the gold standard of small size and high performance Wi-Fi A key issue that we will resolve is the www.
com wireless communication and CSRs capabilities.
Our UniVox phone design comparatively heavy power report bluetooth understanding of the technology reduces the manufacturing cost of a consumption of UWB.
To find out more about and dedication to its long-term wireless VoIP phone to an electronic Wi-Fi visit www.
com development has changed the way bill of materials from $24 and increases Our Bluetooth chips are already report wifi the world connects.
faster than our competitors products.
the battery life to over 20 hours on a To find out more about call and over 400 hours waiting for a With UWB, that speed will increase GPS visit We remain committed to Bluetooth by up to a hundred times, dramatically call.
Just as important, it offers the www.
com at the same time, we will continue to best Bluetooth co-existence, so extending the chips possibilities.
report gps invest resources to explore the For example, UWB-based Bluetooth Bluetooth and Wi-Fi can sit alongside To find out more about potential of other wireless technologies will be able to upload and download each other in the same product.
com in order to meet the demands of vast multimedia files and handle report uwb manufacturers.
tasks such as synchronising Outlook GPS To find out more about diaries between the PC and the The early application for GPS Wibree visit On these pages we feature a snapshot phone with ease.
technology in phones was in response www.
com of some of the exciting technologies to 911 legislation in the US.
This report wibree and applications that are likely to drive WIBREE required location-finder capability To find out more about the consumer electronics marketplace Developed by Nokia, Wibree is an to be built into handsets so that the FM visit www.
extension to Bluetooth that opens emergency services could identify report fm up new ways in which Bluetooth the location of a caller.
For the future, WI-FI AND WIRELESS VOIP can be used.
Because GPS has many interesting, highly Wi-Fi and Bluetooth are different, Wibree offers greatly reduced creative possibilities.
but they complement each other well.
power consumption and so can be Whereas Bluetooth is better at incorporated in small devices that In terms of its traditional location-finder ad-hoc connections, Wi-Fi is more only require button batteries.
capability, a handset with a CSR chip suited to an office environment such incorporating GPS could be used as downloading emails, transferring As part of the Wibree consortium, for satellite navigation, helping we are working to incorporate Wibree MP3 files, carrying wireless VoIP consumers to find the nearest coffee telephone calls and so on.
Although technology on Bluetooth chips.
In the shop, petrol station or hotel.
Beyond future, a simple mobile phone handset Wi-Fi is currently most closely that, businesses could use GPS to could act as a remote control device associated with PCs and laptops communicate to potential customers for central heating, TV, burglar alarm as the technology behind wireless in particular locations.
For example, system and many more.
It sounds internet, in future it will form the heart a supermarket could text timecomplex but with our help it will of new telephony systems.
It will be sensitive special offers to shoppers become part of everyday life.
possible to provide a seamless link within a certain radius of the store.
from mobile to VoIP so consumers WIRELESS PCs can use a single phone at home, in ULTRA WIDEBAND A key focus during 2006 was our work UWB increases the speed of data the car and at work.
with Dell and Microsoft to successfully transmission that Bluetooth can develop the worlds first Windows PC handle.
We aim to bring together the to ship with only a wireless keyboard best of Bluetooth and the best of UWB 22 | 23 As the leader in headsets for business users, we understand the importance of delivering innovative products quickly.
Partnering with CSR on the Voice Dongle solution enabled Plantronics to rapidly develop a fully interoperability tested VoIP product.
Chuck Yort Business Solutions Vice President Plantronics and mouse.
This has not been possible in the past because a wired keyboard and mouse have been necessary in order to install any wireless peripheral.
The Dell XPS M2010 is now in production and we are confident that in the future all PCs will ship with wireless peripherals.
01 THE CSR VISION The move to wireless technology is unstoppable.
Consumers want wireless applications, manufacturers are developing new solutions that meet those demands and we are committed to remaining right at the front of the wireless industry.
Respected as the industry pioneer, recognised as the catalyst for an evolving marketplace and acknowledged as the leading voice in wireless communications, we have become established as a broader supplier of silicon into the phone.
New, consumerdriven features such as GPS locationfinder capability are being brought to market as a direct result of our design teams know-how and capabilities.
02 Looking ahead, we have the vision 01 and the expertise to bring a new range GPS could be used of wireless technologies to market.
Our for satellite navigation in handsets.
portfolio and roadmap encompasses a broad spectrum of technologies for 02 personal and local area networking.
In every case with every enhanced The worlds first Windows PC to ship feature or new innovation we introduce with only a wireless we become an increasingly valuable keyboard and mouse.
partner for the most demanding OEM 03 and ODM customers.
Wi-Fi, ideal for 03 downloading emails, The outlook for CSR remains transferring MP3s and so on.
excellent as we continue to offer complete systems solutions for wireless applications including software.
Our future is rich with promise and we are poised to reap the rewards of market leadership as our industry pushes back the boundaries of wireless communication.
