       WHY WE WIN      nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn n    n     n  nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn n n  nnnnnnnnnnnnn n nnnnn            n n n n n n WE HAVE A KEENER COMPETITIVE EDGE n n n n n n n nnnnn n nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn n We help our customers bring new n and exciting products to market.
 But why are ours the chips of choice?
Why do category leaders nnn n nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn such as Nokia, Motorola, Sony, Dell, BMW and many more choose  to build relationships with CSR above all others?
 One reason is because we like they  are leaders.
With a history that extends back to the first days of Bluetooth,  we pioneered many of the industry standards.
We are also technologists  who understand what can be achieved and are inspired and  energised by the challenge.
 But the primary reason concerns the technical excellence of our products        Changing the way the world connects CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 KEY ACHIEVEMENTS Launched a Wi-Fi chip Combined Bluetooth with an integrated FM receiver Announced that we will provide GPS to our customers for less than $1 Confirmed that we will be producing UWB Announced our support for Wibree A KEENER COMPETITIVE EDGE continued EXPLOITING OUR ADVANTAGE POWER CONSUMPTION INTEROPERABILITY The worlds leading manufacturers Traditionally, capabilities such as In a wireless world, communication trust CSR to consistently deliver Bluetooth can quickly drain batteries.
Our technology is competitive advantage in key areas: Not so with CSR chips.
In terms of proven both in the laboratory and power consumption, our products in the marketplace.
In the laboratory, SIZE are equal to or better than the we have developed hundreds Size matters.
With consumers competition, typically using 20% of workarounds.
In fact our demanding greater capability from to 50% less power.
For example a Interoperability Test Library is smaller devices, size is a critical headset based on CSR technology the largest in the industry and has commercial battleground particularly can remain on standby yet use only dealt with over 10,000 different in sectors such as headsets and one millionth of the power required interoperability issues.
CSR is the industrys by a 60W light bulb.
This means know that with CSR, the connection pioneer, the first company to integrate that our manufacturers can specify will work.
Phones will work with all wireless technology on a single chip, less powerful and therefore smaller, headsets which will work with and our current target is to reduce the lighter and less costly batteries, MP3 players which will work size of a thin die from 670 um to a which enables them to offer more with PCs which will work with maximum of 400 um.
In 2006, we put attractive products and greater keyboards and so on.
FM radio on the chip and were now value to consumers.
helping customers incorporate GPS EASE OF DESIGN technology in their devices.
CO-EXISTENCE We provide market-leading chips The more wireless technologies and the software that makes them COST incorporated into a handset, work.
CSR is effectively a one-stopIn our industry, cost is closely the greater the potential for shop, with chips and software associated with size.
such as BlueCore supplied together.
our costs are lower because we Understandably, consumers Interoperability is built into the chip, generate more chips from a wafer, and therefore manufacturers so it doesnt have to be designed driving greater value from our want both Wi-Fi and Bluetooth in into the device itself.
The size of chip is the a phone because each is a perfect single biggest determinant of cost solution to a different communication FUNCTIONALITY and we design smaller.
For example, they We help manufacturers seize market we integrate as many technologies may want to download video by opportunities by constantly looking as possible onto the chip in order Wi-Fi while talking via Bluetooth to build new functions into our to provide greater design freedom or stream video from a home design.
TV capability, GPS location and make it less expensive for library through Wi-Fi and listen to technology, FM radio we go further customers to design and build the soundtrack through Bluetooth.
than others to help our customers around our products.
Finally, But Wi-Fi and Bluetooth operate win new customers.
because CSR chips provide more on the same frequency.
CSRs reliable connections, we can deliver capabilities in Bluetooth and Wi-Fi lower lifetime costs to manufacturers.
mean that, using our solutions, both can be used simultaneously, with no noticeable degradation.
18 | 19 The Nokia Bluetooth Headset BH-800 was our first Bluetooth headset to feature Bluetooth v2.0 EDR and is designed to represent our culture of mobility.
In order to achieve the highest standard of connectivity, the choice of a Bluetooth collaborator was simple.
CSR provided us with support and expertise in order to design a small headset with the most advanced technology and highest level of voice quality.
Razvan Olosu Enhancements Vice President Nokia 01 02 To find out more about cost visit www.
com report cost To find out more about power consumption visit www.
com report powerconsumption To find out more about co-existence visit www.
com report coexistence To find out more about interoperability visit www.
com report interoperability To find out more about functionality visit www.
com report functionality To find out more about echo cancellation visit www.
com report echo cancellation To find out more about noise suppression visit www.
com report noise suppression 03 01 To find out more about Smaller, lighter and less audio enhancement costly chips enable visit www.
com manufacturers to offer report audio more attractive products.
enhancement 02 Making smaller chips with more technologies helps our customers to design and build around our products.
03 Our Interoperability Test Library in Cambridge is the largest in the industry.
