Changing the way the world connects CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 DIRECTORS REPORT INTRODUCTION of up to $35 million may be payable The directors present their report subject to achievement of specified on the affairs of CSR plc and its milestones.
CPS, based in subsidiaries the Group, together Cambridge, UK, has been acquired with the financial statements of the for a total cash consideration of Company and its subsidiaries for the $35 million.
Both NordNav and 52 weeks ended 29 December 2006.
CPS were private companies, with significant holdings by venture ACTIVITIES AND BUSINESS REVIEW capital institutions.
The initial cash CSR is a leading developer and consideration for the acquisitions has provider of single chip wireless been and any deferred consideration solutions designed to support data will be financed entirely from CSRs and voice communications between existing cash resources.
Additional a wide range of products over short information on these acquisitions range radio links.
More detailed is provided on pages 36 and 37. information on the principal activities of CSR plc and its subsidiaries, FUTURE DEVELOPMENT together with a review of the It remains the Boards intention to businesses and a description of develop the Group through organic the principal risks and uncertainties growth and selective acquisition.
facing the Group along with other information that fulfils the requirements SHARE CAPITAL of the Business Review are set The directors propose Resolution out on pages 24 to 37, which are 8 in the Notice of Meeting to renew incorporated into this report by the authority granted at the Annual reference.
The use of financial General Meeting held in 2006 to instruments is covered within the allot equity shares up to an aggregate Business Review.
Details of the nominal value of 43,431 subsidiaries and branches of the representing approximately one Company are set out on page 86. third of the ordinary shares issued at the date of this report the section FINANCIAL RESULTS 80 authority.
If approved, at the The Groups consolidated income forthcoming Annual General Meeting, statement, set out on page 62 the authority will expire no later than shows an increase to $149.0 million 15 months from the date on which in operating profit compared to an the resolution is passed, or at the operating profit in 2005 of $111.9 conclusion of the Annual General million.
Turnover increased by 45% Meeting to be held in 2008, to $704.7 million from $486.5 million whichever is the sooner.
in 2005 and diluted earnings per share were $0.82 from $0.62 in 2005.
The limited power granted to the directors at the Annual General In accordance with stated policy, Meeting held in May 2006 to allot no dividend will be paid in respect equity shares for cash other than of the 52 weeks ended 29 December pro-rata to existing shareholders 2006 2005:nil.
expires no later than 2 August 2007.
Subject to the terms of the section POST BALANCE SHEET EVENT 80 authority, the directors On 12 January 2007, the Company recommend Resolution 9 in the completed the acquisitions of Notice of Meeting that this authority the entire issued share capital should be renewed so as to give of NordNav Technologies AB the ability until the Annual General NordNav and the entire issued Meeting held in 2008 to issue share capital of Cambridge ordinary shares for cash other than Positioning Systems Limited CPS.
pro-rata to existing shareholders, NordNav, based in Stockholm, in connection with a rights issue or up Sweden, has been acquired for an to a limit of 5% of the ordinary share initial cash consideration of $40 capital issued at the date of this million.
The directors have no present 46 | 47 intention to issue ordinary shares DIRECTORS when it enters into binding purchase other than pursuant to the Companys Details of the directors of the Board contracts.
At 29 December 2006 the employee share schemes.
The who served during the year are number of creditor days outstanding directors recommend that you vote contained on page 38.
Biographies for the Company was 30 2005 : 30 in favour of Resolutions 8 and 9 to of the directors are on page 44. and for the Group was 57 2005 : 62. maintain the Companys flexibility in relation to future share issues, In accordance with the Articles DONATIONS including any issues to finance of Association, the director retiring The Company and employees business opportunities should at the Annual General Meeting will support a number of charities for appropriate circumstances arise.
be Mr Sergio Giacoletto, as he has a variety of causes.
The Company been appointed since the last meeting.
did not make any political donations A Special Resolution will be proposed Being eligible, Mr Giacoletto offers during the year.
Resolution 10 in the Notice of Meeting himself for election.
Mr Ron Mackintosh, to renew the directors limited authority and Mr Glenn Collinson are retiring DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY last granted in 2006 to repurchase by rotation and, being eligible, STATEMENT ordinary shares in the market.
The offer themselves for re-election.
The directors are responsible for authority will be limited to a maximum preparing the Annual Report and of 6,514,668 ordinary shares being The interests of the executive the financial statements.
The directors 5% of the Companys issued share directors in the options of the are required to prepare financial capital at the date of this report and Company are detailed in the statements for the Group in accordance also sets the minimum and maximum Remuneration Report on page 58. with International Financial Reporting prices which may be paid.
Standards IFRS and have also DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN SHARES elected to prepare financial statements The directors believe it is The register kept by the Company for the Company in accordance with advantageous for the Company pursuant to section 325 of the Companies IFRS.
Company law requires the to have the flexibility to make market Act shows that the Directors in office at directors to prepare such financial purchases of its own shares.
In the 29 December 2006 and their families statements in accordance with event that shares are purchased, had the under-mentioned interests in International Financial Reporting they would either be cancelled the ordinary shares of the Company.
Standards, the Companies Act 1985 and the number in issue would be and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
29 December 30 December reduced accordingly or, subject 2006 2005 Anthony Carlisle 4,000 0 to the legislation referred to below, International Accounting Standard 1 retained as treasury shares.
The James Collier 1,009,898 1,509,898 requires that financial statements Glenn Collinson 1,715,840 1,715,840 directors will only make purchases present fairly for each financial year after consideration of the possible Paul Goodridge 15,000 0 the Companys financial position, Ron Mackintosh 20,000 20,000 effect on earnings per share and the financial performance and cash long term benefits to shareholders.
This requires the faithful David Tucker 80,000 80,000 representation of the effects of The Companies Acquisition of Own John Whybrow 40,000 120,000 transactions, other events and Shares Treasury Shares Regulations conditions in accordance with the 2003 allow shares repurchased by On Monday 26 February 2007, definitions and recognition criteria the Company to be held as treasury Mr Collinson exercised 67,000 share for assets, liabilities, income and shares that may be cancelled, sold options over ordinary shares in CSR expenses set out in the International for cash or used for the purpose plc and on the same day, he and a Accounting Standards Boards of employee share schemes.
The related party sold 20,000 ordinary Framework for the Preparation Company holds no shares in treasury shares in CSR plc.
As a result of these and Presentation of Financial but the directors currently intend that transactions, at 26 February 2007, Statements.
A fair presentation any shares which are repurchased will Mr Collinson held 1,762,840 ordinary will be achieved by compliance be held in treasury.
However there is shares in the Company.
with all applicable International no present intention to acquire shares Financial Reporting Standards.
and deal with them in this way.
The There were no other changes Directors are also required to: authority contained in the Special to the Directors shareholdings Resolution will expire 15 months after between 30 December 2006 and properly select and apply it is given or, if earlier, at the conclusion 26 February 2007. accounting policies: of the Annual General Meeting to present information, including be held in 2008 but it is the current PAYMENT OF CREDITORS accounting policies, in a manner intention of the directors to renew In the UK, the Company agrees that provides relevant, reliable, this authority annually.
payment terms with its suppliers Changing the way the world connects CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 DIRECTORS REPORT comparable and understandable The directors, having prepared the continued information: and financial statements, have permitted provide additional disclosures the auditors to take whatever steps when compliance with the specific they consider appropriate for the requirements in IFRS is insufficient purpose of enabling them to give to enable users to understand the their audit opinion.
impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS entitys financial position and The following table shows the financial performance.
interests notified to the Company under the Companies Act 1985 of The directors are responsible for a holding in excess of 3%.
keeping proper accounting records % of issued which disclose with reasonable ordinary accuracy at any time the financial share Disclosed holding capital position of the Company, for Fidelity, FMR Corp, safeguarding the assets, for taking Fidelity reasonable steps for the prevention International Ltd 16,413,053 12.59% and detection of fraud and other BlackRock Investment Management UK irregularities and for the preparation Limited 11,151,382 8.55% of a directors report and directors Schroders Plc 7,543,715 5.79% remuneration report which comply Credit Suisse with the requirements of the Securities Europe Companies Act 1985.
Limited and Credit Suisse International 5,940,538 4.56% Legal & General The directors are responsible for Group Plc 4,324,861 3.32% the maintenance and integrity of at 26 February 2007 the Company website.
This holding reflects a market making position which is subject to volatility.
Legislation in the United Kingdom GOING CONCERN governing the preparation and After making due enquiries, dissemination of financial statements the directors have a reasonable differs from legislation in other expectation at the time of approving jurisdictions.
the financial statements that the Group has adequate financial Each of the directors at the date resources to continue to operate of the approval of this report for the foreseeable future and, confirms that: consequently, continue to use the so far as the director is aware, going concern basis for preparing there is no relevant audit the financial statements which follow.
information of which the Companys auditors are unaware, AUDITORS and Deloitte & Touche LLP are the the director has taken all the steps Companys auditors and have that he ought to have taken as a expressed their willingness to director to make himself aware of continue in the office of auditors and the relevant audit information and therefore, in accordance with Section to establish that the Company's 385 of the Companies Act 1985, auditors are aware of that a resolution for their re-appointment information.
will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance By Order of the Board with the provisions of s234zA of the Brett Gladden Companies Act 1985.
