Changing the way the world connects CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 01 John Whybrow l s 04 Glenn Collinson executive positions in European technology l Remuneration Chairman, Chairman Nomination Committee Executive Vice-President, Co-founder companies.
Between 1992 and 2000 he was chief Committee John Whybrow has served as a non-executive Glenn Collinson runs the Convergence Business executive of Computer Sciences Corporations n Audit director of the Company since December 2003 Unit responsible for managing CSRs diversification CSC European business which had revenues of Committee and was appointed Chairman in March 2004. beyond Bluetooth into Wi-Fi and VoIP.
He is also a former director and Having spent the majority of his career with Philips as CSRs Marketing Director and then Sales interim CEO of Gemplus SA, the worlds largest s Nomination Electronics, he was appointed President & CEO Director from the Companys foundation to smartcard manufacturer.
Mr Mackintosh joined Committee of Philips Lighting Holdings BV, based in Holland, February 2006.
Mr Collinson is a co-founder of the board of Northgate Information Solutions in 1995, becoming Executive Vice-President of CSR.
Between October 1996 and 1999, Mr plc NIS on 1 September 2006 and became Royal Philips Electronics NV and member of the Collinson served as a senior engineer and then as chairman on 1 January 2007.
NIS is the UKs Board of Management in 1998.
He returned to a marketing manager at Cambridge Consultants leading supplier of specialist software and IT the UK in 2002, becoming chairman of Wolseley Ltd.
Prior to that, he served as a design engineer services for the Human Resources, Education plc having been a non-executive director of the and marketing manager at Texas Instruments and Public Service markets.
He is also a noncompany since 1997.
He is also a non-executive Limited.
Mr Collinson is a non-executive director executive director of software company royalblue director of DSG international plc.
Mr Whybrow of Sonaptic Limited.
group plc, chairman of software company is a graduate of the Imperial College, London in physics, an M. Sc.
in electronics from Durham SmartStream Technologies Ltd and chairman where he completed a degree in Mechanical University, and an MBA from Cranfield University of Differentis, a privately owned IT consultancy Engineering.
He also has an MBA from and is a member of the Institute of Electrical which he co-founded in July 2000.
08 Anthony Carlisle l n s 02 John Scarisbrick 05 Paul Goodridge Non-executive Director Chief Executive Officer Finance Director Mr Carlisle was appointed a non-executive director John Scarisbrick was appointed Chief Executive Paul Goodridge has served as Finance Director of the Company in July 2005.
Mr Carlisle is an Officer on 1 March 2006, having been Chief of the Company since January 2002, having executive director of Citigate Dewe Rogerson, Executive Officer Designate since 1 December joined in 2000.
Prior to joining CSR, Mr Goodridge where he is responsible for strategic consultancy 2005.
Mr Scarisbrick joined the Company in June was head of UK finance for PA Consulting.
He has over thirty years 2004 as a non-executive director.
He has 1990 to 1997 Mr Goodridge had a variety of experience in marketing and communications, extensive experience in the telecommunications senior financial positions at Black & Decker Inc. advising major companies in the UK and and semiconductor sectors, having worked for and Charringtons Fuels Limited.
He holds a BA in Economics and is Texas Instruments for 25 years in a variety of is a member of the Institute of Chartered a Fellow of the Institute of Public Relations.
Age 59. senior roles including President TI Europe and a Accountants in England and Wales.
Senior Vice-President of Texas Instruments Inc 09 Sergio Giacoletto l n s responsible for TIs $5 billion Application Specific 06 David Tucker l n s Non-executive Director Products chip business and led the team which Non-executive Director, Mr Giacoletto was appointed a non-executive created TIs Digital Signal Processor business.
Senior Independent Director, director of the Company in January 2007.
Prior to TI, Mr Scarisbrick worked in electronics Chairman Audit Committee Mr Giacoletto is Executive Vice-President of systems design roles at Rank Radio International David Tucker joined the Company as a nonOracle Corporation, Europe, Middle East and and Marconi Space and Defence Systems in the executive director in January 2004.
Mr Giacoletto also serves as a member UK.
He is a non-executive director of ARM years as an investment manager with M&G unit of Oracles Executive Management Committee.
Holdings plc and Intrinsity Inc. Age 54. trusts, Mr Tucker retired as deputy managing Prior to joining Oracle in 1997, Mr Giacoletto director in 1988.
He is currently a non-executive was President, Value Added Services at AT&T, 03 James Collier director of Edinburgh UK Tracker Trust plc and before which he spent 20 years with Digital Chief Technical Officer, Co-founder Rexam PLC where he chairs the audit committee.
Equipment Corporation in various senior James Collier has served as the Companys Mr Tucker is a member of the Institute of Chartered management and executive roles.
Mr Giacoletto Chief Technical Officer since CSRs establishment Accountants in England and Wales.
Age 67. has served on multiple company boards and IT in April 1999.
Mr Collier is a co-founder of CSR.
industry associations, is a member of the World 07 Ron Mackintosh l n s Between 1984 and April 1999, Mr Collier held a Council for Sustainable Business Development number of executive and technical positions at Non-executive Director, and is a member of the South African Presidential Cambridge Consultants Ltd, where he formed Chairman Remuneration Committee, International Advisory Council on Information the microelectronics group in 1987.
Prior to 1984, Chairman Designate Society and Development.
He holds a Masters Mr Mackintosh was appointed a non-executive in Computer Science from the University of Turin.
Mr Collier held a number of executive and technical positions at Schlumberger.
Mr Collier has a degree director of the Company in May 2004.
Age 58. in physics from Oxford University.
