0346 DC AR 2006 p23-37 7 6 06 8:36 am Page 35 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2006 35 Directors report The directors of Dairy Crest Group plc present their tenth annual Land and buildings report and the audited financial statements for the year ended The directors have obtained an informal valuation of the Groups 31 March 2006. land and buildings and believe that the current market value in existing use of these properties slightly exceeds their book value.
Principal activity The principal activity of the Group is the manufacture and Share capital trading of milk and dairy products.
The authorised and issued share capital of the Company, together with details of the shares issued during the year, are Business review shown in Note 23 on page 61.
The Groups operations and future developments are dealt with in the Chief Executives review, Operational review and Financial On 22 May 2006, Chase Nominees Limited had a material review on pages 4 to 21.
These reviews include a discussion of interest of 5.78% in the Company.
No other person has notified the risks and uncertainties facing the Group and certain key an interest in ordinary shares of the Company required to be performance indicators.
disclosed to the Company in accordance with Sections 198 to 202 of the Companies Act 1985.
Results and dividends The consolidated income statement is on page 38.
The profit Financial instruments policy for the year, after taxation, amounted to 34.8 million 2005: The financial risk management objectives and policies and risk 51.6 million.
The directors recommend a final dividend of exposures of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings 15.2 pence per share which, together with the interim dividend included in the consolidation are described in detail in Note 29 of 6.3 pence per share paid on 31 January 2006, makes a total to the accounts on page 66. dividend for the year of 21.5 pence per share.
If approved, the dividend will be paid on 9 August 2006 to shareholders on the Employee involvement register on 7 July 2006.
The importance of good communication is recognised by the Company.
There are also well-established consultation and Directors negotiating arrangements with recognised trade unions.
A list of the directors at the end of the year is set out on Employees are encouraged to participate in the Sharesave page 22. scheme the details of which are given in the Directors remuneration report on pages 28 to 29.
In accordance with the Articles of Association Mr M Allen, Mr H Mann and Mr P Thornton retire by rotation and, being Employment of disabled persons eligible, seek re-election at this years Annual General Meeting.
The Company considers applicants for posts compatible with their disability.
Staff who become disabled are retained Details of the directors remuneration, service contracts letters wherever practicable.
of appointment in the case of the non-executive directors, interests in shares, share options and long term incentive share Charitable and political donations plan awards are given in the Directors remuneration report on Charitable donations amounted to 0.1 million 2005: pages 27 to 34.
Small contributions, mainly of product, were also made to local charities.
No contributions were made A brief biography of each of the directors which includes their to any political party.
membership of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees is shown on page 22.
Supplier payment policy Payment dates are established according to the agreed date Directors indemnities of delivery of goods or provision of services and the receipt of At the date of this report and during the financial year, a correct invoice.
The Group agrees the length of payment indemnities were in force under which the Company has agreed terms with each of its suppliers as part of the overall purchasing to indemnify the directors, to the extent permitted by law and agreement.
It is the Groups policy to abide by these agreed the Companys Articles of Association, in respect of all losses terms of payment.
The number of days purchases in the arising out of, or in connection with, the execution of their Groups payables at 31 March 2006 was 31 days 2005: powers, duties and responsibilities, as directors of the Company 24 days.
The Company has no trade payables and therefore or any of its subsidiaries.
the number of days purchases in payables is not relevant.
0346 DC AR 2006 p23-37 7 6 06 8:36 am Page 36 36 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2006 Directors report continued Auditors So far as the directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
The directors have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue as auditors of the Company.
A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys auditors will be put to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Chartered Accountants Hall, Moorgate Place, London EC2P 2BJ on Thursday 20 July 2006 at 11.00 am.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed, including items of special business, are given in the Notice of Annual General Meeting and Explanatory Notes which appear on pages 80 to 85.
The directors believe that the resolutions are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole and unanimously recommend that shareholders should vote in favour of all resolutions.
Post balance sheet event On 4 April 2006, the Group completed a private debt placement in the US and raised 133 million US$233 million in US$ loan notes and 10 million in Sterling loan notes.
The loan notes mature in two tranches of 7 and 10 years.
Currency swaps have been put in place to convert the US$ debt into Sterling at fixed rates.
The effective interest rate on the combined issue is 5.3%.
On completion of this transaction and subsequent repayment of certain term loans of 90 million and cancellation of 20 million of the revolving credit facility, Group long-term borrowing facilities, including finance leases, total 456 million with a significantly longer maturity profile.
Going concern It should be recognised that any consideration of the foreseeable future involves making a judgement, at a particular point in time, about future events which are inherently uncertain.
Nevertheless, at the time of preparation of these accounts and after making appropriate enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
By order of the Board R J Newton, Secretary 23 May 2006
