qxd 8 6 06 5:06 pm Page 8 family moments famous brands Cathedral City is the UKs favourite cheddar cheese brand thanks to its distinctive mellow flavour.
Made in Cornwall using a traditional West Country recipe for over 25 years, its the perfect everyday cheese, especially good for cheese on toast.
qxd 8 6 06 5:12 pm Page 9 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2006 9 Operational review continued Nutritional fact: Eating cheese as a snack or after Healthy a meal actively teeth helps to reduce tooth decay Cheese The UK cheese market grew by 2% in 19% by value and 18% by volume.
The Share of the UK branded cheddar market by value volume and 4% in value during the year final stages of the Davidstow creamery and is now worth almost 1.9 billion.
development have now been completed Other 31% Cathedral City 29% Value growth is ahead of volume growth with sufficient capacity to support the due to price increases during the year continued growth of both the Cathedral and the continuing move towards more City and Davidstow brands.
Anchor Davidstow mature, branded and added-value The Stilton market, despite a good 4% 9% cheddar.
Everyday family mostly Christmas, has continued to be Pilgrims Seriously Strong 13% Choice 14% cheddar cheese remains the biggest challenging and we have taken an segment and accounts for half of the impairment charge of 9.3 million on the total cheese market.
Against this market book value of the assets of our speciality Analysis of cheddar market by value background the overall performance of cheese business reflecting the expected the cheese business has been good, future cash flows of this business.
Other 14% Mild 19% benefiting from price rises achieved in Notwithstanding this charge, there are Extra Summer 2005, another very strong opportunities to improve the mature Medium 14% 10% performance from Cathedral City and performance and profitability of Stilton increased own label volumes.
and the speciality cheese business and Cathedral City sales were up 17% by in January 2006 we launched a new Mature 43% value and 11% by volume, strengthening cheese brand Over the Moon, which is its market leading position.
The higher a range of blended speciality cheeses.
value growth reflects the reducing level During the year, we have Cathedral City growth by retail sales value m of price promotions.
The brand is now strengthened our own label cheese worth approximately 106 million at business and successfully implemented retail prices, making it the UKs biggest new own label cheese supply natural cheese brand.
We have again arrangements with both ASDA and increased the level of marketing support Morrisons.
This has significantly behind the brand with a successful new increased our volumes with both retailers television advertising campaign during and reinforced Dairy Crests marketthe year.
We continue to extend the leading position in cheddar where we range with new product development have significant supply positions with and have just launched Cathedral City most of the major retailers.
This has been As a result of higher industry cheese 01 02 02 03 03 04 04 05 05 06 specially developed to cater for those stocks, which have grown over the last consumers who prefer a milder flavour six months, combined with further Source: TNS 52 w e 26 March 2006 and will deliver the usual Cathedral City impact from CAP reform, we expect premium quality and consistency.
some downward pressure on pricing The Davidstow sub-brand also during 2006 07. performed strongly with sales growth of 51 67 69 89 106
