qxd 8 6 06 5:24 pm Page 15 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2006 15 MILK PURCHASING In the year 2005 06, Dairy Crest became the UKs largest purchaser of milk, buying 2.4 billion litres per annum, principally due to the acquisition of Midlands Co-op Dairies in May 2005.
Dairy Crest now buys over 70% of its milk directly from 1,600 UK farmers.
The balance is supplied by First Milk, one of the countrys leading milk co-operatives.
working together to deliver As the UKs leading chilled dairy foods a sustainable future company, a positive working relationship with our supplying dairy farmers is integral to our success.
Dairy Crest places great importance on ensuring that The partnership between Dairy Crest, working together, both as part of the our milk suppliers feel a valued part of Dairy Crest Direct and our milk suppliers industry and in partnership with our milk our business and we recognise that is vital if we are all to enjoy a sustainable suppliers, customers and consumers, transparency and openness is crucial if future in an industry which continues to we are more likely to come through CAP we are to achieve our aim of creating an face a number of challenges, including reform with a sustainable industry able to environment where each of our farmers the ongoing reform of CAP.
This year, positively face the future.
takes pride in supplying their milk to industry bodies, led by the NFU, have Dairy Crest.
tried to set out how the challenges the Dairy Crest Direct DCD, the industry faces can be met.
One of the organisation which represents the key issues identified has been a review Photographs clockwise from top right: companys 1,600 direct supplying of milk contracts between producers and All ASDAs own label cheddar is now made farmers, continues to play an important processors.
During the year, we have with milk from the farms that supply Dairy role in helping us to achieve the made several improvements in line with Crests Aspatria Creamery in Cumbria.
Now established the NFUs recommendations and are for two years, this independent farmer confident that our contracts are now DCD Director Duncan Pritchard with his son, group representing the views of over industry leading.
Harry, inspecting the herd on their farm near 16% of all English and Welsh milk We are also working with our Beaworthy, Devon.
suppliers, has not only become a valued suppliers towards common goals, many partner to the company but is also well of which were confirmed as a result of The Dairies sales and marketing team respected throughout the dairy industry.
independent research we recently swapped their laptops for wellies and DCD continues to have a voice commissioned to measure all aspects of headed to Gore Lane Farm in Baydon near through a Forum of 33 representatives our relationship with our farmers.
These Lambourn to experience a typical day on elected by DCD members and a Board include developing supplier associations a farm.
of eight elected by the Forum.
We hold to improve communications and deliver regular monthly meetings with the DCD efficiencies for mutual benefit, as well as HRH the Countess of Wessex presented Board and quarterly meetings with the using independent advisors to help our Dairy Crest supplier Richard Bown of Sink wider DCD Forum to ensure that the suppliers achieve the quality standards Farm, Hanley Castle in Worcestershire with needs of both our farmers and Dairy demanded by our customers.
the Supreme Champion award for Ketby Bud Crest are reflected in our decisions.
At Dairy Crest we believe that by at 2005s Dairy Show in Shepton Mallet.
