qxd 7 6 06 11:55 am Page 14 14 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2006 Operational review continued Roy Dyer right was voted Milkman of the Year in 2005, just one of the dedicated Dairy Crest milkmen and women who deliver 350 million bottles of milk a year to over 1.1 million homes in the UK.
Household The household business has performed well with a significant increase in volumes and turnover following the acquisition of Midlands Co-op Dairies in May 2005 and Arlas London Foodservice business in October 2005.
Overall, Household volumes were up 31% year on year.
Our continued canvassing activity and first class service initiatives have helped maintain the underlying annual decline rate in doorstep at approximately 8%.
Operationally the business continues to deliver industry leading productivity ratios.
In September 2005 we implemented a cost related price increase for doorstep customers of 2 pence per pint.
The middle ground market, which includes smaller retailers, schools, hotels and hospitals, remains competitive.
During the year, the Group had a number of new business wins, including a sole supply contract to supply Starbucks delivering a coffee shops nationwide.
In October 2005 we acquired the London Foodservice business of Arla.
This has now been fully first class service integrated into our existing operations and is delivering significant benefits.
The business continues to focus on sales of non-milk products such as juice Ingredients and other groceries.
Non-milk product key performance indicators.
This European ingredients markets for protein sales grew by 30% year on year and we includes average milk delivered per remained relatively strong for most of the again had a successful Christmas, which round per week which has risen from year despite the fall in intervention prices.
is a key trading period for non-milk 332 gallons to 450 gallons and average However, cream markets have been products.
value of non-milk products delivered per oversupplied and prices have fallen.
The Midlands Co-op doorstep round per week which has risen nearly Further reductions in intervention prices operations, which included 16 depots, fourfold from 55 to 206. will take place in July 2006.
The Group have been fully integrated with four There continue to be further principally uses its ingredients business to depots now closed.
We have been very opportunities for consolidation in the balance a seasonal milk supply with flat successful in applying the Dairy Crest market, which will enable us to continue demand and is planning to reduce the operational model to this business and our successful acquisition strategy for amount of milk processed by its seen a significant uplift in a number of this business.
