qxd 8 6 06 5:15 pm Page 12 family moments famous brands St Ivel advance provides all the delicious taste and goodness of fresh milk along with all the benefits of Omega 3, which studies suggest may enhance learning and concentration in some children.
qxd 8 6 06 5:17 pm Page 13 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2006 13 Operational review continued DAIRIES The Dairies division comprises Dairy Crests liquid products, household and ingredients operations.
Revenue increased by 10% to 815.7 million 2005: 743.3 million, reflecting the impact of the Midlands Coop Dairies acquisition partially offset by a reduction in major retail milk volumes.
Profit on operations, before exceptional items, decreased by 52% to 16.8 million 2005: 35.2 million, with operating margin, on this basis, down from 4.7% to 2.1%.
This performance reflects the adverse impact of the changes in the fresh milk sector in 2004 05, as highlighted in the Chief Executives review.
Profit on operations after exceptional items was 2.9 million 2005: 35.9 million.
Mark Allen, Executive Managing Director of the Dairies division Liquid products The retail fresh milk market grew by 4% contract reduced by 0.5 pence per litre by value year on year.
However, it showed reflecting lower commodity cream prices.
a slight decline of 1% in volume.
Within These factors, together with a continuous this, the organic milk market has programme of cost reduction, should lead continued to grow very strongly with sales to better margin performance by this up by over 50% by value.
Our fresh milk volumes to major We continue to work towards adding retailers were down 17% year on year, value to fresh milk.
In May 2005 we primarily due to our supply to Tesco launched St. Ivel advance, a new branded ceasing in April 2005.
However, volumes fresh milk enriched with Omega 3.
While benefited in the second half from the it is still at a relatively early stage of brand additional Morrisons business, which development, distribution and sales commenced at the end of October and is growth is encouraging with annualised performing well.
The profitability of the sales currently running at approximately Nutritional fact: liquid products business has been in line 13 million at retail value.
Just two glasses of with our expectations and the Group is The organic milk business continues St Ivel advance whole continuing to focus on improving margins to grow, benefiting from an exceptionally Omega 3 milk with Omega 3 going forward.
Retailer own label organic provide 50% of the We took action in May 2005 to milk sales value grew by 49% and sales recommended daily strengthen the Dairies division through the of the Rachels organic milk brand under intake of Omega 3 acquisition of Midlands Co-op Dairies and licence from Horizon Organic Dairies Foston Starcross Foods.
of these businesses has progressed to Frijj, our flavoured fresh milk drink, has plan with the Midlands Dairy in maintained its position as the leading Birmingham closing, on schedule, at the brand in the flavoured fresh milk sector end of February 2006 and Foston now although sales were down 5% by value.
The financial benefits of the We are addressing the capacity acquisitions are now being delivered and constraints on Frijj production at following the closure of Birmingham, the Severnside which will enable more Groups dairies, including Foston, are now promotional activity in 2006 07 to move running at a good level of capacity the brand back into growth.
seen good growth in potted cream with The Group achieved fresh milk price sales up 15% by value and 13% by increases from our major retail customers volume.
We were delighted to be in January 2006 to offset higher oil-related appointed as sole supplier of potted costs.
From the beginning of April 2006 cream for Marks & Spencer from August the raw milk price on our main liquids 2006.
