36 DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their Report and Accounts for the year Post balance sheet events ended 1st October, 2006.
On 19th October, 2006, Euromoney Institutional Investor plc completed its acquisition of Metal Bulletin plc for a consideration Activities of 225 million.
The principal activities of the Group are set out in the Group at a Glance section at the front of the Annual Report.
Share capital Details of allotments in share capital during the year, which arose The analysis of turnover and operating profit for the years ended solely from the exercise of options, are given in Note 34.
1st October, 2006 and 2nd October, 2005 are included as Notes 1 and 2 to the income statement.
At the Annual General Meeting on 8th February, 2006, the Company was granted the authority to purchase up to 10% of its Business Review own shares.
The information that fulfils the Companies Act requirements of the business review is included in the Business Review on pages During the year, 4,775,736 A Ordinary Non-Voting shares 10 to 31.
This includes a review of the development of the business were purchased, having a nominal value of 596,967, to match of the Group during the year, of its position at the end of the year obligations under various incentive plans and as part of a and of likely future developments in its business.
Details of the share buy back programme.
The consideration paid for these principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are set out on shares was 31.0 million.
Shares repurchased during the year pages 12 to 14. represented 1.25% of the called up A Ordinary Non-Voting share capital at 1st October, 2006.
This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the principal risks and uncertainties facing the The Company disposed of 1,364,471 of these shares, representing Group.
By their nature, these statements and forecasts involve 0.36% of called up A Ordinary Non-Voting share capital for a cash risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on consideration of 8.4 million, in order to satisfy obligations under circumstances that may or may not occur in the future.
number of factors that could cause actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these Employees forward-looking statements and forecasts.
No assurances can be Under the Groups general policy of decentralised management, given that the forward-looking statements are reasonable as they it is the responsibility of the management in each subsidiary to can be affected by a wide range of variables.
The forward-looking encourage the involvement and participation of employees in their statements reflect the knowledge and information available at the company.
The methods used vary company by company, but the date of preparation of this Annual Report, and will not be updated linking to performance targets of a significant portion of during the year.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be remuneration is one widely used means.
The Group gives full and fair consideration to suitable applications Results and dividends from disabled persons for employment.
If existing employees The profit after taxation of the Group amounted to 251.5 million.
become disabled they will continue to be employed, wherever After charging minority interests of 11.7 million, the Group profit practicable, in the same job or, if this is not practicable, every for the year amounted to 239.8 million.
effort will be made to find suitable alternative employment and to provide appropriate training.
An interim dividend of 4.05 pence per share was paid on the Ordinary and A Ordinary Non-Voting shares and the Directors Policy on payment of suppliers recommend that a final dividend of 9.00 pence per share be paid The Groups policy on supplier payments varies across its on 9th February, 2007 making 13.05 pence per share for the year subsidiaries.
These companies have no formal code or standard 2005 12.0 pence.
which deals specifically with the payment of suppliers.
However, their policy is to ensure that the terms of payment, as specified Directors by, and agreed with the supplier at the outset, are not exceeded.
Biographical details of the Directors of the Company at 22nd November, 2006 are set out on page 35.
The Directors The Company had no trade creditors at the year end date.
remained unchanged throughout the year.
The Groups average payment period, calculated on the basis of year end trade creditors, is 61 days 2005 56 days, although this is The number of shares of the Company and of securities of other dependent on the year end date and cannot therefore be regarded Group companies, in which the Directors or their families had an as meaningful.
interest at the year end, are stated in the Remuneration Report on page 51.
Donations Charitable donations made by the Group in the year amounted In accordance with the Articles of Association, Messrs Lowy, to 809,000 2005 880,000.
This excludes the cost of publicity, Dutton, Gillespie and Verey retire by rotation at the Annual General often provided free of charge by the Groups titles, and funds Meeting on 7th February, 2007.
Each of Messrs Dutton, Gillespie raised by them, further details on which are given in the and Verey, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
Mr Lowy, Corporate Responsibility Report on page 33 of this Annual Report.
an independent non-executive Director since 1994, has decided No political donations were made by the Group.
not to stand for re-election.
The Directors would like to thank him for his invaluable contribution to the Boards deliberations.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc 37 DIRECTORS REPORT Continued Substantial shareholdings As set out in Note 34, the Company has two classes of share The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting capital Ordinary shares and A Ordinary Non-Voting shares.
On records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 22nd November, 2006 the following were interested in more than financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for 3% of the issued Ordinary shares: taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a directors report and directors remuneration report which comply with the Rothermere Continuation Limited requirements of the Companies Act 1985. and other parties to an agreement which comes within section 204 of the Companies Act 1985 62.8% The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity Codan Trust Company Ltd and Codan Trustees BVI Ltd of the company website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom trustees of the Esmond Harmsworth 1998 Family governing the preparation and dissemination of financial Settlement 29.3% statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Auditors Statement of Directors responsibility for To the best of the Directors knowledge and belief and having the preparation of accounts made appropriate enquiries of other officers of the Company, all The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report information relevant to enable the auditors to provide their opinion and the financial statements.
The Directors are required to on the Accounts has been provided.
Each of the Directors has prepare accounts for the Group in accordance with International taken all reasonable steps in order to ensure their awareness of Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and have elected to any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys continue to prepare those for the Company in accordance with auditors are aware of that information.
United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The Companys auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, have indicated In the case of UK GAAP accounts, the Directors are required to their willingness to continue in office and, in accordance with prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a section 385 of the Companies Act 1985, a resolution proposing true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the their reappointment will be put to the Annual General Meeting.
profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 7th February, 2007 at 9.00 am at the Kensington Roof Gardens, consistently: 99 Kensington High Street, London W8.
Details of all resolutions, make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and including those to be put as special business, are set out in the prudent: enclosed circular to shareholders.
state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and By Order of the Board explained in the financial statements: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
N D Jennings, FCA In the case of IFRS accounts, International Accounting Standard 1 Secretary requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial 22nd November, 2006 year the Companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
Directors are also required to: select and apply accounting policies properly: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in International Financial Reporting Standards is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and prepare the accounts on a going concern basis unless, having assessed the ability of the Company to continue as a going concern, management either intends to liquidate the entity or to cease trading, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc
