Business Review 25 EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR REVENUE INCREASED BY 13% TO 221 MILLION, DRIVEN BY STRONG ORGANIC GROWTH ACROSS ALL EUROMONEY DIVISIONS.
PADRAIC FALLON Euromoney achieved a record operating event.
II Memberships had an excellent CHAIRMAN LEFT RICHARD ENSOR profit, despite an increase of 3 million in year.
IMN continued to grow through the MANAGING DIRECTOR RIGHT the charge for its management incentive launch of successful new events for the scheme, the CAP.
Excluding this charge, securitisation and real estate markets.
operating profit rose 11%, although this itself includes the impact of some The Training businesses delivered a 13% detrimental timing differences arising increase in operating profits, due mainly from the timing of conferences.
Allowing to the volume of courses offered and an for these, underlying growth in operating increase in the average yield.
Operating profits from Databases and FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS Consistent with managements strategy, Information Services improved by 38%.
most of the growth in operating profit CEIC, consolidated from April, is proving REVENUE has been generated organically.
The an excellent addition to ISI, the emerging performance of the print subscription markets information provider where 221m titles has been particularly pleasing, with revenue growth maintained its momentum, subscriber numbers, subscription rates with a client retention rate in excess of 90%.
2005: 195m and renewal rates all ahead of the previous The number of ISI customers, products and year.
Each of the groups divisions data providers all increased during the year.
Outlook 39m Financial publishing grew most in absolute Euromoney has benefited from a healthy terms, with operating profits up by 17%, as financial environment in 2006, and any 2005: 38m a result of strong growth in both advertising marked reversal in the performance of and subscription revenues.
Nearly all titles financial markets in 2007 will present OPERATING MARGIN increased profits: Euromoney magazine had challenges.
However, its strategy has been an impressive year, achieving 17% growth to diversify its revenues while investing in in advertising revenues and publishing its the quality of its products and services to 18% biggest IMF issue for ten years.
ensure competitive advantage irrespective 2005: 20% of the trading environment.
The new year Business Publishing had a good year with has started well, although the first quarter Adjusted operating profit before exceptional items and operating profits increasing by 25%.
is Euromoneys least significant in profit amortisation and impairment of intangible assets.
Encouragingly, this was a broad-based terms.
The focus will be on the integration All references to prior year numbers are to figures improvement: the US energy publications of the Metal Bulletin businesses.
delivered record profits: the legal titles benefited from strong growth in EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR subscription and advertising revenues: and ISI REVENUE US$ MILLION the transport and telecoms titles sharply increased profits by diversifying away from advertising into new revenue streams.
26 23 Operating profits from Conferences and Seminars increased by 23% on an 20 underlying basis, continuing the excellent 17 FACT: growth record achieved over the past five 14 IN OCTOBER 2006, EUROMONEY years.
The continued interest in alternative ACQUIRED METAL BULLETIN PLC.
assets has supported revenue and profit 11 THIS ACQUISITION IS CONSISTENT growth, and most of the businesses 8 WITH ITS LONG-TERM STRATEGY.
achieved an increase in both the number of 5 events held and the average revenue per Daily Mail and General Trust plc 2005 2006 2001 2002 2003 2004
