Report of the Directors The Directors submit their report together with the audited Group and Revised Combined Code Provisions A3.2 and B1.6.
Under the former Company financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006. provision, at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise Non-Executive Directors determined by the Board to be Business Review and Future Activities independent, and a Non-Executive Director, once elected Chairman, The principal activities of the Group are oil and gas exploration and is no longer considered independent.
Following the appointment of production.
The Company is a public limited company, incorporated in Mr C R Goodall, to the position of Chairman in January 2005, the England and Wales, and its securities are quoted on the London Stock Company technically could only be considered to have met this Exchange, under the designation DNX.
The Chairmans and Chief Executives requirement with three independent Non-Executive Directors from Review and the Business Review describe the significant developments in the appointment of Mr P J Dayer on 16 March 2006. the business of the Group during 2006 and its future prospects.
Revised Combined Code Provision B1.6 recommends that the Results, Dividends and Retentions contractual notice provision available to Directors should be no greater The Group profit for the year after taxation and before minority interests than 12 months.
Following approval of the new remuneration policy at amounted to 41,597,000 2005: 64,155,000.
The Directors do not the Extraordinary General Meeting of 26 September 2006, it was agreed recommend the payment of a dividend.
the contractual notice provision for Mr T P Cross would be reduced to 12 months.
This was effected upon the implementation of the Deferred Events Since the Balance Sheet Date Share Payment A during February 2007.
On 22 March 2007, the Group completed the acquisition, previously announced in November 2006, of a 25% interest in the Cavendish The Board will continue to review and report on the effectiveness of gas field in the UK Southern North Sea, for a cash consideration of the Groups system of internal controls as detailed on page 32 and US$55 million plus the completion adjustments from the effective date the Audit Committee will review annually the need for an internal of 1 January 2006 of 21.5 million.
On 17 April 2007, the Group announced that its wholly owned The Workings of the Board and its Committees subsidiary, Dana Petroleum E&P Limited, had signed an agreement with affiliates of Devon Energy Corporation Devon to acquire Devons THE BOARD entire upstream petroleum business interests in Egypt spanning eight The membership of the Board is set out on page 84. companies and eight production sharing contracts.
The purchase price at the effective date of 1 January 2007 is US$375 million.
The acquisition In recognition of Danas continuing development, Mr P J Dayer was is subject to the normal regulatory and partner approvals and is expected appointed as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 16 March 2006, to be completed during the second half of 2007.
On 29 May 2006, Dr S M Paton was appointed to the Board as the executive director responsible for Technical & Commercial activities for the Corporate Governance Dana group and Mr A M Bostock left the Board in June 2006 after six The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance and successful years with the Company, due to a family relocation.
We look the Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for good corporate forward to the valuable input which Mr Dayer and Dr Paton will make to governance.
This statement describes how the principles of corporate the Group during the next few years of growth, and thank Mr Bostock for governance are applied to the Company and the Companys compliance the contribution made and wish him every success for the future.
with the 2003 Revised Combined Code, which was adopted by the Financial Services Authority for reporting periods commencing on or after 1 November The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management 2003 and continues to apply until reporting periods commencing on or after of the Group.
The Board comprises the Non-Executive Chairman, the 1 November 2006 when the June 2006 Combined Code becomes Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Technical & Commercial mandatory.
The Company will continue the ongoing development of its Director and three further Non-Executive Directors.
Brief biographies corporate governance practices to ensure high standards and compliance appear on pages 26 and 27.
These demonstrate a range of experience with the Combined Code is maintained.
and sufficient calibre to bring independent judgements on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct, which are Statement by the Directors on Compliance with the Provisions of vital to the continuing success of the Group.
All Directors have access to the Revised Combined Code the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible The Company has been in compliance with the provisions of the to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that Revised Combined Code throughout the year save as with respect to applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
In addition, the 30 Dana Petroleum plc 2006 Annual Report Company Secretary will ensure that the Directors receive appropriate their respective submission to the Board and the monitoring of the training as necessary.
The appointment and removal of the Company controls that are in force to ensure the integrity of the information Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
The Audit Committee advises the Board on the appointment of external auditors and on their remuneration both for The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically referred to it audit and non-audit work, and discusses the nature, scope and results of for decision.
In addition to those formal matters required by the the audit with the external auditors.
The Audit Committee keeps under Companies Act s to be set before a board of directors, the Board will review the cost effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the also consider business strategy and policy, business plans, acquisition external auditors.
In line with the Revised Combined Code, the Audit and divestment proposals, approval of major capital investment plans, Committee is also responsible for reviewing annually the requirement for risk management policy, significant financing matters and statutory an internal audit function.
NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE To comply with the provisions of the Revised Combined Code and The Nominations Committee is responsible for appointments or in an effort to strive for continual improvement in the effectiveness of the re-appointments to the Board.
This committee comprises the Board, its committees, and the individual Board members, the Company Non-Executive Directors and Mr T P Cross and is chaired by operates an evaluation process.
It generally meets not less than once annually, but two meetings were held during 2006, attended by all Committee The Board meets regularly during the year with additional meetings as members.
The Nominations Committee is charged with ensuring the dictated by matters arising.
In addition, there is frequent dialogue between necessary balance of skills, knowledge and experience is maintained meetings to progress the Groups business.
The Board met formally four and represented on the Board.
Members of the Nominations Committee times during 2006, with 100% attendance from the Board members in are precluded from participating in the process to nominate their office at the time of the Board meeting.
In addition, all Directors attended replacement.
the Annual General Meeting in July and the Extraordinary General Meeting in September.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors REMUNERATION COMMITTEE receive appropriate and timely information and the Chairman ensures Full details of the Remuneration Committee, the Companys policies on that the Directors take independent professional advice as required.
remuneration, service contracts and compensation payments are given The Non-Executive Directors have a particular responsibility to ensure that in the Report on Directors Remuneration on pages 35 to 42. the strategies proposed by the Executive Directors are fully considered.
Statements of the Directors responsibilities in respect of the accounts are Relations with Shareholders set out on pages 33 and 34 and a statement on going concern is given Communications with shareholders are given high priority.
Extensive on page 33. information about the Groups activities is provided in the Annual Report and the Interim Report which are sent to all shareholders.
There is Where matters arose during the year which required the attention of the regular dialogue with major institutional shareholders and meetings are Audit, Remuneration or Nominations Committees, a separate meeting offered following the Groups preliminary announcement of the year end of the relevant committee was convened with full attendance by its results and at the half year.
The Company has its own web-site members.
These committees deal with the following specific aspects of www.
com for the purpose of improving information flow the Groups affairs.
to shareholders as well as potential investors.
Enquiries from individual shareholders on matters relating to their shareholdings and the business AUDIT COMMITTEE of the Group are welcomed.
The Audit Committee, which was chaired by Mr D I Rawlinson, comprises all the Non-Executive Directors other than the Chairman, and meets not The Board also uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate less than twice annually.
This requirement was satisfied in 2006 and both with private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
meetings were attended by all members.
The Committee provides a forum The Board aims to ensure that the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration for reporting by the Groups external auditors.
If required, meetings are also and Nominations Committees are available at the Annual General attended by the Chairman and appropriate members of senior management Meeting to answer questions and explain details of resolutions to be at the specific request of the Committee.
proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing a wide range of matters including the Interim Report and the Annual Report and Accounts before Dana Petroleum plc 2006 Annual Report 31 Report of the Directors continued Internal Control Investment appraisal The Board confirms that during 2006 it maintained the procedures Capital expenditure is regulated by a budgetary process and necessary to implement the Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on authorisation levels.
For expenditure beyond specified levels, the Combined Code and that these procedures are still in place.
detailed proposals have to be submitted to the Board.
Due The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining the Groups diligence work is carried out if a business or significant assets system of internal control.
Internal control systems are designed to meet are to be acquired.
the particular needs of the organisation concerned and manage or eliminate the risks to which it is exposed.
By their nature such systems Audit Committee can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material The Board has delegated periodic review of the system of financial mis-statement or loss.
There is a continuous process for identifying, internal control to the Audit Committee which has reported its evaluating and managing the risks faced by the Group.
The key conclusions to the Board during the year.
The Board has also procedures which the Directors have established with a view to consulted the Audit Committee, during the year, on other internal providing effective internal control are as follows: control matters.
The Audit Committee believes that the Companys external auditors adopt an objective and impartial approach to Management structure the audit of the Group and that this is in no way influenced by the The Board has overall responsibility for the Group and there is a extent of non-audit work undertaken by the Companys external formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the auditors during the year, as disclosed in Note 6 to the Group Board.
Each Executive Director has been given responsibility for Financial Statements.
Such work in 2006 largely related to advice specific aspects of the Groups affairs.
The Executive Directors in connection with taxation services and a one-off transaction that together with key senior executives constitute the management was subsequently aborted.
The Board will continue to carefully committee, which meets regularly, to discuss day-to-day consider how such advice is sourced in future.
Committee has considered the need for an internal audit function but has decided that, given the size of the Group and the system Quality and integrity of personnel of controls in place, it is not required at present.
The Audit The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured through Committee will continue to review this decision annually.
high recruitment standards and subsequent training courses.
High quality personnel are seen as an essential part of the Annual review and assessment control environment.
The Board undertakes an annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
This includes a review Identification of business risks of the Audit Committees assessment of the system of financial The Board is responsible for identifying the major business risks internal control.
A review took place in December 2006 and faced by the Group and for determining the appropriate course addressed internal control issues generally and, more specifically, of action to manage those risks.
This includes performing or financial, operational and compliance controls and risk participating in audits of Joint Ventures JV to ensure JV management.
The review included reports from, and interviews expenditures have been committed with the necessary JV approval with, key operating personnel.
and in accordance with JV agreements.
The use of financial instruments and the Groups approach to financial risk Substantial Shareholdings management is discussed in the Accounting Policies on pages 51 The Company has been notified of the following shareholdings of 3% or and 52 and the Financial Review on page 25. more in the issued share capital of the Company as at 7 June 2007: No.
of % of issued Budgetary process shares share capital Each year the Board approves the business plan and annual Schroder Investment Management 12,594,003 14.64 budget.
Key risk areas are identified.
Performance is monitored Aegon Asset Management 3,814,444 4.43 and relevant action taken throughout the year through the regular BlackRock MLIM 3,715,643 4.32 reporting to the Board of changes to the business plan and variances from the budget and updated forecasts for the year Legal & General Investment Management 3,416,522 3.97 together with information on the key risk areas.
Henderson Global Investors 3,051,120 3.55 Deutsche Bank AG London 2,861,572 3.33 32 Dana Petroleum plc 2006 Annual Report Directors Interest in Share Capital The beneficial interests of the current Directors and their families in the share capital of the Company were as follows: Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares at 07.06.07 at 31.12.06 at 31.12.05 15p shares 15p shares 15p shares C R Goodall 66,933 57,933 46,133 T P Cross 618,258 586,312 548,784 D A MacFarlane 72,385 68,232 20,000 1 S M Paton appointed 29 May 2006 6,381 278 278 A M Pelham Burn 47,665 47,665 47,665 D I Rawlinson 38,440 38,440 38,440 1 P J Dayer appointed 16 March 2006 2,000 2,000 2,000 1 At date of appointment Composition of Group of Corporate, Social and Environmental responsibility.
Full details of the Details concerning the principal subsidiary undertakings are given in note operators of all Danas licence interests are on pages 81 to 83.
36 to the Company financial statements.
It is the policy of the Group to consider the health and welfare of Health, Safety, the Environment and the Community employees by maintaining a safe place and system of work as required Dana considers health, safety and environmental management to be by the Safety, Health and Welfare at Work Act, 1989. an integral part of its business.
Dana has a formal Health, Safety and Environmental HS&E Policy which is brought to the attention of every Auditors employee and contractor working on Dana business.
The policy aims to A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of the Company achieve first class HS&E performance by promoting a culture which is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
encourages all employees, contractors and other stakeholders to contribute to its implementation.
Responsibility for health, safety and Going Concern environmental management begins with the Board of Directors and carries The Boards review of the accounts, budgets and forward plans, lead the through to every employee and contractor engaged in Danas activities.
Directors to believe that the Group has sufficient resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
The financial statements are In Dana operated activities, the Group makes appropriate resources therefore prepared on a going concern basis.
and training available to reduce health and safety risks to employees and contractors to a level which is as low as reasonably practicable and also Interests in Contracts strives for a neutral or positive impact on the physical and socio-cultural There have been no contracts or arrangements during the financial year environment of the regions in which Dana does business.
Dana aims to in which a Director of the Company was materially interested and which meet relevant regulatory and legislative requirements as a minimum and were significant in relation to the Groups business.
to apply Danas own responsible standards in those countries where appropriate laws and regulations are inadequate or do not exist.
Creditors Payment Policy Examples of some community initiatives and details of Danas safety The Company and Group policy is to agree payment terms with individual performance during 2006, are provided in the Business Review.
suppliers and to abide by these terms.
The Company does not have any Recognising that a significant proportion of Danas activities are carried trade creditors.
out by other companies, Dana also actively promotes and supports the application of equivalent health, safety and environmental standards by Statement of Directors Responsibilities in relation to the those suppliers, contractors and companies who operate on Danas Group Financial Statements behalf.
This is particularly true of developing countries, and where the The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Company does not operate, Dana seeks to partner with large, well the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable United established upstream companies, with a track record of successfully Kingdom law and those International Financial Reporting Standards working with host governments, and of promoting the highest standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
Dana Petroleum plc 2006 Annual Report 33 Report of the Directors continued The Directors are required to prepare Group financial statements for each state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been financial year which present fairly the financial position of the Group and followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and the financial performance and cash flows of the Group for that period.
explained in the financial statements.
In preparing those Group financial statements the Directors are required to: The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and then apply them consistently: comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable irregularities.
information: Directors Statement as to Disclosure of Information to Auditors provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of approving requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the Directors report are listed on page 84.
Having made enquiries of the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions fellow Directors and of the Companys auditors, each of these Directors on the Groups financial position and financial performance: and confirms that: state that the Group has complied with IFRS, subject to any to the best of each Directors knowledge and belief, there is no material departures disclosed and explained in the financial information relevant to the preparation of their report of which the statements.
Companys auditors are unaware: and The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records each Director has taken all the steps a Director might reasonably which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the Group financial information and to establish that the Companys auditors are statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the aware of that information.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Signed on behalf of the Board by: Statement of Directors Responsibilities in relation to the Parent Company Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Thomas P Cross Chief Executive Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the David A MacFarlane profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing those financial Finance Director statements, the Directors are required to: 30 April 2007 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and 34 Dana Petroleum plc 2006 Annual Report
