DIRECTORS REPORT Principal activities Debenhams is a leading multi-category retailer in the UK, with a unique mix of own brands including Designers at Debenhams, international brands and concessions.
Its main product categories are womens, mens and childrens clothing and accessories, products for the home, health and beauty, lingerie and food services.
At the end of the financial year 2 September 2006 Debenhams traded from 122 department stores and four Desire by Debenhams stores.
It also makes direct sales via the internet and had a further 30 international franchise stores in 14 countries.
Business review Debenhams is the second largest department store chain in the UK.
Its department store market share has increased from 12 per cent in 1996 to 18.6 per cent in 2005.
The growth in market share has accelerated over the last few years.
Debenhams has a successful business model and a strong sales and profit track record over the last ten years.
During the 2005 06 financial year this trend continued.
The key performance indicators are summarised below and explained in greater detail in the narrative of this business review: 1 Total sales growth 6.6 per cent vs 52-week last year comparative 1 Total sales growth 5.1 per cent vs 53-week last year comparative 1 2 Like-for-like sales growth 0.5 per cent increase on last year Underlying operating profit before exceptional items 267.4 million an increase of 21.2 per cent on last year Net cash generated from operating activities 190.3 million an increase of 346.7 per cent on last year Trading space 10.1 million total sq ft as at 24 October 2006 11 per cent Labour turnover 2.3 per cent lower 2005 06 vs 2004 05 1 Gross transaction value.
2 Like-for-like growth in gross transaction value represents the current periods gross transaction value including VAT for the internet and stores that have traded for the last 12 months less the prior periods gross transaction value for the same grouping.
Debenhams offers a unique and differentiated customer proposition through its product mix of exclusive own brands, including Designers at Debenhams, own-bought, international brands and concessions.
Its portfolio of over 55 exclusive brands includes 25 Designers at Debenhams ranges such as Jasper Conran and John Rocha and other own brands such as Red Herring, Maine New England and Debut.
Alongside these own brands, international and concession brands increase customer visits to its stores.
During the year Debenhams brought new designers such as Betty Jackson into its portfolio, expanded the sales of existing designers into new stores through the Designer Boutique concept and extended designers ranges across product categories for example the further development of Jasper Conran products in home and lingerie.
Total sales, as measured by gross transaction value, grew in the year by 6.6 per cent against the comparative 52-week period in the previous financial year, like-for-like sales grew by 0.5 per cent.
Underlying operating profit before exceptional items increased by 21.2 per cent during the year from 220.7 million to 267.4 million.
26 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 Debenhams benefits from an inherent flexibility in optimising product brand mix and space allowing it to flex its multi-category offer into growth and out of declining product categories.
This increases its ability to provide rapid response to customer trends, gives greater consistency of performance and lowers business risk, making the business more resilient and better able to exploit trends than its competitors.
During the year Debenhams increased its own-bought mix from 68.1 per cent to 68.7 per cent.
As own-bought margins are higher than concession margins this had a favourable impact on the achieved margin percentage.
The own-bought mix change combined with general supply chain improvements resulted in an overall growth in the margin percentage of 0.3 per cent over the year.
Sales mix Sales mix 2006 2006 Sales mix Sales mix 2005 2005 Direct Direct Direct Direct 0.9% 0.9% 0.9% 0.9% Other Other Other Other   0.1% 0.1% 0.1% 0.1% 1.9% 1.9% 1.4% 1.4% Own bought Own bought Own bought Own bought Concession Concession Concession Concession 68.7% 68.7% 68.1% 68.1% 28.4% 28.4% 29.5% 29.5% Debenhams continues to leverage its core strengths through new space, new channel and organic growth.
Since 3 September 2005 Debenhams has opened six new department stores, four Desire by Debenhams stores, 11 international franchise stores, acquired nine stores from Roches Stores in the Republic of Ireland and is in the process of investing 7 million in its transactional website.
Total trading space across all formats in the UK and the Republic of Ireland is now 10.1 million sq ft, an increase of 11 per cent since the end of 2004 05.
Contracts have also been signed for a further 24 department stores, four Desire by Debenhams stores and 16 international stores.
UK and Republic of Ireland expansion from the 28 contracted openings will add a further 17.9 per cent to the total department store and Desire by Debenhams trading space by the end of the 2011 financial year.
In addition to these contracted openings negotiations are in progress on other sites and the pipeline is expected to continue to grow.
The directors believe that Debenhams has the potential to increase the portfolio to up to 240 department stores and 100 Desire by Debenhams stores.
Historic and projected new store openings 170 7 160 5 150 10 4 140 1 2 5 1 9 130 3 4 132 1 5 120 122 117 110 2005 end Stores opened 2006 end Roches Stores to be Current Contracted to Contracted to Contracted to Contracted to in 2006 openings opened in 2007 position open in 2007 open in 2008 open in 2009 open in 2010 onwards Desire by Debenhams Department stores 27 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 Number of stores DIRECTORS REPORT Capital expenditure in the year, on the projects shown in the pie chart below, was 88.5 million.
Significant reductions have been made in capital spend on new stores: the capital cost per sq ft to build a new store has reduced from 178 in 2002 03 to 108 in 2005 06.
This has the effect of improving the return on capital and so more new store opportunities are viable.
Total net spend: 88.5 million Other 14% New stores Store 47% maintenance 15% Systems 12% Modernisations 12% Refurbishing stores is a key strategy in driving organic growth.
During the financial year 14 stores were refurbished and a further ten stores are planned during 2006 07.
The focus is on improving the customers shopping experience and increasing the gross transaction value, including through improved visual merchandising, increased linear conversion ie.
improving the efficiency of the space used in store to display merchandise and strengthening individual brand identity.
Progress has also been made during the year in shortening product lead times, which has the benefit of faster responsiveness to fashion trends, improved availability of product and enables lower stock levels to be held and therefore lower markdowns actioned.
In terms of sourcing strategy Debenhams is focusing on three main hubs: China, Turkey and India.
During the year a new sourcing office was opened in Turkey which will result in further supply chain benefits in future years.
Since the business was taken private in December 2003 there has been a strong focus on cash generation.
This touches all areas of the business: for example in improved supplier terms, shorter buying lead times, lower stock investment, a clear as you go markdown policy and the robust management of costs.
As a consequence the Group generates strong operating cash flows and has a negative working capital position.
Cash generated from operating activities, after pension contributions in excess of past service charges totalling 26.2 million, amounted to 190.3 million in 2006, an increase of 346.7 per cent.
In addition to its Styling the Nation advertising, which is aimed at a wider audience, targeted promotions form a key element of Debenhams marketing approach.
In September 2005 the Debenhams-branded credit card was launched which has a graded but lower APR rate than the store card.
The Company now has some 2 million active store and credit card holders.
An ownership and trading culture rather than an employee mentality has been fostered since 2003.
More than 600 employees participate in the Companys share schemes.
All store employees are incentivised based on sales and cash profit: design, buying and merchandising employees on cash margin, stock turn and sales.
Other head office employees are incentivised on Group sales and profit.
These schemes ensure that all employees are focused on improving shareholder returns.
The Company seeks to foster a rewarding and satisfying working environment, both through its reward and benefit structures and through consideration of and flexibilty to meet employee requirements.
The key performance indicators are the rate of labour turnover and employee absence, which respectively improved by 2.3 per cent and 0.2 per cent in 2006.
An Initial Public Offering IPO of the Debenhams Group which had previously been listed until it was acquired in December 2003 was successfully completed on 9 May 2006.
During the year the business restructured pursuant to which the Company formerly Debenhams Retail Holdings Limited became the parent of the Group.
The Company was re-registered as Debenhams plc on 18 April 2006 and then Admitted to the London Stock Exchange on 9 May when unconditional dealings in the shares commenced conditional dealings began on 4 May.
Subsequently the business refinanced its senior credit facilities.
28 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 Principal business risks and uncertainties The major business risks and uncertainties for the Debenhams business relate to: i its ability to predict or fulfil customer demands or preferences: ii competitive pressures: Debenhams competitors include not just other general retailers but specialist retailers, supermarkets and other low-price, high-volume retailers, and internet operators: iii new store opening and modernisation implementation and performance: iv factors outside Debenhams control such as adverse economic conditions, a downturn in the retail industry, adverse weather or terrorist activity: these could particularly have a major impact during peak selling periods: v events that negatively impact the Debenhams brand, for example in areas such as product quality, supply chain practices and health and safety: vi the departure of key personnel: vii matters affecting Debenhams relationship with or the performance of its suppliers, designers or concessionaires: for example certain designers are very important to its business, a large number of Debenhams merchandise is manufactured by a small number of suppliers etc: viii risks associated with Debenhams properties, all of which are now held through leasehold interests: ix loss of business or additional expenditure from regulation: x currency and hedging risks a substantial proportion of Debenhams imports are paid for in US dollars, interest rate risks, credit risks and financial covenant risks under the credit facilities: xi damage or interruption due to operational disruption, natural disaster, war, terrorist activity, work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes: and xii the effectiveness of Debenhams brand awareness and marketing programmes.
The principal risk factors relating to Debenhams business and its shares were set out on pages 12 to 20 of the prospectus issued in April 2006 a copy of the prospectus can be obtained on request from the Company Secretary.
The process for identifying and managing operational risks is set out in the report on financial controls on pages 36 to 38.
The corporate social responsibility report, on pages 17 to 22, details the key environmental performance indicators and risks.
The key performance indicator is the standards of the factories making products for Debenhams, as evidenced by the factory self-evaluation based on the Debenhams Supplier Code of Conduct and the supplier audit programme and the major risks relate to the practices of suppliers and factories making goods for the Company.
Events since the year end On 12 September 2006 the acquisition from Roches Stores of nine stores in the Republic of Ireland was completed.
The acquisition, an asset purchase by Debenhams Retail Ireland Limited, was for a consideration of 29.0 million plus the value of the stock.
The 29.0 million is payable in three instalments, 15.0 million at completion, 5.0 million on the first anniversary and 9.0 million on the second anniversary following completion.
These further nine stores, the new Desire by Debenhams store at Birmingham Fort which opened on 5 September 2006 and the new department store in Llandudno which opened on 11 October 2006, bring the total number of Debenhams stores in the UK and the Republic of Ireland to 137.
In July 2006, the Company entered into a consultation period about proposed changes to its two defined benefit pension plans.
All active and prospective members of the Debenhams Retirement Scheme and all active members of the Debenhams Executive Pension Plan were consulted.
Following the consultation period and some amendments to the proposals reflecting views expressed during the consultation, the board of directors approved the changes to each plan.
With effect from 31 October 2006, the Debenhams 29 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 DIRECTORS REPORT Retirement Scheme and the Debenhams Executive Pension Plan will close to future accrual of pensionable service.
From 1 November 2006, the pension arrangements will be provided by the Prudential Stakeholder Pension Plan for Debenhams Employees.
The results for the financial year are set out in the accounts and notes to the accounts on pages 52 to 119.
Detailed information about the Groups activities and the main trends and factors likely to affect the future development, performance and position of the Groups business are included in the Chairmans statement, Chief Executives review and Finance Directors review on pages 5 to 14.
Profit for the financial year and the dividend The profit for the financial year ended 2 September 2006 after taxation was 43.7 million 2005: 123.7 million.
The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 2.4 pence per ordinary share, to be paid on 4 January 2007 to members on the Register at the close of business on 24 November 2006.
As set out in the prospectus, the final dividend is based on one-third of a full-year dividend.
It is envisaged that the Company will pay in the future an interim dividend in July and a final dividend in the following January of each year.
Share capital The authorised and issued share capital of the Company, together with details of the shares allotted during the period, are shown in note 28 to the financial statements.
Major shareholders As at 24 October 2006, the following notifications have been received from holders of material interests in 3 per cent or more of the Companys issued share capital: Percentage Number of issued of shares share capital TPG Shareholder Group 113,135,197 13.2 CVC Shareholder Group 79,498,424 9.3 Merrill Lynch Shareholder Group 61,739,512 7.2 Merrill Lynch Investment Managers 50,000,000 5.8 Wellington Management Company, LLP 43,761,213 5.1 Maverick Capital Ltd 31,000,000 3.6 Lehman Brothers International Europe 27,670,584 3.2 Directors The following were directors during the year: J D Lovering appointed 9 May 2006 J Feuer appointed 12 May 2005 R W Templeman appointed 9 May 2006 R Gillingwater appointed 9 May 2006 C K Woodhouse appointed 9 May 2006 P Long appointed 9 May 2006 M J Sharp appointed 9 May 2006 D H Millard appointed 9 May 2006 P M Costeletos appointed 12 May 2005 G Padovano appointed 12 May 2005 A Crozier appointed 9 May 2006 P Pindar appointed 9 May 2006 All the directors, as required by the Articles of Association, offer themselves for election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Directors interests The interests of the directors in shares of the Company are contained in the directors remuneration report on pages 39 to 48.
In accordance with the Underwriting Agreement entered into between the Company and others on 3 May 2006, John Lovering, Rob Templeman, Chris Woodhouse, Michael Sharp, Richard Gillingwater, Paul Pindar, Adam Crozier, Dennis Millard and Peter Long have undertaken that they will not, during the period of 365 days from the date of Admission 9 May 2006, without the prior written consent of the Global Co-ordinators, sell, contract to sell or otherwise dispose of any shares held by them in the Company.
Jonathan Feuer, as a director appointed by the original shareholders, has undertaken the same but for a period of 180 days from the date of Admission.
30 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 The directors excluding Richard Gillingwater, Paul Pindar, Adam Crozier, Dennis Millard and Peter Long were also party to the Share Exchange Agreement dated 24 May 2005 between Baroness Group Holdings Limited, its shareholders and the Company which contained the terms by which the Company acquired all of the shares in Baroness Group Holdings Limited.
As a consequence of the Share Exchange Agreement the Company became the parent company of the Group.
Other than the Underwriting Agreement and the Share Exchange Agreement, no director had, during or at the end of the year, any material interest in any contract of significance in relation to the Groups business.
A third-party indemnity provision as defined in Section 309B 1 of the Companies Act 1985 is in force for the benefit of each of the directors and the Company Secretary.
Employees Business information and key messages are cascaded to all employees in a consistent way so that employees have a regular and reliable source of information on how their roles support the Companys values and business priorities.
Senior managers in head office participate in the adopt-a-store programme, improving the link between stores and the centre.
This mutual exchange of ideas is also fostered at product review days which are held with buying and merchandising teams and store sales staff.
A business-wide Feedback Forum has also been launched to improve communication.
Regular briefings complement existing communication processes, including the Companys regular newsletter Debenhams Business News.
The Group has also established an Employee Consultation Forum, attended by elected representatives from stores and head office, and senior managers.
The forums purpose is to inform and consult with employees about the Company and its business activities.
Debenhams is committed to promoting policies to ensure that employees or applicants for employment are treated equally regardless of gender, marital status, race, colour, nationality, ethnic or national origin, religion, disability, sexual orientation or age, and are not disadvantaged by conditions or requirements which cannot be shown to be justified.
It applies employment policies that are fair and equitable and which ensure that entry into and progression within the Company are determined solely by job criteria, personal ability and competence.
The Companys policy is to apply best practice in the employment and training of disabled persons.
Full and fair consideration is given to every application for employment from disabled persons whose aptitude and skills can be utilised in the business and to their training and career development, including, wherever practicable, the retraining and retention of staff who become disabled during their employment.
Payment of suppliers It is the Companys policy to pay suppliers in accordance with the agreed payment terms provided that the invoice is properly presented and not subject to dispute.
The ratio, expressed in days, between the amounts owed by the Company to trade creditors at the end of the year and the amounts invoiced by suppliers in the financial year ended 2 September 2006 was 53 days 2005: 50 days.
Financial instruments Debenhams does not enter into financial instruments for speculative trades.
Details of financial instruments entered into for underlying risks are set out in note 23 on pages 80 to 84.
Political donations It is the Groups policy not to make donations to political parties.
Consequently there were no disclosable expenses made during the financial year which fall within the definition of a political donation under the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
Charitable giving Money is raised for charities by volunteer committees in the stores, who organise events such as fashion shows.
Employees have the opportunity to make personal contributions to the charities of their choice through the Companys Give as You Earn scheme.
The Group made direct donations for charitable purposes in the financial year ended 2 September 2006 of 150,000 to the Breast Cancer Campaign 2005: 185,000 and further monies have been raised as a result of the charitable activities of the Company.
Further details of the Companys charitable activities are given in the corporate social responsibility report on pages 17 to 22.
31 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 DIRECTORS REPORT Going concern After making enquiries, the directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Audit information The directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware and that each director has taken all reasonable steps to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of the information.
Auditors  LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a resolution concerning their reappointment as auditors of the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting AGM will be held at 1 Welbeck Street, London W1G 0AA on Tuesday 12 December 2006 at 11.00am the notice of meeting is set out on pages 122 to 124 at the end of the annual report.
The board recommend that you vote in favour of all the proposed resolutions.
Items 1 to 18 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions.
More than 50 per cent of shareholders votes must be in favour for these resolutions to be passed.
Items 19 and 20 will be proposed as special resolutions.
At least 75 per cent of shareholders votes must be in favour for these resolutions to be passed.
Ordinary business The ordinary business at that meeting will be the laying before the Company of the report and accounts, the approval of the remuneration report which is on pages 39 to 48 of the accounts, the approval of the final dividend which if approved will be paid on 4 January 2007 to shareholders on the register of members on 24 November 2006, the re-election of directors, the re-election of auditors and the setting of their fees.
In accordance with the provision of the Combined Code of Corporate Governance issued by the UK Listing Authority, all of the directors are seeking re-election by shareholders at the Companys first Annual General Meeting since listing on the London Stock Exchange.
The directors have all confirmed that they will stand for reappointment.
Biographical information on each of the directors is contained on pages 24 to 25 of the accounts.
Details of the recruitment process, their skills and experience and the terms of appointment are set out in the report of the Nomination Committee and the remuneration report.
The board believes that the skills and experience of the Chairman, the three executive directors, the five independent non-executive directors Adam Crozier, Richard Gillingwater, Peter Long, Dennis Millard and Paul Pindar, who provide the balance between independent non-executive and other representation on the board, and the three other non-executive directors, Philippe Costeletos, Jonathan Feuer and Guido Padavano who represent the three largest shareholders in Debenhams plc and whose advice has been very helpful during the successful period for the Company since it was taken private in December 2003 will continue to be invaluable to the Company and the board believe that they should be re-elected.
The Chairman has confirmed, following performance evaluation, that the performance of all directors, including the non-executive directors, is effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
Auditors must be appointed at every general meeting at which accounts are presented to shareholders.
It is normal practice for the Audit Committee of the Company to be authorised to determine the auditors fees.
Resolutions 16 and 17 cover these matters.
32 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 Special business Resolution 18 allows the directors to issue, in addition to the Companys obligations under its employee share schemes, up to 286,320,000 shares which is equal to 33.3 per cent of the Companys issued share capital as at 24 October 2006 being the latest practicable date before the publication of this annual report.
This is in line with the guidelines produced by the main investor protection committees.
The directors have no specific intention at the moment of exercising this authority, which will lapse 15 months from the date of the AGM or at the 2007 AGM if earlier.
Subject to this authority being passed, resolution 19 allows the directors to issue, in addition to the Companys obligations under its employee share schemes, up to 42,940,000 shares in exchange for cash without first having to offer the shares to existing shareholders.
This is 5 per cent of the Companys issued share capital as at 24 October 2006, the latest practicable date before the publication of this annual report.
Although a members written resolution to purchase shares was passed on 3 May 2006, it extended for 18 months and therefore would have expired before the planned date of the 2007 AGM.
Accordingly resolution 20 replaces that authority.
The resolution sets out the maximum number of shares which the Company can buy, the highest and lowest price at which they can be bought and when this authority expires.
This resolution follows the rules set down by the Companies Act 1985, the UK Listing Authority and is in line with the guidelines produced by the main investor protection and pension fund committees.
The directors have no current intention to use this authority.
The directors are committed to managing the Companys capital effectively and keep under review the possibility of buying back the Companys shares either for cancellation or for holding in treasury it is currently the directors intention were shares to be bought back for them to be cancelled unless bought for the purposes of employee share schemes when they may be retained in treasury.
The directors will only buy back shares if they believe that it is in shareholders best interests and will increase earnings per share.
No shares were bought during the 2005 06 financial year and there are currently no treasury shares held by the Company.
By order of the board Guy Johnson Company Secretary 24 October 2006 33 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006
