The directors have pleasure in submitting their Annual Report for the year ended 30 June 2006.
Annual General Meeting The AGM will be held at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE at 2.30 pm on Tuesday, 17 October 2006.
Dividends Diageo paid an interim dividend of 11.95 pence per share on 6 April 2006.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 19.15 pence per share.
Subject to approval by members, the final dividend will be paid on 23 October 2006 to shareholders on the register on 15 September 2006.
Payment to US ADR holders will be made on 27 October 2006.
A dividend reinvestment plan, which enables ordinary shareholders to invest their dividends in ordinary shares, is available in respect of the final dividend and the plan notice date is 2 October 2006.
Directors The directors of the company who served during the year are listed under Directors and senior management above.
Lord Hollick, HT Stitzer and PS Walsh retire by rotation at the AGM in accordance with the articles and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Laurence Danon, who was appointed since the last AGM, retires in accordance with the articles and, being eligible, offers herself for election at the AGM.
The non-executive directors proposed for election and re-election do not have service contracts.
Further details of directors contracts, remuneration and their interests in the shares of the company at 30 June 2006 are given in the directors remuneration report above.
Auditor The auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, is willing to continue in office and a resolution for its re-appointment as auditor of the company will be submitted to the AGM.
Disclosure of information to the auditor The directors who held office at the date of approval of this directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditor is unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditor is aware of that information.
Purchases of own shares At the 2005 AGM, shareholders gave the company renewed authority to purchase a maximum of 305 million ordinary shares.
During the year ended 30 June 2006, Diageo purchased 166 million ordinary shares nominal value 48 million, representing approximately 6% of the issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares at 14 August 2006, for a consideration including expenses of 1,428 million.
Of the shares purchased, 164 million were held as treasury shares under the share buyback programme and 2 million were held as treasury shares for the hedging of grants made under employee share plans.
Business review The review of the business of the company and the description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the company, prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985, comprises the following sections of the Annual Report: the Chief executives review, the Business description and the Operating and financial review.
Other information Other information relevant to the directors report may be found in the following sections of the Annual Report: Information Location in Annual Report Charitable and political donations Corporate governance report Corporate citizenship Corporate governance report Directors indemnities Directors remuneration report Employment policies Business description Continuing operations Employees Events since 30 June 2006 Financial statements note 36 Post balance sheet events Future developments Operating and financial review Trend information Purchase of own shares Operating and financial review Liquidity and capital resources Research and development Business description Continuing operations Research and development Shareholdings in the company Additional information for shareholders Major shareholders Supplier payment policies and performance Corporate governance report The directors report of Diageo plc for the year ended 30 June 2006 comprises this page and the sections of the Annual Report referred to under Directors, Business review and Other information above, which are incorporated into the directors report by reference.
The directors report was approved by a duly appointed and authorised committee of the board of directors on 30 August 2006 and signed on its behalf by Susanne Bunn, the company secretary.
