Dimension Data specialises in network infrastrategies and solutions to secure the network and its data.
With 10 years experience in securing communications, Dimension structure and solutions based on network-reliant Datas security solutions have expanded beyond network security technologies like security, IP telephony, storage, and contact centres.
As voice, video, data and other and now include securing information, platforms, telephony infrastructure, and storage, and offering managed security technologies converge onto the core network, solutions.
Dimension Data is exceptionally well positioned.
Our experience and Through our Security line expertise allow us of business, we help to help our clients clients build robust security rapidly adapt their WHAT WE DO postures which include IT infrastructures compliance solutions, and gain business assessments, infrastructure benefit.
Our partsecurity, access management, threat modelling, vulnerability nerships with industry leaders like Cisco and management, and intrusion prevention.
With network, systems, Microsoft and our deep understanding of and security management converging, security technologies are technology have allowed us to develop an optimum increasingly becoming embedded into the network and operating selection of solutions and services for our clients.
Dimension Data is uniquely positioned to help our Dimension Data plans, builds, supports and manages IT clients evolve their existing infrastructures to take advantage of infrastructure solutions across six lines of businesses Network these security technology trends and ensure compliance.
Our goal Integration, Security, Data Centres and Storage, Converged is to help clients create secure infrastructures that are adaptive and Communications, Customer Interactive Solutions, and Operating self-defending from external or internal attacks.
DATA CENTRES AND STORAGE NETWORK INTEGRATION The ubiquity of IP has created rapidly growing requirements for Over 20 years ago, Dimension Data started building processing power and storage capacity.
Within our Data Centres communication networks to help companies share information and Storage line of business, Dimension Data helps clients assess between employees and departments and, over time, outside the and ready their data centre infrastructure to support the increased four walls of their enterprise with suppliers, partners, and storage requirements associated with convergence.
Accelerated by the advent of the Internet and the Data helps clients develop cost-effective strategies to consolidate adoption of the Internet Protocol IP as the standard language of and virtualise their data centre and computer environments.
We the network, our business expanded to include campus, metro also help clients minimise risk by implementing back up and and wide area network communications.
Still important to disaster recovery strategies, gain cost savings through storage and Dimension Datas success, Network Integration represents 49% of server consolidation, meet legal and regulatory requirements the Groups total revenue.
It also brings a special competency through effective data migration and archiving, and improve which we leverage across our other related solutions and services.
business continuity by managing and monitoring storage Through our Network Integration line of business, we help clients infrastructure.
Our solutions enable clients to store, protect, architect and build networks and optimise their network archive, and manage their information more effectively.
Our global footprint and customised procurement and logistics systems help our clients CONVERGED COMMUNICATIONS procure and implement networking technology products from all By combining voice, video and data applications over one over the globe at the right place and time.
By understanding and infrastructure, convergence is enabling companies to save costs anticipating technology trends, Dimension Data keeps our clients and improve the way they communicate and collaborate.
networks evolving to meet their business needs and helps clients Dimension Data uses its networking, voice, and IP expertise to make cost effective investments.
help companies migrate to converged communications solutions.
SECURITY Within our Converged Communications line of business, we help clients save costs while enhancing the way that they As companies began to share information outside the enterprise, Dimension Data began developing and implementing security communicate and collaborate both internally and externally.
PAGE 3 DIMENSION DATA ANNUAL REPORT 2006 WHAT WE DO continued Our IP telephony solutions help clients take advantage of the OUR APPROACH WITH CLIENTS operational cost savings associated with running voice over a A key differentiator for our business is our client-centric single network.
We improve employee productivity with our approach and focus on performance excellence.
We become our collaboration and enterprise mobility solutions which enable clients trusted technology adviser to help them navigate people to use any application, on any device, from anywhere.
through a diverse maze of technology vendors and solutions.
We build converged networks that ensure high quality and Our clients trust our judgement, because our focus is on reliability for voice, video and data running over one network.
understanding their business, grasping their business challenges, and, in particular, understanding how technology can accelerate achieving their business goals.
We dont pursue technology for CUSTOMER INTERACTIVE SOLUTIONS technologys sake, but always with an eye on delivering value to Industry standardisation on IP has resulted in contact centre IT improve the way our clients do business.
architectures increasingly migrating from Time Division Multiplexing to IP architectures.
Dimension Datas contact centre Youll find Dimension Data clients in every industry including industry knowledge coupled with its networking experience give financial services, manufacturing, government and education, us a competitive advantage in leading clients through this and service providers.
We are proud to have some of the worlds migration.
Dimension Data builds complex contact centre and leading and most instantly recognisable brands among our customer interaction solutions for leading blue chip companies.
clients, and also many medium-sized companies and public With a variety of contact centre integration, self-service, sector organisations.
All these businesses are united by a workforce optimisation, interaction management, hosting and common focus of making giant strides forward in improving outsourcing solutions, Dimension Data is well-positioned to help productivity and business processes with our solutions.
its contact centre clients reduce costs, improve productivity, and enhance customer interaction and experience.
THE BUSINESS VALUE WE BRING Through its Customer Interactive Solutions line of business, But Dimension Data is about more than cool technology Dimension Data also publishes the annual Global Contact Centre solutions we are about delivering business value and enabling Benchmarking Report.
The Global Contact Centre Benchmarking processes that improve productivity.
We help clients address Report is a premier, industry recognised research report which critical business issues like: provides rich and comprehensive information on the day-to-day Driving operational efficiency of IT infrastructures realities faced by contact centres and the trends occurring in the We balance the ongoing issue of driving down operational industry.
costs versus improving reliability, flexibility and quality of service.
OPERATING ENVIRONMENTS AND MESSAGING Creating profitable customer relationships Microsoft is the market leader in server and desktop operating We help organisations develop and improve communications systems and applications.
The mission-criticality and prevalence of channels to deliver lasting customer relationships at lower these systems and applications are driving clients to demand costs.
Microsoft infrastructures that are architected with high scalability Improving employee productivity and robustness.
Critical in this value chain is also a reliance on wellWe help organisations improve employee and partner architected networks, data centres, and security infrastructures.
collaboration to deliver greater employee productivity, Dimension Data helps clients plan, consolidate, upgrade, improved information sharing and knowledge management.
migrate and secure their Microsoft infrastructures to optimise employee productivity and, in turn, improve business Securing networks, applications and data We help organisations reduce their risk by offering performance.
Within our Operating Environments and Messaging line of business, we unlock the full value of their solutions that protect, detect and respond to external and investment in Microsoft infrastructure to help them gain internal incidents and threats.
Maximising the value of information assets As information technology continues to drive and enable We maximise the value of information within an business transformation, Dimension Data is uniquely positioned organisation whilst minimising the cost of creating, sharing to bring business value to our clients.
PAGE 4 RISING FROM ADELAIDE, AUSTRALIA South Australian Government, based in Adelaide, provided early evidence regarding the market opportunity associated with multisourcing.
In March, 2006 Dimension Data signed a $40 million, three year multisourcing contract with the South Australian Government to cover monitoring, break fix services, administration and support for the South Australian Governments network and firewall infrastructure.
A rapid, streamlined rollout of Dimension Datas basic services, combined with additional network services, will provide approximately 200 metropolitan and regional government agencies with greater flexibility.
Multisourcing requires a new perspective and level of partnership between businesses and IT service providers.
PAGE 5 DIMENSION DATA ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Dimension Data has always differentiated itself an afterthought.
Todays networks bear this legacy burden.
But through its ability to identify and capitalise on new pressures associated with convergence and web-services market trends.
will bring todays networks to a halt if While innovation is the legacy, foundational occurring in many segnetwork management CHANGING TRENDS: ments of the IT industry, and operational issues Dimension Data is NEW OPPORTUNITIES are not addressed.
concerned with innovaDimension Datas nettive technologies and trends within the IT infrastructure market segment.
IT work integration credibility and expertise positions us well to infrastructure encompasses the core IT building blocks of help our clients address these network management and communication networks.
We see several trends that the Group is operations issues.
We can provide our clients a full outsource of well-positioned to capitalise on in the future within this segment: network maintenance, monitoring and support.
We help clients these are: transform their end-to-end network performance by eliminating the latency and inefficiencies of multiple protocols across the Innovation in the core network: network.
We also re-architecture networks to support voice and wireless applications more effectively and seamlessly.
Network Development of the converged network: operations and management gives Dimension Data a Emergence of the converged client: and tremendous opportunity within our core business to provide strategic technology advice to our clients.
Adoption of new sourcing strategies multisourcing.
DEVELOPMENT OF THE INNOVATION IN THE CORE NETWORK CONVERGED NETWORK Over the past 15 years, networks have been changing.
Today, The Converged Network is the culmination of businesses drive the convergence of voice and video onto the network and the for standardisation and several important networking integration of wireless technologies into the core network technology shifts weve seen develop over the past 20 years.
architecture creates exciting new capabilities, but also From the adoption of the IP as the standard language for challenges, for our clients.
The network needs to be ready to networks, to the convergence of voice, video and data onto the take advantage of these trends and support the related business network, to advances in wireless technologies, the Converged opportunities.
Network is fast becoming todays IT platform for business.
As multiple technologies consolidate onto the network, through The Converged Network is a single, integrated network that trends like data centre consolidation, network traffic flow is enables ubiquitous, borderless communications.
Web-services and web-driven interfaces have created capabilities to prioritise and route traffic, and process performance inefficiencies and latencies due to the introduction information in a distributed way.
Related security and storage of additional network protocols like http and html.
New technologies are converging into the network and increasingly applications such as Skype and other voice media have added these have become integral to the networks core fabric.
The real-time traffic onto networks that have been architected to Converged Network has unrivalled abilities to handle large manage primarily non real-time data.
Additionally, wireless volumes of complex, diverse information.
As a platform, it technologies are moving from being an add-on blade in a box offers the ability to manage any information, across any device, to being part of the core network architecture.
through any connection, to access any technology and to run During this time of rapid technological change, organisations any application.
have not had a management focus on documenting and Dimension Data is ideally positioned to help clients evolve their managing their daily network operations.
From change network to a Converged Network.
We use our knowledge of the management to capacity management and planning, clear network and network-reliant technologies to plan, build, process definition around network operations has often been PAGE 6 support and manage Converged Networks.
Dimension Data at the time, place, and through the device most convenient for evolves client infrastructure to support existing and new them.
Our methodologies and intellectual property assist clients technologies that are becoming embedded in the fabric of the with these on-going operational needs in an automated, quick network.
We exploit the cost savings benefits and operational and cost effective manner.
efficiency gains of standardisation by ensuring client applications and networks support IP.
We use our knowledge and experience ADOPTION OF NEW SOURCING with maintaining and managing large scale, complex networks STRATEGIES MULTISOURCING to ensure operational performance excellence.
Traditionally, IT outsourcing and insourcing have been the two discrete approaches to meeting IT requirements.
Both approaches have limitations and trade offs.
Typically, neither approach EMERGENCE OF THE measures its value to the business outcomes delivered.
CONVERGED CLIENT The Converged Client is emerging, against the backdrop of the To address businesses unmet expectations of outsourcing and improved speed, flexibility and access to business information insourcing, a new approach called multisourcing has emerged, enabled by the Converged Network.
Mobile phones, PDAs, which provides businesses with sourcing flexibility while not BlackBerries, laptops no matter what the mobile device compromising on service delivery.
Multisourcing looks for the increasingly employees are working from anywhere, at any optimal blend of internal and external IT service providers to time.
Mobile employees are requiring and expecting instant deliver business outcomes.
It connects decisions about the IT access to every application that they would use at their office sourcing strategy to the business strategy.
Sourcing governance from basic e-mail to sensitive client data housed in back office and management, service provider selection and service level systems.
Its a trend thats poised to gather momentum and management are all important aspects of multisourcing.
become a feature of the modern workplace.
Multisourcing requires increased trust and control, as well as a IT departments will need to rapidly ready their IT infrastructure new perspective and level of partnership between businesses to support the Converged Client trend.
As the needs and and IT service providers.
With multisourcing, businesses share requirements of the highly mobile employee become more information regarding the business strategy while IT service mainstream, the IT department will have many challenges to providers move to a business outcome, partnering model.
Employees expectations for reliability and quality of integrated team approach, with each party owning a vested communications via a mobile device will be large and based on interest in the business outcomes, is critical to success.
employees experiences using their desktop PC.
The IT infrastructure will need to be re-architected and optimised to To meet clients increasing requirements for IT sourcing flexibility, support the standards that employees are accustomed to during FY2006 we expanded our services strategy.
Other key issues for IT include policy focus continues to be on planning, building, supporting and development, device and information security, usability, managing IT infrastructure, we are also expanding our services to management and standards.
In the near future, Converged help clients improve their IT processes and operations and create Clients will outnumber desktop PCs and be far more incremental business innovation.
For Dimension Data, supporting complicated for IT to support.
clients move toward multisourcing has the potential to build stronger, long standing client relationships.
Dimension Data The Converged Client trend provides Dimension Data the becomes more ingrained in a clients business by working side-byopportunity to help organisations prepare their IT infrastructure side with a client to help them identify the best use of IT for the multitude of devices accessing any application.
In infrastructure technologies to meet their business goals.
FY2006, Dimension Data increased its investments in specific skills and methodologies to better address the opportunities associated with the Converged Client.
We are now able to dynamically and remotely patch, update and manage any converged client device running a Microsoft operating system.
We also create and maintain a single current directory across all applications and devices, ensuring employees can communicate PAGE 7 DIMENSION DATA ANNUAL REPORT 2006 RISING FROM NAIROBI, KENYA To take advantage of the large IT infrastructure growth opportunities in emerging Africa, Dimension Data established a presence in East Africa in March 2006 with the acquisition of a 51% shareholding in ICL East Africa.
Kenya is the dominant economy in East Africa and Dimension Datas headquarters are in Nairobi, with offices in Tanzania and Uganda.
The uptake of mobile phones in Eastern Africa has been rapid and the entire region is now looking to further develop its communications infrastructure.
Dimension Datas expertise in both the service provider and public sectors positions the company to be an active participant in the development of the communications infrastructure that the region requires for continued economic growth.
Kenya now serves as our hub for Dimension Data in Eastern Africa.
