AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT The Audit Committee presents its report on Chairman of the Committee has met privately with them on activities during the period.
THE AUDIT COMMITTEE EXTERNAL AUDIT The members of the Audit Committee for the period under The Committee reviews performance of the external auditors and review were as follows: the level of audit service provided to ensure the independence of the external auditors.
Based on this review, the Audit Committee Rory Scott Chairman has recommended the continued appointment of the auditors for Rupert Barclay the financial year.
In the period under review the Committee has Gordon Waddell reviewed the scope of the interim review and year end audit Derek Irish including the Group materiality level.
Auditor independence is discussed and confirmed at each meeting.
Approval must be The Audit Committee comprises independent non-executives obtained from the Committee at the end of the financial year for and Derek Irish, a senior partner in an independent accounting audit, tax services and agreed upon procedures in respect of audit practice.
The Committee met four times during the period certificates.
Within the terms of reference the Committee agreed under review, once without management and auditors present.
that non-audit services during the financial year exceeding A table showing attendance at committee meetings is available $50,000 on an individual basis or $250,000 in total must be on page 33.
Of the current committee members, three are approved by the Committee.
Biographical details for all directors can be found on pages 22 and 23.
Details of the split between audit and non-audit work can be found in Note 6 of the annual financial statements.
The The Board of Directors has approved written terms of reference Committee considers that the approvals required for audit and for the Audit Committee.
These terms of reference are available non-audit services, together with the other controls in place on the Companys website www.
com within the Group, are sufficient to ensure the objectivity and The main duties and activities of the Committee in the period independence of the external auditors.
Non-audit work during under review can be summarised as follows: the period has comprised taxation and various audit certificates.
The Committee has met with the external auditors four times during the period under review.
INTERNAL CONTROL The Committee, together with the Group Risk Committee, reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS including financial, operational and compliance controls, and The Committee has reviewed the financial statements for the procedures for identification, assessment and reporting of risks, period, and has considered matters such as the appropriateness and has reported to the Board on the outcome of this review.
of the accounting policies, decisions requiring a major element The terms of reference for the Group Risk Committee, which of judgement, compliance with accounting standards, the going reports to the Audit Committee, are available on the Companys concern assumption and the statement on internal control.
com OTHER MATTERS INTERNAL AUDIT The ethical code and whistleblowing policy is intended to assist During the period under review  have individuals who believe they have discovered serious continued to act as internal auditors for the Group.
The malpractice or impropriety to take the appropriate action.
The Committee confirms their programme of work and reviews their Committee is satisfied that these arrangements provide for reports.
The head of the internal audit function has direct access proportionate and independent investigation of matters to both the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the reported and for appropriate follow up action.
A copy of the Chairman of the Board.
The Committee has met with the ethical code and whistleblowing policy is available on the internal auditors twice during the period under review and the Companys website www.
