The forensic audit revealed misrepresentation of working capital senior management are responsible for identifying, evaluating and balances over an extended period, and consequently managing business risks.
There are channels of communication $12.8 million of asset value was written off in the current available to report significant risks to the Board if necessary.
period, the details of which are set out in Note 8 to the annual financial statements.
The control weakness arose from the QUALITY AND INTEGRITY manual override of existing systems by the then financial OF PERSONNEL management.
Remedial actions include the replacement of The Group is committed to aligning its employees with its financial management, as well as regular reconciliation and interests and values.
It has an ethical code to which employees review of detail supporting asset values.
are expected to adhere, and transgressions are strictly dealt with.
FINANCIAL REPORTING IT SYSTEMS The Chief Financial Officer is responsible for determining Group The ongoing consolidation of the Group's IT systems, particularly financial policy and, with the Chief Executive Officer, for the in the areas of service delivery and back office administration, execution thereof.
The Chief Executive Officer is also has continued during the year.
A new Managed Services hosting responsible for the integrity of forecast information upon which centre in London, with increased capacity, availability and executive decisions are based.
A budget process takes place security has been deployed.
Furthermore, the consolidation of annually, culminating in review and approval by the Board.
ERP applications in Europe has progressed, and new ERP applications have been established in the US and Africa.
Each business unit reports turnover, profitability, cash position and forecasts monthly to the Chief Financial Officer.
The Chief Financial AUTHORITY AND REVIEW Officer considers these against forecasts and budget, and reports The Group has defined levels of authority for the subsidiary to the Board quarterly.
In addition, the Chief Financial Officer boards and their directors for financial and operational decision distributes monthly management accounts to the Directors.
making, including major investments, capital expenditure and Controls over business unit risks include reviews against contractual engagements.
The Groups internal audit function performance indicators and exception reporting.
Business units monitors compliance with these authority levels.
ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS DURING THE PERIOD UNDER REVIEW Name Board 5 Audit 4 Remuneration 2 Nomination 1 JJ Ord 5 n a n a 2 BW Dawson 5 n a n a n a SM Joubert 4 n a n a n a PK Quarmby 5 n a n a n a DB Sherriffs 5 n a n a n a RGML Barclay 5 3 n a n a W Lucas-Bull 5 n a n a n a J Malherbe 5 n a 2 n a MM Ngoasheng 3 n a n a n a RM Scott 5 4 2 n a GH Waddell 4 3 2 2 PD Wharton-Hood 5 n a n a 2 D Irish n a 4 n a n a Appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 8 May 2006.
PAGE 33 DIMENSION DATA ANNUAL REPORT 2006
