Business performance indicators The Directors of Dimension Data present their annual report and audited financial statements The Group is primarily managed regionally.
In addition, the Group is focused on six for the year ended 30 September 2006. global lines of business: Converged CommuniDIRECTORS REPORT cations, Customer InterPRINCIPAL active Solutions CIS, ACTIVITIES Data Centre and Storage solutions, Network Integration, Dimension Data Holdings plc is a specialist IT services and solutions Operating Environments and Messaging, and Security.
In provider that helps clients plan, build, support and manage their IT assessing the performance and financial position of its infrastructures.
Dimension Data applies its expertise in networking, operations, the Board uses various financial measures, security, operating environments, storage and contact centre including: revenue growth and prior period, gross margin technologies and its skills in consulting, integration and managed trends, operating profit and margin growth, fixed and variable services to create customised client solutions to achieve improved overhead cost trends, trade receivables, days sales outstanding business performance.
and ageing of working capital.
Additional disclosure regarding There have not been any significant changes to the Group's these financial measures is included in the Chief Financial principal activities during the year under review and the Officer's Operating Review.
Directors are not aware, at the date of this report, of any likely The Board also reviews non-financial business performance major changes in the Group's activities in the new financial year.
indicators, including client satisfaction survey feedback, Information about the development and performance of the employee attrition and retention statistics.
business of the Company during the financial year that fulfils the requirements of S234ZZB of the Companies Act 1985 the PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Companies Act is included in the Chief Financial Officers As a result of a change in EU law, the UK Companies Act 1985 Operating Review.
has been amended to require a description of the principal risks As required by the Companies Act, the Directors Report should and uncertainties facing the Group.
The Group has identified be read in conjunction with the Chairmans Letter, the Chief certain risk factors and discussed these within the Chief Executive Officers Review and the Chief Financial Officers Financial Officers Operating Review.
Those risk factors Operating Review, which provide information about the Groups identified and discussed are, professional liability risk, people businesses, its financial performance during the year and likely retention risk, vendor risk, liquidity risk, currency risk, business future developments.
continuity risk and new product and technology risk.
The Groups results could also be affected by other factors.
Those factors outlined should not be regarded as a complete and BUSINESS REVIEW comprehensive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties Position of the Group at year end facing the Group.
The full year results as at 30 September 2006 are the first the Group is presenting under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Dimension Data continues to align its research and development For the year ended 30 September 2006, revenue was with its strategy of establishing world-class expertise in its lines of $3,067.1 million, compared with $2,646.1 million for the business, investing in intellectual property and delivery capabilities, previous year.
Operating profit was $80.7 million, compared when these investments can create a market advantage.
One such with $59.6 million for the previous year.
Earnings per share investment was the prior acquisition of Bellerephon, a Microsoft amounted to 2.7 US cents 2005: 1.0 US cents.
infrastructure provider, which established a capability to manage large scale Microsoft infrastructure upgrades.
The Group In 2006, the Group elected to recognise revenue in certain continues to invest to achieve strategic alignment across all product transactions as that of agent rather than principal regions, facilitating the leverage of intellectual property and details of the change are set out in Note 4 of the annual adoption of best practices.
The Group also continued its financial statements on page 59.
Prior year comparative revenue investment in its e-procurement systems which help clients is therefore restated.
This had the effect of decreasing revenue and cost of sales by $1.8 million in 2005. configure solutions, order and track automatically.
PAGE 26 DIVIDEND EMPLOYEES The Directors recommend the payment of a dividend of one The Group looks to engage all employees in a shared US cent per share.
Subject to shareholders' approval at the commitment to the success of the business and keep them Annual General Meeting on 31 January 2007, the final dividend informed regarding the business environment and matters of will be paid on 16 March 2007 to shareholders on the share concern.
The Group consults with them or their representatives register at the close of business on 16 February 2007. for views in matters affecting them including informing them of financial and economic factors affecting the Groups The dividend will be paid in sterling to shareholders on the UK performance.
Dimension Data offers long term incentives to register and in South African rand to shareholders on the South selected employees and performance related bonus payments African register, converted from US dollars as at the close of to ensure employees benefit from the Groups financial success.
The Directors will not be offering Details of the long term incentives appear in the Remuneration a share alternative to the 2006 final dividend.
Report, and the outstanding share options, Share Appreciation Rights and Long Term Incentive Plan awards appear in Note 37 The following are the salient dates for the payment of the to the annual financial statements on pages 78 to 84. proposed dividend: It is the Group's policy to promote equal opportunities in Announcement of conversion rate Friday, 2 February 2007 employment for both existing employees and applicants for Last day to trade on the JSE Friday, 9 February 2007 employment.
Efforts are made to ensure that applications Date trading commences ex from disabled persons are fairly considered and that disabled the dividend on the JSE Monday, 12 February 2007 employees have equal opportunities in career development.
In Date trading commences ex the event of an existing employee becoming disabled, effort is the dividend on the LSE Wednesday, 14 February 2007 made to ensure that their employment by the Group continues Record date on the JSE and LSE Friday, 16 February 2007 and that appropriate adjustments are made to their work Payment of dividend Friday, 16 March 2007 environment.
No transfers between the UK and South African registers may take place during the period 2 February 2007 and 16 February 2007 ETHICS both days inclusive.
Shareholders on the South African register The Group embraces the highest standards in its business should note that, in accordance with the requirements of STRATE, activities, operating in accordance with an ethical code that no dematerialisation or rematerialisation of shares will be possible is distributed to employees via the corporate intranet.
A from 12 February 2007 to 16 February 2007 both days inclusive.
copy of the code is available on the Groups website www.
com ACQUISITIONS The Group is not political.
It does not make contributions to In November 2005 Dimension Data acquired the remaining 51% political parties or allow its assets and services to be used in any stake in Plessey Pty Limited, a project management and service way that favours any particular political grouping.
provider in the telecommunications market throughout Africa.
Effective 28 February 2006 Dimension Data acquired the CREDITOR PAYMENT POLICY remaining 20% in Internet Solutions Pty Limited.
Dimension Data Holdings plc is a holding company and, as such, Further details of these acquisitions are set out in Note 30 to the had no trade creditors at the year end.
It is therefore not annual financial statements.
The other acquisitions made by the applicable to provide statistics for the Company as required by Group were not material.
Group operating companies have no fixed payment policies but agree in advance the best possible terms with their suppliers and the Group is committed to honouring DISPOSALS those terms.
There were no material disposals during the year.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE A report on Corporate Governance and compliance with the Combined Code is set out on pages 30 to 33.
PAGE 27 DIMENSION DATA ANNUAL REPORT 2006 DIRECTORS REPORT continued DIRECTORS The current Directors are listed on pages 22 and 23.
Details of the members of the Board, who served throughout the year except as listed, are given below: Name Position Appointed Jeremy Ord Chairman May 2000 Brett Dawson Chief Executive Officer March 2004 Stephen Joubert Group Executive Global Solutions Groups July 2000 Patrick Quarmby Director: Corporate Finance July 2000 David Sherriffs Chief Financial Officer June 2004 Gordon Waddell Senior independent non-executive director July 2000 Rupert Barclay Independent non-executive director June 2004 Peter Liddiard Non-executive director October 2006 Wendy Lucas-Bull Independent non-executive director July 2005 Dillie Malherbe Non-executive director November 2003 Moss Ngoasheng Independent non-executive director September 2002 Rory Scott Independent non-executive director July 2000 Dorian Wharton-Hood Independent non-executive director July 2000 At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, Brett Dawson, attend, speak or vote at such general meetings.
The deferred Patrick Quarmby and Dillie Malherbe retire and offer themselves shares have no rights to dividends and on a return of assets in for re-election in accordance with the Articles of Association.
a winding-up, entitle the holder to the repayment of the The Company's Articles of Association provide that every amounts paid on the deferred shares after repayment of the director appointed to the Board during the year shall capital paid up on the ordinary shares plus the payment of $10 automatically retire and seek election at the next general million per ordinary share.
Accordingly shareholders will be asked to elect Peter Liddiard as a non-executive director.
ISSUED SHARE CAPITAL As at 30 September 2006, the Companys issued share capital The Nomination Committee and Chairman confirm that the was 50,000 deferred shares of 1 each and 1,540,130,865 directors up for re-election and election continue to be effective ordinary shares of 1 US cent each.
Details of interests of 3% or in their roles as directors of the Company, by virtue of their more in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company are skills, experience and contribution to the Board.
shown in Shareholder Information on page 99.
Biographical details of those directors seeking re-election and election are set out on pages 22 and 23.
Directors memberships GROUP FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS of Board Committees are set out in the Corporate Governance The Group's financial instruments, other than derivatives, Report.
Details of Directors service contracts, remuneration and comprise cash and liquid resources as well as items such as trade interests in shares are set out in the Remuneration Report.
receivables and trade payables that arise directly from the Group's Details of the Directors interests in any Group company can also operations.
be found in the Remuneration Report.
The Group enters into currency derivative transactions forward AUTHORISED SHARE CAPITAL foreign currency contracts.
The purpose of such transactions is to The authorised share capital of the Company is made up of manage the currency risks arising from the Group's operations.
50,000, divided into 50,000 deferred shares of 1 each, and The main risks arising from the Group's financial instruments are $30 million, divided into 3 billion ordinary shares of 1 US cent interest rate risk, liquidity risk and foreign currency risk.
The holders of the deferred shares have no right to receive POST BALANCE SHEET EVENT notice of any general meeting of the Company, nor the right to There were no material post balance sheet events.
PAGE 28 GOING CONCERN After making due enquiry, the Directors consider that, as at the date of the approval of the financial statements, the Group has adequate resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Groups financial statements.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Dimension Datas position on the environment and on charitable donations is detailed in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report set out on pages 35 and 36.
Donations and grants made during the year totalled $110,000 2005: $167 000.
The Company made no political donations in the year under review 2005: nil.
AUDITORS Resolutions to reappoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Groups auditors and authorising the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
To the best of each of the directors' knowledge and belief, at the date of approval of this annual report and having made appropriate enquiries of the officers of the Group, all information relevant to enabling the auditors to provide their opinion on the financial statements has been provided.
Each of the directors has taken reasonable steps to ensure their awareness of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company's auditors are aware of such information.
COMPANY SECRETARY The Company Secretary is ML Taylor details inside back cover.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The notice convening the Annual General Meeting, together with the proxy form and notes explaining the various resolutions, is enclosed with this document.
By Order of the Board Michelle Taylor Secretary 14 November 2006 PAGE 29 DIMENSION DATA ANNUAL REPORT 2006
