Patrick Keith Quarmby 52 EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Director: Corporate Finance Jeremy John Ord 49 Chairman Patrick Quarmby was appointed to the Board of Dimension Data Holdings plc at the time of its listing in London and Jeremy Ord was appointed as Chairman of Dimension Data Johannesburg in 2000.
Prior to that appointment he served on Holdings plc at the time of its listing in London and the Board of Dimension Data Holdings Limited from 1996.
He held the combined role of Chairman Previously he worked as and Chief Executive a tax partner at Ernst Officer until 1 March & Young South Africa 2004, when Brett BOARD OF DIRECTORS and was a director of Dawson was appointed Standard Bank in as Chief Executive Officer.
Jeremy previously served as Executive Chairman of London and Hong Kong.
He was appointed as Chairman of Dimension Data Holdings Limited from 1987, as the Groups Datacraft Asia in July 2002.
He graduated from the University of Managing Director and in other senior positions since the Cape Town and is a Chartered Accountant SA.
executive director of Unitrans Limited.
Brett William Dawson 42 David Brian Sherriffs 43 Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Brett Dawson was appointed as Chief Executive Officer of the David Sherriffs was appointed as Chief Financial Officer on Group and to the Board of Dimension Data Holdings plc on 1 March 2004, and was appointed to the Board of Dimension 1 March 2004.
Prior to this appointment he had served as Data Holdings plc on 9 June 2004.
He joined the Group in 1997 Dimension Datas Chief Operating Officer from 2002.
He joined as a member of the finance team, primarily involved in the Group in 1997 as Financial Director of the Groups joint corporate finance activities.
In 2000, David was appointed Vice venture, OmniLink.
He was instrumental in growing the President of Business Development for Europe and relocated to business, which exceeded all business plan objectives and Germany.
From 2003, David served as Group Executive claimed a dominant market share in the South African market.
Operations and was responsible for business case assessments Following the merger of OmniLink and Internet Solutions, Brett relating to strategic projects.
Prior to joining the Dimension Data was appointed CEO of Internet Solutions.
In September 2001 Group, David served in various financial, corporate finance and he relocated to take on the role of CFO of Dimension Data strategy roles for Anglo American plc, including Executive North America, where he focused on integrating acquisitions in Assistant to the chairman.
David is a Chartered Accountant SA that territory.
Prior to joining Dimension Data, Brett was and received his MPhil in Management Studies at the University responsible for corporate strategy and planning at National of Oxford.
Brands Limited and held corporate finance positions at Anglovaal Limited and KPMG.
He graduated from the University NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS of the Witwatersrand as a Chartered Accountant SA.
Gordon Herbert Waddell 69 Senior independent non-executive director Stephen Michael Joubert 48 Group Executive Global Solutions Groups Gordon Waddell was appointed to the Board of Dimension Data Holdings plc as a non-executive director at the time of its listing Stephen Joubert was appointed to the Board of Dimension Data in London and Johannesburg in 2000.
Mr Waddell is the nonHoldings plc at the time of its listing in London and Johannesburg executive chairman of Mersey Docks and Harbour Company.
Prior to that appointment he served as a director of was appointed senior independent non-executive director in Dimension Data Holdings Limited from 1998.
He joined the September 2002 and is a member of the Audit Committee, Group in 1996 as Group Financial Director in Network Services.
Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee.
Gordon Before that, he was a partner at  for a number of years.
He graduated from the University of the graduated from Cambridge University with a Bachelor of Arts Witwatersrand as a Chartered Accountant SA.
degree and has an MBA from Stanford University.
PAGE 22 Rupert George Barclay 49 of Dimension Data South Africa Pty Limited.
He is executive Independent non-executive director chairman of investment company Safika Holdings Pty Limited, and was previously economic advisor to South African President Rupert Barclay joined the Board of Dimension Data Holdings plc Thabo Mbeki.
He also serves as a non-executive director of The as an independent non-executive director with effect from Industrial Development Corporation and New Africa Capital 9 June 2004 and is a member of the Audit Committee.
Moss graduated from the University of South Africa is a partner of Cairneagle Associates LLP and is a non-executive and has an MPhil from Sussex University.
Safika Holdings Pty director of Lowland Investment Company plc.
He previously Limited, amongst its other activities, has formed a minority part served in an executive capacity as CFO of Lombard Risk of the consortium involved in the BEE transaction with Management plc, director of Group Strategy Development at Dimension Data South Africa.
The Company has reviewed this Reuters plc and director of Group Strategy at Allied Domecq plc.
involvement, and considers that Moss should continue to be He is a graduate of Cambridge University, has an MBA from considered as fully independent.
INSEAD and is a Chartered Accountant.
Roderick Rory Michael Scott 47 Peter John Liddiard 41 Independent non-executive director Non-executive director Rory Scott was appointed to the Board of Dimension Data Peter Liddiard was appointed to the Board of Dimension Data Holdings plc as a non-executive director at the time of its listing Holdings plc as a non-executive director on 2 October 2006.
He in London and Johannesburg in 2000.
He had previously served serves on the boards of Idion Technology Holdings Limited and as a non-executive director on the Board of Dimension Data Sail Group Limited.
He graduated from the University of Port Holdings Limited, and before that served as the Group Financial Elizabeth and is a Chartered Accountant SA.
He is presently Managing Director of Wendy Lucas-Bull 53 the Scottish Knitwear Group SA Pty Limited.
He is a Chartered Independent non-executive director Accountant SA and serves as chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Given the length Wendy Lucas-Bull joined the Board of Dimension Data Holdings of time that has elapsed since his service as an executive director, plc as an independent non-executive director with effect from the Company considers him to be independent.
Wendy was appointed Chairperson of the Remuneration Committee on 8 May 2006.
She is currently a Peter Dorian Dorian Wharton-Hood 67 member of the Aveng Limited board, the Eskom Holdings Independent non-executive director Limited board and she chairs the Eskom finance committee.
She Dorian Wharton-Hood was appointed to the Board of graduated from the University of the Witwatersrand with a Bachelor of Science degree.
Dimension Data Holdings plc as a non-executive director at the time of its listing in London and Johannesburg in 2000.
He is a Josua Dillie Malherbe 50 member of the Nomination Committee and the Treasury Non-executive director Committee.
He was vice-chairman of Liberty Life for eight years.
He was chairman of the Life Offices Association of SA on three Dillie Malherbe was appointed to the Board of Dimension Data occasions and president of the Insurance Institute of SA.
He was Holdings plc in November 2003 as a non-executive director and also a member of the Council of the SA Foundation and a is a member of the Remuneration Committee.
He is the Deputy director of Business Against Crime.
In 1998 he was chairman of Chairman of VenFin Limited.
He also serves on the board of the Governing Body of Business SA of which he is now a Datacraft Asia and MidiTV Pty Limited e-tv.
He graduated from Stellenbosch University with a from the universities of Stellenbosch and Cape Town and Bachelor of Commerce degree.
qualified as a Chartered Accountant SA.
Moses Modidima Moss Ngoasheng 49 Independent non-executive director Member of the Audit Committee.
Member of the Remuneration Committee.
Moss Ngoasheng was appointed to the Board in September Member of the Nomination Committee.
He also serves as a non-executive director on the Board PAGE 23 DIMENSION DATA ANNUAL REPORT 2006 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 PAGE 24 1 Brett Dawson Chief Executive Officer Chairman of the Executive Committee 2 Dave Sherriffs Chief Financial Officer 3 Patrick Quarmby Director: Corporate Finance 4 Steve Joubert Group Executive Global Solutions Groups GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 5 Russell Bolan Chief Executive Officer Europe 6 Jere Brown Chief Executive Officer US 7 Alan Burgess Chief Information Officer 8 Allan Cawood Chief Executive Officer Africa 9 Marilyn Chaplin Group Executive Human Resources 10 Adam Craker Group Executive Sales 11 Connie fide Lange Group Executive Marketing 12 Steve Nola Chief Executive Officer Australia 13 Bill Padfield Chief Executive Officer Asia 14 Scott Petty Group Executive Services 15 Ettienne Reinecke Chief Technology Officer 16 Bruce Watson Group Executive Cisco Alliance PAGE 25 DIMENSION DATA ANNUAL REPORT 2006
