Directors Report The directors present their report and the audited consolidated financial statements of DSG international plc the Company and its subsidiary and associated undertakings together the Group for the 52 weeks ended 29 April 2006.
Comparative figures are for the 52 weeks ended 30 April 2005.
Change of name The Company changed its name from Dixons Group plc to DSG international plc on 7 September 2005. Business and Operating Review The Business and Operating Review is based on many of the principles contained in the best practice statement Reporting Statement: Operating and Financial Review issued by the Accounting Standards Board ASB.
It covers areas contained in the Directors Report, the Business and Financial Review and Corporate Responsibility Review and should also be read in conjunction with the Chairmans Statement on pages 6 and 7.
The areas covered are as follows: Location in Annual Report Page Principal activities, products and services, objective and strategy and the markets in which the Group operates Directors Report 30-32 Principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group and treasury policies Directors Report 32-35 The manner in which the Group measures its performance Directors Report 35-37 Share capital structure Directors Report 37 Review of the development and performance of the business for the 52 weeks ended 29 April 2006 Business and Financial Review 8-19 Financial position of the Group as at 29 April 2006 Business and Financial Review 16-19 Future prospects of the business Business and Financial Review 9 Environmental matters Corporate Responsibility Review 24-25 Employee, social, ethical and community matters Corporate Responsibility Review 20-25 Principal activities The Company is the parent company of a group engaged in the retail sale of high technology consumer electronics, personal computers, domestic appliances, photographic equipment, communication products and related financial and after-sales services.
The Group also undertakes business to business B2B sales in the computer and communications sectors.
The Group comprises three divisions: Electricals, Computing and Communications.
The Electricals division operates in four regions: UK & Ireland comprising Currys, Dixons Tax Free and Ireland, the Nordic region comprising the Elkjp group of companies which operates in Norway, Sweden, Finland, Denmark and Iceland, Southern Europe comprising UniEuro in Italy and Kotsovolos in Greece and Central Europe comprising Electro World in Hungary, the Czech Republic and Poland.
The Computing division comprises UK Computing PC World and PC World Business and International Computing PC City which operates in Spain, France, Italy and Sweden.
The Communications division comprises B2B operations Genesis, together with retail stores The Link both operating in the UK.
The Link operations are to be discontinued.
Since the year end, the Group has acquired Fotovista, which together with Dixons.
co. uk, will form a new e-commerce division.
Products and services The principal products sold by the Group are categorised as Brown Goods, White Goods, Personal Computers, Mobile Phones and related products.
Brown Goods include flat panel and high definition televisions, DVD players, audio products, iPods and MP3 players, cameras and camcorders.
These products are characterised by rapid technological advances offering major improvements in quality, functionality, interactivity and design.
30 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 Governance White Goods include washing machines and dryers, fridges and freezers, gas and electric cookers, vacuum cleaners and small domestic products such as kettles, toasters and irons.
While these products benefit from innovation, fashion and improved design, they are largely dependent on the replacement cycle in mature markets.
Personal Computers and related products are benefiting from increasing processing power, lower costs and rapidly increasing interaction with digital products.
Increasing use of PCs and related products in the home and in business are a major area of market development for the Group.
Mobile Phones are now a common purchase for most European consumers.
The introduction of 3G technology offers significant opportunities for increased functionality and add-on services.
The Group also offers its customers financial services such as credit facilities and after-sales support agreements.
Support agreements provide customers with comprehensive advice, access to help lines and repair services or replacement following purchase.
Objective and strategy The objective of the Group is to deliver value to shareholders by being the largest and most profitable specialist electrical retailer outside North America.
The Boards strategy to achieve this goal is embodied in the following key principles: retailing operations shall only be conducted in markets where the Group is, or can become, the number one or number two specialist electrical retailer: the Group shall offer customers the opportunity to purchase products from a number of channels, principally large efficient space and the internet: the retail experience shall provide customers with an extensive range of products, delivered with innovation and excitement: the Group shall continue to develop the e-commerce operations of its brands: to attract a strong customer base, the Group shall compete on both price and service and offer market-leading after-sales support: stores shall employ and develop highly motivated sales staff, knowledgeable about the products they sell and trained in selling skills and customer service: the Group shall utilise its international scale to buy goods at the lowest cost to enhance margins and provide value to customers: and operations in all countries shall share experience, knowledge and best practice to improve efficiency and to reduce operating costs.
European electrical retail markets The European market for electrical goods and related services sold by the Group is estimated to exceed 100 billion per annum.
It is highly competitive and characterised by a relatively small number of global manufacturers supplying goods to local, regional and national electrical retailers.
Specialist electrical retailers are the key destination for customers.
Buying groups, general merchants and independents also have a retail presence in most European markets.
The development of the internet delivers enhanced product information and facilitates price comparability for consumers.
Whilst this creates new challenges in terms of margin maintenance, it provides a significant opportunity for the Group.
Over time internet demand is expected to polarise towards the larger retailers with scaleable distribution and systems together with proven after-sales service and support.
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 31 Directors Report continued Other markets In addition to the core European markets, rapid economic development in a number of major countries, such as Russia, China and India, may provide opportunities for growth over the longer term.
These opportunities may be in the form of buying alliances, joint ventures, acquisitions or greenfield developments.
Such markets are not, however, without their risks, particularly political, economic, financial and regulatory.
In 2004 05 the Group entered into a co-operation agreement with Eldorado, the largest electrical retailer in Russia and the Ukraine.
Under the terms of this agreement the Group is working with Eldorado in a number of areas such as distribution and buying.
The Group has the option to purchase Eldorado from its current owners in stages for a total consideration of US$1.9 billion between 31 December 2007 and 2011.
Risks to achieving the Groups objective Risk is present in all businesses.
The Corporate Governance Report on pages 40 to 44 describes the processes through which the directors assess, manage and mitigate risk.
The directors consider that the major risks to achieving the Groups objective are those set out below.
The Board recognises that the profile of risks changes constantly and additional risks not presently known or that are currently deemed immaterial may also impact on attainment of the Groups business objective.
Accordingly, the Board regularly reviews the risks faced by the Group.
i Economic and market conditions The economy The economic environment impacts on spending on electrical goods in many ways.
House moves and home improvements impact on spending on domestic appliances.
The feel good factor is an important influence on discretionary spending on electrical goods.
Unemployment levels, interest rates, consumer debt levels, availability of credit, taxation and many other factors influence customers spending decisions.
The Group recognises that economic changes, both beneficial and adverse, can affect individual countries and regions.
Management therefore monitors economic metrics and works closely with suppliers to adjust forecasts of demand.
Stock orders are realigned and where possible selling capacity and support services are flexed in response to changing expectations.
Meeting customers needs Customers expect competitive prices.
What differentiates specialist electrical retailers is the wide range of products stocked and the provision of services that customers want, in a convenient location with staff that provide excellent service.
Giving outstanding service is a key ingredient of the Groups Being the Best principles.
The Group continually strives for improvements in this area.
Regular surveys of customer satisfaction are conducted across all stores.
The results are used to assess store performance and to drive high standards across each chain.
Customer feedback is used to shape ranges and to understand where the Group can be more responsive to customers needs.
Increasingly, the rewards provided to retail employees are geared to the quality of customer service achieved in our stores.
Seasonality The Groups business is highly seasonal, with a very significant proportion of its sales and operating profit generated during its third quarter, which includes the Christmas gift and New Year promotional periods.
Electrical retailers have limited ability to compensate at other times of the year for material shortfalls in sales.
Competition The Group operates in a highly competitive environment.
There are few barriers to new entrants.
Businesses therefore join and leave the market and or expand or reduce their product ranges in response to competitive forces.
Different channels to market have different cost structures and different appeal to customers.
The Group continuously monitors the activities of its competitors and potential competitors in each of its markets and takes appropriate action in terms of, for example, its product and service offering and pricing to maintain and strengthen its position.
The Group actively manages its brands through advertising, promotions and enhancing the retail experience to ensure its stores and websites are seen as the primary destination for electrical goods.
32 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 Governance Market margin erosion The level of margins in electrical retailing is governed by the market.
Consumer demand, manufacturer supply, competition from store and internet channels and regulation taxation all impact on margins.
The Group is focused on protecting margins through maximising its international buying scale and maintaining an efficient supply chain.
The Group actively manages its cost structures to mitigate the impact of product margin erosion.
ii Store portfolio The quality and location of the Groups store portfolio is a key contributor to the Groups growth strategy.
The Group principally operates from large stores in convenient locations that are accessible to substantial numbers of customers.
The ability to secure the best sites is critical to building the retail brands.
The Group has a programme of space expansion both in the UK and overseas.
It actively manages its store portfolio to optimise the location, size and costs of each of its stores.
In areas where the population catchment is lower, franchising of the Groups brands offers the potential for market growth.
The Group currently franchises its brands in Norway Elkjp, Italy UniEuro City, Sweden El Giganten, Greece Kotsovolos, Denmark and the Faroe Islands El Giganten, Finland Gigantti and Iceland Elko.
iii Employees The Group has a strong reputation for developing retail leaders and sales staff with entrepreneurial spirit.
All retailers face the risk of failing to attract, develop and retain the right calibre of staff for their business.
Through the Groups retail reputation, development programmes and the career opportunities afforded by the Groups size and diversity of operations, the Board believes that DSG international is well placed to build on its success.
iv Product life cycle and supply Some electrical products sold by the Group are subject to rapid technological change which shortens their life cycle.
Electrical goods are often subject to price deflation as the production of new products and technologies grows and availability increases.
Careful management is required to avoid loss of value and or the risk of stock obsolescence when products are superseded.
The Group has extensive experience of managing electrical goods with short product life cycles.
v Entering new markets Expansion through acquisition or the establishment of new businesses is subject to the availability of suitable opportunities.
Companies operating large out of town stores may not be available for purchase and new operations may not be able to find suitable sites for new stores.
Entry into new markets gives rise to risks related to culture, markets, legislation, regulation and access to goods and resources.
The Group utilises its considerable experience of developing new retailing chains through both acquisitions and start ups to mitigate risk.
Extensive research is undertaken and local advice is sought.
If entry is by establishing a greenfield operation the Group will test the market with a small number of stores, prior to a possible roll out of the chain.
Acquisitions made in stages as well as outright purchases are both considered.
vi Treasury risks and policies Treasury operations are managed centrally within policies and procedures approved by the Board.
Group Treasury reports regularly to the Group Executive Committee and the Tax and Treasury Committee and is subject to periodic independent internal and external reviews.
The major financial risks to which the Group is exposed relate to movements in foreign exchange, interest rates, liquidity risk and credit risk.
Where appropriate, cost effective and practicable the Group uses financial instruments and derivatives to manage these risks in accordance with defined policies.
Throughout the period under review, in accordance with Group policy, no speculative use of derivatives, foreign exchange or other instruments was permitted.
The Groups accounting policies in relation to derivatives are set out in note 1.15 to the financial statements.
Exchange rate risk The Group is exposed to exchange risk on overseas earnings and fluctuations in translated values of foreign currency assets and liabilities.
The Groups principal translation currency exposures are the Euro and Norwegian Kroner.
The Groups policy is to match, in whole or in part, where cost effective, currency earnings with related currency costs and currency assets with currency liabilities through the use of appropriate hedging instruments.
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 33 Directors Report continued The Group is also exposed to certain transactional currency exposures.
Such exposures arise from purchases in currencies other than in the functional currency of the entity.
The Groups principal transactional currency exposures are the USD and Euro.
It is Group policy to eliminate the currency exposures on such purchases through the use of appropriate hedging instruments such as forward exchange contracts.
Interest rate risk The principal interest rate risks of the Group arise in respect of Sterling cash and investments, internally hedged Norwegian Kroner liabilities and Euro borrowings.
Potential exposure to interest rate movements is mitigated by the Groups policy to match the profile of interest payments with that of its interest receipts.
Further mitigation is achieved with interest-based credit commissions received and through the use of interest-based hedging instruments.
Liquidity risk It is Group policy to maintain committed bank and other facilities sufficient to meet anticipated financial requirements.
Uncommitted facilities are also maintained and used if available on advantageous terms.
It is Group Treasury policy to ensure that a prudent level of committed facilities is available at peak trading periods, based on forecast working capital requirements.
Credit risk The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk.
The Groups exposure to credit risk on liquid funds, investments and derivative financial instruments arises from the risk of default of counterparties, with a maximum exposure equal to the book value of these instruments.
This is limited as Group Treasury policy on investment restricts counterparties to those with a minimum Moodys long term credit rating of A3 and short term credit rating of P1.
Investments mainly comprise bank deposits, floating rate notes and commercial paper.
The Group continuously reviews the credit quality of counterparties, the limits placed on individual credit exposures and categories of investments.
Many sales to retail customers are made on credit.
It is Group policy that all customers who wish to trade on credit terms are subject to credit verification procedures.
In addition, receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that the Groups exposure to bad debts is not significant.
vii Pension risk and policies The principal pension scheme operated by the Group is the UK defined benefit scheme.
This scheme is subject to risks regarding the amount of the liabilities as a result of changes in life expectancy, inflation and future salary increases, risks regarding the value of investments and the returns derived from such investments.
The pension trustees, in consultation with the Company, have commenced changes to the schemes investment strategy to mitigate the volatility of liabilities and to diversify investment risk.
viii Systems failure In common with other large businesses, the Group is dependent on the suitability and reliability of its systems and procedures, including its information technology, warehousing and distribution systems.
The Group has developed emergency procedures, which are regularly tested.
The Group carries out evaluation, planning and implementation analysis before updating or introducing new systems that have an impact on critical functions.
34 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 Governance ix Outsourcing The Group has outsourced the majority of its call handling and IT services to third parties and is in the process of outsourcing warehouse and distribution facilities.
While these contracts will produce major cost savings, the Group recognises the increased dependency on third parties to deliver core activities and has put in place appropriate service level agreements within the contracts.
x Damage to property and consequential business interruption The Group operates from a large number of sites, all of which are subject to the risks of fire, weather and water damage and in some cases are subject to earthquake and other specific risks.
The Group regularly reviews and assesses these risks, takes action to mitigate the likelihood and cost of potential incidents and has insurance in place to cover material exposures.
Business continuity plans are in place to respond to major disruption to the business.
These were effectively deployed in December 2005 when the Groups headquarters were damaged by the explosion at the Buncefield oil storage depot in Hemel Hempstead and retail operations were able to continue without material impact.
xi Legislative, reputational and regulatory risks The Groups operations are subject to extensive regulatory requirements, particularly in relation to the products and services it sells, its advertising, marketing and sales practices, its employment and pensions policies and planning and environmental issues.
Changes in laws and regulations and their enforcement may impact upon the Groups business in terms of costs, changes to business practices, restrictions on activities or, more importantly, lead to reputational damage to the Group and its brands.
The Group operates a strong compliance regime, which monitors legal developments to ensure the delivery of appropriate training and any necessary modification to trading practices and policies.
Regular reviews and independent audits are conducted in stores to ensure compliance with the increasing number of legal and regulatory requirements.
Tax laws that apply to the Groups businesses may be amended by the relevant authorities, for example as a result of changes in fiscal circumstances or priorities.
Such potential amendments and their application to the Group are regularly monitored and, if relevant and appropriate, actions taken to ensure ongoing efficiency.
Social, environmental and ethical risks that might impact on the Groups reputation are regularly monitored by the Board.
Performance monitoring The successful delivery of the Groups strategic objective is monitored by the Board through Key Performance Indicators and the periodic review of Group operations.
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 35 Directors Report continued Financial key performance indicators Operational Definition Total sales Growth in total sales.
Like for like sales The ability to grow sales in stores in the Group is an important measure of a brands appeal to customers and its competitive position.
The Board measures like for like sales as sales in stores that have been open for a full financial year both at the commencement and end of the financial period.
Customer support agreement sales are excluded from all UK like for like calculations to remove the distorting effect of the introduction of pay-as-you-go agreements.
Sales targets are set relative to the market and expected economic conditions: the Group targets each of its operations to exceed the level of growth in its designated market.
Market position In line with the Groups strategy to be the largest and most successful electrical retailer in the world outside North America, this is an important measure of how well customers are being engaged by the Groups brands in each market.
Retailing operations should be, or be capable of becoming, the number one or number two specialist electrical retailer in that market, measured by market share.
Operating profit Continued growth of operating profits enables the Group to invest in its future and provide a return for shareholders.
Targets are set relative to expected market performance.
Controllable earnings The Group defines controllable earnings as operating profit less a charge based on the amount of invested capital.
The Group targets to manage controllable earnings in line with longer term strategic objectives.
Free Cash Flow The Group defines Free Cash Flow as net cash generated from operations including The Link plus net finance income, less taxation, net capital expenditure and cash related to finance leases and dividend payments to minority shareholders.
The management of cash usage, in particular working capital employed in the business, optimises resources available for the Group to invest in its future growth and to provide shareholder value.
The Group targets to manage Free Cash Flow in line with earnings.
Stakeholder satisfaction Definition Customer satisfaction Results of mystery shopping and telephone surveys.
Staff satisfaction Results of staff surveys.
Staff turnover Retention rates versus length of service.
Shareholder Definition Earnings per share The level of growth in earnings per share provides a suitable measure of the overall financial health of the Group and its ability to deliver returns to shareholders each year.
The Group targets growth in adjusted diluted earnings per share EPS of 3 per cent over inflation.
Total shareholder return This metric provides a relative performance measure over the longer term of the Groups ability to deliver returns for shareholders.
The Group seeks to outperform the FTSE 100 Index over a three year period.
36 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 Governance Corporate responsibility key performance indicators The Group monitors five principal corporate responsibility indicators.
These are: staff diversity: health & safety employee accidents: ethical supply chain audits: contributions to the community: and waste recycled.
Details are set out in the Corporate Responsibility Review on pages 20 to 25, together with the performance results for 2005 06.
These indicators are used to manage the business and, where appropriate, in executive management appraisal on a divisional and regional basis.
They enable the Board to identify risks to achieving the Groups objectives and to take mitigating action promptly.
A review of the Groups results and Key Performance Indicators for 2005 06 is set out on pages 8 to 19.
Acquisitions On 2 August 2005 the Group acquired Area Interactiva SA, an e-commerce retailer of computing equipment and peripherals in Spain.
On 24 August 2005 the Group acquired Equanet Holdings Limited, a B2B reseller of computing and communications equipment for consideration of 12.8 million.
On 1 March 2006 the Group acquired Adiumentum OY, trading as Markantalo the number two electrical retailer in Finland, for 48.8 million.
Post balance sheet events Following commercial agreement in principle on 21 June 2006, the Group entered into exclusive negotiations regarding the acquisition by O UK Limited of the Groups 60 per cent stake in The Link Stores Limited subject 2 to agreement of legally binding documentation and other terms and conditions, for a cash sum of approximately 30 million.
On 3 July 2006 the Group acquired a controlling 77 per cent interest in Fotovista S. A. Fotovista for a total cash consideration of 261 million 179 million.
Fotovista is the parent company of Pixmania, a leading European e-tailer of digital photographic and consumer electronic products.
Dividends An interim dividend of 1.92 pence per share was paid on 1 March 2006 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 27 January 2006.
The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 6.53 pence per share, making total dividends of 8.45 pence per share for the period 2004 05 8.05 pence per share.
Subject to shareholders approval at the annual general meeting on 6 September 2006, the final dividend will be paid on 29 September 2006 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 25 August 2006.
Total dividends paid to shareholders in the financial period were 150.2 million 2004 05 144.4 million.
Share capital Details of the Companys share capital and changes to the issued share capital during the period, including share options exercised and shares repurchased, are given in note 22 to the financial statements.
On 23 June 2004 the Company announced a programme to repurchase shares to the value of 200 million to improve balance sheet efficiency.
The programme, entailing the repurchase for cancellation of 127.1 million shares over two financial periods, was completed on 22 March 2006.
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 37 Directors Report continued Substantial share interests At 6 July 2006 the following interests of 3 per cent or more in the issued share capital had been notified to the Company pursuant to sections 198 to 210 of the Companies Act 1985 as amended : Number of % of ordinary issued share shares capital The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 224,008,450 12.23 Barclays PLC 84,589,516 4.55 Sprucegrove Investment Management Limited 76,799,328 4.00 Legal & General plc and Legal & General Investment Management Limited 69,988,304 3.70 Deutsche Bank AG 58,317,010 3.14 Aviva plc 56,181,480 3.08 Oppenheimer Funds, Inc. 59,052,965 3.03 Directors David Longbottom retired from the Board on 5 April 2006.
The names of the directors who served throughout the period, their biographical details and other information, are shown on pages 26 and 27.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, John Whybrow, Rita Clifton and John Clare will retire at the annual general meeting and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-appointment.
John Whybrow and Rita Clifton were appointed non-executive directors, pursuant to letters dated 20 May 2003 and 1 September 2003 respectively for three year terms ending on 24 June 2006 and 1 September 2006, respectively.
Their appointments for further three year terms upon the expiry of their current terms of office were approved by the Board on 4 April 2006 subject to shareholders approval.
John Clare has a service agreement with DSG Retail Limited which can be terminated by 12 months notice.
The Board is satisfied that the directors retiring by rotation are qualified for re-appointment by virtue of their skills, experience and contributions to the Board.
The interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company are shown in the Remuneration Report on pages 53 and 54.
No director had any beneficial interests in the shares of any subsidiary undertaking or in any contract or arrangement apart from contracts of service to which the Company or any subsidiary was a party during or at the end of the financial period.
Policy and practice on payment of suppliers The Groups policy and practice on payment of suppliers is shown in the Corporate Responsibility Review on page 23.
Directors and officers liability insurance Pursuant to Article 145 of the Memorandum and Articles of Association, the directors, secretary and other officers of the Company are entitled to be indemnified by the Company out of its own funds against liabilities arising from the conduct of the Groups business to the extent permitted by law.
The Group has purchased appropriate Directors and Officers insurance cover which in general terms indemnifies individual directors and officers personal legal liability and costs for claims arising out of actions taken in connection with the Groups business.
38 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 Governance Charitable and political donations During the period, the Group donated 875,000 2004 05 875,000 to The DSG international Foundation formerly The Dixons Foundation, a registered charitable trust.
Further details of the Groups charitable activities are set out in the Corporate Responsibility Review on pages 23 and 24.
The Company made no payments 2004 05 nil, which constituted EU Political Expenditure.
A resolution to authorise the directors to incur EU Political Expenditure in the coming year to an aggregate amount not exceeding 25,000 will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Equal opportunities and employee involvement Details of the Groups equal opportunities policies and the ways in which it seeks to involve employees in the Groups business, together with information about the Groups policy in regard to the employment of people with disabilities are set out in the Corporate Responsibility Review on pages 20 and 22.
Auditors and disclosure of information to auditors Deloitte & Touche LLP are willing to continue in office as auditors to the Company.
Resolutions for their reappointment and to authorise the directors to agree their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
To the best of each of the directors knowledge and belief, and having made appropriate enquiries of other officers of the Group, all information relevant to enabling the auditors to provide their opinion on the financial statements has been provided.
Each of the directors has taken all reasonable steps to ensure their awareness of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of any such information.
Annual general meeting The annual general meeting will be held on 6 September 2006 at The Caf Royal, 68 Regent Street, London W1 at 11.30 a. m. Notice of the meeting, together with full details and an explanation of the business to be considered, is given in a separate letter accompanying this report.
By Order of the Board Geoffrey Budd Secretary 6 July 2006 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 39
