Foodservice Group Directors and secretary Victor Cocker CBE Chairman independent B, N Vic Cocker age 66 joined the board in July 2000 and became chairman in February 2004.
Vic was chief executive of Severn Trent plc between 1995 and 2000.
He chairs WRAP, the Government funded company established to develop markets for recycled materials and WaterAid, an international NGO dedicated to water services.
Pam Sissons Peter Tom CBE Company secretary Non-executive director senior independent director B, A, N, R Pam Sissons age 44 joined the Group in 1999 and was appointed company Peter Tom age 66 joined the board in secretary in October 2004.
She is a Fellow February 2004 and chairs the remuneration of the Chartered Insurance Institute and an committee.
Peter is non-executive chairman Associate of the Chartered Institute of of Aggregate Industries Limited and Secretaries and Administrators.
chairman of Leicester Football Club plc Leicester Tigers.
B: Board member A: Audit and risk committee member N: Nomination committee member R: Remuneration committee member : committee chairman Annual Report and Accounts 2006 20 21 Shaun Smith William McGrath Stephen Rennie Chief operating officer B Chief executive B Group finance director B William McGrath age 48 was appointed Stephen Rennie age 53 was appointed to Shaun Smith age 46 was appointed to the Group chief executive in March 2001. the board in November 2000.
Stephen board as Group finance director in March William joined the Group as finance director joined the Group in 1979 from Calor Gas 2001.
Shaun joined the Group from Marks in October 1997 from Aggregate Industries and worked in sales and marketing roles and Spencer plc in 1989 and worked in where he had become finance director in before becoming a divisional director treasury becoming the Group treasurer in 1992.
He had previously worked in the responsible for the Groups consumer and 1999.
He is a qualified treasurer and investment banking and construction foodservice operations in 1998.
He is a chartered accountant and a has extensive commercial knowledge of the history graduate.
sectors in which the Group operates.
Paul Jackson Paul Dermody OBE Helen Mahy Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director independent B, A, N, R independent B, A, N, R independent B, A, N, R Paul Jackson age 53 joined the board in Helen Mahy age 46 joined the board in Paul Dermody age 61 joined the board in December 2005.
Paul is a senior client March 2003.
Helen is Group company March 2004 and chairs the audit and risk executive with Ogilvy & Mather Limited, part secretary and general counsel of National committee.
Paul is a non-executive director of the WPP Group.
He has wide experience Grid plc and a member of its executive of Majestic Wine PLC.
He was formerly in brand and international product committee.
Previously she was group chief executive of fide Vere Group Plc, having development.
general counsel and company secretary at spent his career with its predecessor Babcock International Group PLC.
He is a chartered management barrister, an Associate of the Chartered accountant.
Insurance Institute and is chair of the GC100 Group.
