36 Board of directors Gordon Horsfield Position: Chairman Age: 60 Appointment to the Board: 20 October 2005, having joined Drax in July 2003 Committee Membership: Nominations Chairman External Appointments: A non-executive director of Norwich and Peterborough Building Society.
Chair of the Council of the University of York.
Member of the Advisory Committee to the Abbot of Ampleforth Abbey.
Previous Experience: Gordon retired from  in January 2003 after 34 years service.
Much of his professional career was spent as a corporate recovery specialist rising to become head of corporate finance and recovery at Price Waterhouse UK and a member of the UK firms executive board.
Following the merger with Coopers & Lybrand in 1998, he was appointed to the new management board as the first director of operations of the UK firm , responsible for the new firms finances and for pulling together and rationalising the organisational and support functions of the UK business following the merger.
Subsequently he led the team dealing with the sale of its management consulting business to IBM.
Qualifications: BA Hons in Economics and a Chartered Accountant, FCA Dorothy Thompson Position: Chief Executive Age: 46 Appointment to the Board: 20 October 2005, having joined Drax in September 2005 Committee Membership: Executive, Health and Safety External Appointments: None Previous Experience: Dorothy was previously the head of the European business of InterGen NV, the power generation subsidiary of Shell NV and Bechtel Inc. responsible for the management and operation of four gas-fired power plants, totalling some 3,160MW of capacity across the UK and the Netherlands.
Prior to joining InterGen NV in 1998, Dorothy was initially in banking and subsequently was assistant group treasurer for Powergen plc.
Qualifications: BSc Hons and MSc in Economics Gordon Boyd Position: Finance Director Age: 47 Appointment to the Board: 20 October 2005, having joined Drax in January 2005 Committee Membership: Executive External Appointments: None Previous Experience: Previously held a number of roles within British Energy plc including director of corporate restructuring, generation finance director and group treasurer.
Prior to this he worked for a number of other companies including Raychem Limited, Mothercare Limited and Cadbury Schweppes plc.
Qualifications: BCom Hons in Accounting and Business Studies, MBA, FCMA, MCT and has completed the Advanced Management Program at Harvard Business School Peter Emery Position: Production Director Age: 44 Appointment to the Board: 20 October 2005, having joined Drax in June 2004 Committee Membership: Executive, Health and Safety External Appointments: None Previous Experience: Peter joined Esso Petroleum upon leaving university and held a number of analyst and managerial roles in the UK before moving to Essos parent, Exxon in the US to co-ordinate its downstream marketing and distribution investments outside North America and Canada.
Peter returned to Esso in 1992 as plant technical services manager at Fawley Refinery.
He then undertook roles managing various operational areas at the refinery before moving to refinery maintenance manager in 1997.
He was appointed operations manager at Fawley Oil Refinery in 2002, with full responsibility for the management and operation of the UKs largest refinery and a member of Exxon Mobils European leadership team for refining.
Qualifications: BSc Hons in Mining Engineering Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 37 Tim Barker Position: Senior independent non-executive director Age: 66 Appointment to the Board: 20 October 2005, and was appointed as the senior independent director on 15 December 2005.
He joined Drax in June 2004 Committee Membership: Remuneration Chairman, Audit and Nominations External Appointments: A non-executive director of Electrocomponents plc, Chairman of Robert Walters plc and a Member of the Professional Oversight Board of the Financial Reporting Council.
Previous Experience: From 1993 Tim was vice chairman of Kleinwort Benson Group plc and from 1998, until his retirement in 2000, he was vice chairman of Dresdner Kleinwort Benson.
Notably, he was involved with a number of clients in the energy sector and was an adviser to the UK Government on the privatisation of the electricity sector.
In the mid-1980s, Tim was director general of the City Panel on Takeovers and Mergers.
Qualifications: MA in Economics Mike Grasby Position: Independent non-executive director Age: 63 Appointment to the Board: 20 October 2005, having joined Drax in December 2003 Committee Membership: Health and Safety Chairman, Nominations and Remuneration External Appointments: An adviser to Manx Electricity Authority, a member of the British Energy Association and the World Energy Council and a director of an executive recruitment business.
Previous Experience: Mike retired from International Power in February 2002 after 36 years in the power industry.
During his career he held a number of senior positions in the UK and international power industry with the CEGB and National Power.
He was manager of Drax Power Station between 1991 and 1995, and director of operations for National Powers portfolio, with responsibilities for over 16,000MW of generating capacity, until 1998.
Mike was also a director of power companies in Portugal, Turkey and Pakistan.
Following the demerger of National Power, he joined International Power as senior vice-president, continuing with his international directorships and leading a major consortium in the Czech Republic.
Qualifications: A Chartered Engineer, FIET and FIMechE Charles Berry Position: Independent non-executive director Age: 54 Appointment to the Board: 15 December 2005 Committee Membership: Audit, Nominations and Remuneration External Appointments: A non-executive director and Chairman of Eaga Group and a non-executive director of Securities Trust of Scotland plc.
Previous Experience: Charles has extensive experience within the UK power sector.
He joined ScottishPower in 1991 and was appointed to the board in 1999.
From 2000 to 2005, Charles was Chief Executive of the companys UK Operations, with responsibility for over 6,200MW of generating capacity as well as the trading business, energy retailing and strategic transactions, such as renewables development.
Charles is also a former non-executive director and Chairman of THUS Group plc.
Qualifications: BSc Hons in Electrical Engineering and a Masters degree in Management Jamie Dundas Position: Independent non-executive director Age: 56 Appointment to the Board: 15 December 2005 Committee Membership: Audit Chairman, Nominations and Remuneration External Appointments: A non-executive director of Standard Chartered PLC and Chairman of Macmillan Cancer Support.
Previous Experience: Jamies career has been in merchant banking, finance and the property sector.
Jamie spent 19 years with Morgan Grenfell Group, including ten years as a director of Morgan Grenfell & Co Limited.
Jamie was Finance Director of the Airport Authority, Hong Kong between 199296 before joining MEPC plc in 1997, initially as Finance Director and from 19992003 as Chief Executive.
He was also a non-executive director of J Sainsbury plc in the period September 2000 to February 2007.
Qualifications: MA Oxon in Law and a Barrister non-practising Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006
