DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 11 Business Review Strategy Ofce Products Wholesaling Our goal in Office Products Wholesaling is to establish the Spicers business model profitably across the major markets of western Europe.
An immediate priority is to raise profits in the important UK business.
This will include restructuring the cost base.
On the continent we will maintain the competitiveness of our It is essential to our profitability major established positions in France and the Benelux region and continue to drive that we both improve the up the results of our developing businesses performance of our operations in Germany, Spain and Italy.
Investment Our capital expenditure programme will maintain investment in our key assets and Our objective is to generate value for Our performance against these financial support development of the strategy.
It shareholders through operational improvement objectives is described in the Financial will be targeted at three main areas: cost and the development of an enhanced business Review on pages 22 to 26. reduction: development of products or mix: reducing the Groups reliance on markets which offer good profit growth commodity CCM and expanding outside the Segment Strategies opportunities: and anticipation of health UK.
In the near-term, strong emphasis will The strategies for each of our four segments are: and safety or environmental requirements.
be given to raising returns in both our UK We will continue to seek bolt-on acquisition UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging Paper and Corrugated Packaging business opportunities, particularly in growth markets.
Our goal is to improve rapidly the returns and Spicers UK.
from our substantial existing market position.
The markets in which we operate are generally The priorities for achieving this are: recovery mature and highly competitive, so it is essential of the input cost rises: structural cost reduction: for our profitability that we both continuously productivity improvement: and targeting growth sectors of the market.
We will focus improve the performance of our operations and develop our revenues by investment in new our investment on: Severnside Recycling: those products and markets with inherent growth.
paper mills which we believe can be long-term competitive at the likely future level of energy We recognise that Packaging manufacturing and Office Products Wholesaling are quite different costs: our network of conventional box plants: types of activity but we believe that DS Smith is and a selected number of speciality businesses.
able to add value to both of these core activities Continental European Corrugated Packaging and that the Groups present composition will Our objective is to build on our current good provide good returns and cash flow to investors.
We will continue our targeted approach, concentrating on Financial Objectives selected markets and higher added-value We have four key financial objectives: product segments.
We will maintain the competitiveness of our operations in France to achieve a return on average capital and Italy while seeking further development employed over the business cycle in excess of opportunities in higher-growth markets.
the Groups weighted average cost of capital, which we estimate to be circa 9% before tax : Plastic Packaging to seek market opportunities that offer higher Our aim is to improve significantly the profitability of our two principal businesses, rates of growth: particularly through new product development to generate sufficient free cash flow to and increased productivity.
In liquid packaging provide funds for development and to and dispensing, we will build on our service our dividend: and established international position through to maintain a strong but efficient balance developing new outlets.
In industrial RTP, sheet that optimises returns to shareholders we will continue to focus on the European while giving financial resilience and allowing market, seeking particularly to extend our the Group to pursue bolt-on acquisitions.
business in central and eastern Europe.
