DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 9 Business Review Description of the Group the principal raw material for producing recycled paper: it also buys and sells waste paper and provides facilities management services to administer customers general recycling and waste disposal needs.
The largest single source of waste paper accounts for less than 14% of the total amount collected.
Severnside supplies 1.1 million The Group is managed through tonnes of waste paper to St Regis, meeting 98% of its waste paper requirements, and a decentralised structure covering sells 0.6 million tonnes on the open market.
St Regis five paper mills produce approximately 900,000 tonnes of 100% recycled paper.
St Regis is the leading UK producer of CCM, which accounts for approximately 70% of the paper it produces, the remainder being DS Smith is an international Group with divisions, St Regis Paper Company which plasterboard liner and other speciality paper revenue in 2005 06 of 1,653 million and it incorporates Severnside Recycling and grades.
St Regis is a leading European producer employs over 11,400 people in 16 countries.
of plasterboard liner, which accounts for over The Group is managed through a decentralised 15% of its total production.
The Groups structure covering its four segments: Corrugated Packaging operations account for over 60%, 400,000 tonnes, of St Regis CCM UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging sales.
St Regis external sales are made to over This segment is comprised of three activities: 350 customers: no single external customer Severnside Recycling, which collects waste accounts for more than 6% of the Groups total paper for recycling: St Regis Paper Company, UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging revenue.
which processes the waste paper to produce recycled paper, 75% of which is corrugated DS Smith Packaging produces 1.1 billion case material CCM used in the manufacture square metres 600,000 tonnes per annum DS Smith Packaging supplies award-winning of corrugated packaging at 33 factories of corrugated packaging: and DS Smith packaging to leading, fast-moving consumer Packaging, which converts CCM into located throughout the UK.
It is the leading goods customers.
The three supplier of corrugated packaging to the UK Severnside Recycling is the leading UK market with a market share of around 24%.
activities of the corrugated packaging supply collector and merchant of waste paper.
It chain are heavily inter-dependent.
DS Smith Approximately 65% of sales go into the manages its UK Paper and Corrugated handles, through its 19 UK collection depots, fast-moving consumer goods FMCG, Packaging operations through two separate 1.7 million tonnes per annum of waste paper, predominantly food and beverage, sector, DS Smith Structure UK Paper and Continental European Ofce Products Plastic Packaging Corrugated Packaging Corrugated Packaging Wholesaling Packaging Kayserberg Plastics 10 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 Business Review Description of the Group continued with the remainder being principally for the In liquid packaging and dispensing, it is Spain and Italy.
Its network of distribution consumer durables and industrial sectors.
DS ranked as number two globally in bag-in-box centres comprises: UK 10: Ireland 1: Smith Packaging supplies many of the leading packaging systems and injection moulded France 6: Belgium 1: Germany 2: FMCG companies: no individual customer taps and dispensers, which are supplied Spain 1: Italy 1. accounts for more than 3% of the total UK worldwide to the soft drinks, wine, food Spicers provides a wholesaling service to its Paper and Corrugated Packaging revenue.
and other industry sectors from nine locations customer base of office products dealers, who in the UK, Germany, the USA, Australia and principally supply smaller and medium-sized Continental European New Zealand.
It supplies approximately 12,000 Corrugated Packaging dealers throughout Europe and no single In continental Europe, DS Smith Kaysersberg dealer customer accounts for more than 2% of produces 0.6 billion square metres 365,000 Spicers total revenue.
Spicers product range tonnes per annum of corrugated packaging of up to 18,000 product lines comprises its at 12 factories located in France, Italy, Poland, own 5-Star brand and other branded products the Czech Republic and Turkey.
The bulk of of traditional stationery items, electronic office its CCM requirements are sourced from third supplies EOS, office furniture, janitorial parties.
It has estimated market shares of 6% supplies and office catering and vending in France, 3% in Italy, 9% in Poland, and 6% provisions.
Its range is communicated to its in Turkey.
Although its market positions in dealers and the offices they supply through DS Smith Plastics product range includes France and Italy have been relatively stable the latest generation of injection moulded printed catalogues and electronic systems: over the last two years, the business has been beverage crates.
orders are now principally submitted to growing strongly in eastern Europe.
DS Smith The Group is a leading European supplier Spicers on-line or by other electronic means.
Kaysersberg produces 0.2 million tonnes of of RTP.
Its extensive product range includes recycled paper principally solid board for use in reusable containers, boxes and pallet systems, the manufacture of detergent boxes at two mills injection moulded crates, and semi-finished in France and one mill in Turkey.
DS Smith also owns 39% of the leading paper and corrugated extruded sheet.
These products are supplied to the automotive, beverage and other markets packaging business in the Ukraine: the results of this business are reported under associates.
from 13 locations in the UK, France, Belgium, Spain, Poland and the Dominican Republic.
Additionally, the segment contains two small speciality businesses: Packaging Management, which provides logistics services particularly Spicers communicates its extensive product range through catalogues and electronic systems.
for pallet and plastic layer pad pools: and a development business, StePac, which Spicers offers its dealer customers a same-day specialises in modified atmosphere packaging or an overnight, next-day delivery service: it for preserving the quality of fresh fruit and also provides the dealers with marketing and vegetables in transit.
The business is highly DS Smith Kaysersbergs customers include many  with approximately The division purchases a wide range of top European branded companies.
700,000 line items being processed weekly.
polymers and plastic films, principally The maintenance of reliable and efficient The Groups continental corrugated packaging polypropylene, high density polyethylene and systems that are capable of handling the high operations are particularly strong in heavy duty polycarbonate: the largest polymer supplier volume of customer orders received daily, and litho-laminated packaging.
Approximately accounts for approximately 16% of raw either by telephone or on-line, is a key feature 35% of sales are to the FMCG sector and the material costs.
This segment has a widely of the business.
remainder is to consumer durables, industrial spread customer base and no single customer and other sectors.
This segment has a large and accounts for more than 6% of DS Smith diverse range of customers, none of which Plastics total revenue.
account for more than 6% of Continental European Corrugated Packaging revenue.
Ofce Products Wholesaling Spicers is the leading European wholesaler Plastic Packaging of office products: it is ranked as the number DS Smith Plastics is a leading worldwide one wholesaler in each of the UK, Ireland, supplier of liquid packaging and dispensing France and the Benelux region, and it is systems and holds a major European position building its position in continental Europe in industrial returnable transit packaging RTP.
with development businesses in Germany,
