Board of Directors Philip Rogerson Angus Cockburn 62 Chairman 43 Finance Director Philip Rogerson is Chairman of Carillion plc and Angus Cockburn, a Chartered Accountant, joined THUS Group plc: he is Chairman of Northgate plc Aggreko in May 2000 as Finance Director.
He was on a short-term basis and a Non-executive Director previously Managing Director of Pringle of Scotland, of Davis Service Group plc.
Until February 1998 a division of Dawson International PLC, having joined he was Deputy Chairman of BG plc formerly that company in 1997 from PepsiCo Inc. At PepsiCo British Gas plc having been a Director since 1992. he spent five years in various positions, latterly as He joined the Board of Aggreko plc in September Regional Finance Director for Central Europe based 1997 and was appointed as Chairman in April 2002. in Budapest.
He has worked with KPMG both in the UK and in the USA and has an MBA from the IMD Rupert Soames Business School in Switzerland.
He is also a Non- 47 Group Chief Executive executive Director of Galiform Plc and a former Rupert Soames joined the Board as Group Chief chairman of the Group of Scottish Finance Directors.
He was formerly with Misys PLC, where he was Chief Executive of the Banking George Walker and Securities Division.
Before joining Misys, Rupert 49 President Aggreko North America was with GEC plc for 15 years, working in a number George Walker, a United States citizen, joined of their subsidiaries: in the last 4 years of his service Aggreko in 1987 when the Company initially with GEC he was responsible for the UK, African entered the temperature control business through the and Asian operations of Avery Berkel.
Prior to acquisition of Mobile Air-Conditioning Inc. where he February 2006, he was a Non-executive Director was Controller and then Vice-President.
A graduate of Baggeridge Brick PLC.
of the University of Texas, he became a Vice-President of Aggreko Inc. in 1988 and was appointed Executive Derek Shepherd Vice-President in 1997.
In January 2001 he became 64 Managing Director International President of Aggreko North America and was Derek Shepherd, a Chartered Engineer, left his appointed as an Executive Director of Aggreko plc.
position as Managing Director of Taylor Woodrow Nigeria to become International Managing Director Kash Pandya of Gammon HK in Hong Kong and joined Aggreko 44 Managing Director Europe in 1988 as Managing Director of the UK business.
Kash Pandya joined the Board on 20 June 2005.
He was appointed Director of Aggreko Europe in 1991 He was until recently Chief Executive of Johnston and became Managing Director in the following year.
Group plc, and prior to that he was President, Europe, He joined the Board of Aggreko plc in September Asia & South America of APW, the worlds largest 1997.
In March 1999 he was given responsibility manufacturer of specialist cabinets and enclosures for Aggreko International Power Projects together for the telecoms and computer industries.
Between with the Companys activities in the Middle East, 1996 and 1999, Kash worked for Caradon plc, Australia, Asia, Africa and South America.
He is latterly as Director of European Operations of based in Dubai, United Arab Emirates.
12 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Philip Rogerson Rupert Soames Angus Cockburn Kash Pandya George Walker Derek Shepherd Nigel Northridge Andrew Salvesen Roy McGlone Board Committees Membership Audit Remuneration Nomination Nigel Northridge Roy McGlone 51 Senior Independent Non-executive Director 53 Non-executive Director Nigel Northridge was appointed as Chief Executive Roy McGlone joined the Board in September 2002. of Gallaher Group Plc in January 2000, having started Until February 2006, he was Chief Executive of BBA his career with that business in 1976 as a trainee Group plc, having previously held the position of manager.
Over his 30 years with Gallaher he has held Group Finance Director.
A Chartered Accountant, a wide range of senior positions including Divisional he qualied with Price Waterhouse and subsequently Director Iberia, General Manager Europe and, prior held positions with Meggitt plc and BICC plc.
to taking up his present position, Group Sales and Marketing Director.
He is also a Non-executive Company Secretary Director of Paddy Power plc.
He joined the Board Paul Allen 58 of Aggreko plc on 14 February 2002.
Paul Allen, a Chartered Accountant, was Divisional Accountant of the Industrial Services division of Andrew Salvesen Christian Salvesen PLC at the time of its acquisition 59 Non-executive Director of Aggreko in 1984.
In 1986, following the acquisition Andrew Salvesen was appointed to the Board of of the North American business, he became Financial Aggreko plc in September 1997.
Previous to that, he Controller of Aggreko North America.
He returned had more than 20 years experience with the Christian to the UK in 1993 and became Head of Finance for Salvesen group, including being the Managing Director Aggreko in 1994.
He was appointed Company of Christian Salvesens former Oileld Technology Secretary in September 1997. operations and was a Non-executive Director of Christian Salvesen PLC between 1989 and September 1997.
He is Chairman of Eurohostel Limited and a Director of the National Trust for Scotland.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 13
