THE MARKET Our market Examples of our activities Customers come to Aggreko when they need power, Examples of high-value, infrequent events or temperature control or oil-free compressed air.
They situations we have worked on include: might need it very quickly, for example when a power transformer fails in the local electricity grid, or they Large-scale power shortage Kenya, Sri Lanka may need it for such a short period of time that it is and Venezuela.
not economically viable to purchase a permanent installation, for example, a major sporting event might Major sporting events Ryder Cup, Football World use additional power and temperature control for only Cup, SuperBowl.
Natural disasters Hurricanes Katrina and The nature of Aggrekos business means that it Rita in 2005. is event-driven our customers turn to us when something unusual happens.
Events range from the Military and aid agency support for post-conict very large and infrequent to the small and recurrent, re-construction Middle East, Africa and the such as local power failures.
Examples of lower-value, more frequent, events on which we might work are: Demand is created by events which differ in value and frequency illustrative An oil renery needs additional cooling during Value per occurrence the summer to maintain production throughput.
Construction 1,000s Factory breakdown maintenance A glass manufacturer suffers a breakdown in its Utility breakdown plant and needs power and oil-free-air compressors maintenance 10,000s while its own equipment is being repaired.
Entertainment A city centre needs chillers to create an ice-rink Telecoms roll-out for the Christmas period.
Storms 100,000s Utility augmentation War 1,000,000s Power crisis Y2k 10,000,000s Occurrences per year 1 10s 100s 1,000s 10,000s 100,000s Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 5 THE MARKET For non-OECD countries we currently use supply-side How big is the market, and what is estimates only, and generally these are more reliable as there are fewer suppliers who can manage large our market share?
power projects, which is the main type of market in these countries.
We are, however, in the process of Because we operate in very specic niches of the developing techniques which will allow us to develop rental market power, temperature control and better forecasts of future market trends.
oil-free compressed air and across a very broad geography, it is very difficult to size our market By triangulating these techniques we develop an precisely.
A complicating fact is that our own estimate of market size.
In 2003, as part of our activities serve to create market demand Rwanda strategy review, we estimated that the world-wide and the Yemen did not gure highly in our market market was worth around 1.1 billion, and that forecasts in 2003, but are now important customers it would grow to about 1.3 billion by 2006.
We as a result of our sales efforts.
Furthermore, our have since done a great deal of further analysis, and market is event driven and major events such our latest view is that the 2003 estimate was pretty as hurricanes in North America, Olympic Games, accurate for the market size at that time, but, given or major droughts in Africa can influence market our own growth over the period, our judgement is size in the short-term.
that the market has since grown slightly faster than we anticipated, and we now estimate it was in the As there is no third-party research that exactly matches range of 1.3 billion to 1.5 billion in 2006. our business, we have to use a number of different approaches to estimate the size of the global market.
Given our rental revenues of 369 million in 2006, All of our measurements of market size relate to this would imply an Aggreko world-wide market share rental revenue, as services revenues such as fuel of around 25%.
Behind this lies enormous variation.
and freight are highly volatile, and do not have In many non-OECD countries, where the rental market any reection on underlying market size.
is barely developed, and where we are called in to provide temporary utility power, we may have a For most OECD countries in which we operate, very high market share for the period of the project, we use three techniques: but none when it ends.
In OECD countries where the rental markets are better developed, our share Supply-side estimation.
We use market intelligence of sales will generally be lower than the 25% we to estimate the supply-side i. e. how large our estimate for our global share of sales.
This is notoriously inaccurate, nearly all the major markets in which we operate, as competitors often have much broader product Aggreko is the largest or second-largest player.
ranges, and it is extremely difficult to work out how much of their revenue comes specifically from generators, and how much from the many What is driving market growth?
other lines of equipment they may offer.
With the implementation We estimate that the market for the short-term rental of our new ERP system, and a much sharper of power, temperature control and oil-free compressed emphasis on sector-based marketing, we are air is growing at some 2% above GDP in OECD building improved understanding of our revenue countries.
So if GDP grows at 3% on average, by sector and customer.
We are in the process of our market should grow at 5%.
developing techniques for estimating market size by taking the revenues we generate from highlyGrowth in Aggrekos Local business is driven by four penetrated customers whose spending patterns main factors: we know well and projecting those to the wider industry in which those customers operate.
GDP as an economy grows, so does demand for energy.
We use third-party data where it is available.
6 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Propensity to rent how inclined people are to rent Our two different business models rather than buy.
This is driven by issues such as the tax treatment of capital assets and the growing awareness and acceptance of outsourcing.
Aggreko is organised around two different business Price this is linked to the first two, but is also models.
dependent on rental equipment availability: if there is a surplus, prices will decline.
Local business Our Local business focuses on the smaller, more Events high-value low-frequency events change frequently occurring, events.
Although most of this the size of a market, although only temporarily.
business has a lead-time of more than 12 hours, For example, the scale of Hurricane Katrina in about 25% of its revenues come from responding 2005 led to a short-term surge in temporary power to emergencies.
It is therefore essential to have the demand in the areas affected by the hurricane.
capability to deploy equipment and people to the customers site within a matter of hours.
This business These factors also affect our International Power operates from 118 service centres in Europe, Projects business.
There are however, two factors North, Central & South America, the Middle East, in particular driving the growth in the power utilities Asia and Australasia.
These service centres look market in developing countries.
after customers who are normally within a radius of 150 miles and they offer the complete range of In the early stages of economic development, our products and services.
A typical contract in this power demand increases very rapidly as business would be worth around 3,000 and last economies industrialise and consumers buy 2-3 weeks.
In 2006 the Local business accounted power-hungry products such as televisions and for 75% of our revenues excluding pass-through 1 air-conditioners.
Many developing countries fuel revenue, amounting to some 372.3 million.
around the world nd it hard to increase power capacity in line with this demand, which leads International Power Projects to power cuts.
This can be immensely damaging Our International Power Projects business concentrates to economic development.
on medium to very large contracts.
Most projects in this business are worth over 1 million and some Growing afuence in many developing countries can be worth over 10 million.
Customers are mainly means that people are becoming ever-more in developing countries and include power utilities, dependent on power and increasingly intolerant governments, armed forces, oil companies and of power failures.
Governments react to this and mining companies.
A typical contract in this business seek to nd ways of providing fast solutions to would be for the rental of 20-25 megawatts enough power shortages.
to power over 10,000 households for 6-9 months.
We use standardised equipment: 1 megawatt containerised units assembled to our specication in our own facility in Scotland.
These generators are designed specifically to be easily transportable, reliable and robust.
Power projects can arise anywhere in the world and the required response time is generally days or weeks rather than hours.
To support these projects we concentrate our fleet in four hubs in South America, Europe, the Middle East and Asia.
From each hub large amounts of equipment can be shipped or own rapidly to wherever it is needed.
In 2006, our International 1 Power Projects business generated revenues of Pass-through fuel revenue relates to two contracts in Sri Lanka 125.0 million, or 25% of Aggrekos total revenue and Uganda in our International Projects business where we provide fuel on a pass-through basis.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 7 THE MARKET Who are our customers?
Competitive environment Aggreko serves every industry that uses power, The barriers to entry in our business are low: many temperature control, or oil-free compressed air, companies, small and large drift in and out of power making our customer-base very diverse, both rental, in particular, and competition in each market is in terms of geography and market segment.
However, to have global scale in our business requires significant distribution, technical expertise, and a great deal of capital investment.
Over the last ten years, several of the worlds largest companies Revenue by customer segment have tried to build global scale, but none have been Excluding pass-through fuel revenue % willing to match Aggrekos rate of investment in fleet 1 Utilities 23 1 and global distribution.
There is no single competitor 8 2 Manufacturing 17 that operates across the same breadth of geography 7 3 Construction 14 and product markets as Aggreko.
4 Oil & Gas 12 6 5 Military 8 2 6 Services 7 Typically, competitors in the Local business are 5 7 Entertainment 6 either privately-owned specialist rental businesses, 8 Other 13 4 3 or divisions of large plant-hire companies.
Most of them operate in a single country, and often in just Source: Aggreko internal reports a particular part of a country.
In most countries, competition is intense, but the competitors will tend to vary country to country.
There are a relatively Revenue by geography Excluding pass-through fuel revenue % small number of larger companies which compete with us across a number of countries.
1 North America 32 5 1 4 2 Europe 27 To compete on a global basis in the International 3 Middle East and Africa 28 Power Projects business requires a large fleet and 4 Asia and Australasia 9 5 South America 4 the ability to sell and deploy it around the world.
No other company has the integrated global network 2 that Aggreko has developed which allows us to 3 move fleet rapidly around the world to areas of high demand.
In many countries sizable local Source: Aggreko internal reports companies, who will often be the distributors of major manufacturers such as Caterpillar, Cummins or Alstom, compete with us for contracts, as well as locally-based infrastructure companies.
Four types of competitor in Local business 2 multinational Aggreko, CAT 15-20 regional Atlas Copco, Carrier, Bredenoord Hundreds of national Speedy Hire, LMI, Power Electrics Thousands of Moms and Pops 8 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 DIRECTORS STATEMENTS Directors Statements Chairmans Statement 10 Board of Directors 12 Directors Responsibilities 14 Directors Report 15 Results and Dividends 15 Business Review and Principal Activities 15 Group Strategy 15 Business Line Strategy 19 Looking Ahead 21 Management of Resources 22 Principal Risks and Uncertainties 24 Key Performance Indicators 28 Review of Trading 30 Detailed Financial Review 35 Other Matters 39 Annual General Meeting 40 Notiable Interests 42 Corporate Governance 43
