Directors Report Business Review and Principal Activities Rupert Soames Group strategy Chief Executive All numbers quoted in the Business Review exclude the impact of exceptional items unless otherwise stated.
Our strategy, which was initially developed as a result of an in-depth review of Aggrekos business in 2003, has remained consistent for the last three years, and continues to be the basis of our business planning.
At its heart, Aggrekos mission is to deliver long-term shareholder value by investing in, and managing effectively, its core business of renting mission-critical equipment on a global basis.
The last three years Angus Cockburn trading results, shown below, indicate to us that the Finance Director strategy is the right one, and we continue to work relentlessly to implement it.
Aggreko Group excluding pass-through fuel 2006 2003 CAGR Revenue m 497 324 15% Trading profit m 85 42 27% Trading margin 17% 13% Return on capital employed ROCE 22% 13% calculated using average net operating assets The Directors present their report and the audited Financial Statements for the year ended In Aggreko, strategy is developed by an iterative 31 December 2006. process of examining the factors which will affect the business in the years ahead.
We seek to develop Results and Dividends a deep understanding of the drivers of demand, The profit for the financial year after taxation was changing customer requirements, the competitive 46.2 million 2005: 36.7 million.
The retained environment, as well as likely developments in profit for the financial year of 29.5 million 2005: technology and regulation.
We look at our own 21.0 million has been transferred to reserves.
strengths and weaknesses, and at the opportunities and threats that are likely to face us.
From this An interim dividend of 2.53 pence per ordinary analysis we develop a list of investment and share was paid on 17 November 2006 at a cost of operational options, and analyse their relative 6.7 million 2005: 6.2 million and the Directors risks and rewards, bearing in mind the capabilities now recommend a final dividend of 4.19 pence and resources of the Group.
per ordinary share payable on 18 May 2007 at an estimated cost of 11.1 million 2005: 10.0 million.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 15 Directors Report continued We test our strategy on a regular basis.
Having In terms of progress against these Group objectives conducted a very thorough review in 2003 we in 2006: re-examined our conclusions again in 2005 and we updated investors in March 2006 with our latest Total capital expenditure increased sharply in 2006 analysis, which was that: to 128.0 million, 47.8 million up on the prior year, at which level it represented 176% of the The strategy developed in 2003 was working well.
114.1 million was investment in new fleet 2005: 73.7 million.
The Group was well-positioned in growing markets and had plenty of opportunities in its core business In terms of operating efficiency, in 2006: to drive future growth.
Revenue per employee increased by 13%.
With the operational risks related to the re-structuring of the Group and the implementation Revenue per of Average Net Operating Assets of our new ERP system in Europe and North has increased by 2%.
America behind us, we felt confident enough in the financial position of the Group to increase ROCE has increased from 19% to 22%.
the rate of investment in the business.
Note: all ratios relate to revenue and profit excluding pass-through fuel and exceptional items.
Looking at the options for the deployment of that increased investment, we said that: In terms of improving marketing and operational reach, in 2006 new service centres were opened The first priority for the Group would be driving in Manaus, Dubai, Hong Kong, Moerdijk in the the organic growth of the business: this would be Netherlands and Doncaster in the UK.
Aggreko largely in the form of increased fleet investment, rented equipment in more than 90 countries in 2006. increasing its marketing and operational reach, and focusing the operating units on improving We examined a number of acquisition opportunities, operating efficiency.
and were successful in acquiring one of our largest global competitors GE Energy Rentals.
The second priority would be making value-adding acquisitions in the core business.
The financial performance of the Group in 2006 delivered significant growth, as shown below: To the extent that we could not efficiently deploy capital on our first two priorities, we would return Aggreko Group excluding pass-through fuel any excess capital to shareholders.
2006 2005 Growth % Revenue m 497 395 26% While we would not exclude bringing new Trading profit m 85 59 44% product lines into the Groups service offering, Trading margin 17% 15% diversication was not a priority as we felt that our ROCE 22% 19% core markets have considerable growth potential.
16 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 New site development This diagram shows the layout of the Embakasi site in Kenya.
On this site more than 120 1,250 Kva generators, each housed in a 20 foot container, feed into the Kenyan electricity grid through the permanent sub-station to the right of the diagram.
New equipment development This is the layout arrangement for the control panel of GENERATOR MAIN SCREEN a gas-fuelled generator that has recently been added to the fleet.
This panel has been developed to allow the operator to monitor a variety of aspects of the operation of the generator and quickly identify any faults.
This information can also be fed by remote ACCESS UNITS MODE STATUS BREAKER monitoring to a central control-room.
SETUP OFF STOPPED OPEN INVALID PSI F AUXILIARIES ENGINEER DATA Output 1354 kW VOLTS Output GAS MIMIC SYSTEM DATA 441 13 L1-L2 MWh VOLTS GenHz 441 60.0 L2-L3 ENGINE DATA ALTERNATOR DATA VOLTS Power 441 0.99 L1-L1 Factor AMPS Oil 1776 5.5 L1 psi AMPS HT cool 1766 59.0 L2 F AMPS Speed 1778 1796 L3 rpm OFF ON APPLICATION LOAD LOAD MANAGER TEST TEST FAULT DISPLAY ALARM CONTROLLED SHUTDOWN SHUTDOWN Business Line Strategy The first objective of our Local business strategy is to Supporting the Group strategy, Aggreko develops create and maintain a clear differentiation between operational strategies for our two different lines of our offering and that of our competitors.
Our research business: shows that Aggreko is regarded by our customers as providing extremely good service, and that we The Local business, which delivers the complete deliver high levels of customer satisfaction.
We are range of our services to customers who are typically determined to maintain this reputation for premium within a few hours driving time of our service service and we do this through the attitude and centres: expertise of our staff, the geographic reach of our operations, the design, availability and reliability The International Power Projects business which of our equipment, and the ability to respond to provides large power plants on a global basis to our customers 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
power utilities, the military and major industrial users.
The second objective of our strategy is to be extremely efficient in the way we run our operations.
This is The Local business essential if we are to provide superior customer service The Local business serves customers from 118 service at a competitive price, and at the same time deliver centres in the USA, Canada, Mexico, Brazil, Chile, to our shareholders an attractive return on capital.
Europe, the Middle East, Singapore, Hong Kong, In a business in which lead-times are short, logistics China, Australia and New Zealand.
This is a business are complex, and there is a large number of low-value with high transaction volumes: average contracts have transactions, an essential pre-condition of efficiency a value of around 3,000 and last for 2-3 weeks.
The is having high quality systems and processes.
Local business, excluding pass-through fuel, represents 75% of Aggrekos revenues and 71% of trading profit.
The operation of our Local businesses in Europe and North America is based on a hub-and-spoke model Aggreko Local business which has two types of service centre: hubs hold our 2006 % of Group larger items of equipment as well as providing service and repair facilities.
Spokes are smaller and act Revenue m 372 75% as logistics points from which equipment can be Trading profit m 60 71% delivered quickly to a customers site.
The hubs Trading margin 16% and spokes have been organised into areas in Capital Employed m 292 73% which a manager has responsibility for the revenues, ROCE 22% profitability and use of capital within that area.
In this model, most administrative and call handling Since 2003, the performance of the Local business has functions are carried out in central rental centres.
improved sharply: This operating model is delivering a number of Local business benets.
For our customers, it means better and 2006 2003 CAGR more consistent levels of service and response.
Revenue m 372 258 13% For Aggrekos Local business, it means an operating Trading profit m 60 27 30% model which allows us to increase revenues faster Trading margin 16% 10% than costs.
In other words it is allowing us to ROCE 22% 11% develop a more scalable business model and, as revenues increase, to improve our margins.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 19 Directors Report continued A further benefit of the Local business model is that International Power Projects profit and capital employed can be measured at the This business serves the requirements of power same point in the organisation.
A key feature of our utilities, governments, armed forces and major culture is to devolve responsibility and authority to industrial users for the temporary provision of largethe lowest point at which we can measure return on scale power-generation.
Power plants range in size capital employed, which is the key metric of efficiency from 10 megawatts MW to 100 MW, and the initial in any business as capital intensive as ours.
contract value will typically be around 1 million, with a duration of around six months, although many An integral part of the strategy for the Local business contracts are subsequently extended beyond this.
is the implementation of our new Enterprise Resource The business operates in areas where we do not have Planning ERP system which will provide a single, a large Local business.
Most of the customers are global, IT system for managing our business.
The new power utilities in Africa, the Middle East, Asia and system gives us greatly improved visibility of the South America.
The driver of demand in these business, which will enable us to drive improvements markets is that our customers economies are growing, in operating efficiency.
The planned roll-out of the with consequent increases in demand for additional new system is largely complete in Europe and North power which cannot be met in the short-term by America, and is starting in Aggreko International.
As a result, many of We have now begun the process of delivering the them face chronic power shortages which damage full potential of the ERP system in terms of real-time their ability to support economic growth and information and better efficiency through streamlined increased prosperity.
These shortages are often processes.
caused or exacerbated by the variability of supply arising from the use of hydro-electric power plants In 2003 and 2004, the focus of our strategy for the whose output is dependent on rainfall.
Local business was directed towards expanding market shares and increasing operational efficiency in existing International Power Projects now represents 25% of geographies.
Since 2005, and particularly in the Group revenues and 29% of trading profit excluding Local businesses managed by Aggreko International, pass-through fuel: increasing emphasis is being placed on developing new markets, while in Europe and North America International Power Projects excl pass-through fuel we are focusing on developing our penetration of 2006 % of Group key sectors.
Revenue m 125 25% Trading profit m 25 29% Trading margin 20% Capital Employed m 111 27% ROCE 22% Since 2003, the International Power Projects business has grown rapidly: International Power Projects 2006 2003 CAGR Revenue m 125 66 24% Trading profit m 25 15 19% Trading margin 20% 23% ROCE 22% 25% 20 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 In this business, our strategy is determined by the It is our experience that it is possible to run large observation of two key characteristics of the market.
eets to higher levels of utilisation than small eets.
The first is that demand can shift rapidly between This means that large operators can offer better continents.
Four years ago, South America and Sri pricing to customers.
Lanka were the largest markets, and Africa was only a small proportion of global demand.
In 2006, the Large operators are able to negotiate better terms market in Africa was larger than South America and with suppliers, and can invest in the design Sri Lanka combined.
It would not surprise us if this and assembly skills which allow them to deliver situation were to reverse again in the next three years.
equipment optimised to rental requirements at These shifts in demand were driven in part by a lower capital cost than is generally available rainfall patterns, in part by the relationship between to small-scale operators.
economic growth and investment in permanent power generation and geo-political issues.
To be successful In summary, a large operator will have lower volatility in the long-term, therefore, requires the ability to of demand, better lifetime utilisation of equipment, be capture demand wherever and whenever it may arise, better able to respond to emergency requirements, and and that requires sales, marketing and operational will have a lower fleet cost per MW.
In International infrastructure to be present in all the target markets.
Power Projects, bigger is better and Aggreko is now larger than any other competitor in this market, and The second observation is that this is a business in the only company to have distribution in all the which size brings significant advantages.
numerous reasons for this:- Looking Ahead A large business, with global distribution and The strategy we developed in 2003, and updated in a large fleet, which can move assets around the 2006, is working well and has produced excellent world to meet demand wherever it arises can be results.
We have strengthened our competitive reasonably confident when it invests in new position in North, Central & South America, the equipment that, over its economic life of 8-10 years, Middle East, Africa, Asia and Australasia.
Our the equipment will be on rent for enough of the performance in Europe has not been as strong, but time to keep in place the operational infrastructure 2006 was a turning point for the region with good needed to support the equipment, and to earn an revenue and profit growth giving us the confidence economic return on the investment.
A business that the business is on its way to recovery.
which only operates in a single region or continent will be exposed to significant volatility in demand, The acquisition of GE Energy Rentals, completed in and consequently long periods with idle fleet, December 2006, has been a major step forward in the which will badly damage investment returns.
The strategic rationale behind the acquisition was that, at a time when Each year, a number of emergency requirements Aggreko was growing rapidly, it increased our fleet by arise, often as a consequence of breakdown in about 30%, and at a lower cost than buying new fleet.
permanent generating capacity, for which equipment Secondly, it strengthened our position in important has to be deployed in a matter of days.
These markets, such as South and Central America, USA, contracts are important because in many cases, Europe, and in certain important market sectors such they are the foundation of long-term, valuable as Major Events for example, the Football World Cup customer relationships.
To be able to respond to and the Olympics.
Thirdly, GE Energy Rentals them, however, requires the immediate availability employed a large number of talented people who of fleet, and the operational capacity to deploy could help support our future growth.
An update anywhere in the world.
It is much easier to nd on the progress of the integration of the business 30 MW of equipment available for immediate is set out in the Trading Review, however the early mobilisation in a fleet of 2,000 MW than in a indications are that the strategic rationale for the fleet of 200 MW.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 21 Directors Report continued In terms of the Local business, a short-term priority Management of Resources is to get the GE Energy Rentals fleet re-branded and This section describes how we manage our key ready-for-rent.
We will continue to drive operational resources to deliver the strategy outlined above.
improvement, focusing on turning our ERP system into a competitive advantage.
We intend to grow People our market share in North America and Europe and Aggreko has over 2,200 employees around the world, we will expand the footprint of our Local business in and they are united by a unique culture.
Phrases Asia and South America.
As well as organic growth, such as customer focused, can-do, completely we will also look for opportunities to grow our dependable capture part of the ethos of Aggreko business through the acquisition of companies or employees.
This culture has developed through assets in our core markets.
the years, and derives from the fact that very often Aggreko is helping people and businesses to The International Power Projects business has made recover from, or to avoid, emergencies or disruption.
good progress expanding further in Africa, South Customers are often dependent on Aggreko people America and Asia.
Our strategy is to continue to keep things running, often under very difficult to invest heavily in this business to enable it to circumstances.
Our people are highly skilled, and further increase its scale and reach.
This will deliver many of them have years of experience.
They are used increasing revenues and profits and will reduce the to reacting quickly, getting the job done professionally volatility inherent in the power projects business.
and safely, and they respond well in a crisis.
A growing proportion of our future investment is likely to be in gas-fuelled generators, which produce Given the environment in which we operate, lower emissions and which, for some customers, are it is essential that our people are properly trained, cheaper to run than diesel generators.
We think that given the correct level of responsibility and this technology could become an important niche in accountability to make decisions on a timely basis the International Power Projects marketplace in the and are remunerated and incentivised appropriately.
Each part of the business has training programmes in place to ensure that our employees have the necessary We believe that the drivers of demand in International skills to perform their roles to a high level.
This Power Projects are strong, and will remain so for training is a combination of on-the-job learning and as long as developing countries are growing their specic skill development through training courses.
economies faster than they can invest in new A major component of this training is related to permanent power generation capacity.
Aggrekos Environmental Health and Safety EH&S issues.
ability to offer large amounts of reliable power, More detail of our EH&S policies is given on immediately available and delivered to the point pages 48 and 49. of need, without the requirement for customers to commit large amounts of capital is a compelling The Companys remuneration policy, which is proposition for many customers, and will remain described on pages 57 to 60, is aligned with the so for years to come.
key objectives of growing earnings and delivering strong returns on capital.
To underline this point the Groups long term incentive scheme, and many senior managers annual bonuses, are based on targets set against both earnings per share and returns on capital employed.
22 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Physical assets Financial resources Many rental businesses provide standard products The Group maintains sufficient facilities to meet its to their customers.
The car or hammer-drill you rent normal funding requirements in respect of on-going is the same as the one you can buy.
Aggrekos working capital and capital expenditure over the equipment is different: manufacturers of generators, medium term.
These facilities are primarily in the temperature control equipment and oil-free air form of bank facilities arranged on a bilateral basis compressors generally design their product to be with a number of international banks.
The Group does installed in a location and stay there for its working not consider that the financial covenants contained in life.
For our business, however, this equipment has to the facilities are restrictive to its operations.
be lifted and transported thousands of times during its working life.
It must be able to work in extreme In September 2006, we re-nanced our existing conditions the same generator might be working in debt facilities to raise additional funding for the 30C on an oil rig in Russia one week, and in 45C acquisition of GE Energy Rentals businesses and in the Saudi Arabian desert the next.
The new facilities, amounting to c370 million building equipment that can do this while remaining in total, are in the form of bilateral multi-currency safe, quiet, reliable and compliant with environmental agreements, with maturities of either 3 or 5 years.
and safety regulations is a key skill of Aggreko.
The key financial covenants are unchanged from Unusually for a rental company we design and build the previous arrangements.
The Groups borrowings most of our equipment, and our specialist in-house were 218.2 million at 31 December 2006, and teams based in Dumbarton, Scotland, understand net debt amounted to 205.2 million.
At that date, intimately the requirements of the environment undrawn, committed facilities were 152.9 million.
in which the fleet operates.
Not only do we have industry-leading equipment, we also have a great deal of it 721 million worth at original cost as at 31 December 2006.
Unlike most other rental businesses, we have a policy of keeping equipment for its useful life.
This gives us a powerful incentive to maintain it well, which gives it both longer life and better reliability.
We have a large number of skilled engineers, well-equipped workshops and rigorous servicing regimes to ensure that our equipment is maintained to the highest standards.
Taking well-judged fleet investment decisions is a key part of Aggrekos management task.
All material investments are judged by reference to internal rates of return, and we monitor utilisation daily.
Fleet is frequently moved between countries to optimise utilisation, and our new ERP system gives us the ability to manage our fleet on a real time basis across the world, which, in turn, will enable us to optimise its deployment and returns.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 23 Directors Report continued Principal Risks and Uncertainties generalised downturn in demand, we can quickly In the day to day operations of the Group, we face reduce capital expenditure.
Given the large risks and uncertainties.
Our job is to mitigate and depreciation element in the business cost base manage these risks, and the Board has developed a 72.5 million in 2006, reducing capital expenditure formal risk management process which is described below depreciation makes the business very cash under the heading of Internal Control on page 45 of generative, which in turn will reduce debt and this report.
Set out below are some of the principal interest cost.
risks and uncertainties which we believe could adversely affect us, potentially impacting the Events employees, operations, revenue, profits, cash ows or The business is, by nature, event driven.
People hire assets of the Group.
This list is not exhaustive there generators not because it is a cheap form of electricity, are many things that could go wrong in an operation but because some event or need makes it essential.
as large and geographically diverse as ours and the Aggrekos revenues, cashows and profits can be list might change as something that seems immaterial influenced signicantly by external events as today assumes greater importance tomorrow.
evidenced in 2005 by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in North America or by the contracts to supply power Economic conditions to military camps in the Middle East.
These events There is a link in our business between demand are by nature difficult to predict and, combined with for our services and levels of economic activity: the high operational gearing inherent in our business, this link is particularly evident in the Local business.
can lead to volatility in terms of performance.
By Historically, wherever economies have gone into developing the business globally and increasing and recession, or GDP growth has slowed, our business broadening the Groups revenue base, the impact has suffered, and the operational gearing inherent in of a single event on the overall Group will reduce.
our business models means that variations in demand Additionally the ability to move equipment around can lead to much larger variations in profitability.
the world allows the Group to adjust to changes in Even quite small changes in GDP growth-rates in utilisation caused by any changes in demand.
an economy can affect our business for good or ill.
In an economy which is growing at 3%, our business Political is much busier than in an economy growing at 1%.
The Group operates in over 90 countries around We also have some businesses which by their nature the world, many of them in Africa, Asia and South are exposed to particular sectors for instance our America.
In some jurisdictions there are significant Australian business is highly dependent on mining risks of political instability which can result in activity, and our Middle East business has a large civil unrest, equipment seizure, renegotiation or proportion of its work coming from construction.
nullification of existing agreements, changes in laws, taxation policies or currency restrictions.
We mitigate this risk in a number of ways.
First, Any of these could have a damaging effect on having a global footprint is highly advantageous, the profitability of our operations in a country.
because we can shift rental fleet and new investment away from low-growth economies to higher-growth Prior to undertaking a contract in a new country, we environments: for example, in 2005 and 2006 we carry out a risk assessment process to consider risks to moved fleet from Europe and North America to our people, assets and to payments.
The safety of our the Middle East.
Secondly, we try to ensure that, as employees is always our first concern.
If the level of they grow, our businesses build a customer-base which risk is considered unsatisfactory we will decline to is as diverse as possible, to reduce sectoral exposure: participate in any contract: where there are potential so in the Middle East, for instance, we are investing issues, we develop detailed contingency plans.
Our in our temperature control business which will in greatest exposure lies in our International Power time reduce our exposure to construction: in North Projects business, and they perform risk assessments America we have special initiatives in place to on a contract-by-contract basis.
The Group uses develop our business in the construction and food a wide range of tools and techniques to manage & beverage sectors.
Thirdly, in the event of a more risk, including insurances, bonds, guarantees and cash advances.
24 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Failure to collect payments Acquisitions The majority of the contracts the Group enters into It is part of our strategy to acquire businesses in our are small relative to the size of the Group, and if core market which can add value to Aggreko.
In the a customer fails to pay a debt, this is dealt with in last three years, we have acquired one small business the normal course.
However, some of the contracts the temperature control business of Prime Energy in the Group undertakes in developing countries are the USA, and one large global business GE Energy substantial, and are in jurisdictions where payment Rentals.
We are well aware that buying businesses can practices can be unpredictable.
The Group monitors be risky, and that statistics show that many of them the risk prole and debt-position of all such contracts are value-destructive.
In our view, the greatest areas constantly, and deploys a variety of techniques to of risk are:- mitigate the risks of delayed or non-payment: these include securing advance payments, bonds, letters of Over-paying credit, bank guarantees and various types of insurance.
As a result of the rigorous approach we take to risk Acquiring liabilities we do not know about management, we have not had a material bad debt on a major contract in a developing country in the last Failing to integrate effectively ten years.
However, while the rapid growth in our International Power Projects business makes it less We mitigate these risks by having a rigorous likely that any bad debt would be material to the acquisition process, which is overseen by the Board.
Group, the increased number of contracts and All acquisitions are subject to detailed financial countries we operate in increases the likelihood modelling, using different scenarios, so we can of suffering a loss at some point.
understand the likely returns in various circumstances.
We undertake detailed due diligence, particularly Failure to conduct business dealings with integrity on the operational side, and we look for extensive and honesty warranties and covenants from vendors.
Finally, Some of the countries in which the Group operates we have a well-developed and effective acquisition have a reputation for corruption, and, given that integration model.
In the case of the GE Energy many of our contracts involve large sums of money, Rentals acquisition, the Group set up a dedicated we are at risk of being accused of bribery and other Integration Team that operates under strict programme unethical behaviour.
The first and most important management disciplines.
This team is responsible way of avoiding this risk is to ensure that people, for all aspects of the integration including people, both inside and outside the Group, know that property, rental fleet and data transfer onto the Aggreko does not engage in, and will not tolerate, Groups ERP system.
The Integration Team is also bribery, corruption or unethical behaviour.
We have responsible for the tracking, reporting and delivery of a strict Ethics Policy, a copy of which is available the cost savings and synergies.
By creating a dedicated on our website www.
Rather than just team tasked with the integration of the acquisition, publishing it, we get every employee to sign it when the rest of the management team are not distracted they join the business: every consultant acting on our from the task of running the core business.
Although behalf agrees to abide by it, and every consultancy or we are only a few months into the GE Energy Rentals agency agreement has an explicit term stating that integration process, so far our approach is working well.
the agreement will be terminated immediately if the consultant or agent does not abide by our policy.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 25 Directors Report continued Operational incidents Product technology & emissions regulation The business of the group involves transporting, The majority of Aggrekos fleet is diesel powered, installing and operating large amounts of heavy and some of our equipment is over ten years old.
equipment, which produces lethal voltages or very As part of the increasing focus on environmental high pressure air and involves the use of millions issues, countries are introducing legislation related of litres of fuel which could cause serious damage to to permissible levels of emissions, and this has the the environment.
Every day, we manage the risks potential to affect our business.
Our engines are associated with this business, and we have carefully sourced from major manufacturers who in turn have designed procedures to minimise the risk of an to develop products which conform to legislation, so accident.
However, if these procedures are not we are dependent on them being able to respond to followed, accidents can happen, and might result legislation.
We also have to be aware that when we in injury to people, claims against the Group, buy a generator, we want to be able to be rent it for its and damage to its reputation and its chances useful life, and to be able to move it between countries.
of winning and retaining contracts.
To mitigate these risks, we adopt a number of The Group has a proactive operational culture that strategies.
First, we retain considerable in-house puts health and safety at the top of its agenda in order expertise on engine technology and emissions to reduce the likelihood of an accident.
We work very so we have a good understanding of these issues.
closely with our customers, employees and Health & Secondly, we have very close relationships with Safety authorities, to evaluate and assess major risks to engine manufacturers, so we get good forward ensure that health and safety procedures are rigorously visibility of their product development pipeline.
The Group has developed health and safety And when new products appear particularly those KPIs which are reviewed by the Board on a regular with improved emissions performance we try to basis and are discussed on page 28. introduce them into the fleet as quickly as possible, to ensure that over time our fleet evolves to everCompetition better levels of emissions performance.
An example Aggreko operates in a highly competitive business.
of this is the significant investment we have made in The barriers to entry are low, and in every major the development of our new gas-fuelled technology.
market in which we operate competitors are constantly Thirdly, if emissions-compliance becomes such an entering or leaving the market.
We welcome this issue that it begins to impact our business in a competition, as it keeps us sharp, and also helps material way in some territories, our global footprint to grow the overall rental market, which in many will be a major advantage, as it gives us numerous countries is under-developed.
options for the re-deployment of our fleet.
We monitor competitor activity carefully, but People ultimately our only protection from suffering material Aggreko knows that it is people that make the damage to our business by competitors is to work difference between great performance and mediocre relentlessly to provide our customers with a high performance.
This is true at all levels within the and differentiated service proposition at a price business.
We are also keenly aware of the need for that they believe provides good value.
effective succession planning and management development.
We therefore have put in place a talent management programme, which covers most of the management population.
Under this programme, we try to identify the development needs of each individual, as well as succession candidates for most roles.
This programme is at an early stage, but over the next few years will improve greatly our capability in this area.
26 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Another risk is that competitors seek to recruit our Investor Relations and Market Abuse key personnel.
For many years Aggreko has been a The Groups reputation and or share price could target for recruitment, and we manage this on a daily suffer due to inappropriate or inadequate engagement basis: we actually regard it as a compliment that so with investors including, for example: failure to many companies want to recruit our people.
The communicate consistent, co-ordinated messages: main mitigation for this is to make sure that colleagues failure to provide adequate information on enjoy working for Aggreko, and that they feel that performance and events in the business.
Since they are recognised, cared for, and have challenging inevitably management is in possession of marketand interesting jobs.
Reward is also an important part sensitive information from time to time, the business of the equation, and there can be little doubt that our is at risk from market abuse and insider dealing.
policy of rewarding people well for good performance, and of having a successful Long-Term Incentive Plan, Our approach to this is to recognise that investors has acted as a powerful retention tool.
Of the 100 have legitimate interests in the Groups business, people who have participated in the plan in the last and that shareholder value will be enhanced by timely, three years, only 2 have left voluntarily.
clear, open, honest and transparent communication with markets and investors.
Accordingly, the Group Information Technology Chief Executive and Finance Director co-ordinate Our business involves high transaction volumes, all communications with markets and investors, complex logistics, and the need to track thousands of and controls are in place to make sure that all Group assets on hundreds of sites.
We are therefore heavily communication corporate, regional and local dependent on the resilience of both the application is consistent and co-ordinated.
The Group also software we use an ERP system called Movex and applies very clear rules to prevent market abuse of the data-processing and network infrastructure.
A serious failure in this area would immediately and materially affect our business.
Accounting failure Major fraud There is a risk that fraud or accounting discrepancies The Group has a detailed disaster recovery plan in may occur if the financial and operational control place which is tested on a regular basis.
Our main data framework is inadequate.
This may distort the reported centre in Glasgow has high levels of resilience built results.
In order to mitigate this risk, significant work into it, and we also have a physically separate thirdhas been undertaken to put in place a robust control party disaster-recovery site.
We are also in the process framework.
Additionally a strong Internal Audit of building a second data centre in the Middle East function reviews the operation of this control which will allow the Group to continue processing framework and reports regularly to the Audit data in the event of a major incident.
The risk is also mitigated by recruiting and developing a strong finance function which is focused on ensuring the accuracy and integrity of the reported results.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 27 Directors Report continued Treasury risks The main KPI we use to measure safety performance The Groups asset values, earnings and cash ows are is the internationally recognised Frequency Accident influenced by a wide variety of currencies due to the Rating FAR which is calculated as the number of geographic diversity of the Groups customers and lost time accidents multiplied by 200,000 being the areas of operation.
The majority of the Groups base for 100 employees working 40 hours per week, revenue and costs are denominated in US dollars.
50 weeks per year divided by the total hours worked.
The relative value of currencies can uctuate widely A lost time accident is a work related injury illness and could have a material and adverse impact on that results in an employees inability to work the day the Groups asset values, costs, earnings and cash after the initial injury illness.
Further discussion of this topic can be found on page 38.
The Groups performance during 2006 has shown an improvement over the previous year and is much Key Performance Indicators better than the benchmark statistic reported for US The Group uses a large number of performance rental and leasing industries by the US Department indicators to measure operational and financial of Labor which was 1.5 in 2005.
Further discussion activity in the business.
Most of these are studied of Health & Safety matters can be found in this on a daily, weekly or monthly basis.
A well-developed report in the Risks and Uncertainties section management accounts pack, with profit and loss page 26 and under Corporate Social Responsibility statements and key ratios related to capital productivity pages 48 and 49.
FAR was as follows: is prepared for each profit centre monthly.
Year ended 31 December 2006 2005 There are five Key Performance Indicators KPIs FAR 0.75 0.98 which we use as measures of the longer-term health of the business.
They are: Returns on average capital employed Safety In a business as capital-intensive as Aggrekos, profitability alone is a poor measure of performance: it Returns on average capital employed is perfectly possible to be generating good margins, but poor value for shareholders, if assets and in particular, Earnings per share fleet are being allocated incorrectly.
We believe that by focusing on return on average capital employed Customer Loyalty ROCE, we measure both margin performance and capital productivity, and we make sure that unit Staff turnover managers are tending their balance sheets as well as their profit and loss accounts.
We calculate ROCE by Safety dividing operating profit for a period by the average of Our business involves the frequent movement of the net operating assets as at 1 January, 30 June and heavy equipment, which in its operation produces 31 December.
ROCE was as follows: lethal voltages and contains thousands of litres of fuel.
Year ended 31 December Rigorous safety processes are absolutely essential if we 2006 2005 are to avoid accidents which would cause injury to % % people, property and our reputation.
Safety processes ROCE 22.1 18.6 are also a basic benchmark of operational discipline, and there is in our view a close correlation between a well-run business and a safe business.
In our experience, businesses with poor safety records nearly always have other management or operational deficiencies.
28 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Earnings per share These questionnaires generate enormous amounts Measuring the creation or destruction of shareholder of data about how customers view our processes and value is a complex and much-debated topic.
We performance, and in order to distil this down into believe that EPS, while not perfect, is an accessible a single usable indicator, we track a ratio called the measure of the returns we are generating as a Group Net Promoter Score NPS.
Broadly speaking, it for our shareholders, and also has the merit of being measures the relative weight of people who think auditable and well understood.
So, for the Group we do an excellent job against those who think as a whole, the key measure of short-term financial we are average or worse.
performance is diluted earnings per share preexceptional items Adjusted EPS.
Adjusted EPS In aggregate, our NPS in 2006 was 5.0.
Within is calculated based on profit attributable to equity this score, our North American business scores the shareholders adjusted to exclude exceptional items highest, and at levels comparable to or better than divided by the diluted weighted average number of many of the best performers across all industries in the ordinary shares ranking for dividend during the United States.
Our European scores, while respectable, relevant period.
Adjusted EPS was as follows: show that there is room for improvement, and in 2007 we will be monitoring progress on a monthly basis.
Year ended 31 December 2006 2005 Staff turnover pence pence In a service business like Aggreko, it is the attitude, Adjusted EPS 19.87 13.72 skill and motivation of our staff which makes the difference between mediocre and excellent performance, Customer loyalty and staff retention is a reasonable proxy for how The Group deals every year with thousands of employees feel about our company.
We monitor customers, and we have developed a process by which staff turnover which is measured as the number of we can objectively measure the performance of our employees who left the Group other than through business units, not only in financial terms, but also redundancy during the period as a proportion of the extent to which they are making customers feel the total average employees during the period.
inclined to return to us the next time they need Staff turnover was as follows: the services we provide.
We believe that real-time measurement of our performance as seen by our Year ended 31 December 2006 2005 customers gives us visibility of operational issues % % which might otherwise take months to emerge Staff turnover 14.9 15.2 through the profit and loss account.
Accordingly, in 2005 we started to roll out the Satmetrix system, whereby we send customers an email immediately after a contract closes asking them to ll out a detailed questionnaire of how they thought we performed.
This data is then collated to conform to the same management structure as our profit and loss accounts, so that in monthly management accounts we see not only a teams financial performance, but also their operational performance as measured by how well their customers think they have done for the same period.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 29 Directors Report continued Review of Trading Group profit before tax increased by 47.5% to Group trading performance 83.1 million 2005: 56.4 million : profit after tax Aggreko has made excellent progress on many fronts was 53.2 million 2005: 36.7 million, up 45.2%.
Trading profits reached record levels, and Earnings per share grew 45.2% to 20.05 pence returns on capital grew strongly.
We grew revenues in 2005: 13.81 pence.
all our major markets, and at a rate which we believe in aggregate to have been faster than the market: in The impact of currency movements mainly the US the year, we did business in more than 90 countries.
dollar exchange rate has been to decrease revenue We have developed our core product range, and won by 3.8 million and trading profit by 0.6 million.
The a major contract for our new gas-fuelled temporary Group has contracts with two customers Sri Lanka power solution.
and Uganda to whom it supplies large amounts of fuel on a pass-through basis: as these revenues are In December 2006, we achieved a long-held ambition highly variable, and dependent on consumption and of acquiring one of our largest competitors, GE Energy the prevailing fuel price, we normally exclude these Rentals.
Although this transaction came too late in revenues when measuring the operating performance the year to have a material impact on performance in of the business.
In 2006 pass-through fuel revenues 2006, we believe that the people, customers and rental amounted to 43.4 million 2005: 22.8 million assets acquired will help sustain the future growth and generated a trading profit of 1.6 million of Aggreko.
An exceptional charge of 9.2 million 2005: 0.5 million.
On an underlying basis, before tax, 7.0 million after tax, was recorded excluding the impact of the currency movements in respect of the GE Energy Rentals acquisition.
and the pass-through fuel, Group revenue grew by 27.1% as reported: 29.5% and trading profit by 45.6% The results preand postthis charge are set out as reported: 45.5%.
On the same basis trading margin in the table below, but the commentary relates was 17.1% as reported: 16.0% which compares with to the results before these exceptional charges 15.0% in 2005 as reported: 14.3%.
There were no exceptional items in 2005.
The Groups growth was made possible by sharply increased investment in new fleet during the year.
As reported, Group revenue at 540.7 million 2005: Total capital expenditure for the year was 128.0 417.7 million was 29.5% higher than 2005, while million, 47.8 million up on the prior year, at which Group trading profit of 86.7 million 2005: 59.6 level it represented 176% of the depreciation charge.
This resulted in 114.1 million 2005: 73.7 million was investment an increase in Group trading margin from 14.3% in in new fleet.
In addition, we acquired 33.1 million 2005 to 16.0% in 2006.
Return on capital employed, of property, plant and equipment as part of the GE measured as operating profit divided by average net Energy Rentals acquisition.
Notwithstanding this operating assets, improved to 22.1% 2005: 18.6%.
substantial increase in fleet capacity, the ratio of revenue excluding pass-through fuel : gross rental assets, which is a key measure of capital efficiency, increased by 6 percentage points to 72.0%.
2006 post- 2006 preMovement exceptional items exceptional items 2005 pre-exceptional items As reported Const currency million million million % % Revenue 540.7 540.7 417.7 29.5% 30.7% Revenue excl pass-through fuel 497.3 497.3 394.9 25.9% 27.1% 1 Trading profit 77.5 86.7 59.6 45.5% 47.1% Operating profit 80.3 89.5 60.7 47.6% 49.2% Net interest expense 6.4 6.4 4.3 49.4% profit before tax 73.9 83.1 56.4 47.5% Taxation 27.7 29.9 19.7 51.7% profit after tax 46.2 53.2 36.7 45.2% Basic earnings per share pence 17.41 20.05 13.81 45.2% 1 Trading profit represents operating profit before gain on sale of property, plant and equipment.
30 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 EBITDA earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation consideration, up to a maximum of $29.4 million, and amortisation for the year amounted to 162.8 will be payable during 2007 dependent on GE million pre-exceptional items, up 31.3% on 2005. delivering further fleet assets to Aggreko.
The Group had a net cash outow of 102.3 million 2005: 20.8 million mainly as a consequence of the The integration of the acquired businesses is going GE Energy Rentals acquisition and the high level of well and we have secured many of the cost savings capital expenditure.
It is encouraging to note that faster than we expected: by way of example, we the measures we track related to working capital completed the planned 25 property exits out of efficiency principally revenue : debtors and revenue : 33 properties occupied at the time of the acquisition inventories improved in the year, notwithstanding by mid-February.
Agreements we reached with GE the very considerable increase in transaction volumes.
concerning the re-deployment of people and a number of other mitigating actions have also In September, we re-nanced our existing debt signicantly reduced the exceptional costs related facilities to raise additional funding for the acquisition to the acquisition: as a consequence, we are taking of GE Energy Rentals business.
The new facilities, an exceptional charge of 9.2 million in 2006, amounting to c370 million in total, are in the form 7.0 million after tax, against 16 million pre-tax of bilateral multi-currency agreements, with maturities estimated at the time of the announcement of the of either 3 or 5 years.
The key financial covenants are acquisition in September 2006.
Our ability to achieve unchanged from the previous arrangements.
planned levels of utilisation from the GE Energy Rentals fleet in the short term will be dependent The acquisition of GE Energy Rentals upon demand during the summer season, but the On 4 December 2006, Aggreko completed the good progress we have made on the integration leads acquisition of substantially all the activities other us to believe that the businesses and assets we have than those relating to large gas turbines of GE acquired will contribute to profits in 2007, rather Energy Rentals for an initial consideration including than being earnings neutral as originally expected.
transaction fees of US$192.1 million.
Deferred Regional trading performance Revenue Trading profit 2006 2005 Change 2006 2005 Change Management Group Geography Line of business million million % million million % Local Business North America USA & Canada 159.0 141.7 12.2% 33.8 26.5 27.5% Europe Northern Europe 70.2 58.7 19.7% 5.6 4.5 24.9% Europe Continental Europe 65.5 55.9 17.1% 5.3 0.9 465.5% Aggreko International: Middle East, Local Businesses Asia-Pacic, South America 77.6 52.0 49.1% 15.7 9.5 67.0% Sub-total Local Business 372.3 308.3 20.8% 60.4 41.4 46.0% International Power Projects International International Power Projects excl pass-through fuel 125.0 86.6 44.3% 24.7 17.7 39.4% International Pass-through fuel 43.4 22.8 1.6 0.5 Sub-total International Power Projects 168.4 109.4 54.0% 26.3 18.2 44.4% Group 540.7 417.7 29.5% 86.7 59.6 45.5% Group North America 159.0 141.7 12.2% 33.8 26.5 27.5% Europe 135.7 114.6 18.4% 10.9 5.4 100.1% International 246.0 161.4 52.4% 42.0 27.7 52.2% Group 540.7 417.7 29.5% 86.7 59.6 45.5% Group excluding pass-through fuel 497.3 394.9 25.9% 85.1 59.1 44.0% Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 31 Directors Report continued The performance of each of these regions is described We are carefully monitoring economic conditions in below: North America, as we are getting mixed signals from the various economic indicators we follow.
On an Local business: North America underlying basis, the business is still growing, albeit at a slower rate than in 2006.
While the business is 2006 2005 highly seasonal, and makes a high proportion of its $million $million Change % profits in the summer months, at this stage we believe Revenue 293.1 257.6 13.8% that we will make progress during 2007.
Trading profit 62.3 48.2 29.2% Local business: Europe Our Local business in North America had an excellent year with revenue increasing 13.8% to Revenue $293.1 million and trading profit increasing by 29.2% 2006 2005 million million Change % to $62.3 million.
Trading margin increased by 2.6 percentage points to 21.3%.
On an underlying basis, Northern Europe 102.9 85.8 20.0% the performance was even better: in 2006 no major Continental Europe 96.1 81.8 17.4% hurricanes made landfall in the United States, and Total Europe 199.0 167.6 18.7% storm-related revenues amounted to $8 million, compared with 2005 when $32 million of revenues Trading profit and $16 million of trading profit came from 2006 2005 million million Change % emergency and reconstruction work following Hurricanes Katrina and Rita.
Excluding the impact Northern Europe 8.3 6.6 25.2% from the storms, North American revenues in 2006 Continental Europe 7.7 1.4 467.1% grew by 26.6% and trading profit by 81.9%.
This Total Europe 16.0 8.0 100.6% growth has been the result of our investment in new fleet and the continued productivity improvements For the past three years, Europe has been the poorestdelivered by our new area structure.
Encouragingly, performing of our regions.
A combination of a difficult revenue growth was broadly based, covering multiple restructuring programme in 2004 and 2005, poor sectors and geographies.
economic growth resulting in subdued demand, as well as erce competition have served to hold the business In terms of business mix, rental revenue grew 18.9% back.
However, we feel that 2006 has seen a turning and services revenue grew 3.3%.
The slower growth in point in the European business.
A combination of services revenues which comprise services ancillary reductions in the overhead cost base, combined with to the rental such as fuel, transport and engineering strong revenue growth, led to a sharp improvement reects the lack of storm-related work, which typically in performance: revenue grew by 18.7% and trading generates large amounts of services revenue.
Power profit doubled to 16.0 million.
Trading margin rental revenue for 2006 was 32.7% ahead of prior year.
This Temperature control and oil-free air rental revenue performance is attered by the impact of the 2.4 grew during 2006 by 11.2% and 5.0% respectively.
million one-off restructuring charge taken in 2005 in Continental Europe: on an underlying basis trading The main challenge facing the North American profit increased by 104.9% in Continental Europe business in 2007 is putting to work the 45% increase and by 54.1% for the region as a whole.
in generating capacity now available for rent as a consequence of the GE Energy Rentals acquisition.
Considerable effort is being devoted to getting the equipment re-branded and serviced in time for the summer season.
32 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Revenue in Northern Europe which comprises our Local business: Aggreko International businesses in the UK, Ireland and the Nordic countries 2006 2005 was 20.0% ahead of the prior year at 102.9 million $million $million Change % with trading profit of 8.3 million being 25.2% ahead Revenue 143.0 94.6 51.2% of 2005.
Rental revenue increased by 11.9%, with Trading profit 29.0 17.1 69.4% power and temperature control revenue increasing by 12.7% and 10.0% respectively.
Revenue from Aggreko Internationals Local businesses in the our smallest product, oil-free air, increased by 7.3%.
Middle East, Asia, Australia, New Zealand and Services revenue, which mainly comprises fuel and South America all performed extremely well in transport, grew by 35.5%.
2006, supported by high levels of fleet investment.
In aggregate, year on year revenue grew by 51.2% Revenue in Continental Europe was 17.4% ahead to $143.0 million, which resulted in trading profit of 2005 at 96.1 million with trading profit of growth of 69.4% to $29.0 million and a trading 7.7 million being 6.3 million ahead of last year, margin of 20.3% as against 18.1% in 2005. resulting in an improvement in trading margin from 1.7% in 2005 to 8.0% in 2006.
Rental revenue grew Our Local business in the Middle East operates from by 10.4%, while services revenue grew by 32.2%.
9 depots across the region, including a large new Within rental revenue, power increased by 14.1%, facility opened in 2006 in Jebel Ali which will enable temperature control increased by 9.3% and oil-free us to offer improved service to our customers in the air decreased by 19.0%.
Across the Middle East as a whole, activity levels are high and are supported by During 2006 we completed the roll-out of the ERP a large number of infrastructure projects.
Although system in the UK, a process that went smoothly power is by far the strongest product in the Middle despite the very high transactional volumes in this East, we are now starting to make encouraging business.
The focus across the European business progress in temperature control, which should, in is now on driving operational improvements and time, provide opportunities to widen the businesss efficiency in order to grow revenues and margins.
customer base and provide additional opportunities for growth.
Returns and margins in Europe are yet to reach satisfactory levels but the momentum is in the right Our Australian business had an outstanding year direction, and the business is beginning to show the with both power and temperature control revenues benets of the enormous changes which have been benefiting from a strong economy and a buoyant implemented over the last three years.
An encouraging performance from our business will also have access to the fleet and customer New Zealand business, as well as high levels of utility base of GE Energy Rentals, which should provide work also contributed to a strong year.
In Asia, we additional opportunities for growth.
Overall, we continued to experience strong growth in Singapore expect to see further progress from this region in where shipping and shipyard activity continued at the year ahead.
We opened a new depot in Hong Kong during the first quarter of 2006, and a new depot in Shanghai in January 2007: both these operations have been established to help us to explore opportunities for Aggreko in China.
Our Local business in Brazil continued to grow strongly as it builds its business with major oil-eld operators.
Three years after the establishment of our service centre in Macae, north of Rio fide Janeiro, the business is growing strongly and producing good returns on capital: we also established in the year a new service centre in Manaus.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 33 Directors Report continued The acquisition of GE Energy Rentals has Our African business delivered impressive growth.
strengthened Aggreko Internationals Local businesses Much of this growth was focused on supporting signicantly.
In South America, the addition of four utilities in East Africa, where severe droughts have new depots in Brazil and Chile has transformed our reduced output from hydro-power plants.
Aggreko position in the region: it will give the business better has been able to help the authorities to mitigate the reach and provide a platform for growth, as well as impact of severe power shortfalls in Kenya, Uganda, being a shop window for our power projects business.
The business ran power projects In the Middle East and Asia, the additional fleet is in a further 17 countries in Africa, underlining the being re-branded and has increased our capacity.
very considerable presence we have established in In Australia, the gas-fuelled fleet acquired from the continent.
Of great signicance for the Groups GE Energy Rentals will enable us to develop this strategy of developing solutions based on gas, was important market segment.
the award of a two-year contract to supply 40 MW in Tanzania.
This plant was generating power within Given the favourable market conditions across Aggreko 12 weeks of contract signature, which underlines Internationals Local businesses, and the opportunities the exibility and operational excellence of our provided by the acquisition of GE Energy Rentals, we gas solution.
expect to make continued progress in this segment in 2007.
Demand was also strong in the Middle East: military revenues grew to $59.6 million 2005: $47.3 million, International Power Projects: Aggreko International and utility revenues were boosted by two 50MW contracts in the Yemen.
Our Asian projects business 2006 2005 also performed well with contracts in Malaysia, $million $million Change % Indonesia and South Korea most of these were Revenue excluding related to oil and gas projects.
Our South American pass-through fuel 230.5 157.5 46.3% business continued to develop during the year with Trading profit excluding on-going contracts in Brazil and Venezuela and our pass-through fuel 45.6 32.3 41.4% first contract for the mining industry in Chile.
Building on the progress made in 2005, the Our International Power Projects business performed International Power Projects business had an extremely well in 2006 and its ability to manage rapid outstanding year, with revenues and profits growth while maintaining excellent customer service, excluding pass-through fuel increasing by 46.3% sometimes in very demanding conditions, is testament and 41.4% respectively.
Trading margin declined to the strength of the Aggreko International team.
Given the high level of utilisation at the end of 2006, and the strong pipeline of new opportunities, Revenue growth was driven in part by new contracts, we expect the business to continue to make good of which we signed 37 in the year, and in part by the progress in 2007. very high proportion of customers extending existing projects, which is a tribute to the quality of service delivered by our operations teams in the power projects business.
Revenues grew in nearly all areas, including the Middle East, Africa, Asia and South America.
In 2006 we carried out power projects in a total of 48 countries, and increased the number of operational projects by 20%.
34 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Detailed Financial Review the Company made an additional contribution of Critical Accounting Policies 3.5 million in 2006 and plans to make additional The Groups significant accounting policies are contributions of 4.0 million in 2007, 4.0 million set out in Note 1 to the financial statements.
in 2008 and 0.5 million per annum until December 2015.
Employee contributions will increase to 6% Preparation of the consolidated financial statements from 1 January 2007. requires Directors to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts in the consolidated The main assumptions used in IAS 19 valuation for financial statements and accompanying notes.
the previous two years are shown in note 28 of the Actual outcomes could differ from those estimated.
The sensitivities regarding the discount rate and longevity assumptions are shown in the The Directors believe that the accounting policies table below.
discussed below represent those accounting policies that require the greatest exercise of judgement.
Assumptions The Directors have used their best judgement in Change Indicative effect on the in assumption schemes liabilities determining the estimates and assumptions used in these areas but a different set of judgements could Discount rate Increase Decrease decrease by 13.6% result in material changes to our reported results.
by 0.5pp increase by 16.0% The discussion below should be read in conjunction with the full statement of accounting policies, Longevity Increase by Increase by set out in Note 1 to the Financial Statements.
1 year 2.7% Pensions Taxation Pension arrangements for our employees vary Aggrekos tax charge is based on the profit for the depending on best practice and regulation in each year and tax rates in force at the balance sheet date.
The Group operates a defined benefit Estimation of the tax charge requires an assessment scheme for UK employees, which was closed to new to be made of the potential tax treatment of certain employees joining the Group after 1 April 2002: items which will only be resolved once finally agreed most of the other schemes in operation around the with the relevant tax authorities.
world are varieties of defined contribution schemes.
Property, plant and equipment Under IAS 19: Employee Benefits Aggreko has Rental fleet accounts for 88% 312 million of recognised a pre tax pension deficit of 13.1 million the net asset value of property, plant and equipment at 31 December 2006 2005: 16.8 million.
The used in our business: equipment in the rental fleet is decrease in the pension deficit is mainly as a result of typically depreciated over a period between 8 and 10 additional contributions made by the Company during years.
The annual depreciation charge is sensitive to the year.
Following the completion of the actuarial the estimated service lives allocated to each class of valuation at 31 December 2005, the Company and asset.
Asset lives are reviewed regularly and changed trustees agreed upon a Schedule of Contributions if necessary to reflect current thinking on their and a Recovery Plan.
During 2006 the Company remaining lives in light of technological change, contributions for benefits building up in the future prospective economic utilisation and the physical were increased to 31.5% of pensionable earnings condition of the assets.
and from 1 January 2007 the Company contributions will be 25.4% of pensionable earnings.
From 1 January 2007 future benefits will be accrued on a Career Average basis hence the change to the required contribution rate.
To address the Scheme deficit Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 35 Directors Report continued Intangible assets Exceptional items In accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations The definition of exceptional items is contained goodwill arising on acquisition of assets and subsidiaries within Note 1 to the consolidated financial is capitalised and included in intangible assets.
An exceptional charge of 9.2 million also requires the identification of other acquired before tax, 7.0 million after tax, was recorded intangible assets.
The techniques used to value these in respect of the GE Energy Rentals acquisition intangible assets are in line with recognised models comprising integration costs, redundancy and but do require the use of estimates which may differ related costs, property and other costs.
Future results are impacted by the amortisation period adopted for these items Interest and, potentially, by any differences between estimated The net interest charge for the year was 6.4 million, and actual circumstances related to individual an increase of 2.1 million on 2005, reflecting the intangible assets.
higher level of net debt during the year.
Interest cover decreased to 13.9 times pre-exceptional items from Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for 14.1 times in 2005. impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
The impairment review calculations Effective Tax Rate require the use of estimates related to the future The effective tax rate for the full year is 36.0% as profitability and cash generating ability of the compared with 35.0% in 2005.
This increase in the acquired assets.
tax rate largely reflects the changes in the regional mix of profits.
Currency Translation The net overall impact of exchange rates on currency Dividends translation in 2006 was to decrease revenue and If the proposed final dividend of 4.19 pence is operating profit by 3.8 million and 0.6 million agreed by shareholders, it would result in a full-year respectively.
Currency translation also gave rise to a dividend of 6.72 pence per ordinary share, giving 20.5 million decrease in reserves as a result of year dividend cover pre-exceptional items of 2.98 times on year movements in the exchange rates.
table below are the principal exchange rates affecting the Groups overseas profits and net assets.
Cashflow The net cash inflow from operations during the year Per sterling totalled 160.2 million 2005: 101.9 million.
This 2006 2005 funded capital expenditure of 128.0 million, which Average Year End Average Year End was 47.8 million higher than in 2005.
Net debt Principal Exchange Rates increased by 102.3 million during the year to 205.2 United States dollar 1.84 1.96 1.82 1.72 million mainly as a result of the GE Energy Rentals Euro 1.47 1.49 1.46 1.46 acquisition and increased capital investment.
As a Other Operational Exchange Rates result of the increase in net debt, gearing net debt UAE Dirhams 6.77 7.20 6.68 6.32 as a percentage of equity at 31 December 2006 Australian dollar 2.45 2.49 2.39 2.35 increased to 91% from 49% at 31 December 2005.
Source: Reuters 36 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Net Operating Assets Shareholders Equity The net operating assets of the Group including Shareholders equity increased by 18.0 million to goodwill at 31 December 2006 totalled 470.0 226.2 million, represented by the net assets of the million, up 113.5 million on 2005: 95.1 million of Group of 431.4 million before net debt of 205.2 this increase was accounted for by the acquisition of million.
The movements in shareholders funds are assets from GE Energy Rentals.
The main components analysed below: of Net Operating Assets are: Movements in Shareholders Equity million million million 2006 2005 Movement As at 1 January 2006 208.2 Rental Fleet 312.1 259.7 20.2% Property, Plant 41.7 35.2 18.5% profit for the financial year 46.2 1 Dividend 16.7 Inventory 41.5 35.7 16.2% Net Trade Debtors 95.6 87.5 9.3% Retained earnings 29.5 New share capital subscribed 0.5 Purchase of own shares held A key measure of Aggrekos performance is the return under trust 2.6 expressed as operating profit generated from average Credit in respect of employee net operating assets ROCE.
We calculate the share awards 4.1 average net operating assets for a period by taking the Actuarial gains on retirement benets 1.5 average of the net operating assets as at 1 January, 30 Currency translation difference 20.5 June and 31 December: this is the basis on which we 2 Other 5.5 report our calculations of Return on Capital Employed As at 31 December 2006 226.2 ROCE.
The average net operating assets in 2006 were 403.2 million, up 24.0% on 2005.
In 2006 1 Reects the final dividend for 2005 of 3.77 pence per share the ROCE increased to 22.1% compared with 18.6% 2005: 3.57 pence and the interim dividend for 2006 of in 2005.
A geographic analysis of our returns on net 2.53 pence per share 2005: 2.34 pence that were paid operating assets is set out in the table below: during the year.
2 Other includes tax on items taken directly to reserves and 2006 2005 movements in the hedging reserve.
Europe 9.7% 5.4% International 25.1% 21.7% The 53.2 million of pre-exceptional post-tax profit in North America 30.3% 29.9% the year represents a return of 23.5% on shareholders Group 22.1% 18.6% equity.
The post-tax and post-exceptional items return was 20.4%.
Acquisition of GE Energy Rentals On 4 December 2006 the Group acquired the entire share capital of GE Energy Rentals Inc and the entire share capital of GE Energy do Brasil Ltda as well as substantially all the other trade and assets of GE Energy Rentals excluding those relating to gas turbines.
The maximum consideration payable is 112.0 million and the fair value of net assets acquired is 65.3 million resulting in goodwill of 46.7 million.
The initial purchase consideration for this acquisition including transaction fees was $192.1 million, or 97.1 million at an exchange rate of $1.98 with a further payment of up to $29.4 million 14.9 million dependent on the delivery by GE of additional fleet assets during 2007.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 37 Directors Report continued Treasury Interest rate risk The Groups operations expose it to a variety of The Groups policy is to minimise the exposure to financial risks that include liquidity, the effects of interest rates by ensuring an appropriate balance of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and xed and oating rates.
The Groups primary funding interest rates, and credit risk.
The Group has a is at oating rates through its bank facilities.
In order centralised treasury operation whose primary role is to manage the associated interest rate risk, the Group to ensure that adequate liquidity is available to meet uses interest rate swaps to vary the mix of xed and the Groups funding requirements as they arise, and oating rates.
At 31 December 2006 121.0 million that financial risk arising from the Groups underlying of the net debt of 205.2 million was at xed rates operations is effectively identied and managed.
of interest resulting in a xed to oating rate net debt ratio of 59:41.
The treasury operations are conducted in accordance with policies and procedures approved by the Board Foreign exchange risk and are reviewed annually.
Financial instruments The Group is subject to currency exposure on are only executed for the purpose of hedging known the translation of its net investments in overseas exposures, and transactions that are speculative in subsidiaries into sterling.
In order to reduce the nature are expressly forbidden.
Monthly reports on currency risk arising, the Group uses direct borrowings treasury operations are provided to senior management in the same currency as those investments.
Group and treasury operations are subject to periodic internal borrowings are currently drawn down in the principal and external review.
currencies used by the Group, namely US Dollar, Euro and Sterling.
Liquidity and funding The Group maintains sufficient facilities to meet its The Group manages its currency ows to minimise normal funding requirements over the medium term.
foreign exchange risk arising on transactions These facilities are primarily in the form of bank denominated in foreign currencies and uses forward facilities arranged on a bilateral basis with a number of contracts where appropriate in order to hedge net international banks.
The financial covenants attached currency ows.
to these facilities are that operating profit should be no less than 3x interest, and net debt should be no Counterparty and credit risk more than 3x EBITDA.
Cash deposits and other financial instruments give rise to credit risk on amounts due from counterparties.
The Group does not consider that these covenants are The Group manages this risk by limiting the aggregate restrictive to its operations.
The Groups borrowings amounts and their duration depending on external were 218.2 million at 31 December 2006 and net credit ratings of the relevant counterparty.
In the case debt amounted to 205.2 million.
At that date of financial assets exposed to credit risk, the carrying un-drawn committed facilities were 152.9 million.
amount in the balance sheet, net of any applicable provision for loss, represents the amount exposed Financial Instruments to credit risk.
The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Company are described in note 1 of the financial statements on page 78.
38 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Management of trade debtors Other Matters The management of trade debtors is the responsibility Share Capital of the operating units, although they report monthly Details of the changes in issued share capital during to Group on debtor days, debtor ageing and significant the year are shown in Note 23 to the accounts.
Many of the International Power Projects contracts require sophisticated risk Going Concern management, and the Group deploys a number of The Directors, having made all the relevant enquiries, tools to manage its risk, including advanced payments, consider that the Group and the Company have letters of credit, bank guarantees, bonds, and adequate resources at their disposal to continue their insurances.
On large contracts, all such arrangements operations for the foreseeable future, and that it is are approved at Group level.
therefore appropriate to prepare the accounts on a going concern basis.
Insurance The Group operates a policy of buying cover where Directors possible for material risks from the global insurance The Directors of the Company and their biographical market, while self-insuring risks which would not details are set out on pages 12 and 13. have a material impact on the Group as a whole.
The Group monitors its insurance arrangements in Mr R C Soames and Mr G P Walker retire by rotation such a way to ensure the quality and extent of cover.
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Auditors Mr A C Salvesen is subject to annual re-election During the year, the Company carried out a and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
competitive tender in relation to the provision of In proposing their re-election, the Chairman confirms external audit services.
Following the outcome of that the Nomination Committee has considered the this exercise the Board, on the recommendation contribution and commitment of the Directors that of the Audit Committee, will propose a resolution are required to offer themselves for re-election and re-appointing  LLP as the has confirmed to the Board that their performance Companys auditors at the next Annual General continued to be effective and, therefore, the Company Meeting.
Shareholder information All of the Directors have service agreements or Our website can be accessed at www.
letters of appointment and the details of their terms This contains a large amount of information about our are set out in the Remuneration Report on page 61. business, including a range of charts and data, which No other contract with the Company, or any subsidiary can be down loaded for easy analysis.
The website also undertaking of the Company, in which any Director carries copies of recent investor presentations, as well was materially interested subsisted during or at the as Stock Exchange announcements.
end of the financial year.
A statement of the Directors interests in the share capital of the Company as at the end of the financial year is given on pages 65 and 66.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 39 Directors Report continued Disclosure of information to the Companys Auditor Employees The Directors who held ofce at the date of approval The Group continues to operate team briengs of this Directors report confirm that, so far as they throughout its business to keep employees informed of are each aware, there is no relevant audit information developments and plans, both in their own operations of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and and in the Group as a whole.
Employees have access each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to the Aggreko Resource Centre, an Intranet based to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of system, which provides them with a wide range of any relevant audit information and to establish that information on the activities of the Group around the the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
The annual and interim results are publicised extensively throughout the business and are made Indemnity of Ofcers available to all employees.
Under Article 145 of the Companys Articles of Association, the Company may indemnify any The Groups policies for recruitment, training, career Director or other officer against any liability, subject development and promotion of employees are based to the provisions of the Companies Acts, and the on the suitability of the individual and give those who Articles do grant an indemnity to the Directors are disabled equal treatment with the able bodied.
against any liability for the costs of legal proceedings Where appropriate, employees disabled after joining where judgement is given in their favour.
the Group are given suitable training for alternative employment with the Group or elsewhere.
Under the authority conferred by Article 145, the Company has entered into deeds of indemnity Supplier Payment Policy with each of its Directors.
The indemnities do not It is the Groups policy to settle the terms and apply to any claim which arises out of fraud, default, conditions of payment with suppliers when agreeing negligence or breach of duciary duty or trust each transaction, to ensure that suppliers are made by the indemnified person.
aware of these terms and, in practice, provided the supplier meets its contractual obligations, to abide by In addition the Company may purchase and maintain them.
In overall terms, the Group had approximately for any Director or other officer or auditor, insurance 61 days credit outstanding as at the balance sheet date.
against any liability, and the Company does maintain appropriate insurance cover against legal action Annual General Meeting brought against its Directors and ofcers and the The Companys Annual General Meeting will be directors and ofcers of its subsidiaries.
No indemnity held on Wednesday 25 April 2007 at the Hilton has been given to the Auditors nor is any insurance Hotel, 1 William Street, Glasgow and the notice cover maintained on their behalf.
It is intended to of this meeting is set out on pages 114 to 117. remove the power to indemnify the Auditor under the proposed changes to the Articles of Association see Changes to the Articles page 41.
Donations During the financial year the Group contributed 109,855 2005: 37,846 in terms of cash, employees time and other services to a range of charitable, community and disaster relief organisations.
Of this total 53,412 2005: 10,679 was donated to registered UK charities.
No political donations were made during the financial year 2005: Nil.
40 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Annual General Meeting Special Business 2. amend the powers of the Company to grant Sharesave Plans indemnities to directors, in line with recent Resolutions 8, 9, 10 and 11 propose that new rules for changes to the Companies Act, and remove the Sharesave Plans are adopted.
The original rules for the power to indemnify the Companys auditors the International and UK Sharesave plans were put this is in line with market practice: in place in 1997 and subsequently special tax-efficient 3. make some consequential provisions to update rules were implemented for the USA and Ireland.
the articles for recent changes to company The proposed new rules do not make any significant law and practice e. g. as regards voting if the changes to the existing rules.
However, as no new Company decided to buy back shares and hold Sharesave Options may be granted under the existing them in Treasury.
rules after 27 September 2007, it is necessary to replace them.
A more detailed summary of the changes is contained in Part 2 of the Appendix to the Notice of the Sharesave Plans are normally offered annually to all Appendix to the Annual General Meeting and employees and Executive Directors who have at least a copy of the Articles, showing the changes being six months service.
Currently more than a third of made to the Articles, will be on display at the employees with over six months service participate Registered Ofce of the Company and at the ofces in the plans and the Board believes that these plans of Dickson Minto WS, 22 25 Finsbury Square, generally encourage the matching of interests between London EC2A 1DX in each case during normal employees and shareholders.
business hours on any week day up to the date of the Annual General Meeting, and at that meeting.
A summary of the principal terms of the proposed new rules is set out in Part 1 of the Appendix to the Allotment for cash Notice of the Annual General Meeting and copies Resolution 13 proposes as a special resolution of the new rules will be on display at the Registered to disapply the statutory pre-emption rights of Ofce of the Company and at the ofces of Dickson shareholders on allotment of equity securities for cash Minto WS, 22-25 Finsbury Square, London EC2A up to a limit of a total of shares with a nominal value 1DX in each case during normal business hours on of 2,695,000, being approximately 5% of the current any weekday up to the date of the Annual General issued share capital.
The Directors confirm that they Meeting, and at that meeting.
do not intend to allot new shares on a pre-emptive basis with a value of more that 7.5% of the current Changes to Articles value of issued share capital over a three-year period.
Resolution 12 proposes as a special resolution to adopt new articles of association of the Company.
In outline, The resolution also disapplies these rights to the these changes:- extent necessary to facilitate rights issues.
The 1. increase the Companys borrowing powers from two authority under this resolution would expire on the to three times the adjusted capital and reserves of date of the Annual General Meeting in 2008 or on the Company.
The directors have no immediate 24 July 2008, whichever is the earlier.
This resolution intention to utilise these additional borrowings is on the same basis as approved last year and the powers and they are not required to meet normal Directors intend to seek renewal of this power at business requirements in future.
However, the subsequent Annual General Meetings.
directors wish to have additional borrowing capacity available in the event that additional investment opportunities materialise: Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 41 Directors Report continued Annual General Meeting Recommendation Purchase of own shares Your Directors believe that the resolutions to be The final item of special business is the Directors proposed at the Annual General Meeting are in the recommendation that shareholders renew the best interests of the Company and its Shareholders authority of the Company to purchase its own as a whole and unanimously recommend that ordinary shares as permitted under Article 7 of its Shareholders vote in favour of them.
Accordingly, Resolution 14 will be proposed as a special resolution seeking Auditors authority to make such purchases in the market.
A resolution re-appointing  The Directors will only use such authority when they LLP as the Companys auditors will be proposed consider it to be in the best interests of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
generally and an improvement in earnings per share would result.
The Board is taking the power to hold Notiable Interests shares in treasury: accordingly, any ordinary shares As at 19 February 2007 the Company had received purchased under this authority will either be cancelled notications of the following share holdings in excess and the number of ordinary shares in issue reduced of 3% of the issued ordinary share capital: or held in treasury.
Name of Shareholder Number of Shares % Resolution 14 species the maximum number of Barclays plc 20,266,164 7.52 ordinary shares which may be purchased representing approximately 10% of the Companys existing issued Mr A E H Salvesen 14,336,921 5.32 ordinary share capital and the minimum and Fidelity International Limited 11,034,117 4.09 maximum prices at which they may be bought, Legal & General Investment reecting the requirements of the Companies Management Limited 10,547,665 3.91 Act 1985 and of the Financial Services Authority, Mr A C Salvesen 10,106,075 3.75 as set out in the Listing Rules.
The Directors intend to seek renewal of this power at subsequent Annual Credit Suisse Asset Management Limited 8,256,557 3.06 General Meetings.
including immediate family and trustee interests including direct and indirect subsidiary company interests Treasury Shares Mr A C Salvesen is a Director of the Company and his Companies are permitted to acquire their own shares holdings are also disclosed on page 66. and to hold these shares in treasury for re-sale.
Resolutions 13 and 14 would provide the Directors The Directors are not aware of any other material with the authority they need to use treasury shares interests amounting to 3% or more in the share to give the Company more exibility in managing capital of the Company.
The Directors have no immediate intention of using such authority and would do By order of the Board so only when they consider it to be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
A Paul Allen Secretary The Directors intend that any buy back of shares into 8 March 2007 treasury and re-sale of shares from treasury will operate within the following limits: no more than 10% of the Companys issued shares will be held in treasury at any time: and treasury shares will not be sold at a discount of more than 10% to the middle market price of shares at the time of sale.
42 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
