plc Low cost with care convenience Executive management team Andrew Harrison Saad Hammad Toby Nicol Chief Executive Chief Commercial Officer Communications Director Andrew 49 became Chief Executive Officer Saad 44 joined easyJet in November 2005 Toby 36 joined easyJet in December 1999. on 1 December 2005.
He was previously and brings considerable commercial He was appointed as Communications the Chief Executive of RAC plc prior to its experience in international consumer-focused Director in September 2005 after six years acquisition by Aviva plc in 2005.
Prior to joining easyJet Saad was in a range of  roles joined Lex Service plc in 1996 as Chief Managing Director Europe with the third within the Company.
Previously, Toby was Executive and led its transformation from party logistics provider Tibbett & Britten, employed in senior positions for a leading a vehicle distribution company into RAC plc, where he managed the outsourced supply communications consultancy undertaking a strongly-branded, consumer-facing services chain operations across Europe of prominent work across a range of diverse clients company with 6.5 million members.
RAC plc manufacturers and retailers including P&G, from IBM to bmi British Midland.
Toby is delivered strong growth in a variety of Unilever, PepsiCo, Tesco, Wal-Mart, Carrefour a UK national.
consumer services, which included BSM, and Metro.
Prior to that Saad helped to financial and legal services, as well as good modernise Minit, the multi-service retailer, Cor Vrieswijk expansion in business services, winning large where he was commercially responsible for Operations Director contracts.
The successful integration of Lex 3,710 stores world-wide before becoming Cor 48 joins us from Transavia.
com which and RAC resulted in a strong rise in profits CEO of Autocascade, a pan-European webis a Dutch-based airline where he has been and a tripling of the share price during based yield management start-up.
Earlier Chief Operations Officer for the last nine Andrews tenure as Chief Executive.
Since in his career, Saad held roles in consumer years together with 25 years experience 2000, Andrew has been a Non-Executive retailing and brand management at Vision in the airline industry.
His responsibilities Director at Emap, where he chairs the Express, Thorn EMI and Procter & Gamble.
com included flight operations, Audit Committee.
Prior to Lex Service, Saad holds an undergraduate degree engineering and ground handling, together Andrew was an Executive Director of from Oxford and an MBA from INSEAD.
with relevant experience in marketing, Courtaulds Textiles plc since 1990.
Cor's first degree was in engineering followed up by a Jeff Carr Andrew Barker Masters Degree in organisational sciences.
Group Finance Director Planning Director Cor is a Dutch national.
Jeff 45 was appointed as Group Finance Andrew 41 joined easyJet in 2005 as Head Director in March 2005.
Prior to joining of Investor Relations and was appointed Tim Newing easyJet, Jeff was Director of Finance, Planning Director in February 2006.
Andrew IT Director Performance and Planning for Associated is responsible for guiding easyJet's network Tim 47 has a wide range of experience British Foods plc.
He has previously held and fleet planning, as well as developing across the technology spectrum and has senior financial positions with Unilever, environmental and aero-political policies played a major role in the development of Grand Metropolitan and Reckitt Benckiser.
and interfacing with the relevant regulatory the National Lottery over a ten-year period, In addition to experience with major bodies.
Prior to joining easyJet, Andrew was first as Technical Manager for IT supplier consumer-orientated companies, Jeff has a Managing Director at UBS Investment Bank, GTECH UK before joining Camelot as wide international experience in both where he worked for 16 years.
At UBS he Head of Projects and Networks in mainland Europe and in the USA.
was head of the global transport research December 2000 and becoming IT Director team for ten years during which time he was in March 2002. consistently rated by Institutional Investor Magazine as the number one analyst in the During this time, Tim has successfully sector in both European and Global surveys.
developed and delivered a series of massive He then went on to head the UBS European programs that saw a period of major Equity Strategy Team.
technological innovation, significantly enhancing the systems architecture and key Mike Campbell business processes within Europes biggest People Director lottery company, and, at the same time Mike 49 joined easyJet in October 2005 ensuring high reliability and availability from as People Director.
Before joining easyJet the production systems.
His achievements Mike worked at Wedgwood in a broad saw him recognised as the 2005 IT Director role as Director of People and Brands and of the Year in the Jaeger-LeCoultre Telegraph Managing Director for Canada, Australia Business Awards.
Prior to that Mike worked for 14 years at Fujitsu in a variety of development and personnel roles across Europe, Asia, Africa and the Middle East, ending up as Chief Personnel Officer.
His early career was in education and research.
20 Annual report and accounts 2006 Andrew Harrison Jeff Carr Saad Hammad Andrew Barker Mike Campbell Toby Nicol Cor Vrieswijk Tim Newing Annual report and accounts 2006 21
