Directors report The Directors present the audited consolidated financial statements for easyJet plc the Company for the year ended 30 September 2006.
Principal activity The principal activity of the Company and its subsidiary companies the Group or easyJet is the provision of a low-cost, good-value airline service on short-haul and medium-haul point-to-point routes within Europe.
Results for the year Retained profit for the year ended 30 September 2006 was 94.1 million 2005: 59.0 million.
The Directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend 2005: nil.
Key performance indicators The Companys key performance indicators are considered in the key performance indicators section of the operational and financial review included in the annual report and accounts.
Share capital Details of the movements in authorised and issued share capital during the period are provided in note 19 to the financial statements.
Safety and security easyJets commitment to safety is the top priority of the Group and management.
easyJet is committed to safe operations, which is manifested in its safety training procedures, its investment in the latest aircraft equipment and its adoption of a confidential safety issue reporting system.
Further details can be found in the corporate and social responsibility report.
Customer service easyJet seeks to provide its customers with a safe, low-cost, good-value and reliable service.
easyJet operates an entirely ticketless sales and check-in service.
This service is, easyJet believes, less burdensome for passengers.
In addition, the service reduces the costs associated with ticket processing, including personnel costs, and simplifies administration and control.
People and culture easyJets employees have defined a statement of the organisations values the orange culture.
The Directors believe that the Groups framework of orange values helps to motivate and align employees to the Groups objectives.
The management of the Group is entrusted to an executive team with extensive commercial, operational and financial experience.
In keeping with the orange culture the Directors encourage employees to contribute to the management of the business and allow employees to have access to a significant amount of information stored on the Groups electronic document system.
The Group is an equal opportunity employer, which actively encourages the training and development of all its employees on an ongoing basis.
It is the Groups policy to give full and fair consideration to applications for employment from disabled individuals, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities, and to provide such individuals with equal training, development, and opportunities for promotion.
Employees who become disabled during their working life will be retained in employment wherever possible and will be given help with any necessary rehabilitation and retraining.
easyJet is committed to generating an awareness among its employees of the Groups performance, development and progress, and to providing employees with information on matters of concern to them.
It achieves this through regular communication meetings, employee newsletters and management briefings.
Also, communication meetings are used by employee representatives to air the views of employees.
Employees are encouraged to become involved in the Companys financial performance through participation in various share option schemes.
Going concern The Directors are satisfied, after due consideration, that the Group has sufficient financial resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
On this basis, they continue to adopt the going concern principle in preparing the financial statements.
Annual report and accounts 2006 51 plc Low cost with care convenience Directors report continued Directors and Directors interests Non-Executive: Sir Colin Chandler Dawn Airey David Bennett appointed 1 October 2005 Diederik Karsten Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou Prof Rigas Doganis appointed 1 December 2005 Amir Eilon resigned 22 February 2006 Sir David Michels appointed 6 March 2006 Executive Andrew Harrison appointed 1 December 2005 Jeff Carr Ray Webster resigned 30 November 2005 Executive Directors are deemed to be interested in the shares held by the easyJet UK Employee Share Ownership Trust, the easyJet Overseas Employee Share Ownership Trust and the Share Incentive Plan Trust the Trusts.
At 30 September 2006, ordinary shares held in the Trusts were as follows: Long-Term Incentive Plan unallocated as employees are not entitled to these shares until the performance conditions attached to them are met 15,925 Share Incentive Plan Trust unallocated as employees are not entitled to these shares until performance conditions attached to them are met 187,544 Total unallocated 203,469 Total held by UK Trust allocated 11,945 Total held by Overseas Trust allocated 88,184 Management Combination Incentive Plan Trust allocated 369,606 Total allocated 469,735 Total 673,204 Details of share options and share gifts granted to the Directors of the Company are disclosed in the report on Directors remuneration.
Overseas branches Details of the Companys subsidiaries are given in the notes to the Company balance sheet.
One of the Companys wholly-owned subsidiaries, easyJet Airline Company Limited, operates a Spanish branch which performs self handling operations.
Policy and practice on payment of creditors The Group and the Company do not follow a universal code which deals specifically with payments to suppliers but, where appropriate, their practice is to: agree the terms of payment at the start of business with the supplier: ensure that those suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment: and pay in accordance with its contractual and other legal obligations.
At 30 September 2006, the number of creditor days outstanding for the Group was nine days 2005: two days, and the Company, nil days 2005: nil days.
Political and charitable contributions During the year, the Group made charitable contributions totalling 52,000 2005: 110,033.
The Group also performs onboard collections on behalf of charitable organisations.
In addition, the Group provides free flights to selected charities.
There is minimal incremental cost to the Group associated with these gifts.
There were no contributions made for political purposes.
52 Annual report and accounts 2006 Post balance sheet events On 13 November 2006, easyJet agreed that, subject to shareholder approval, it had converted a further 52 of its Airbus option aircraft to firm deliveries in 2008, 2009 and 2010: furthermore an additional 75 purchase rights had been obtained for aircraft which could be delivered during the period to 2015.
Substantial interests As at 9 November 2006, the Company has been notified of the following disclosable interests of 3% or more in its ordinary shares: Number of shares Percentage easyGroup Holdings Limited holding vehicle for Stelios Haji-Ioannou 66,076,451 16.00 Polys Holdings Limited holding vehicle for Polys Haji-Ioannou 47,954,575 11.61 Clelia Holdings Limited holding vehicle for Clelia Haji-Ioannou 47,954,575 11.61 Standard Life Investments 42,263,153 10.23 Deutsche Bank AG 24,308,793 5.88 Auditors Each Director has taken steps that they ought to have taken in their duty as a Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
So far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant information of which the Companys auditors is unaware.
A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as auditors of the Company will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board G Pemberton Company Secretary easyLand London Luton Airport Luton Bedfordshire LU2 9LS 13 November 2006 Annual report and accounts 2006 53
