plc Low cost with care convenience Directors Sir Colin Chandler Dawn Airey Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou Non-Executive Chairman Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Colin 67 joined easyJet in April 2002 and Dawn 46 joined easyJet in April 2004.
She is Stelios 39 founded easyJet in 1995.
He was appointed Chairman in November 2002.
Managing Director of Channels and Networked was easyJets Non-Executive Chairman until Until November 2004, he was Non-Executive Media at Sky.
Prior to joining Sky in January 26 November 2002 and was reappointed Deputy Chairman of Smiths Group plc, having 2003, Dawn was Chief Executive of Channel to the Board on 16 May 2005.
A graduate been a Non-Executive Director of TI Group Five 2000 2002 : Director of Programmes, of the London School of Economics and City since 1992.
Colin has been variously Managing Channel Five 1996 2000 : Controller University Business School, Stelios founded Director, Chief Executive and then Chairman of Arts and Entertainment at Channel 4 Stelmar Tankers, a shipping company which of Vickers plc.
Earlier in his career he was 1994 1996 and Controller of Network listed on the New York Stock Exchange in seconded from British Aerospace to the Childrens and Daytime Programmes at ITV 2001 and which was sold in 2005 to OSG role of Head of Defence Export Services, 1993 1994.
Dawn has worked in television shipping group.
Since 1998 he has set up Ministry of Defence.
He was Chairman of for over 21 years and began her career at 14 other businesses under the easy brand Racal Electronics plc.
He is Chairman of TI Central TV as a management trainee.
She is through his private investment vehicle, the Automotive Limited, Chairman of Automotive Vice President of the Royal Television Society, easyGroup, which owns the easy brand Technik Limited and Pro-Chancellor of and a Trustee of the Media Trust.
Dawn is and licenses it to the various easy branded Cranfield University.
He was knighted in a member of the Board of the International ventures.
He was knighted in June 2006 June 1988 for services to export.
Emmy Awards, a governor of the Banff for services to entrepreneurship.
Television Festival, an Honorary Committee Andrew Harrison Member of the Monte Carlo Television Festival, Diederik Karsten Chief Executive Officer and a Director of Nickelodeon UK and Independent Non-Executive Director Andrew 49 became Chief Executive Officer National Geographic Europe.
Diederik 50 joined easyJet in May 2001 and on 1 December 2005.
He was previously is currently Chief Executive Officer of UPC the Chief Executive of RAC plc prior to its David Bennett The Netherlands, a leading cable TV company.
acquisition by Aviva plc in 2005.
Andrew Independent Non-Executive Director From February 2000 to November 2001 he joined Lex Service plc in 1996 as Chief David 44 was appointed to the Board on was Chief Executive Officer of KPN Mobile Executive and led its transformation from 1 October 2005.
He is the Group Finance N. V. Previously he was Director of the a vehicle distribution company into RAC plc, Director of the FTSE 100 bank Alliance business unit Mobile Telephony and Director a strongly-branded, consumer-facing services & Leicester plc.
Prior to joining Alliance & of The Mobile Net, both parts of KPN Telecom.
RAC plc Leicester in 1999, David held a number of Prior to joining KPN in 1996, Diederik held delivered strong growth in a variety of senior management positions at Cheltenham various management and marketing positions consumer services, which included BSM, & Gloucester Building Society and Lloyds TSB.
at Pepsi Co, both in the UK and Europe, financial and legal services, as well as good He was also an Executive Director of the including Vice President of sales and marketing expansion in business services, winning large National Bank of New Zealand Limited at Snacks Ventures Europe and sales and contracts.
The successful integration of Lex and is a member of the Association marketing Director Pepsi Cola, Germany.
and RAC resulted in a strong rise in profits of Corporate Treasurers.
Before that, Diederik held various marketing and a tripling of the share price during positions at Proctor & Gamble.
Andrews tenure as Chief Executive.
Since Professor Rigas Doganis 2000, Andrew has been a Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Director Sir David Michels Director at Emap, where he chairs the Rigas 67 was appointed to the Board Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Audit Committee.
Prior to Lex Service, on 1 December 2005.
Rigas is an aviation David 59 was appointed to the Board on Andrew was an Executive Director of consultant and strategy adviser to airlines, 6 March 2006.
He is currently Non-Executive Courtaulds Textiles plc since 1990. airports, banks and governments around Director of British Land Company, Marks the world.
He is Chairman of the European and Spencer plc and Strategic Hotels and Jeff Carr Aviation Club in Brussels and a NonResorts.
David has held a number of senior Group Finance Director Executive Director of GMR Hyderabad management and plc Board positions in the Jeff 45 was appointed as Group Finance International Airport, India.
He is currently leisure industry.
He spent 15 years with Director in March 2005.
Prior to joining a visiting Professor at Cranfield University Grand Metropolitan mainly in sales and easyJet, Jeff was Director of Finance, where he was Head of the Department of marketing, which culminated in a Board position Performance and Planning for Associated Air Transport in the College of Aeronautics as Worldwide Marketing Director.
He has previously held between 1991 and 1997.
He is an author of became Deputy Chairman of Hilton UK and senior financial positions with Unilever, books on aviation economics and management.
Executive Vice President, Hilton International.
Grand Metropolitan and Reckitt Benckiser.
He is also a fellow of the Royal Aeronautical He joined Stakis in 1991 as Chief Executive In addition to experience with major Society and of the Royal Society of Arts.
and became Group Chief Executive of the consumer-orientated companies, Jeff has Hilton Group formerly Ladbroke Group in wide international experience in both June 2000, a position he held until 2006.
He is mainland Europe and in the USA.
the current President of the British Hospitality Association and was knighted in June 2006 for services to the hospitality industry.
18 Annual report and accounts 2006 Sir Colin Chandler Andrew Harrison Jeff Carr Dawn Airey David Bennett Professor Rigas Doganis Sir Stelios Haji-loannou Diederik Karsten Sir David Michels Annual report and accounts 2006 19
