Financial review continued Liquidity risk Key performance indicators Employee and environmental matters The Group has substantial cash The directors monitor a number of The Groups employment policies and reserves.
Additionally the Group is financial metrics and key performance environmental policies are set out in finalising bank facilities of up to indicators KPIs for the Group, including: the corporate responsibility statement 30 million with Lloyds TSB Bank 4 Sales units of each product on page 27. which will cover short-term working 4 Average selling prices capital needs in periods where there 4 Use of returns provision are a number of product launches.
4 Chart positions 4 Review scores Credit risk 4 Development costs The Groups revenues are principally 4 Contribution by title Rob Murphy derived from sales to retailers and In addition, the directors receive Chief Financial Officer distributors.
The amounts due from information on non financial metrics 16 November 2006 any particular retailer or distributor such as reports from the Groups may be material, particularly following quality assurance function and the major product releases.
The Groups results of focus groups.
policy is to only extend credit to companies with a strong credit rating Risks and uncertainties and to obtain credit insurance to Risks to the business include the protect against the risk of default.
performance of products, the risk of development delays or cost overruns, Foreign currency risk competitive products, the need to The Group receives significant portions maintain sufficient working capital, the of its revenues in either euros or US loss of key personnel, delays in the dollars.
The Group also has significant introduction of new hardware platforms costs in each of these currencies and increased regulation of products.
relating to overseas offices, the The directors regularly monitor all manufacture of finished products and these risks and uncertainties and the development of new games.
The appropriate actions are taken to Group seeks to balance the flows of mitigate the risks or their potential currency across countries to minimise outcomes.
any imbalance of foreign currency receipts and payments.
Age of Conan: Hyborian Adventures, winner of multiple E3 awards as the best game in its genre and one of the most anticipated PC games currently in development, is a Massively Multiplayer Online Game MMO set in the fantastic Conan universe as created by Robert E. Howard.
Kane & Lynch: Dead Men is a dark and gritty tale of two men bound by circumstance as they wait on death row for their final sentence.
One is a flawed mercenary, the other a medicated psychopath.
The two are forced to embark on a violent and chaotic journey, hating each other every step of the way.
SCi Entertainment Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 19
