Directors report The directors present their annual report on the affairs of the Companies Act 1985.
The directors are also required to Group, together with the accounts and independent auditors prepare financial statements for the Group in accordance report, for the 12 months ended 30 June 2006. with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The directors have chosen to prepare Principal activities and business review financial statements for the Company in accordance with The principal activities of the Group and the Company are the UK GAAP.
development and publishing of entertainment software.
A review of the Groups performance during the 12 months to Group financial statements 30 June 2006, including financial performance, likely future International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial developments and prospects and information that fulfils the statements present fairly for each financial year the Groups requirements of the Business Review, is set out in the Chief financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This Executives report on pages 9 to 13 and the financial review requires the faithful representation of the effects of on pages 14 to 19.
Principal subsidiaries and joint ventures transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with are listed in note 14 to the accounts on page 50. the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Results and dividend Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and The results for the 12 month period to 30 June 2006 are presentation of financial statements.
In virtually all shown in the consolidated income statement on page 34. circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by No dividend has been paid or declared for the period compliance with all applicable IFRS.
requires the directors to: 4 consistently select and apply appropriate accounting Post balance sheet events policies: Details of events occurring after the year end are set out in 4 present information, including accounting policies, in a note 31. manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and Share capital 4 provide additional disclosures when compliance with the Details of changes in the share capital of the Company are specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable set out in note vi of the Notes to the parent Company users to understand the impact of particular transactions, financial statements.
other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
Financial instruments The Groups policy on the use of financial instruments is set Parent Company financial statements out in note 28.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair Directors view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit The names and brief biographical details of the current or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these directors are set out on page 20.
All the directors served financial statements, the directors are required to: throughout the period under review other than Roger Ames, 4 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them who was appointed to the Board on 25 September 2006. consistently: Bill Ennis and Tim Ryan retire by rotation at the 4 prepare the financial statements on the going concern forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM and, being basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Roger Ames will Company will continue in business: retire at this years AGM having been appointed since the 4 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and last AGM and, being eligible, offers himself for election.
prudent: and Details of directors holdings of options over ordinary shares 4 state whether applicable accounting standards have been are set out in the directors remuneration report on pages followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and 28 to 32. explained in the financial statements.
Directors responsibilities Financial statements are published on the Groups The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting website in accordance with legislation in the United Kingdom records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time governing the preparation and dissemination of financial the financial position of the Group, for safeguarding the statements, which may vary from legislation in other assets of the Company, for taking reasonable steps for the jurisdictions.
The maintenance and integrity of the Groups prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and website is the responsibility of the directors.
The directors for the preparation of a directors report and directors responsibility also extends to the ongoing integrity of the remuneration report which comply with the requirements of financial statements contained therein.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with the 22 SCi Entertainment Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Directors report continued Directors and officers indemnity insurance Directors shareholdings The Group has taken out an insurance policy to indemnify The directors who held office at 30 June 2006 had the the directors and officers of the Company and its following interests in the shares of the Company: subsidiaries in respect of certain liabilities which may attach 30 June 30 June to them in their capacity as directors or officers of the 2006 2005 Group, so far as permitted by law.
This indemnity policy Number Number subsisted throughout the year and remains in place at the Executive date of this report.
Jane Cavanagh 4,819,630 4,819,630 Bill Ennis 462,450 462,450 Employees Rob Murphy 71,500 71,500 The Groups employment policies and those regarding Non-executive disabled persons are set out in the corporate responsibility statement on page 27.
Tim Ryan 43,141 43,141 Nigel Wayne 11,176 11,176 Charitable and political donations There have been no changes in the above shareholdings During the 12 month period to 30 June 2006 SCi made between 30 June 2006 and the date of these financial charitable donations of 10,400 2005: nil.
donations were made in the year 2005: nil.
Directors statement as to disclosure of information Supplier payment policy to auditors The Groups policy is to settle terms of payment with The directors who were members of the Board at the time of suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction, approving the directors report are listed on page 20.
Having ensure that suppliers are made aware of the terms of made enquiries of fellow directors and of the Companys payment and abide by the terms of payment.
Trade creditors auditors, each of these directors confirms that: of the Group at the period end represented 41 days 4 to the best of each directors knowledge and belief, there purchases 2005: 63 days.
The Company had trade is no information relevant to the preparation of their creditors of 0.2 million at the period end 2005: 0.3 million report of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and which represented 15 days purchases 2005: 8 days.
4 each director has taken all the steps a director might reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of Substantial shareholdings relevant audit information and to establish that the On 16 November 2006 the Company had been notified, in Companys auditors are aware of that information.
accordance with Sections 198 to 208 of the Companies Act 1985, of the following interests in the ordinary share capital Auditors of the Company: BDO Stoy Hayward LLP have expressed their willingness to Number % continue in office and a resolution to re-appoint them will be proposed at the AGM.
Thorson Investments Ltd 13,413,073 17.38 Artemis Investment Management Ltd 6,237,856 8.08 By order of the Board, Cantor Fitzgerald Europe 4,722,580 6.12 Credit Agricole Cheuvreux Anthony Price International Ltd 3,316,925 4.30 Company Secretary 16 November 2006 SCi Entertainment Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 23
