Report of the Directors The Directors present their report on the affairs of the Group together with the audited Mr Boddie was appointed as an Executive Director on 1 September 2005.
Mr Boddie accounts for the year ended 31 March 2006. therefore stands for formal election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Principal activity and Business Review Board committees The principal activity of the Group is the distribution of electronic, electrical and The Board has a number of standing committees consisting of certain Directors, and industrial and commercial supplies and services, through its 26 operating companies in the case of the Treasury Committee, certain senior managers, to which specic and its distributors.
significant events during the year are detailed in the Chairmans responsibilities have been delegated and for which written terms of reference have Statement shown on page 2, the Chief Executives Review shown on page 7, and the been agreed.
These terms of reference are available for inspection on the Companys Business Review shown on pages 8 to 13.
The Business Review is incorporated in this website.
Membership of the various Committees, including the Chairman of each report by reference.
Committee, is shown on page 15.
Results and Dividends THE GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE consists of the Executive Directors and certain Results for the year are set out in the Group Income Statement on page 26. senior managers with Operating Company and Process responsibilities.
The An analysis of turnover, profit and net assets by activity is shown in note 2 on Committee meets at least monthly and manages the day-to-day activities of the pages 31 and 32.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 12.6p per ordinary Group.
The Board has delegated the following responsibilities to the Group Executive share, to be paid, if approved, on 28 July 2006 which, together with the interim Committee: the development and recommendation of strategic plans for consideration dividend of 5.8p per share paid in January, amounts to 18.4p for the year 2005: 18.4p.
by the Board: the monitoring of the operating and financial results against plans and forecasts: and the development of risk management and control procedures.
Corporate Governance In respect of the year ended 31 March 2006, the Company has been subject to the THE AUDIT COMMITTEE consists of all the Non-Executive Directors, with the exception provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in July 2003 of Dr Atkinson and Dr Lennertz.
It meets at least four times a year and more and appended to the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority the Combined Code.
The Committee assists the Board in its duties regarding Section 1 of the Combined Code establishes 14 main principles and 21 supporting financial statements and reviews the operation of internal financial controls with the principles of good governance in four areas: Directors: Remuneration of Directors: internal operational audit team and, where applicable, external auditors.
It also reviews Accountability and Audit and Relations with Shareholders.
The following three sections the scope and results of the audit with the external auditors and the results of the explain how these principles were applied.
A detailed report on Directors work of the internal operational audit team.
The Committee is also responsible for Remuneration can be found on pages 20 to 24. reviewing the arrangements whereby staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
Further Directors and Directors Independence details of the role of the Committee are set out on pages 17 and 18.
The Board comprises the Chairman, who is part-time, two Executive Directors and six independent Non-Executive Directors, one of whom retires at the AGM in 2006.
The THE TREASURY COMMITTEE consists of the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, Board is collectively responsible for the performance of the Company.
The Board has the Group Treasurer, the Group Controller, the Company Secretary and the Group Tax carefully considered the guidance criteria on independence of Non-Executive Directors Manager and sets detailed treasury policy for the Group within guidelines established under the Combined Code.
In the opinion of the Board, all the continuing Non-Executive by the Board.
Directors including Mr Temple who has served on the Board for more than nine years THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE consists of all the Non-Executive Directors with the bring independence of judgment and character to the Board and to the committees exception of Mr Barker.
It meets as required but not less than twice per year and is on which they sit, and are independent of management and free from any business responsible for all aspects of the remuneration of Executive Directors and senior or other relationships which could interfere with the exercise of their judgement.
Details of the remuneration policy and of the remuneration of each Director Biographical details of the Directors at the date of this report are set out on pages are set out on pages 20 to 24 of the Remuneration Report.
14 and 15, together with details of their membership of Board Committees.
Brief THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE consists of the Chairman and all the Non-Executive details of the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Senior Independent Director Directors.
The Committee meets as required and recommends to the Board candidates are set out on page 17. for appointment as Executive and Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
The Directors interests in the shares of the Company are shown on pages 17 and 24.
Committee periodically assesses what new skills, knowledge and experience are required on the Board and if appropriate, recommends a candidate prole which is The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its approval.
It is responsible then used to brief Recruitment Consultants appointed by the Committee to undertake for the overall Group strategy and the approval and review of major investment the selection process.
Initial meetings are held with prospective candidates and a proposals.
The Board discusses and agrees strategic plans, reviews forecasts and shortlist of individuals are selected to meet with the Chairman, other Nomination evaluates Group and subsidiary performance.
Other day-to-day operational decisions Committee members and the Executive Directors.
The Nomination Committee then are delegated by the Board to the Group Executive Committee.
meets and decides which candidate, if any, will be recommended to join the Board.
Directors are encouraged to update their skills, knowledge and familiarity with the This process was used for the appointment of Mr Boddie as Group Finance Director.
Group by attending external seminars and briengs, through participation at meetings Board evaluation and through visits to operating units, both in the UK and overseas, as well as by During 2005 the Chairman has held meetings with the Non-Executive Directors, receiving presentations from senior management.
Directors are given access to without the Executives present.
In addition, the Company Secretary has continued independent professional advice at the Groups expense, if they deem it necessary in to maintain and monitor the list of actions prepared following the formal Board order for them to carry out their responsibilities.
This is in addition to the access that evaluation process, which took place in early 2005 and further actions were added every Director has to the Company Secretary.
The Board has continued to secure during the year for Board consideration.
appropriate insurance cover for its Directors.
It is the intention to carry out a further Board evaluation later in 2006.
Retirement by rotation and new appointment Dr Lennertz wishes to retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and will not During the year, the Non-Executive Directors, led by Mr Temple in his capacity as the be seeking re-election.
Senior Independent Director, met to review the performance of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the Executive Directors.
In addition, Mr Barker and Mr Temple retire by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Neither Mr Barker nor Mr Temple has a service contract.
In line with best practice under the Combined Code, Directors who have held ofce for more than nine years are required to submit themselves for annual re-election.
Accordingly, as Mr Temple has served as a Non-Executive Director for more than nine years, he is subject to annual re-election.
Following formal performance evaluation, the Chairman confirms that the performance of Mr Barker and Mr Temple as Non-Executive Directors continues to be effective and that they demonstrate commitment to the role.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 16 Board Attendance As at 31 March 2006 the Electrocomponents Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Board and Committee meetings Trust the Quest and the Electrocomponents Employee Trust the fleet together The following table sets out the number of meetings of the Board and its Committees the Trusts held 39,342 and 308,417 shares respectively.
As Executive Directors are during the year and individual attendance by Board members at these meetings: potential beneciaries of the Trusts they are treated for company law purposes as being interested in the shares held in the Trusts.
Group  Board Committee Committee Committee Directors interests in Incentive Plans and Share Options are disclosed on page 24.
Number of Meetings held Up to 1 May 2006 there have been no changes in the Directors interests or rights during the year 10 663 to subscribe for shares.
Chairman R A Lawson 10 Relations with Shareholders Executive Directors Executive Directors and senior executives have frequent discussions with institutional 1 R B Butler 2 shareholders on a range of issues affecting the Groups performance, which include 2 J L Hewitt 3 meetings following the announcement of the annual and interim results.
The Chief I Mason 10 Executive, Finance Director and Chairman meet with major shareholders to discuss 3 S Boddie 7 performance, strategy and governance, and the Non-Executive Directors are available for discussions with shareholders if required.
The Finance Director reports to the Non-Executive Directors Board on meetings with shareholders.
KAbbott 9552 LAtkinson 1063 Shareholders have been given the opportunity to meet with the Chairman and other TGBarker 1063 Board Directors at last years Annual General Meeting.
The Senior Independent Director K Hamill 10 6 6 3 is available to attend meetings with major shareholders at their request.
F D Lennertz 10 6 3 Mr Boddie, who joined the Board on 1 September 2005, has attended meetings N JTemple 96 63 with major shareholders.
Notes: The Chairman also held meetings with a representative group of shareholders in 1 Mr Butler ceased to be a Director on 30 June 2005.
2 Mr Hewitt ceased to be a Director on 1 September 2005.
January and February 2006 to obtain their views on strategy and performance, 3 Mr Boddie was appointed to the Board on 1 September 2005. the results of which were communicated to and discussed by the Board.
Chairman, Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director The Company seeks to ensure that all Directors, including the Chairmen of the The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are held by different individuals.
The relevant Board Committees and Senior Independent Director, are available to answer division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive has been questions at the Annual General Meeting.
clearly established: their responsibilities are set out in writing and have been The Company also has a website www.
com which contains agreed by the Board.
up-to-date information on Group activities.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board and for organising the business Accountability & Audit of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
The Chairman has no In its financial reporting to shareholders and other interested parties, by means of involvement in the day-to-day business of the Company.
The Chairman facilitates the annual and interim results and periodic statements, the Board aims to present a effective contribution of the Non-Executive Directors, and ensures Directors receive balanced and easily understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
accurate, timely and clear information.
He is also responsible for effective communication between the Board and shareholders.
Internal control The Combined Code places a requirement on Directors to review at least annually the The Chief Executive has direct charge of the Company on a day to day basis and is effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and to report to shareholders accountable to the Board for the financial and operational performance of the Group: that they have done so.
and the determination of the strategy and the achievement of its objectives.
In accordance with the Turnbull Committee Guidance on internal control there is an Mr Temple as the Senior Independent Director is responsible for chairing the meeting ongoing process of risk management and internal control, which includes a formal of Non-Executive Directors for the purpose of evaluating the Chairmans performance report and review of risks by the Board annually.
and to provide a communication channel for shareholders if required.
The Board is responsible for the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal Directors Interests in shares control.
The system of internal control has been designed and implemented to meet The beneficial interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company are set out in the particular requirements of the Group and the risks to which it is exposed.
The Directors have no non-beneficial interests.
internal control system can provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against 31 March 2006 or date ceased material misstatement or loss.
to be a director 31 March 2005 The processes to identify, assess and manage the risks to ensure the Groups K Abbott 10,000 continued success are an integral part of the system of internal control.
These L Atkinson 2,260 2,260 processes include systems to assess operational risks, the monthly forecasting T G Barker 11,000 11,000 procedure, the management and review of key projects and capital expenditure.
a S Boddie b c R B Butler 30,063 38,349 The appointment of senior managers is reviewed annually through the Groups K Hamill 5,183 5,183 succession planning process.
b c JLHewitt 63,545 75,382 Internal financial controls c R A Lawson 403,374 403,374 Internal financial controls represent the systems employed by the Directors to enable F D Lennertz 8,034 8,034 them to discharge their responsibility for financial matters.
Those responsibilities are c I Mason 37,349 37, 349 noted on page 19.
The main financial control elements are described below.
N J Temple 10,040 10,040 Clear terms of reference set out the duties of the Board and its Committees, with Note: a Mr Boddie did not hold any shares on his appointment to the Board on 1 September 2005, nor delegation of operating responsibility through the Executive Directors Committee on 31 March 2006. to management in all locations.
Operating company controls are detailed in Group b Mr Butler ceased to be a Director on 30 June 2005.
Mr Hewitt ceased to be a Director on Finance and Group Treasury manuals that specify the controls necessary in identied 1 September 2005. areas of financial risk.
Smaller Group companies are supported by Group, regional and c For the 1999 LTIP award, the Companys TSR performance was ranked 15th out of 38 against the process specialists in key areas.
comparator group at that point in time as at 4 July 2002, which resulted in 56.7% of the award vesting against the TSR criterion.
Participants were required to retain the vested shares until June Financial reporting systems are comprehensive and include weekly, monthly and 2005, at which time the awards would only be released if participants were still employed.
Each of annual reporting cycles.
Monthly management accounts are prepared by all operating Messrs Mason, Hewitt, Butler and Lawson held such awards and satisfied the employment condition companies and Group-wide Processes.
These contain forecasts of the current financial in June 2005 with the result that their awards were released.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 17 Report of the Directors continued year which are updated four times per year and are compared against the previous Compliance with the Combined Code forecast, the budget and prior year actuals.
Variances are reviewed by the Group During the year ended 31 March 2006, the Directors consider that the Company Executive Committee and by the Board.
Specic reporting systems cover treasury complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code in force operations, major investment projects and legal and insurance activities, which are during the year ended on that date.
reviewed by the Board and its Committees on a regular basis.
Payment to Suppliers The Group has a team of internal operational auditors which has an annually agreed The Group agrees terms and conditions for its business transactions with suppliers.
audit programme approved by the Audit Committee.
The team reports regularly to the Payment is then made according to these terms, subject to the supplier fullling Audit Committee on the results of audits performed and reviews self-certication its obligations.
The Company has no trade creditors.
Supplier payment days for the internal control questionnaires completed by operating management.
continuing operations of the Group outstanding at 31 March 2006 represent 43 days 2005: 44 days of average purchases.
The Board and the Audit Committee have reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and internal financial control during the period covered Employment Policies by this report.
The Group values highly the commitment of its employees and has maintained its practice of communicating business developments to them wherever practicable.
Audit independence Regular staff appraisals and consultations take place with individuals and the The Audit Committee and Board put great emphasis on the objectivity of the employees representatives.
The Group remains supportive of the employment and Companys auditors KPMG Audit Plc KPMG in their reporting to shareholders.
advancement of disabled persons and complies with the Core International Labour The Audit Committee met six times during the year ended 31 March 2006 and the Organisation Conventions and prohibits the employment of underage or forced labour.
Group Audit Engagement Director from KPMG was present at four of these meetings to Capital Gains Tax ensure full and open communication.
For Capital Gains Tax purposes the valuation of the Companys 10p ordinary shares The overall performance of the auditors is reviewed annually by the Audit Committee, at 5 April 1982 was 40p.
taking into account the views of management, and this is reported to senior members Substantial Shareholders of KPMG.
This forms part of KPMGs own system of quality control.
The Audit As at 23 May 2006 the following substantial shareholdings had been notied Committee also has discussions with the auditors, without management being to the Company: present, on the adequacy of controls and on any significant area where management judgement has been applied.
Number Percentage of Shares Held The scope of the years audit is discussed in advance by the Audit Committee.
Audit Silchester International Investors Limited 74,630,131 17.15% fees are reviewed by the Audit Committee after discussions between the Operating Franklin Templeton Investments 38,647,085 8.88% Companies and the local KPMG ofces and a review by Group management and are Sprucegrove Investment Management Limited 31,401,338 7.21% then recommended to the Board for approval.
Professional rules require rotation UBS AG 29,079,714 6.68% of the Group Audit Engagement Director.
This took place in July 2004 when the Prudential plc 16,320,690 3.75% current Director was appointed, replacing the previous Director who had held the Millgate Capital, Inc. 15,900,000 3.65% post for five years.
Legal & General Investment Management Limited 14,148,893 3.25% The annual appointment of our auditors by the shareholders at the Annual General Barclays plc 13,941,546 3.20% Meeting is a fundamental safeguard, but beyond this, controls have been in place for The Capital Group of Companies, Inc. 13,538,069 3.11% some years to ensure that additional work performed by the auditors is appropriate and subject to proper review.
As far as the Directors are aware there were no other notiable interests.
With respect to non-audit assignments undertaken by KPMG the Company has Share Capital developed a policy to ensure that the provision of such services does not impair the Full details of share options and shares issued under the terms of the Companys external Auditors independence or objectivity.
share schemes can be found in note 7 to the Group accounts on pages 33 and 34.
The policy is as follows: During the year the Electrocomponents Employee Trust fleet purchased no shares When considering the use of the external auditors to undertake non-audit work, the 2005: no shares as referred to in note 8 to the Company accounts on page 55.
Finance Director should at all times give consideration to the provisions of the Smith Political and Charitable Contributions Report with regard to the preservation of independence.
The Group made no political contributions during the year.
Charitable contributions The external auditors must certify to the Company that they are acting independently.
In providing a non-audit service, the external auditors should not as summarised in the Smith Report : Disclosure of Information to Auditors The Directors who held ofce at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm audit their own work: that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the make management decisions for the Company: Companys auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as Directors to make themselves aware of any relevant audit create a mutuality of interest: or information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
nd themselves in the role of advocate for the Company.
Annual General Meeting Before commissioning such work, the Audit Committee or the Finance Director as The Notice of the Annual General Meeting, which will be held at 12:30 p. m. on Friday appropriate must ensure that the external auditors are satisfied that there is no 14 July 2006 at the Companys premises, The International Management Centre, issue as regards independence.
5000 Oxford Business Park South, Oxford, OX4 2BH, is set out on page 60.
The Finance Director has authority to commission the external auditors to undertake In addition to conducting the ordinary business, the following special business non-audit work where there is a specic project with a cost that is not expected to will be considered: exceed 50,000.
This work has to be reported to the Audit Committee at its next RENEWAL OF DIRECTORS AUTHORITY FOR THE PURCHASE BY THE COMPANY OF ITS OWN meeting.
If the cost is expected to exceed 50,000, the agreement of the Audit SHARES: This resolution will authorise market purchases of up to 43,527,000 ordinary Committee is required before the work is commissioned.
In either case, other shares being approximately 10% of the issued share capital as at 23 May 2006, potential providers are adequately considered.
subject to a maximum price of 105% of the average of the market values of the shares The Finance Director monitors all work done by the external auditors or other for the five business days preceding any purchase and a minimum price of 10p per providers of accountancy services anywhere in the Group in excess of 10,000. share.
The Directors will only exercise this authority when satisfied it is in the best interests of shareholders and that any purchase will have a beneficial impact on Going Concern earnings per share, having first considered other investment opportunities open to After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has the Company.
The Directors expect to ask shareholders to approve renewal of the adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
24,411,459 options to subscribe for equity shares were Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 18 outstanding as at 23 May 2006, representing 5.61% of the issued share capital.
If this Directors Responsibility for the Financial Statements resolution is passed and the full authority to buy back shares is used, then outstanding Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial options to subscribe for equity shares will represent 6.23% of the issued share capital.
year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Listed companies are now permitted, subject to certain restrictions, to hold their own Group and of the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, shares which they purchase in Treasury for resale or transfer at a later date, rather the Directors are required to: than being obliged to cancel them.
If the Company were to purchase any of its own Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: shares pursuant to the authority referred to above, it would consider holding them as treasury stock provided that the number does not at any time exceed 10% of the Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Companys issued share capital.
This would provide the Company with additional State whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any exibility in the management of its capital base.
As at 23 May 2006, the Company material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and held no ordinary shares in Treasury.
Prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate By order of the Board to presume that the Group will continue in business.
Carmelina Carfora The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose Company Secretary with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to 1 June 2006 enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The report and accounts contain certain statements, statistics and projections that are or may be forward-looking.
The accuracy and completeness of all such statements including, without limitation, statements regarding the future financial positions, strategy, projected costs, plans and objectives for the management of future operations of Electrocomponents plc and its subsidiaries is not warranted or guaranteed.
These statements typically contain words such as intends, expects, anticipates, estimates and words of similar import.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the future.
Although Electrocomponents plc believes that the expectations reected in such statements are reasonable, no assurance can be given that such expectations will prove to be correct.
There are a number of factors, which may be beyond the control of Electrocomponents plc, which could cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Other than as required by applicable law or the applicable rules of any exchange on which our securities may be listed, Electrocomponents plc has no intentions or obligations to update forward-looking statements contained herein.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 19
