Our responsibilities changing mix of skills that we are going to need today and tomorrow, To help us meet our responsibilities to our we are also committed to developing and rewarding our people and creating a culture in which they can thrive.
stakeholders, we have a Corporate Social Responsibility working party whose purpose The shape of this activity varies from business to business with each is to galvanise awareness, understanding and operation attracting and developing its people in ways appropriate to action around Emaps social and environmental its own markets.
The following examples show some of the work that is going on around the Group.
responsibilities through our energy and enthusiasm, engagement, innovation and support, challenge A year of recognition and expertise.
The calibre of our people has been demonstrated this year by a number of external awards.
At the radio industry Sony Awards in May 2005, Emap Radio won an impressive ten awards, five of which Ultimate responsibility for our Corporate Social Responsibility CSR were gold.
At the annual Media Week Awards, Emap Advertising performance rests with the Emap plc Board which sets the Groups took more awards than anyone else and won top position in four strategy, values and standards as they relate to social, environmental categories including Sales Team of the Year.
Emap Advertisings and ethical issues.
Responsibility for these is then devolved to Creative Solutions and Radio teams also won Sales Team of the the Executive Board which reviews such issues in its formal risk Year at the Campaign Media Awards.
assessment procedures as do the various Divisional Boards.
In this way, the Emap plc Board can ensure that potential problems Talented individuals have also been recognised.
Mark Frith, Editor of are identied and that contingency strategies are in place.
heat, was honoured by his peers at the British Society of Magazine Editors when he won the coveted Mark Boxer Award.
David Metcalfe All our CSR activities are governed by a formal set of values that of Emaps Trade Promotion Services was recognised by his trade state our principles and standards and express the kind of company association for his contribution to the home and gift industry, while we aspire to be.
These values have existed for many years and are Chris Llewellyn, Managing Director of Emap International, was ingrained in our culture.
They provide a framework for the way we elected to the prestigious post of Chairman of the International relate to colleagues, customers, suppliers and others and sum up Federation of the Periodical Press FIPP.
everything we believe to be important and distinctive in the way Emap operates.
There has also been recognition for Emaps next generation of talent.
Emap Consumer Media gained a record 11 nominations in the New In the past year we have been considering how to take a more Journalist of the Year Awards run by the Periodicals Training Council.
With the help of external consultants, Richard Baker of Emaps MEED won Management Todays Rising we are looking to bring greater focus and co-ordination to our Star Award, while one of Emaps Talent Scholarship trainees, Helen activities and to make our CSR commitment more effective.
OHara, was short-listed for Best Online Writer in The Press Gazettes In addition, feedback from the CSR working party reveals that 2005 Student Journalism Awards.
our employees would like more opportunities to volunteer their time and skills.
As we address these issues, we will report progress Attracting the best on our website www.
The year has also demonstrated our ability to attract talent from outside the Group.
The launch of Grazia, for example, provoked Our people intense interest across the industry and attracted six high-prole In a fast-changing industry, we are equipping ourselves with the former editors to work on the project.
Other star recruits joined capabilities we need for the future and seeking to offer the best from leading rival publications.
support and opportunities to the talent we employ.
In seeking out talent, we have again benefited from our Fanzine As Emap moves towards a greater emphasis on mobile, digital and Awards for undiscovered enthusiasts producing magazines in their interactive services, we need to develop new capabilities.
Nick Tebbutt, for example, won the 2005 award for in which customers pull down information as and when they want it best student writer and is now a regular contributor to Q magazine.
requires us to be more exible and even closer to our markets than With all publishers shing in the same pool, the Fanzine Awards are in the past.
We also need new technical and management skills to an imaginative way of attracting the best new talent to Emap.
We are also keeping an eye on our future needs by identifying those We are responding by developing our people and injecting new roles that are critical to our strategy and ensuring we have a good view talent where it is needed.
Each of our businesses is working of talented individuals outside Emap who might be ready to join us as hard to identify and bring on the necessary talent, both within opportunities arise.
This is all part of a process of scanning the horizon, the organisation and from outside.
In some cases we are adding seeing how the industry is changing and making sure we are ready.
skills through acquisitions an example being the online fashion information service, WGSN, acquired in 2005 as well as by To understand exactly what it is that draws people to Emap, we developing our own expertise.
recently surveyed a sample of managers who had been with the Group for less than 15 months.
This told us that the most important We are a talent-dependent business requiring excellent people with factors attracting them to join were career progression and the a passion for their brands and subject matter.
So as we track the opportunity to work on our brands.
Nearly all reported that their Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 25 Our responsibilities expectations had been met and that they found Emaps culture to be Forging a common culture became a vital issue for Emap Radio professional, entrepreneurial and a source of competitive advantage.
when the acquisition of SRH nearly doubled the size of the business and made it essential to get the two operations working together Developing our talent extremely quickly.
The advertising sales teams were integrated in In line with our values, we offer every opportunity for Emap people a matter of days with almost no disruption to commercial trading, to advance their careers and full their potential.
There is plenty of thanks to the efforts of a cross-functional integration team including evidence that this is happening.
Human Resources, Finance, Sales and IT.
More recently, Emap Radio held its first internal conference as another step in consolidating the While the Grazia launch editorial team included new talent from combined business.
outside the Group, the advertising sales team was mainly drawn from the existing team at Emap Advertising.
Faced with the challenge of One of our values is to encourage employees to express their a major launch, the team seized the opportunity to stretch their skills opinions.
Each division in its different way runs a survey called and exceeded their first years sales targets.
Talkback that asks staff for their views on workplace issues and feeds the results back into the business.
On the same theme, the Individuals who have advanced during the year include Iain McKenna Emap European Forum meets once a year to share information and who joined us when we acquired Scottish Radio Holdings plc SRH discuss performance across Europe.
In France, we also have works in 2005.
Iains promotion to Managing Director of Radio City is the councils who formally represent the views and interests of French first example of a senior SRH manager benefiting from the greater employees to management.
headroom afforded by a larger organisation.
Rupert Keane has been rewarded for excellent work at the online automotive data business, Rewards and incentives CAP, by being made Managing Director, succeeding Ian Bissell who Emap is a meritocracy.
The best ideas win the day and the besthas himself been promoted to the key post of Information Director performing people are identied, backed and rewarded.
For many of at Emap Communications.
These are just three of the many talented our employees, the appeal of working at Emap is the freedom they individuals advancing their careers within Emap.
have to pursue their ideas and develop as far and as fast as their talents will take them.
Nearly all vacancies in Emap are publicised on our intranet and on www.
com the aim being to make it as easy as possible for Across the Group, businesses reward performance in ways that are employees to look for opportunities upwards and sideways within the appropriate to their markets.
At Emap Advertising, for example, there Group.
We also showcase individuals who have built their careers at are monthly awards for outstanding performance, as well as individual Emap, so providing examples to others of career paths that might be and team-based incentives.
We also place great emphasis on awards available to them.
UK staff breakdown by age As part of nurturing tomorrows talent, Emap Communications launched a new 16-month leadership development programme in 40% 39% Under 30 September 2005.
The Leadership Academy focuses on high-potential 47% 50% 30-45 13% 11% 45 managers and on developing the capabilities that senior executives are going to need in the future.
Similar programmes in other areas of our business include Inspire at Emap Consumer Media and Advance at Emap Advertising.
We have also just launched our first cross-divisional development programme targeted at the next Prior year in brackets generation of leaders.
Quality development extends to our people at every level.
Our Staff turnover Prior year in brackets annual expenditure on external training is 370 per employee, 28% 29% 28% 31% compared with an average of 339 for organisations of our size source: Chartered Institute of Personnel, Training & Development survey, 2005.
9% 11% A collaborative culture While recognising the benets of Emaps devolved culture, we also UK France Rest of World encourage links between teams and businesses wherever it makes sense to collaborate.
Breakdown of senior leadership UK staff breakdown by gender Prior year in brackets The purpose in many cases is to share learning.
During the year, Prior year in brackets 56% 54% Emap Communications held a series of breakfast and lunchtime 67% 69% 44% 46% workshops to share experience and encourage best practice on subjects such as design and magazine relaunches.
Over the past 33% 31% six months, Emaps most senior leaders have been working in cross-divisional groups to address specic business themes such as measuring the return on investment from advertising.
The coming Male Female Male Female year will see more initiatives of this kind.
Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 26 and award ceremonies to celebrate success and foster a Many editions of our magazines go out with cover mounts items unifying culture.
In addition, staff are encouraged to own shares.
such as CDs or sachets attached to the front.
These come mainly All employees are offered shares after their first year with Emap from the Far East and are supplied by TCS Europe who we know and over 71% have a financial stake in the Group.
source their products in an ethical manner.
Given our diversity, it is important to be exible in our benets.
Unsold magazines are collected from retailers by our wholesalers Lifemap, our exible benets package, is designed to reect this and are recycled the cover mounts being destroyed by waste diversity.
We also support individuals and teams in nding the right contractors.
Since we work on a sale or return basis, everyone working patterns to meet the needs of the business while achieving in the chain has a commercial interest in returning unsold copies.
Examples of this support in different areas A new, industry-leading stock management system, soon to be of the business include staggered times for starting and nishing introduced by Emaps distribution company, Frontline, will match and the possibility of sabbaticals.
supply more accurately to demand and so reduce the number of magazines that have to be both printed and returned.
For more on our health and safety record and on what our employees think of working at Emap, go to www.
The Green Ofce The Green Ofce Initiative launched in 2005 throughout the Group Protecting the environment has made good progress.
This encourages staff to recycle paper, At all points in the supply chain from the way we source our paper cans, toner cartridges, plastic cups, light bulbs, mobile phones and to the recycling of magazines, we try to ensure that Emap makes the computers and to be more economical in using electricity and water.
lightest possible impact on the environment.
Energy consumption 2006 The FTSE4Good Index classies Emap as a printing and newspaper Electricity Gas Water CO 2 company and therefore rates its environmental impact as medium.
Country KwH KwH M3 Tonnes In common with such businesses, we mainly affect the environment UK 11,143,591 3,730,357 48,754 5,501 in the way we dispose of waste and the amount of water and energy France 4,593,530 0 1,975 we consume.
Programmes are in place to minimise these effects, as reported below and on our website.
Energy consumption 2005 restated The use of paper Electricity Gas Water CO 2 With over 180 magazines in production, we consume approximately Country KwH KwH M3 Tonnes 199,000 metric tonnes of paper a year.
Throughout the cycle, from UK 11,694,192 4,340,089 17,949 5,853 sourcing timber to disposing of unsold magazines, we aim to make France 1,549,891 0 1,550 our supply chain as sustainable as possible and only use suppliers with high environmental standards.
These gures represent approximately 85% of Emaps occupied property To ensure that supplies are secure and competitively priced, for a 12-month period excluding Emap Radio Scotland and Ireland.
we buy our paper from four major suppliers with whom we have These gures represent approximately 65% of Emaps occupied built up strong relationships.
We also keep our own stockpiles.
property for a 12-month period excluding Emap Radio Scotland and Our paper is made in about 40 mills across northern Europe, all of Ireland.
Out of 31 sites, 9 sites are landlord supplied so cost is charged which manufacture to internationally recognised standards either through service charge.
EMAS European Eco-Management and Audit Scheme or ISO These gures represent approximately 53% of Emaps occupied 14001 or both.
This year, 63% of our paper came from forest property for a 12-month period excluding Emap Radio Scotland and certification schemes, up from 58% the year before.
In France, all sites are landlord supplied so cost is charged reach 75% by 2007 and eventually to push the figure as near through service charge and therefore data is not available.
These gures represent the CO equivalent of the gas and electricity 2 consumed for the period excluding Emap Radio Scotland and Ireland.
All our printers observe local environmental requirements and some 2005 gures have been restated to mirror the percentage of sites already operate to EMAS or ISO 14001.
We are insisting that they returning information for the year to 2006, providing a true comparative.
all reach one or other of these standards by 2007.
In the past year, our UK ofces recycled 461 tonnes of paper, saving 7,837 trees, 3,227,000 gallons of water and 1,936,200 kilowatt hours of electricity that would have been used in making Emap paper sourced from forest certification schemes new paper.
We also recycled 27,960 kilos of cardboard, 1,687 kilos 63% of toners, 1,260 kilos of plastic cups, 713 computers, 83 mobile 58% 49% phones and 630 kilos of cans.
The effort continues with a new push this year on recycling CDs and ofce furniture.
2004 2005 2006 Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 27 Our responsibilities Emap in the community and split them into two teams one to raise money on the streets of Our contribution to the community reects the energy, talents and Newcastle, the other to give a complete make-over to the Rainbow imagination of our people.
While the work is planned and carried out Trust centre in Hexham.
The effort was supported by the local radio by the individual businesses, there is every encouragement from the station, Metro FM.
centre for Emap staff to play an active part.
Other money-raising initiatives across the Group range from rafes The autonomy that our businesses enjoy in attracting and developing and sponsored runs by Emap Communications, to Grazias phone their people applies equally to their involvement in the community.
to win a goodie bag feature, to the soon-to-be-launched ClickNow Each brand, whether magazine, radio station or online service, reects scheme that allocates money to charity as staff use a particular the needs and preferences of a distinct community.
Fund-raising and search button on Emaps internet and intranet sites.
other community efforts are therefore extremely diverse and what follows is only a sample of a wide range of activity.
Giving time Our main vehicle for enabling staff to donate their time is the Media Trust.
Our community work takes three main forms giving money, giving Our association began when Emap Advertising donated nearly 500,000 time and raising awareness of good causes.
worth of advertising space to support the Media Trusts Give a Billion Minutes campaign in support of the 2005 Year of the Volunteer.
Shortly Giving money afterwards, Emap agreed to become a corporate member of the Trust, While the Group as a whole supports no single charity, it encourages joining bodies such as the BBC, BSkyB plc and WPP plc.
giving on the part of its staff through a matching scheme and a Give As You Earn GAYE programme.
The first matches any sum The Trust acts as broker between charities that need media skills raised by an individual or team to a limit of 500 while the second and organisations such as ours that have those skills in abundance.
donates 50 a month to any charity or group of charities that an Since we became a member, several of our staff have spoken at employee chooses to support through payroll giving.
After a recent Media Trust seminars or volunteered to help charities on specific programme to raise awareness of the schemes, the amount donated media and communications projects.
We are also involved in the by the Company in matched giving rose from 2,824 last year to Trusts Media Connections scheme that allows communications nearly 14,500 in 2005 06.
Over the same period, the number professionals from smaller charities to experience life in newsrooms of staff on the GAYE scheme rose from four to 70. and editorial offices.
As part of its links with the local community, each of our radio stations Individuals also get involved with charities they are passionate about.
has a designated charity for which it raises funds the consistent The editor of Architectural Review, Paul Finch, is chairman of an arts theme being that all these charities concern children.
Over the year, charity in London and gives several days a year to two architectural the total raised by our radio stations came to over 3.5m.
Of the many charities, the RIBA Trust and AET.
Elsewhere, staff at Emap Active individual examples, Radio Clydes Cash for Kids appeal raised over have been working with a secondary school in Peterborough to 1.1m while Hallam FM secured 800,000 for Help a Hallam Child design courses to promote teamwork, problem solving and other in Shefelds biggest-ever fund-raising event.
skills that pupils will need in the workplace.
We recently appointed a single individual to oversee the fund-raising Raising awareness efforts of all our radio stations.
The move will make it easier to share The close relationship between Emap brands and their constituencies best practice, raise the prole of the charities we help and ultimately provides plenty of opportunity to raise awareness of important social generate more money.
In the past year, topics covered by Emap magazines have ranged from racism and domestic abuse to AIDS and breast cancer.
Emap Advertising continued to support the Rainbow Trust whose two Closer magazines Young Heroes Awards Ceremony highlighted the homes support children with life-threatening or terminal illnesses and suffering and setbacks that many children have to overcome in their provide respite for their families.
Having raised funds for the Surrey lives while Radio Aire has been publicising the problem of home in 2004, the business this year took its staff to the North East homelessness in Leeds.
Emap brands have also joined forces with individual organisations.
is helping to raise awareness of the Samaritans among 16 to 25 year olds, a group with a higher than average suicide rate.
New Civil Engineer magazine supports RedR-IHE, an engineering humanitarian relief charity, through donations of money, time and advertising space.
One of the magazines journalists, Ruby Kitching, recently accompanied the charitys chief executive to Kenya on a visit that provided valuable contacts for subsequent editorial on African issues see page 29.
Following the governments Russell Commission 2005 report into youth engagement and the success of the Give a Billion Minutes campaign, a new independent charity called V has been set up to promote volunteering among 16 to 24 year olds.
Emap has pledged 500,000 in media space and air time over the next three years to raise awareness of the charity and its activities.
Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 28 NCE giving something back New Civil Engineer NCE magazine and conversations, she could give the to attend a nearby school and collect water is a strong supporter of RedR-IHE, the engineering community feedback and on their way home.
It also empowered them international disaster relief charity.
Recently, information from the trip, and also bring to plan for a life beyond the poverty the magazine sent one of its reporters, Ruby a tangible sense of community pride experienced by their parents.
Kitching, to Kenya to accompany the Institution to the engineering profession.
of Civil Engineers ICE and RedR in a bid Both the charity and the profession gained to give support and exposure to the trip.
I saw an entire village transformed by from the trip in terms of renewed enthusiasm the most basic civil engineering the and support.
NCE continues to invest time Ruby experienced the diverse engineering, introduction of a clean, reliable supply of and effort in support of RedR and is healthcare and social work being carried out water.
Instead of walking 14km to collect committed to helping the charity not only by RedR.
Through her writing, photography dirty water every day, children were able raise money but also to help raise awareness.
Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 29
