Chairmans statement Dear Shareholder I am pleased to report that we have made good progress across a number of fronts in our 2006 financial year despite the continuing difficult conditions in the media market.
We have seen significant changes in the shape of the Group which we believe will provide us with a rm platform from which to grow and develop.
As regards our financial results, normalised revenue grew by 8%, pre-tax profit by 9% and earnings per share by 11%, all good improvements over last year.
Statutory earnings per share was up 7% to 38.0 pence per share.
We spent 480m on acquisitions, invested a record 25m in launches, and generated 152m from disposals, and in February, after a review of our investment priorities, we announced that we intended to sell our French consumer magazines business.
The Board has announced new dividend guidelines which will result We have made good progress across a number in dividends growing more directly in line with earnings in the future.
of fronts in our 2006 financial year and the The Board is therefore recommending a final dividend of 21.4 pence changes we have made will provide us with per share, giving a dividend for the full year of 30.0 pence per share, up 20% on last year.
a rm platform for future growth.
In October 2005 we announced that, having conducted a thorough Adam Broadbent, Chairman search process, Ian Grifths had been appointed as Group Finance Director.
Mr Grifths had held the role of Acting Group Finance Director of Emap from April 2005 and the Board is delighted to be working with him in his new role.
As announced in February 2006, I will be stepping down at the conclusion of the Companys 2006 Annual General Meeting on 13 July 2006 and I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the Board members for their support during my time as Chairman.
Since I joined the Board in 1997 I have seen the Company go through significant change and I am confident that the Group has the right mix of skills and assets to take the business forward.
Alun Cathcart, currently a Non-Executive Director of the Company, will be taking over as Chairman at the conclusion of the AGM and I would like to welcome him to his new role.
He has substantial public company experience and will be an excellent leader of the Board as the Company looks to a future in an increasingly digital world.
Karen Jones, who has been on the Board since 1997, will also be retiring at the conclusion of the AGM and we would like to thank her for her invaluable contribution to the Group over the years.
Due to a change in the legislation we are no longer required to prepare a mandatory operating and financial review but instead must provide a business review that meets certain disclosure requirements.
I hope the Annual Report gives you the information you need to understand the Company and its markets, the challenges we face, and our overall performance.
Trading at the start of our current financial year is in line with our expectations and supports our present view that we will deliver similar levels of revenue growth to those achieved in 2006.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank everyone at Emap for their enthusiasm and determination during this year of change.
We rely on our people for the innovation and originality that drives our brands and we appreciate all that they do to make Emap a success.
Adam Broadbent, Chairman Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 1 Group at a glance Emap is a modern media business, with a portfolio of over 300 brands that bring people together.
In todays media environment the challenge is to cut through all the noise.
Emaps track record of creating market-leading brands that are must-have entertainment and information demonstrates our ability to edit choice for our consumer and B2B communities.
Emaps people are passionate about their products.
Together with their insight into customers behaviour, they serve the needs of advertisers and consumers, consistently developing creative and innovative products.
Group revenue Group operating profit 34% Consumer Magazines 33% Consumer Magazines UK UK 26% Consumer Magazines 16% Consumer Magazines France France 4% Consumer Magazines 1% Consumer Magazines International International 22% Business-to-business 34% Business-to-business 12% Radio 13% Radio 2% Television 3% Television Normalised Normalised Emap France Revenue mix On 28 February 2006 it was announced that, following a review 43% Advertising of the Groups strategic investment priorities, the Board had initiated a formal process for the sale of Emap France.
The sale 42% Circulation process is expected to complete in the first half of the Groups 2007 financial year.
10% Events 5% Other Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 2 Consumer magazines Business-to-business Emap publishes a broad portfolio of consumer Emaps business-to-business activities comprise magazines principally in the UK and France, business magazines, events including trade but it also has titles in Australia, the US and exhibitions, festivals, conferences and awards South Africa along with operating licences and information products, the majority of for FHM and other titles around the world.
which are focused on five key sectors retail, construction, public sector, media and automotive.
Radio Television Emaps radio assets comprise 40 local and eight Emaps television activities comprise seven digital national stations including the recently acquired music channels.
stations in Scotland, Northern Ireland, the Republic of Ireland and South of England and one of the largest digital radio networks in the UK.
Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 3
