Enodis is... in a unique position to help the foodservice industry innovate and grow.
We are creating new and better ways for our global clients to deliver consumer experiences in food and beverages where and when they want.
We operate in growth markets and are focused on delivering excellence in all areas of our business.
The following pages highlight the key drivers that will deliver long-term value to all our stakeholders.
01 Enodis plc Consumers rely on restaurateurs and other foodservice outlets to provide food and beverages for business, relaxation, socialising and entertainment.
With innovative solutions that accelerate service and more, Enodis helps restaurants meet consumer lifestyle requirements in an ever-changing world.
02 Enodis plc En dis is... enabling consumer lifestyles SUPPORTING MENU EXPANSION Food and beverage offerings in restaurants are becoming more varied to satisfy increasingly diverse and sophisticated palates.
Enodis is at the forefront of this trend, providing culinary support around the world to restaurant operators as they develop and perfect new menus to delight their diners.
03 Enodis plc ENODIS IS THE NAME BEHIND THE OCCASION In more than 100 countries, Enodis branded equipment drives 16.7 billion Estimated 2006 global foodservice the global restaurant business which offers an increasingly equipment sales in US dollars.
One of the largest manufacturers North American foodservice equipment of commercial food equipment in North America, and the markets are forecast to grow at 4.25% 4.75% in 2007. largest global company dedicated exclusively to commercial food equipment, Enodis innovation delivers technology, brands and service.
252,197 Restaurant locations operated globally in 2006 by the Top 500 chains based in the United States.
715 Number of locations operated by Chinas largest indigenous chain restaurant, Little Sheep.
GETTING SERIOUS ABOUT HEALTHY FOOD 5.3 Nearly 75% of consumers report they will Average number of weekly away from try to eat more healthily in restaurants than home dining occasions reported by they did two years ago.
Frymaster launched its Four Factors for Fit Frying programme, providing practical tips to operators on how to improve their frying results.
Steam cooking products offered by Cleveland and Convotherm also deliver food with more nutritional value than the same products prepared by microwave ovens.
04 Enodis plc BETTER QUALITY, COLDER DRINKS The climate in bars, pubs, clubs and restaurants worldwide is changing: the taste for drinks is getting distinctly colder.
Scotsman Beverage Systems SBS is one of Europes leading suppliers of drink cooling and dispense equipment.
It has worked with leading brewers to develop new cooling technology and eye-catching condensating fonts to quench the thirst of todays drinkers for extra cold beers, 0 lagers and ciders served at 3 C and below.
SBSs energy efficient, scaleable Glykool cooler range super chills both the drinks and the bar top dispense units, helping to stimulate and then satisfy the demand for icy cold, quality drinks.
QUALITY FOOD WITHOUT THE WAIT For some restaurants, a six second improvement in drive through service times is estimated to translate to a 1% increase in revenue.
But often consumers arent willing to trade quality for speed.
Integrated solutions combining Enodis Accelerated Cooking Technology with point-of-service refrigeration deliver kitchen productivity and freshly-cooked foods.
500 MEALS ALL AT ONCE The new kitchen at CLUB.
catering, the largest caterer in Austria, is set up with eight Convotherm combi-ovens and can handle events for 500600 guests.
catering is committed to the highest standards of quality food and a focus on presentation, upon which the success of every event depends.
Banquets and galas are prepared for many public events such as the Robbie Williams concert in Vienna, the new Porsche presentation and the McDonalds Supply Chain Symposium in Austria.
05 Enodis plc In large global chains and one-unit outlets, restaurateurs focus daily on improving profitability.
By applying its global resources to the top challenges facing restaurant operators, Enodis is improving operator profitability.
06 Enodis plc ENERGY EFFICIENT As increased global energy demands drive prices higher, restaurant operators in growing numbers are seeking energy efficient kitchen solutions.
Anticipating these needs, Enodis introduced Enodis Enerlogic, designed to make it easy for operators to identify, evaluate and purchase energy-efficient products.
More than 200 Enodis Enerlogic products are certified to meet or exceed third-party energy efficiency standards using  performance testing methods.
Beyond energy, Enodis has embraced efforts to reduce environmental footprints by adopting regulatory standards.
SMALLER FOOTPRINT, GREATER POWER Space is at a premium in a restaurant kitchen.
Thus, compact, flexible equipment that delivers quality food fast, helps operators squeeze more productivity, increased revenue and new menu items into their existing operations.
The Merrychef 402S meets those challenges and has been welcomed into use in fine restaurants, casual dining, quick service and convenience food locations around the globe.
EXTENDED HOLDING TIMES Ensuring food quality and safety during holding times allows operators to optimise the efficiency of their kitchens and profits.
This is true whether it is plated food awaiting table delivery in fine dining, or burgers and fries during the lunch rush.
With a variety of products and technologies, Convotherm, Delfield, Frymaster, Merco 1015 TIMES FASTER and other Enodis brands keep almost any Restaurant cooking is part art, part food ready to meet peak demands with production line.
Chefs require a full range impeccable results.
of tools to create menus and dishes that bring diners back.
With the broadest line of Accelerated Cooking Technology products in the industry, Enodis uniquely allows chefs to experiment with and select the right accelerated cooking oven to meet virtually any cooking requirement, at speeds up to 15 times faster than conventional methods.
07 Enodis plc En dis is... improving operator profitability 30 NEW PRODUCTS Foodservice operators face a multitude of daily challenges.
By working shoulder-toshoulder in restaurants, watching and listening carefully for problems and needs, Enodis is able to develop new products that optimise labour, reduce energy use, and improve kitchen profits.
This process has led to more than 30 new products in the past 12 months, and many other opportunities being identified.
CUSTOMER-FOCUSED SOLUTIONS Looking to shrink kitchens while expanding capacity, one of the worlds largest chains worked for weeks at the Enodis Technology Center to perfect accelerated cooking alternatives.
Others worked with Enodis culinarians, engineers and process experts to find alternative oils for frying, develop new holding technology, add new menu items and more.
FIRST-CLASS HOTEL, FIRST-CLASS PERFORMANCE Rated as one of Americas Top 10 resorts, the Hotel del Coronado in San Diego recently added a second Jackson flight-type warewasher.
Water-saving technology and quiet operation are among major innovations of the units.
Big enough to handle the dishwashing needs of the resorts five restaurants and effective enough to meet the Hotel del Coronado standards of quality, both of their Jackson Flight Machines are a perfect fit.
INNOVATION AND SUPPORT With six Kitchen Innovation Awards in 2006 from the US-based National Restaurant Association, Enodis leads the foodservice industry in innovative products.
Lincolns DTF and Fusion ovens, the Convotherm 3 combi oven-steamer, Merrychef accelerated cooking ovens, Delfield LiquiTec refrigeration, and Scotsman Prodigy ice machines are among recent products recognised for innovation by restaurant operators, design consultants and others.
08 Enodis plc En dis is... an innovation engine Enodis has pioneered a collaborative process to power proven innovation.
Enodis innovation ensures that customers are intimately involved from concept to completion.
Insight from customers helps make the path to innovation a clear one.
09 Enodis plc Wherever restaurant operators expand, they require local support.
Enodis understands that requirement, and continues investment in emerging markets, expanding manufacturing, service and consultative resources around the world.
10 Enodis plc En dis is... great brands supported globally RECOGNISED BRANDS Around the globe, Enodis brands are used in almost every type of foodservice outlet.
From Shanghai to Stuttgart, Sheffield to San Francisco, our brands are rated Best In Class, helping operators to store, prepare, cook, warm, hold, dispense, serve and clean.
EXPERT SUPPORT Before, during and after the sale, Enodis professionals provide expert advice and practical tips.
Our people are key assets.
By blending chefs, culinarians, dieticians, engineers, kitchen designers and service experts with a wide array of manufacturing, distribution, and other expertise, Enodis surrounds global foodservice operators with outstanding support.
27 FACTORIES IN EIGHT COUNTRIES Regional locations and Lean manufacturing processes make Enodis factories strategic assets for our customers.
By integrating global supply chain management with internal manufacturing core competencies, Enodis accelerates innovation, production and delivery.
CERTIFIED ENGINEERS 24 7 Enodis STAR Service means Standards, Training, Authorisation, and Response which guarantees expert service for our leading equipment brands in North America, 24 7.
Around the world, Enodis provides parts and service from trained technicians in more than 100 countries.
11 Enodis plc MODULAR CONTROLLER In the interest of providing faster development times to our customers, we have developed a modular concept for our controllers.
Some of the benefits will include a coherent use and style between different appliances for easy training and operation.
In addition they will offer flexibility by providing several user interfaces for our different customers to the same type of ERGONOMICALLY DESIGNED appliance.
The modular design will allow us A state-of-the-art model shop allows to have a leaner development and the Enodis Technology Center ETC to manufacturing of controls.
produce rapid prototypes, decreasing the development time required for new products.
The newest addition is a water-jet cutter, capable of pressuring water to 60,000 psi which is enough force to cut eight inch thick steel.
Despite its power, the water-jet can produce very intricate detailed cutting, as well as being able to cut items such as metal, plastic, plywood and pizza stones.
12 Enodis plc En dis is... technology for the future As one of the most labour-intensive industries, foodservice has an increasing demand for new technology to boost productivity, increase profitability, and enhance the customer experience.
Enodis utilises its industry-leading technology centre as an incubator for tomorrows breakthroughs, and invites customers to be a part of its Enodis innovation process.
