29 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
com Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2006 The Directors present their Report and audited financial statements of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings for the year ended 31 December 2006.
Principal activities and business review The principal activities of Filtrona are the light manufacture and supply of speciality plastic and fibre products.
The principal activity of the Company is a holding company.
The information which fulfils the requirements of the Business Review and should be treated as forming part of this Report is included in the Chairmans Statement on pages 04 and 05, the Chief Executives Review on Pages 06 to 19, the Financial Review on pages 20 to 22, the Analysis of Principal Risks on pages 23 to 25 and in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 46 to 48.
Key Performance Indicators Key Performance Indicators are set out in the Financial Review on pages 21 and 22.
Results and dividends The accompanying financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006 which were approved by the Board of Directors on 1 March 2007 are set out on pages 49 to 86.
The Company has paid the following dividends in respect of the year ended 31 December 2006: Per share Total p m Interim paid 27 October 2006 2.3 5.0 The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 4.6p 2005: 4.27p per share be paid, making a total dividend distribution for the year of 6.9p 2005: 6.4p.
The final dividend of 4.6p, subject to shareholder approval, will be paid on 4 May 2007 to shareholders on the register at 10 April 2007.
Directors and their interests During the year ended 31 December 2006 the Board of Directors comprised: Jeff Harris Non-executive Chairman Mark Harper Chief Executive Steve Dryden Finance Director Paul Drechsler Senior Independent Non-executive Director Adrian Auer Non-executive Director Warren Knowlton Non-executive Director appointed 1 June 2006 Paul Heiden Non-executive Director resigned 26 April 2006 Directors interests in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company are detailed in the Report of the Remuneration Committee on page 40.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Jeff Harris and Adrian Auer are retiring by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Warren Knowlton will retire as a Director of the Company with effect from the conclusion of the AGM.
30 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
com Directors Report Share capital The authorised and issued share capital of the Company is shown in note 18 to the financial statements.
Substantial shareholders At the close of business on 1 March 2007, the Company was advised of the following notifiable interests in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: % of issued ordinary Shareholder share capital Amvescap Plc 16.02 Legal & General Investment Management Limited 13.48 Ivory Investment Management LP 8.00 Ameriprise Financial Inc 5.86 Pennant Capital Management LLC 4.75 Zurich Assurance Limited 3.98 Property values In the opinion of the Directors there was no significant difference between the market and book values of the property held by the Group, as shown in the consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2006.
Charitable and political contributions The Company made no political contributions during the year 2005: nil.
Donations to UK charities amounted to 0.1m 2005: 0.1m, of which nil were made by the Company 2005: nil, with all contributions being made by its subsidiary companies.
Directors indemnities As at the date of this Report, indemnities are in force under which the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors and the Company Secretary, in addition to other senior executives who are directors of subsidiaries of the Company, to the extent permitted by law and the Companys Articles of Association, in respect of all losses arising out of or in connection with the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as a director or officer of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Employees Filtrona is guided by its aim to deliver a competitive and fair employment environment and the opportunity to develop and advance employees subject to personal performance and business opportunity.
Filtrona encourages its employees to develop and manage their own careers.
It facilitates this by providing relevant job training and, where appropriate, aiming to fill vacancies with existing staff where employees are suitably qualified and experienced.
Filtrona supports the principle of equal employment opportunity and is opposed to all forms of discrimination on the grounds of sex, race, nationality, ethnic or national origin, religion, marital status, sexual orientation, disability or age.
Filtrona companies conduct their businesses in a way that seeks to ensure individuals are treated equally and fairly and that all employment, training and career development decisions are made on job-based criteria.
Employees involvement Filtronas policy is to communicate with employees to ensure understanding of the businesses and of the impact business decisions have on employees.
Filtrona is keen to obtain feedback and ideas from employees to improve the operation of the business.
Creditor payment policy The Company policy for payment to suppliers is to pay to terms agreed with suppliers from time to time, subject to the suppliers performance in accordance with agreed terms and conditions.
Since the Company has no trade creditors, the disclosure of creditor days does not apply.
31 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
com Annual General Meeting The AGM of the Company will be held at the Holiday Inn Hotel, 500 Saxon Gate West, Milton Keynes, Buckinghamshire MK9 2HQ on Monday, 30 April 2007 at 12 noon.
In addition to the ordinary business of the AGM, resolutions in respect of the following matters of special business are included in the Notice of Annual General Meeting: Authority to allot unissued shares The Directors will, under Resolution 7 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting, seek power until the next AGM to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 5% of the issued share capital at 1 March 2007, equivalent to 10,966,300 shares.
The proposal conforms with the guidelines issued by the institutional investment protection bodies to ensure that existing shareholders interests are safeguarded.
The Directors have no present intention of exercising their authority to allot unissued shares, except those relating to share options.
Allotment of shares for cash The Directors will, under Resolution 8 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting, seek power until the next AGM to allot shares for cash, otherwise than in accordance with the statutory pre-emption rights, either in connection with a pre-emptive offering or otherwise, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 5% of the issued share capital at 1 March 2007, equivalent to 10,966,300 shares.
Purchase of own shares The Directors consider it expedient to seek shareholders approval to enable the Company to purchase its own shares.
Accordingly, under Resolution 9 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting, authority will be sought to enable the Company to make market purchases of up to 10% of the issued share capital at 1 March 2007 for the period of one year following the date of passing the resolution.
In accordance with the requirements of The Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, the maximum price for shares purchased in the market shall not exceed an amount equal to 105% of the average middle market quotation taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days before the purchase is made.
The minimum price per share shall be not less than 25p, being the nominal value of the shares.
The Directors will only utilise this authority if satisfied that to do so will result in an increase in earnings per share and that it is in the best long-term interests of the shareholders.
Auditor KPMG Audit Plc have indicated that they are willing to continue in office.
A resolution to re-appoint them, and to authorise the Board to set their remuneration, will be proposed at the AGM Resolution 6 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Recommendation The Directors believe that the resolutions in the Notice of Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole and unanimously recommend that shareholders vote in favour of each resolution.
Compliance with the Combined Code During the year ended 31 December 2006 the Company did not fully comply with the Code in that the posting of the Notice for the Companys first AGM and related papers to the shareholders did not take place at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Financial Instruments The information related to financial instruments is included in the Accounting Policies on page 54 and in note 14 on page 68.
Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and have elected to prepare its individual company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and applicable Iaw.
32 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
com Directors Report The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and performance of the Group.
The Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent company.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, a Report of the Remuneration Committee and a Corporate Governance Report in compliance with applicable law and regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors Statement as to Disclosure of Information to the Auditor The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of approving this Directors Report, having made enquiries of fellow Directors and of the Auditor, confirm that: to the best of each Directors knowledge and belief, there is no information relevant to the preparation of their report of which the Auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all steps a Director might reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
By order of the Board Jon Green Company Secretary 1 March 2007
