SIXTEEN The Expro Group Annual Report and Accounts for year ended 31 March 2006 Our subsea business is focused on Technology Review deepwater West Africa, deepwater Gulf of Mexico and North Sea, however we do provide subsea services across the world.
Our Tronic Business provides high SUBSEA TRONIC integrity connectors to clients across the world.
Our manufacturing plant is in the UK and we have assembly facilities in the UK and Houston.
During the year, Expro has continued to deliver Expros position in the installation of completions new and innovative technologies to the upstream in subsea wells.
Expro has designed, completed oil and gas industry.
Our technology portfolio and delivered a number of state-of-the-art deep continues to be developed and managed in line water and high pressure subsea intervention and with the groups technology strategy, which has landing strings with complex electro-hydraulic not materially changed in the last year, and is E-H control systems.
These have been directed by the Technology Council, chaired by deployed in the Gulf of Mexico, successfully non-executive director Terry Lazenby.
The installing completions for a number of operators majority of the technology and engineering in their offshore subsea well projects in water development effort has been targeted at depths up to 6,000 ft. An extremely complex offshore and high-value land oil and gas landing string E-H control system for a hostile production wells, where the application of these and high pressure subsea project in the Gulf of new products and services has the largest Mexico has completed the development and economic benefit for our customers.
engineering phase and is currently being manufactured for deployment in 2006.
We believe The cost of rigs for drilling and completing wells in these developments have firmly established intermediate and deep water semi-submersible Expro as the leading supplier of high technology and drill ship types has remained at historically landing strings in the increasingly important high day-rates.
The consequence of this allied to deep water and high pressure subsea well the complexity of these subsea wells is that the completion market.
cost to drill and complete, or intervene in, subsea wells is now the major cost in developing subsea The last year has also seen the successful assets.
Efficient use of these rigs is essential to deployment of the first hostile environment the effective optimisation of offshore fibre-optic connectors developed and marketed developments.
Expros core technologies are under Expros Tronic brand name.
This product is designed to allow this optimisation of well-based the result of two years development and operations.
The groups technology strategy qualification work, and combines Tronics recognises the continued development of subsea unparalleled skills in harsh environment connector well intervention technologies as the critical systems with newly acquired skills in fibre element in ensuring that our customers are able optic communications.
to extract the maximum value from the development of hydrocarbon resources in the Expros new concept for subsea well intervention offshore, and particularly deep water, environment.
from a ship-shaped vessel now branded TM The group doubled its expenditure on AX-S has been progressed into phase II.
development compared to the previous year, with Phase I demonstrated the viability and feasibility approximately 75% of the expenditure being in of the concept.
The continual increases in subsea Installed landing string the strategically important area of well intervention, well costs and the increasing age of the subsea schematic.
and especially in the rigless well intervention well population has further increased the concept identified in last years Annual Report.
It has been agreed with our JIP partners that Expro will execute A number of major projects have been advanced phase II during next year.
Phase II will prototype through the stage-gate process used to control and test the higher-risk components of the and manage product development.
This year has system prior to full system manufacture and seen significant progress in the development of deployment.
Expro has continued with the Annual Report and Accounts for year ended 31 March 2006 The Expro Group SEVENTEEN During the year, Expro has continued to deliver new and innovative technologies to the upstream oil and gas industry.
TM design and development of dedicated AX-S wells in the United States and in the Middle Far subsystems in the last year.
The development of the integrated down TM upgrading the in-well tractor SmarTract hole video PL system has resulted in new well technology the group acquired early in 2004. bore and formation visualisation software that TM AX-S requires a tractor system that will enable gives operators a significantly improved in-well wireline tools to be conveyed in highly deviated imaging capability for well condition and wells.
The upgraded tractor system will provide monitoring applications.
the capability of manipulating tools in the well while applying significantly larger force than the We continue to support our Intellectual Property current system can apply.
In addition, we IP portfolio in line with our Intellectual Property have begun the detailed design of the highly Rights IPR and technology strategies.
The sophisticated command and control system for company uses a range of IP protection methods TM AX-S as part of an accelerated development ranging from copyright through to multi-territory TM programme for AX-S subsystems.
During the last year the group applied for patent protection for nine new and innovative The groups technology strategy defines a technologies, with special emphasis on the process of continual improvement and integration protection of technologies that underlie the TM of existing technologies to ensure that we extract AX-S intervention system.
the maximum value from our development effort.
A number of such projects have been completed The last year has seen a record investment in and introduced to the market place which development and product engineering by the improves the groups ability to provide value group, with the development engineering enhancing well intervention procedures in oil and personnel numbers approximately doubling over gas wells.
One such project has been the the year.
We have also invested in significantly integration of the down hole video technology, improved infrastructure and systems, both IT and acquired in early 2005, with components of management processes, that will increase the Expros existing well production logging PL efficiency of the product development process.
This new tool will give operators an The core multi-skill development and engineering enhanced well performance measurement team is now located in a dedicated, purpose capability, especially in problematic high water designed building in Aberdeen.
We have also cut and highly deviated wells.
developed satellite development and engineering teams that are co-located with the business in Technologies acquired over the last two years Houston and in the business units.
These local have been integrated into the group development engineering teams will provide the group with the plan, with significant resources committed to the ability to service the immediate needs of these continued development of these technologies.
The enhanced skills base and Top to bottom: The market leading downhole video systems infrastructure underline Expros ambition to deliver Technology council and WWS have been augmented by the systematic evolution high-value, innovative technologies that will allow senior managers, Dorset.
of the technology into a new generation of tools.
our customers to realise the potential of their G Prise and Giovanni Paccaloni The new generation of tools have increased assets.
The investment made during 2005 will World President of SPE, temperature ratings, and will be available in also ensure that Expro maintains and improves Aberdeen.
smaller diameter configurations than the current its position as a leading force in the supply of Investor technology generation.
These will allow the DHVI business value adding products and services to the presentation, Aberdeen.
access to new markets in deeper, smaller bore upstream oil and gas industry.
