TWENTY The Expro Group Annual Report and Accounts for year ended 31 March 2006 Directors Report The directors present their annual report on the affairs of the group, together with the accounts and auditors report for the year ended 31 March 2006.
Principal activities The group provides a range of specialised services to the upstream oil and gas industry, focused on reducing client capital and operating expenditure.
These services relate to the reservoir, well bore and surface facilities of an oil field development.
Revenue for the year was 300.7m 2005 211.3m resulting in an operating profit of 34.1m 2005 12.5m.
Profit before tax was 29.6m 2005 11.0m and after reflecting the current year tax charge of 11.2m 2005 7.8m and the discontinued results in respect of joint ventures, profit for the year was 28.5m 2005 3.8m.
Of the groups turnover, 59% 2005 58% is derived from outside Europe and 69% 2005 64% from outside the UKCS.
Expro carried out work in 50 countries during the year.
Business review The operating review has not been prepared in accordance with the non-mandatory Reporting Statement 1, as issued by the Accounting Standards Board in January 2006.
A review of the groups business is set out by reference to the Chairmans and Chief Executives statement together with the information contained within Operating, Financial, and Technology Reviews, with key financial indicators being shown on the Financial Statistics page of this Report.
In addition, to provide the additional information required by the enhanced business review, we have added further information on the principal risks and uncertainties facing the company and this can be found on page 40 of this Report.
The requirement to provide other key performance indicators, covering environment and employee matters, has now been highlighted in the Corporate Social Responsibilty CSR section on page 39 of this report and reference should also be made to the separate CSR report as in previous years for more detail on these matters.
The subsidiary and associated undertakings principally affecting the profits or net assets of the group in the year are listed in note 38 to the company accounts.
Financial instruments In relation to the use of financial instruments, the financial risk management objectives and policies of the company, and the exposure of the company and its subsidiary undertakings to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk, are shown in the Financial Review and notes 19, 21 and 23 in the Notes to the Consolidated Accounts.
Issue of securities for cash Details of the placing of 6,640,000 of the groups ordinary shares for cash on 2 June 2005 are provided in note 26 in the Notes to the Consolidated Accounts.
Dividends The directors recommend a final dividend of 7.1p per ordinary share to be paid on 31 July 2006 to ordinary shareholders on the register on 30 June 2006 which, together with the interim dividend of 3.8p paid on 31 January 2006, makes a total of 10.9p for the year 2005 10.9p.
Annual Report and Accounts for year ended 31 March 2006 The Expro Group TWENTY-ONE Directors Report continued Directors interests Details of directors interests, who held office at 31 March 2006, are set out on page 36 of this report headed Directors Remuneration Report.
Directors share options Details of the directors share options are set out on page 37 of this report headed Directors Remuneration Report.
Supplier payment policy The companys policy, which is also applied by the group, is to settle terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction, ensure that suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment and abide by the terms of payment.
Once the goods or services have been satisfactorily delivered, payment is made in accordance with those agreed terms.
Trade creditors of the company at 31 March 2006 were equivalent to 60 days 2005 60 days purchases, based on the average daily amount invoiced by suppliers during the year.
Charitable and political donations The group does not have a central programme of charitable donations but supports requests from staff and also makes direct donations to charities.
During the year the group made charitable donations of 27,674 2005 29,282.
No political donations were made during the year 2005 Nil.
Substantial shareholdings At 24 May 2006, notification had been received of the following holdings of more than 3% of the issued share capital of the company: % Fidelity Management and Research Co UK & US 14.84 Standard Life Investments Ltd SC 8.25 Aegon Asset Management SC 6.21 Schroder Investments Mgmt Ltd UK 5.27 Legal & General Investment Mgmt Ltd UK 4.38 Capital Group Companies Inc US 4.33 Columbia Wanger Asset Management US 3.68 AXA Financial SA UK & US 3.60 Disabled employees Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the requirements of the position and the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
In the event of individuals becoming disabled whilst working for the group, every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the group continues either by the provision of reasonable adjustments to their role or provision of an alternative position and where appropriate training is arranged.
There may, however, be circumstances where it will not be reasonably practicable for the group to accommodate such adjustments or provide an alternative position, and where refusal may be justified.
It is the policy of the group that individuals do not suffer any detriment due to a disability.
Employment policies The groups employment policies are regularly reviewed and updated to ensure they remain effective.
They are designed to promote a working environment which supports the recruitment and retention of effective employees, improves productivity and fosters relationships free of discrimination.
Giving all employees access to training remains a priority, with ongoing investment in training being managed within local business areas.
TWENTY-TWO The Expro Group Annual Report and Accounts for year ended 31 March 2006 Directors Report continued Employee consultation communication The group places considerable value on the involvement of its employees and has continued to keep them informed of matters affecting them as employees and on the various factors affecting the performance of the group.
This is achieved through formal and informal meetings, the company newsletter and access to the groups financial statements on the Intranet site.
Employee representatives, where nominated through employee forums, are consulted regularly and widely on a range of matters affecting current and future interests.
Sharesave scheme The employee Sharesave scheme has been running successfully since its inception in 1995 and is now offered on an annual basis, subject to Board review.
It is open to all employees and consists of a payroll based savings scheme with an option to purchase shares at the end of a 3 year period, using the savings plus a tax free bonus.
The purchase of shares will be made at a value equalling the market price at date of grant less a discount of 20%.
Employees in the United Kingdom UK, Holland, Australia and Canada are invited to participate and there continues to be a good level of participation both in the UK and abroad.
In the USA, in 2005, following agreement by the shareholders, a section 423 payroll savings option plan was introduced to reflect the UK based Sharesave scheme as far as possible and this will continue to be offered, again subject to Board review.
Bonus Employees are, generally, included in bonus arrangements which are specific to their role and responsibilities.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance The group is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance which is appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority the 2003 FRC Code, and for which the board of directors is accountable to shareholders.
The Board sees corporate governance as the relationship between the company, its directors and its shareholders.
Corporate governance determines how authority and accountability are distributed throughout the company and sets the framework within which we meet our objectives.
As directors, the Board realises that they have a responsibility to our shareholders to provide robust structures and processes and to observe the standards of corporate governance reflecting developments in best practice.
Statement of compliance with the Code of Best Practice Throughout the year ended 31 March 2006 and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts, the company has been in compliance with the provisions set out in section 1 of the 2003 FRC Code except for the following matters: The Chief Executive and the Finance Director regularly meet institutional investors and analysts and provide direct feedback from the shareholders to the Board as a whole.
Generally neither the Chairman, nor the Senior Independent Director, attends meetings with major shareholders, unless requested.
The group became a FTSE 250 company during the year.
The Board has reviewed the balance of executive and non-executive directors skills and knowledge and remains of the opinion that it is satisfactory.
This does not meet the 2003 FRC Codes requirement to have equal numbers of independent non-executive and executive directors.
Statement about applying the Principles of Good Governance The company has applied the Principles of Good Governance set out in section 1 of the Combined Code, including both the main Principles and the supporting Principles, by complying with the 2003 FRC Code as reported above.
Further explanation of how the Principles and supporting Principles have been applied is set out below and, in connection with directors remuneration, in the directors Remuneration Report.
Board effectiveness Brief biographical details of all current directors are provided on pages 18 and 19 of the report.
Directors The Board meets regularly to determine the strategic policy of the group and to review safety, operating, financial and risk performance.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for its attention reviewed and amended as required on an annual basis which includes approval of the annual business plan, the risk framework within which the group will operate, group policies and standards on financial and non-financial risk, significant transactions above defined limits, the entering into of significant new business activities and the scope of delegations to Board committees and executive management of the group.
Annual Report and Accounts for year ended 31 March 2006 The Expro Group TWENTY-THREE Directors Report continued All directors are given appropriate documentation in advance of each Board meeting, including period and year to date financial reports, proposals for acquisitions and disposals, other investments, material business issues, as well as contractual matters and safety reports, and have occasionally deferred decisions where non-executive directors have requested additional information.
The executive management of the group is responsible for developing strategy, the performance of the group, and managing the group in accordance with the policies and procedures approved by the Board.
In addition to the two main formal meetings of the year held to authorise release of the companys preliminary and interim results, following consideration by the Audit Committee, there were a further eight meetings of the full board predominantly in Reading, but also in Aberdeen and Ulverston during the year at which all directors were present.
On a rotating basis the Board receives presentations from the management team of the Regional and Global business, and other key functions, enabling it to explore specific issues and developments in more detail.
Commercial 1 1,2 1,3, 4 4 1,4 Full Board matters Audit Com Nom Com Rem Com C E Fay Chairman 10 4 3 4 Executive directors G F Coutts CEO 10 4 4 3 4 M J Speakman FD 10 10 M J Martindale COO 10 7 C P Ainger Director Corporate Development 10 10 Non-executive directors R F Boyes SID 10 4 3 5 T M Lazenby 10 4 3 5 T J C Eggar 10 4 3 6 Total number of meetings 10 10 4 3 6 Note 1 The Company Secretary attends all meetings of the board, remuneration and audit committee meetings.
2 Commercial matters require a quorum of executive directors at a meeting to conduct business and is reported to the next full board meeting.
3 At the invitation of the Chairman of the audit committee, the Finance Director and Group Risk and Internal Audit Manager attend all meetings, with the Chief Executive, external audit partner, other directors and senior managers attending as required.
4 At the invitation of the Chairman of the committee, the Chairman and the Chief Executive attend committee meetings of the board.
Insurance against legal action against its directors The company has effected insurance to cover its directors and officers, including non-executive directors, against the loss incurred by each insured person due to any wrongful act.
This cover extends to subsidiary directors, subject to certain terms and conditions, and provides for company reimbursement if the company pays the loss due to any wrongful act of an insured person.
The total limit of indemnity is 15 million in aggregate each policy year.
The policy does not provide payment where the director has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer The non-executive Chairman C E Fay and the Chief Executive G F Coutts, following a clearly documented division of responsibilities, continued to lead the Board, for the whole period to 31 March 2006.
The Chairman is responsible for the workings and leadership of the Board and for the balance of its membership, subject to Board and shareholder approval.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the development and implementation of strategy, leading and managing the business within the authorities delegated by the Board, effective communication with shareholders and liaising with the Chairman, keeping him informed of all material matters.
Notwithstanding the other appointments of the Chairman a non-executive director of BAA PLC, Stena Drilling Ltd. and Anglo American PLC, the Board believes that the Chairman remains able to effectively carry out his duties and responsibilities for the group.
TWENTY-FOUR The Expro Group Annual Report and Accounts for year ended 31 March 2006 Directors Report continued Board balance and independence Excluding the Chairman, all of the non-executive directors are considered to be independent in accordance with the 2003 FRC Code provisions at the date of publication, and throughout the year to 31 March 2006.
R F Boyes remains the Senior Independent Director SID, which includes deputising for the Chairman, as required.
The independent non-executive directors review and monitor strategy, the performance of management, the integrity of financial information and also control and risk management.
They are also responsible for executive and senior management remuneration, and Board and senior management succession.
Appointments to the Board i Nomination Committee The Committees function is to make recommendations to the Board on all new Board appointments using a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for such appointments, reviewing the skills and knowledge and composition of the Board, the orderly succession for appointments to the Board and also to other senior management positions.
During the year, the committee was led by Dr C E Fay as Chairman and R F Boyes, T J C Eggar and T M Lazenby served as members for the full period.
The Chief Executive attends meetings at the invitation of the Committee.
The number of meetings held during the year is shown above with the attendees being noted.
The Committee continued to review the structure, size and composition of the Board during the year, having regards to the change in the companys listing level to a FTSE 250 company and considered the appointment of another independent non-executive director.
The Committee reached the conclusion that the wide ranging skills and expertise of the existing non-executive directors, together with the specific roles and responsibilities of the executive team, provided a satisfactory continuing basis for the group to meet its shareholders requirements.
During the year, the Nomination Committee engaged the services of Hanson Green independent search consultants to bring forward a list of suitable candidates for the position of Group Legal Counsel.
ii Succession planning During the year, the Nomination Committee met to consider the development plan for directors and the senior management team including identifying a clear strategy for succession.
The committee and the Board reviewed the results of the Boards evaluation of its own performance, and that of the NEDs, and concluded that the re-election of the directors see below is consistent with the development plan, the Boards evaluation and the Boards overall policy on board development.
iii Terms of reference The terms of reference for the committee are available on the groups website and are available upon request from the company secretary.
The existing terms of reference were reviewed during the year and no changes to the ICSA best practice model were thought necessary.
iv Significant changes in appointments The Chairman Dr C E Fay resigned his role as Chairman of the Tuscan Energy Group Ltd in June 2005.
T J C Eggar was appointed part time executive Chairman of Harrison Lovegrove and Co in October 2005 and Chairman of Indego Petroleum PLC in December 2005.
During the year R F Boyes SID was appointed Chairman of Northern Foods Pension Trustees Limited.
T M Lazenby resigned his role in UMITEK Ltd in April 2005 and was appointed Chairman of the ECITB in October 2005. v Terms of appointment Terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors will be available for inspection by any person at the companys registered office during normal business hours and at the Annual General Meeting.
Remuneration The Remuneration Committee is chaired by T J C Eggar, an independent non-executive director, with R F Boyes and T M Lazenby who have been members for the full year.
The Remuneration Report on pages 30 to 38 contains a more detailed description of the groups policy and procedures in relation to directors and officers remuneration.
Terms of reference The terms of reference of the remuneration committee are available on the companys website and also upon request.
These terms of reference, based upon the ICSA best practice model, are reviewed at least annually.
Annual Report and Accounts for year ended 31 March 2006 The Expro Group TWENTY-FIVE Directors Report continued Information and professional development On appointment to the Board, directors are provided with a full information pack, which includes details of the group, its structure, its strategy and the legal and regulatory framework in which it operates.
During the year, as appropriate, visits to the groups key locations and presentations by local management teams are used to ensure new Directors knowledge and familiarity with the groups business is rapidly increased.
Regular presentations to the Board are given by the senior management team covering the progress with major projects, the impact of re-organisational changes, the integration of acquisitions and a semi-annual review of the groups safety performance this being in addition to the monthly review of safety, and quality, by the Board.
Procedures are in place to allow directors access both to independent professional advice at the groups expense and the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
Other regulatory developments are also highlighted as required to ensure all directors effectively fulfil their role on the Board and its committees, for example, a briefing session on the impact of the new International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS was held during the year.
Performance evaluation During the year, the Chairman led the annual formal evaluation of the Board and its principal committees through an internal evaluation process allowing an appropriately tailored approach.
This year the evaluation used both questionnaires, and a formal review of the workings and interaction of the directors using an open debate on the Boards performance, and that of individual directors, conducted during a full Board meeting with all directors in attendance.
At the conclusion of the discussion, the Chairman confirmed that the Board and its main committees had functioned well during the year and that individual directors performance supported this view, with each regularly making a significant contribution.
The mix of skills between executive and non-executive directors continued to be appropriate and matters arising from the discussion, and those from the questionnaire analysis of the Boards committees, had been discussed and would be addressed either immediately, or as appropriate to the business cycle.
The Board agreed that the review processes using questionnaires and discussion had proved successful in highlighting areas for improvement, although no significant problems had been identified and that similar approaches to Board evaluation would be considered in future.
R F Boyes, as SID, used the same evaluation process during the formal feedback discussion to review and evaluate the performance of the Chairman.
Re-election Dr C E Fay non-executive Chairman, T M Lazenby independent non-executive Director and G F Coutts Chief Executive Officer who retire by rotation in accordance with the companys Articles of Association, will present themselves for re-election by shareholders at the 2006 AGM.
Following the annual evaluation of the Board and individual directors performance R F Boyes SID confirmed that the Chairmans technical skills, effectiveness and commitment remain entirely suitable for the groups requirements and would recommend re-election.
In addition the Chairman, from the same evaluation, was able to confirm that the performance and commitment of G F Coutts and T M Lazenby was satisfactory and would strongly recommend re-election.
The biographical details of each of the directors standing for re-election can be found on pages 18 and 19 of the report.
The Board strongly supports their re-appointment and recommends that the shareholders vote in favour of their reappointment.
TWENTY-SIX The Expro Group Annual Report and Accounts for year ended 31 March 2006 Directors Report continued Election of a director The Board will appoint J W McAlister to the Board as Group General Counsel on 12 June 2006.
As required by the companys Articles of Association, he will present himself for election by shareholders at the AGM on 6 July 2006.
His biography is contained in the following paragaph and the Board supports this appointment and recommends that the shareholders vote in favour.
John McAlister 40 Group General Counsel From 2002 to the present date, he was employed by National Grid PLC where he was Group Deputy General Counsel.
Whilst qualifying with the Law Society in 1992, he worked for Clifford Chance in both London and Singapore in the period from 1990 to 1998.
Subsequently, he worked in BG Group PLC, as a corporate lawyer, and Lattice Group PLC, as Group Deputy General Counsel, ending in 2002.
Accountability and audit Statement of Directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the accounts.
The directors have chosen to prepare accounts for the group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and for the company in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
In the case of UK GAAP accounts, the directors are required to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
In the case of IFRS accounts, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in International Financial Reporting Standards is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and prepare the accounts on a going concern basis unless, having assessed the ability of the company to continue as a going concern, management either intends to liquidate the entity or to cease trading, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the group, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a directors report and directors remuneration report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the company website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Annual Report and Accounts for year ended 31 March 2006 The Expro Group TWENTY-SEVEN Directors Report continued Disclosure of information to auditors Pursuant to section 234ZA 2 of the Companies Act, each of the persons, who were directors at the time when the directors report was approved, state as follows: a Each director was not aware of any relevant audit information not provided to the auditors: and b Each director has taken all steps that they ought to have taken in order to make themselves aware of such relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
Internal control The group has applied Principle C. 2 of the 2003 FRC Code by establishing a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the group.
The process is regularly reviewed by the Board and in accordance with the Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code published in September 1999, has been reviewed in the year to 31 March 2006 and remains in place to the date of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The continuation of a programme to integrate internal control and risk management into the operations of the business remains a priority.
The Board has overall responsibility for the groups system of internal control, for reviewing its effectiveness and that of the work of internal audit.
Whilst acknowledging their responsibility for the system of internal control, the Board stresses that such a system cannot eliminate the risk of failure to the achievement of business objectives but, instead, is designed to manage that risk.
In pursuing these objectives, the system of internal controls can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In compliance with provision C. 2.1 of the Combined Code, the Board, regularly reviews and has conducted a review during the year of the effectiveness of the groups system of internal control.
The key features of the system of internal control remains largely unchanged from the previous year and include: An integrated risk management system throughout the group, where each significant risk is assigned to a responsible manager who is supported by a director who is accountable to the Board.
The controls for managing each significant risk are analysed as part of an ongoing process and monitored by the Executive Committee, the Audit Committee and the Board.
A comprehensive monthly system of reporting to the Board based upon the groups financial performance against the annual business budget with monthly variance analysis, a rolling monthly forecast of revenue and profitability to the end of the current financial year, tender, contractual and marketing data.
An Executive Committee, chaired by the Chief Executive, meets regularly to monitor key aspects of the business and those aspects of internal control and risk management procedures which have been delegated to executive management.
A formal system of appraisal is documented and applied to potential contract bids, project expenditure and detailed contract terms and conditions.
Key group-wide financial, marketing, safety, quality and resource management systems operate in the major worldwide locations.
Monitoring of the internal control and risk management system is carried out by an independent internal audit function.
Audit committee and auditors Audit Committee The audit committee is chaired by R F Boyes: T M Lazenby and T J C Eggar were members of the committee for the whole period.
Biographical information on pages 18 and 19 contains details of the previous skill and experience of the directors and thus complies with the requirement of the Smith Guidance in the 2003 FRC Code.
The Audit Committee was chaired by R F Boyes whose significant financial experience as Finance Director with Halifax Group PLC is particularly relevant, with members being restricted to independent non-executive directors.
The Committee met twice during the year with all members present, meeting with executive directors, senior management and external and internal auditors to review the current scope of external and internal audit and to receive reports from the external and internal Auditors.
On a further two other occasions during the year the Committee met formally with executive directors, senior management and internal auditors only and on one occasion met with the external auditors where the executive directors were not present.
TWENTY-EIGHT The Expro Group Annual Report and Accounts for year ended 31 March 2006 Directors Report continued The Committee: reviews the half-yearly and annual accounts before they are presented to the Board, focusing in particular on accounting policies including compliance and areas such as management systems and processes, reviews the activities and effectiveness of the internal risk and audit function, reviews the effectiveness of the groups system of internal control, reviews the formal procedure by which staff can, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties whistleblowing, make recommendations on the appointment and remuneration of external auditors, whilst monitoring their performance and effectiveness, reviews the proportion of non-audit fees to audit fees paid to the auditors and giving pre approval to non audit work being undertaken by the auditors, reviews the report on the groups corporate social responsibility activities.
Whistleblowing The Committee remains satisfied that the policy and procedures for whistleblowing incorporates arrangement for the proportionate and independent investigation of matters raised and appropriate follow up action.
External auditors As far as possible, the Board and the Committee take steps to prevent the external auditors objectivity and independence from being compromised.
The Committees written policy states that the company will only use the appointed external auditor to provide services in cases where these services do not conflict with the external auditors independence and agrees factors that confirm their independence.
In addition, the policy confirms the basis for the services permitted, both audit and non-audit with financial limits and states services not permitted, thus limiting the scope of their involvement in the provision of audit and non-audit related advice as follows: Audit related services In their position as auditors, they are best placed to undertake work of this nature.
Tax consulting Generally, the auditors are used as it is considered that they are well suited for this work.
However, in certain areas of the world, and for certain specialist projects, other professional firms are used.
General consulting This work is usually subject to formal Board or Committee approval.
Projects are awarded to the organisation best qualified to perform the work.
Work required by IFRS requirements with regards to the valuation of intangible assets etc.
will not be performed by the auditors.
The above controls provide the Audit Committee with adequate confidence in the independence of Deloitte and Touche LLP in their reporting on the audit of the group.
The Committee has recommended to the Board that they propose the re-appointment of the external auditors to shareholders at the 2006 AGM.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available on the companys website and also upon request.
This report is reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee.
Dialogue with institutional shareholders The Expro Group values and maintains an active two-way dialogue with its shareholders via a planned program of communications headed by the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director with institutional shareholders.
This is normally conducted through briefings both with analysts and institutional shareholders following the announcement of interim and year end results generally in London and Edinburgh, but also in the United States together with site visits and individual discussions.
The Executive directors and senior management meet, at least annually, at a key business location better to communicate the groups financial results and business strategy.
Representatives of institutional shareholders, analysts and the media, who are invited to this meeting, are provided with presentations by operational management.
This aims to ensure that the performance, strategies and objectives of the group are well understood and, also, that any corporate governance and CSR issues are also reviewed and addressed.
Annual Report and Accounts for year ended 31 March 2006 The Expro Group TWENTY-NINE Directors Report continued The Board receives regular written feedback from its brokers and PR agency.
The current arrangements for communication between the Company and its shareholders are considered to be satisfactory and effective, and regular or routine meetings between shareholders and the Chairman or Senior Independent Director are not considered necessary.
During the year, shareholders can receive information through the groups web-site www.
com, which provides links to share price information, financial results and a method of raising queries with the group.
Constructive use of the AGM Each year all shareholders receive a copy of the Annual Report and Accounts, the CSR Report and the Interim Report.
The Annual General Meeting AGM held in the head office in Reading, Berkshire is used as an opportunity to facilitate communication between shareholders and the Board.
At the AGM, all executive Directors attend and provide, where relevant, current business information.
In addition, Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees attend in order to answer questions on the activities of their own committees.
Auditors Deloitte and Touche LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board A M Dand Secretary Reading Bridge House Reading Berkshire RG1 8PL 30 May 2006
