EIGHTEEN The Expro Group Annual Report and Accounts for year ended 31 March 2006 Directors and Advisors Dr Chris Fay, CBE, 61 Chairman He was appointed to the Board in July 1999 following his service as Chairman with Shell UK Ltd, and also as Chief Executive.
He is currently a non-executive director of BAA PLC, Stena Drilling Ltd, Anglo American PLC, Stena International BV and Bramfield Management Limited.
He is Chairman of the Nomination Committee and is a non-executive director.
Graeme Coutts, 47 Chief Executive Officer He spent 10 years with 2 major international service providers prior to joining Expro in 1990.
He was appointed initially as Marketing and Technology Director, and was then appointed to the Board in 1995.
He became Chief Operating Officer in 1998 and Director Western Hemisphere in 2001.
He was appointed Chief Executive in October 2003.
Michael Speakman, 42 Finance Director He was previously employed by Smiths Group PLC, where he was Finance Director of Smiths Medical.
Since 1982, he worked in various operational and financial roles for Smiths Group PLC and TI Group, prior to its merger with Smiths Group in 1999.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants of England and has a BSc in Engineering.
He was appointed to the Board as Finance Director in March 2004.
Colin Ainger, 56 Corporate Development Director He joined the group in 1982 as Group Chief Accountant, was appointed to the Board as Group Finance Director in 1992 and is the Director responsible for both Corporate Development and for Health, Safety and the Environment.
He will retire at the Annual General Meeting on 6 July 2006.
Advisors Auditors: Deloitte & Touche LLP Stockbroker: JPMorgan Cazenove Solicitors: Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer Bracewell & Guiliani USA Bankers: Bank of Scotland Merchant Bankers: JP Morgan Cazenove Annual Report and Accounts for year ended 31 March 2006 The Expro Group NINETEEN Mike Martindale, 59 Chief Operating Officer He joined the group in 1995 and was appointed to the Board in September 2002 as Director Eastern Hemisphere.
Previously he has accumulated over 30 years experience in the oil industry with major and independent operators both in the North Sea and overseas, holding senior management positions in project management and asset management roles.
He was appointed as Chief Operating Officer in October 2003.
Roger Boyes, 62 Non-Executive Director He was appointed to the Board in September 2002 following his service with Halifax Group PLC as Finance Director.
He is currently non-executive Chairman of Heywood Williams Group PLC and is also Chairman of British Vita Pension Trust Limited and Northern Foods Pension Trustees Limited.
He is a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees of the Board.
He is the Chairman of the Audit Committee and is the senior independent non-executive director.
Terry Lazenby, 63 Non-Executive Director He was appointed to the Board in June 2003 following his 38 year career with bp in a number of roles ending as Chief Engineer and Technology Director.
He is currently Chairman of Portsmouth Water Ltd and the Engineering Construction Industry Training Board ECITB, a non-executive director of MTL Instruments Group Plc and is a director of Osceng Limited.
He is a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees of the Board.
He is Chairman of the Technology Council and is an independent non-executive director.
Tim Eggar, 54 Non-Executive Director He is the part time Chairman of Harrison Lovegrove & Co. and was appointed to the Board in March 2004.
He held several ministerial roles from 1985 to 1996 ending in a combined role as Minister for Industry and Energy from which he resigned, following his decision not to stand for re-election.
He is Chairman of Indago Petroleum plc, a non-executive director of Anglo Asian Mining, President of the Russo-British Chamber of Commerce and a senior adviser to the International Gas Union.
He is a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees of the Board.
He is also Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and is an independent non-executive director.
