Divisional Activities Home Shopping The division provides a personal shopping service to around 1.5 million customers and is the fourth largest direct mail order company in the UK.
Through five major catalogues and a statement mailing programme it offers a wide range of merchandise, including exclusive items sourced through the groups overseas ofces, and recognised branded products at prices competitive to the high street.
Customers may choose to pay within 28 days, or take advantage of a monthly credit programme.
The range of products is diverse covering leisurewear, electrical, household, textile, bedding, furniture, nursery products, gifts and greeting cards.
Many of these can be personalised in the divisions in house facilities which are unmatched in UK retail.
All large products are handled at a 500,000 square foot distribution centre in Manchester, whilst an automated collation warehouse at Accrington is capable of handling over half a million items per day.
Around one quarter of the divisions sales are transacted over the internet, a proportion growing annually.
co. uk Home Shopping Division Educational Supplies Division www.
co. uk 4 Divisional Activities Educational Supplies The division is the largest independent supplier of resources to schools and other educational establishments in the UK.
Its international unit exports to 150 countries worldwide.
Through its leading brands, which operate both via printed catalogue and through a variety of e-procurement solutions, it offers an extensive product range supporting all curriculum subjects as well as supplying furniture and audio visual equipment and commodity products such as stationery and janitorial materials.
In addition to its large mainstream brands offering a one stop shop, the division has brands specialising in individual subject areas such as science, sports, musical instruments and special needs.
Continuing investment in product development has enabled the division to offer many exclusive products within its product ranges.
In addition to direct sales to schools, the division has extensive experience of working with partner organisations in supplying resources for education.
The divisions NRS brand operates in the healthcare sector and is the market leader in the provision of outsourced Integrated Community Equipment Services to NHS trusts and local authorities.
The contracts it operates include the largest yet awarded to the private sector.
In addition, the division is active in the growing eld of Telecare, offering both its own monitoring solution and a range of Telecare products from third parties, and supplies a large range of rehabilitation and care equipment to the public and private sectors via a 350 page catalogue.
Findel Services This division leverages the assets and skill sets of the groups other two divisions.
It is responsible for the groups buying ofces in Hong Kong, India and Shanghai, and through them procures a wide range of merchandise for group companies and a substantial number of third party customers.
The division also manages our joint venture and partnership activities with European Home Retail, The Webb Group, and Confetti.
