Group overview We are the UKs largest surface transport company, with revenue of over 3.0bn per annum and some 74,000 employees across the UK and North America.
Our vision is to transform travel by providing public transport services that are safe, reliable, high quality, personal and accessible.
We will build on our reputation for innovation and investment and continue to improve.
By aiming for the top in everything we do we can deliver the highest levels of safety and service.
In this report we demonstrate our commitment to delivering value for shareholders, customers, employees and the communities that we serve.
UK Rail North America First Services We are the UKs largest rail operator with four Headquartered in Cincinnati, Ohio, our Our Services division is the largest private passenger rail franchises: First Great Western, three operations are spread across the US sector provider of vehicle maintenance and First Capital Connect, First TransPennine and Canada.
support services in the US.
We provide fleet Express and First ScotRail.
We also operate maintenance for private and public sector Hull Trains, a non-franchised open access First Student customers such as the Federal Government, operator.
We run nearly a quarter of the UK We are the second largest provider of cities and fire and police departments.
We passenger rail network, with a balanced student transportation in North America with also provide a range of services including portfolio of intercity, commuter and regional a fleet of over 21,000 yellow school buses, vehicle maintenance, logistics support and rail operations, carrying over 250 million carrying nearly 2 million students every day facilities management to public and private passengers a year.
We also provide freight across the US and Canada.
sector clients including the US Navy and services through GB Railfreight and operate US Air Force.
the Croydon Tramlink network which carries First Transit over 20 million passengers per annum.
We We are one of the largest private sector have a strong track record of innovation and providers of transit management and UK Bus investment delivering improved services, such contracting, managing public transport We are the UKs largest bus operator, as new rolling stock and customer facilities systems on behalf of transit authorities in running more than one in five of all local bus across our rail operations.
cities such as Los Angeles, Houston and services.
A fleet of some 9,000 buses carries Denver.
We are also one of the largest 2.8 million passengers every day in over providers of airport shuttle bus services 40 major towns and cities.
The majority of in the US, serving airports in cities such as our operations are in urban areas where the Baltimore, Philadelphia and Miami.
We also bus is the most effective means of tackling manage call centres, paratransit operations traffic congestion.
We continue to develop and other light transit activities.
and promote effective partnerships and we are working with Local Authorities and other stakeholders to provide punctual and reliable services for passengers through Punctuality Improvement Partnerships, bus priority and other traffic management schemes.
2 Thurso UK Bus operations UK Rail operations Wick Bus Division First ScotRail Hull Trains Inverness First Great Western Kyle of Lochalsh First TransPennine Aberdeen Aberdeen Mallaig Express Fort William First Capital Connect Oban Dundee Perth GB Railfreight Sleeper Trains are shown as Glasgow Edinburgh Glasgow dotted lines in the corresponding Edinburgh Kilmarnock rail company colour.
Ayr Dumfries Newcastle Stranraer Carlisle Middlesbrough Darlington Windermere Scarborough Barrow York York Preston Leeds Bradford Blackpool Hull Leeds Cleethorpes Manchester Manchester Doncaster Liverpool Sheffield Sheffield Crewe Grantham Stoke-on-Trent Kings Lynn Leicester Norwich Peterborough Birmingham Worcester Worcester Bedford Ipswich Cambridge Northampton Hereford Banbury Carmarthen Oxford Swansea Newport Swansea London Reading London Cardiff Cardiff Bristol Wimbledon Bristol Barnstaple Gatwick Basingstoke Southampton Southampton Exeter Brighton Exmouth Gunnislake Portsmouth Portsmouth Newquay Plymouth Weymouth Plymouth Paignton St Ives Looe Penzance Falmouth Alaska North America Yellowknife operations First Student First Transit Fort McMurray First Services Prince Rupert Anchorage Edmonton Kamloops Saskatoon Vancouver Calgary Regina Victoria Halifax Seattle Olympia Portland Ottawa Billings Toronto Minneapolis Albany Boise Detroit Chicago New York Washington St. Croix, Virgin Islands Carson City Richmond Sacramento St Louis Cincinnati Denver San Francisco Los Angeles Atlanta Columbia Phoenix Birmingham Charleston Puerto Rico Dallas Jackson Jacksonville Houston Nassau Miami 3 CANADA USA
