Board of Directors 12 3 4 5 6789 10 1 Martin Gilbert LLD MA LLB CA 7 James Forbes CBE MSc BSc CEng MIEE 4 David Leeder BSc FILT Chairman: Director of International Development Non-Executive Director: 3 4,5 1,2, 3 Chairman of the Nomination Committee and Marketing Chairman of the Remuneration Committee A Chartered Accountant, he is one of the Appointed to the Board in May 2004.
He joined Appointed to the Board in April 2000, he is the founders and Chief Executive of Aberdeen Asset the Group in 2001 as Managing Director UK Bus former Chief Executive of Scottish and Southern Management PLC.
He was appointed to the Board and assumed his present role as Director of Energy plc.
His career began with the South of of FirstGroup plc in 1995.
He is Chairman of International Development and Marketing in 2005.
Scotland Electricity Board and he has since held Chaucer Holdings PLC and a director of a number He has held various senior posts in the transport various senior posts in the electricity industry.
He is a Non-Executive Director industry including Chief Executive of Travel West Age 59. of Primary Health Properties PLC.
Midlands and subsequently Group Marketing 8 John Sievwright MA CA Director of National Express Group plc.
He is Vice 1,2, 3 2 Moir Lockhead OBE Non-Executive Director Chair of the Commission for Integrated Transport.
Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive: Appointed to the Board in May 2002, he is A Fellow of the Institute of Logistics and Transport, 3,4, 5 Managing Director and Chief Operating Officer of Chairman of the Safety Committee he is also a past President of the Confederation of Chief Executive and Deputy Chairman since Global Markets and Investment Banking for Merrill Passenger Transport.
Age 40. the Groups formation in 1995.
Originally a Lynch & Co. A Chartered Accountant, he has held mechanical engineer he joined Grampian Transport 5 Sidney Barrie LLB various senior management positions in banking in in 1985 as General Manager and went on to lead London, New York, Dublin and Japan.
He is a Commercial Director: 4,5 the successful employee buy-out of GRT Bus Company Secretary member of the North American Board of the Group PLC.
In 1996 he was awarded the OBE Appointed to the Board in August 2005 as Michael Smurfit Business School, Dublin.
Age 51. for services to the bus industry and he is a past Commercial Director and subsequently Company 9 Professor David Begg DSc BA Secretary.
He joined the Group from Paull & President of the Confederation of Passenger 1,2, 3 Non-Executive Director Transport.
Williamsons, solicitors in Aberdeen, where he was Appointed to the Board as Non-Executive Director a senior partner and Head of Corporate acting for in August 2005.
He is Chairman of Tube Lines 3 Dean Finch BSc MBA ACA a number of listed and private companies.
He had 4,5 Finance Director Limited and Northern Way Transport Compact.
a long association with the Group in an advisory Appointed to the Board as Commercial Director He is also an adviser to Greater Manchester capacity going back to the original employee buyin February 2004 and subsequently appointed Passenger Transport Executive.
He is a Director out of GRT Bus Group PLC.
In his current role he Finance Director later that year.
He is also of the Centre for Transport Policy at The Robert has responsibility for a range of commercial responsible for all of the Groups rail activities Gordon University in Aberdeen and is publisher of activities across the Group.
He joined the Company Transport Times.
Until last year he was Chairman in 1999 as Commercial Director of the Rail Division 6 David Dunn CA of the Commission for Integrated Transport and and was subsequently appointed Managing Director Senior Independent Non-Executive Director: a Non-Executive Director of the Strategic Rail 1,2, 3 of the Rail Division in August 2001.
He qualified Chairman of the Audit Committee Authority.
Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director as a Chartered Accountant with KPMG where 10 Martyn Williams he worked for 12 years specialising in Corporate in December 1999.
He is a Chartered Accountant Non-Executive Employee Director and is Non-Executive Chairman of Brammer plc.
Transaction Support Services including working for Appointed to the Board as Employee Director in the Office of Passenger Rail Franchising on the He is also a Non-Executive Director of Croda January 2003, he is currently serving a second International plc and SMG plc.
Age 61. privatisation of train operating companies.
Age 39. term as Employee Director.
He is employed as a customer services supervisor in Swansea and has worked for the Group for 28 years.
1 Member of the Audit Committee 2 Member of the Remuneration Committee 3 Member of the Nomination Committee 4 Member of the Safety Committee 5 Member of the Executive Committee 19
