Directors report The directors present their report and the audited group Political and charitable donations financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006.
During the year ended 31 March 2006 the Group contributed 0.1 million 2005: 0.1 million in the UK for charitable Principal activities purposes.
There were no political donations during the year A review of the Groups activities and business development 2005: nil.
including future development of the business is given in the Chairmans statement on pages 4 and 5 and the Operating Research and development and Financial Review on pages 6 to 25.
Product development and innovation is a continuing process.
The Groups businesses commit resources to research and Financial instruments development to assist them in securing their competitive The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies positions in their chosen markets.
are discussed in the Treasury policies section of the Operating and Financial Review on pages 21 to 23.
The exposure of the Employment policies Group to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk are set out in note 28 to the financial statements.
Companies within the Group have developed a wide range of voluntary practices and procedures for employee involvement appropriate to their own circumstances and Dividends needs.
The Group encourages this approach to providing The directors recommend a final dividend on ordinary shares information and consultation and believes that this promotes in respect of the year ended 31 March 2006 of 3p per share a better understanding of the issues facing the individual amounting to 17.50 million which with the interim business in which the employee works.
It is the policy of the dividend paid on 24 February 2006 totals 4.5p per share and Group to give full and fair consideration to applications made 26.25 million for the year.
by disabled persons for job vacancies, where particular job requirements are within their ability and, where possible, The final ordinary dividend, if approved, will be paid arrangements are made for the continuing employment of on 6 October 2006 to shareholders on the register on employees who have become disabled.
Further details of employment and health and safety policies Directors are included in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 29 to 31.
The names of the directors as at the date of this report are listed on page 36, together with brief biographical notes.
Environmental policy Mr D J Pearl was appointed to the Board on 27 September 2005 and Mr R I Case was appointed to the Board on The Group is committed to adopting a responsible approach 7 February 2006.
Mr C Clark retired from the Board on to environmental matters.
The Groups overall policy forms 7 February 2006. the basis of detailed guidelines that are appropriate to the individual businesses.
At the forthcoming annual general meeting and in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Mr D J Pearl Management seeks to minimise any adverse impact on the and Mr R I Case having been appointed since the last annual environment of all aspects of the Groups operations by means general meeting, and being eligible offer themselves for of environmentally sound disciplines, which take practical re-election.
Sir Michael Hodgkinson and Mr R L Gott retire steps to control effectively or eliminate any known pollution by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Specifically, capital expenditure is directed towards the replacement of hazardous materials with environmentally No contract or arrangement has been entered into at any time friendly alternatives and methods of minimising the costs during the year in which any director had a material interest of disposal of toxic waste, the recycling of wood, the reuse which was significant in relation to the Groups business of cardboard and paper products, and the reduction of except for those disclosed in the Remuneration report.
Directors interests Further details of the Groups environmental policies are included in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on The interests of the directors including their family interests pages 32 to 35. all of which are beneficial, in the share capital, share options and the Long-Term Incentive Plan of the Company appear in the Remuneration report on pages 43 to 53.
40 FKI plc Payments to suppliers Annual general meeting Operating businesses are responsible for agreeing the terms The annual general meeting of the Company will be held and conditions of their transactions with suppliers.
at 12 noon on 1 August 2006 in the Council Room at One Great George Street, Westminster, London SW1P 3AA.
Payment is made on those terms subject to the terms and A notice of the meeting appears in the enclosed circular and conditions being met by the supplier.
FKI plc, as a holding for those members wishing to attend a location map has been company, did not have any amounts owing to trade creditors included within the circular.
The Special Business to be considered at the meeting relates to the following matters: Share capital Description Resolution number The movement in the share capital during the year is detailed in note 9 to the financial statements.
General authority to allot equity securities 10 Limited authority to allot equity securities Significant shareholdings for cash excluding pre-emption rights 11 As at 21 June 2006, the following major interests of 3% or Authority to purchase shares 12 more in the ordinary shares in issue had been notified to the Company by: Directors statement as to disclosure Number Holding of shares % of information to auditors HSBC Investments UK Limited 57,550,582 9.87 The directors who were members of the Board at the time of Nordea S. A. Luxembourg 29,437,044 5.05 approving the directors report are listed on page 36.
Each of these directors confirms that: Barclays plc 29,118,185 4.99 to the best of each directors knowledge and belief, there is Legal & General Group plc 21,348,055 3.67 no information relevant to the preparation of their report of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and Corporate governance each director has taken all the steps a director might A review of the Companys application of the principles and reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant provisions of the Combined Code appears on pages 37 to 39. audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors Directors indemnities A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Groups auditors will be proposed at the annual general meeting.
During the financial year the directors have enjoyed the benefit of indemnity insurance.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, directors are granted an indemnity from the Company in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
The indemnity extends to legal costs incurred in proceedings in which judgement is given in their favour.
41 FKI plc Directors report The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting Directors responsibilities records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual the financial position of the Company and of the Group Report and Group and parent Company financial statements and enable them to ensure that the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and Under that law the directors are required to prepare the other irregularities.
Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and have elected to prepare the parent Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also Company financial statements in accordance with UK responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Remuneration Accounting Standards.
Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The directors are The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRSs responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and financial information included on the Companys and performance of the Group: the Companies Act 1985 website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation provides in relation to such financial statements that references and dissemination of financial statements may differ from in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving legislation in other jurisdictions.
a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The requirements to provide an enhanced Directors Report under Section 243ZZB of the Companies Act have been The parent Company financial statements are required by addressed in this Report and the preceding Operating and law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Financial Review.
In preparing each of the Group and parent Company financial Going concern statements, the directors are required to: After making appropriate enquiries, the directors are confident select suitable accounting policies and then apply that the Company has adequate resources to continue in them consistently: operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the directors adopt the going concern basis in the make judgements and estimates that are reasonable preparation of the Groups financial statements.
and prudent: By order of the Board for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by Antonio Ventrella Secretary the EU: 23 June 2006 for the parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent Company financial statements.
