14 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 Managing responsibilities Forth Ports and Port of Dundee Limited are both Competent Harbour Authorities.
They have statutory responsibility under the Harbours Act 1964 and subsequent legislation for the provision, maintenance and operation of port and harbour facilities which include navigation channels within their areas of jurisdiction.
These areas encompass 280 square miles of navigable waters which includes two specialised marine terminals for oil and gas exports in the Firth of Forth.
FORTH AND TAY NAVIGATION SERVICE The Forth and Tay Navigation Service FTNS is responsible for the enforcement of the Forth Byelaws and General Directions for Navigation and the Byelaws for the Port of Dundee.
FTNS is manned twenty four hours a day, three hundred and sixty five days a year by qualied Vessel Trafc System Operators and Assistant Harbour Masters.
The FTNS service includes radar surveillance of the Firth of Forth and the Firth of Tay.
This ensures the safe and speedy passage of all commercial and naval shipping from sea to port and back to sea again.
FTNS has five radars covering the Firth of Forth and one radar covering the Firth of Tay all linked to a vessel tracking system supported by VHF radio, CCTV and the latest vessel Automatic Identication System.
In addition, FTNS maintains an updated computerised vessel database which records all details of ship voyages within the estuaries.
Forth Estuary trafc study, October 2003.
Vessels with 25,000 tonnes of fuel in transit.
respo ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 15 Regenerating communities Through Edinburgh Forthside and the WDPB, it has been established that there is substantial potential to create additional jobs and value for the Scottish economy through the regeneration of the Waterfront.
It is estimated that development in total can create over 32,000 additional jobs and almost 0.5 billion of Gross Value Added per annum for the Scottish economy.
Through the regeneration of a major browneld site, this potential needs to be harnessed to help provide job opportunities within North Edinburgh and the partners are committed to a skills and training agenda which will help achieve this.
Utilising assets to be Alternative power in Tilbury Bio-diesel production from animal feed environmentally responsible We encourage the movement of goods by As part of our review into alternative power Ineos, one of our major customers at ship and rail.
A good example of the latter is sources at Tilbury, we have gathered the Grangemouth, has announced that it is to spend the movement of coal from Leith to Cockenzie necessary wind speed data to confirm that 68m to build a bio-diesel plant at Grangemouth.
for Scottish Power where, in 2006, more than wind turbine power generation is feasible.
At Rosyth, Fife Council have given planning 1 million tonnes of coal was moved by rail Pre-planning consultations are continuing approval to build a bio-diesel facility within the saving 40,000 lorry movements.
There is good reason to be optimistic are in discussions with potential tenants that substantial new tonnages will result from In Property, we support public transport within on other proposals for renewable power.
Sustainable development seeks to minimise the reliance on the private car.
We encourage public transport through the provision of bus facilities at Ocean Terminal and we are proud to be a major supporter and contributor to the CEC Tram proposals through the donation of 2.3 kilometres of land through our estate as part of the new Tram System.
