12 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 Developing the heart of Edinburghs waterfront The Hub The proposed development of the Hub will incorporate the first two of the nine villages envisaged under the Leith Docks Development Framework LDDF and will be the catalyst to provide a heart to the Waterfront combining commercial, residential, leisure and retail areas.
The Hub will help to underpin and grow Edinburghs tourism revenue and enhance its attractiveness as a destination for all visitors.
It will also help to make the Waterfront a vibrant and energetic place in which to live and work.
MASTER PLANNER APPOINTED FOR HUB RTKL, the international architecture rm, has been appointed to set out a detailed masterplan for Britannia Quay and Waterfront Plaza, the first two of the villages within Leith Docks, collectively called the Hub.
RTKL were responsible for the transformation of the waterfront area of the US city of Baltimore which is similar in size to the area around Western Harbour Leith.
They will devise the masterplan for the Hub which itself will form part of the wider Forthside development which includes Granton and Western Harbours.
The estimated capital investment in the area could be in the region of 700m.
RTKLs key remit is to produce a residential, retail and commercial development plan which maximises the economic value and diverse potential of the area.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 13 Developing the Villages Making Leith a destination port Working together with Edinburgh surrounding the Hub Waterfront Development Partnership Board The City of Edinburgh Council CEC set Edinburgh Forthside is one of the largest With the advent of larger cruise liners, regeneration projects in Europe and can Scotlands tourist industry would benefit greatly up the Waterfront Development Partnership only realise its full potential with co-operation from the creation of a new deep water cruise Board WDPB to formulate policy relating from both the public and private sectors.
Such a terminal has the to the longer-term regeneration of the whole of Edinburghs Waterfront.
This is one of the A major planning application for the whole of potential to add 40m per annum of tourism the LDDF will be submitted this year following revenue to Scotlands economy.
Leith enjoys largest regeneration projects in the UK and comprehensive community consultation which a long and rich maritime heritage.
It already its delivery is vital to the success of the City and the Scottish economy.
The WDPB is included the following comments: attracts many tourists to the Royal Yacht Britannia and has hosted successful international events a public private partnership between CEC, Importance of retail such as the Tall Ships Race and the MTV Scottish Enterprise, Forth Ports, the National Grid and Waterfront Edinburgh Limited.
This ambitious project will require Tourists stimulate the local economy provided both public and private sector involvement they are properly catered for and our team is playing an important role in facilitating this discussion.
Important to retain existing landmarks and historic buildings and something of the old Leith Docks Importance of family friendly environment Need to include affordable homes Green spaces that are colourful, safe and well lit LDDF The Hub
