6 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 Our Strategy in investment long vestment long Ports Growth of long-term secure revenue stream Creation of value through long-term customer agreements Continuous process of investment and modernisation in plant and equipment Broad spread of cargoes handled by the Group Visible pipeline of projects going forward Well placed in strategic locations Tilbury 2012 Olympics Grangemouth Scotlands largest container port Investment for statutory functions such as conservancy and pilotage Strategic locations land ownership Ports Dundee We own a total of 622 hectares of land within Fife & Rosyth our ports as well as 1,900 hectares of seabed Property Grangemouth alongside the Port of Leith.
Leith Tilbury Leith Cargo types Port name Dundee Fife Rosyth Grangemouth Leith Tilbury Containers Cruise liners Dry bulk General cargo Forest products Grain Property Roll-on roll-off ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 7 Our Strategy is simple and straightforward: One of our many strengths is to balance our We seek to grow dependable income from our activities between ports and property in relation ports business which will also include growth to our asset base thus maximising shareholder in value from long-term customer agreements.
In this way, we can We seek to grow the value of our property offer our shareholders real growth in dividends development assets through the most efficient over the long-term and the prospect of capital use of those assets in line with market demand.
growth from the use of our assets.
-terterm thinking m thinking Property Continuing growth in the value of our property development assets Over 180 hectares of developable land at Leith and Granton Mixed use development at Leith to promote vitality and activity Promotion of Edinburgh Forthside as one of the largest regeneration projects in Europe Review of alternative land uses at Dundee 24 hectares and Tilbury 6 hectares Project pipeline Project Timescale Short-Sea Ro-ro facilities at Tilbury Completion in 2007 with new customer Ferryways Cemex Create infrastructure for modern grinding Completion in 2007.
Customers investment of 40m to be completed by 2008 and blending facility for major customer Cruise liner facility at Leith Two to three years subject to approval process and funding Distribution Park Grangemouth Rolled out over a five to ten year period Riverside Berth Tilbury Feasibility study being carried out.
Will be subject to back to back deal with major customer Wind turbine project Tilbury 2008 2009 but subject to other methods of renewable energy being attracted to Tilbury Bio-diesel plant at Rosyth Create infrastructure for major crushing plant Investment over the next two years 8 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 Were ready for the demand from the 2012 London Olympics gearing up Tilbury as the preferred port and distribution hub antici anticip anticip CEMEX CEMENT PRODUCTION PLANT The new Cemex blending and grinding plant at Tilbury is a good example of how our Ports strategy is working in practice.
We seek to understand our customers business and supply chain patterns and then offer solutions which will allow them to realise supply chain efficiencies for the long-term by using the strategic location of our ports.
In Cemexs case, the new plant will be available to supply materials to the new Olympics site, and represents a 40m investment by Cemex and a complementary investment by the Port of over 2m in infrastructure.
Working with customers, in this case, means Our project and engineering teams worked intensively with a range of customers at Tilbury to ensure that the site would be available for the new investment.
Meetings were held with Thurrock Council to ensure that the site would be granted planning at the earliest possible opportunity.
Our team also worked with Cemexs project team to ensure that the new investment will have a lower carbon footprint it will have 50% less carbon emissions than a conventional blending and grinding plant: the equivalent of taking 240,000 cars off the road.
This investment involved a long-term commitment by Cemex to increase its throughputs substantially through the port.
As part of Tilburys strategy of becoming the preferred supply chain route to the Olympics, our commercial department will work intensively with Cemex to maximise the business opportunities and synergies from Tilburys extensive customer base.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 9 icipating icipating pating Creating employment within the Proposed riverfront development Ready for increased trafc Thames Gateway To release the leisure potential of the Thames, As land is becoming a scarce resource at Tilbury, Our strategy of investment and working closely we are examining the possible expansion of the we are carrying out a feasibility study into the with customers means that we can encourage area surrounding the Cruise Liner landing stage reclamation of land at two possible locations for efficiencies in the supply chain which will into a mixed use development.
a large riverside berth alongside the port.
Such a increase the ports capacity for trafc.
facility could cater for the ports expansion needs for the next ten to twenty years.
