10 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 A new phase at Grangemouth Scotlands key industries have an efficient supply chain route to the markets of the world through Scotlands largest port, the Port of Grangemouth.
Our investments in a modern container terminal have achieved improved levels of ship and haulier turnaround.
Customers have the potential to use our warehousing facilities to add value and these are being expanded through the new Distribution Park.
INAUGURATION OF CONTAINER TERMINAL We have invested over 25 million in Grangemouths container terminal facilities over the last three years, underlining Grangemouths position as Scotlands Super-Regional port servicing European, Baltic and worldwide deep sea feeder destinations.
Among the investments has been 8.5 million in two new giant Liebherr gantry cranes which were ofcially opened by Nicol Stephen, the Deputy First Minister, in September 2006.
Grangemouth offers the Scottish economy the most effective and efficient logistics route to serve Scotlands main areas of population, production and consumption.
This investment has ensured that Grangemouth is now one of the most efficient short-sea and feeder ports in Europe offering excellent communication links, high capacity container storage, all supported by a highly skilled workforce.
The central location of the port makes it a logical location for a major distribution hub which will grow ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 11 not only help Scottish businesses to maximise The volume of container trafc has now Existing warehouses are now full trading advantages but will also attract significant increased for the eighth consecutive year.
new business by offering a prime route into the Following our recent investment, container North of England.
volumes are set to grow with additional shipping capacity being introduced to allow Scotlands At the end of 2006, we were successful in adding The container volumes are now managed key industries the ability to export efficiently Rohm Haas to the list of chemicals customers within a state of the art park that recently through Grangemouth to world markets.
utilising our warehouse facilities at the Port of saw the implementation of an Integrated Port Grangemouth.
We are currently considering an Operating System which manages the container extension to the existing warehouse as part of and associated operations via a radio data the overall scheme for a significant increase in terminal system.
A total of 13 straddle carriers capacity as part of the new Distribution Park.
have been introduced to increase container handling capacity signicantly.
The ideal location of the Port of Grangemouth, placing it just 23 miles from Edinburgh and 26 miles from Glasgow, has also been utilised with the launch of a direct short haul rail service offering two container trains per day from Glasgow and one from Aberdeen.
