Leith Dundee Grangemouth Tilbury Rosyth and Fife Ports 4 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 Our Business Ports The Group owns the ports of Grangemouth, Leith, Rosyth, Burntisland and Methil within the Firth of Forth.
It owns the Port of Dundee on the Firth of Tay.
The largest port within the Group is the Port of Tilbury on the River Thames.
Pilotage and Towage services are provided in Scotland.
The ports business generated over 140m in revenue in 2006.
Liquid bulk amounts to 50% of total cargo with the dry cargo accounted for by a variety of commodities including paper, timber and agripods.
Dundee is also an important base for North Sea Oil activities.
It handled 1.2 million tonnes of cargo in 2006.
Roll-on roll-off trafc together with coal and forest products are the principal trafcs through the ports.
Leiths tonnage Liquid bulk amounted to 2.2 million cargoes account tonnes.
Its main cargoes for 6.3 million are coal, cement and tonnes of cargo at steel pipes iron ore. Grangemouth.
The port Cruise liners and naval is Scotlands largest vessels call at Leith as container port handling well as North Sea Oil over 140,000 containers support vessels.
Tilbury handled over 8 million tonnes of dry cargo in 2006 and is Londons major port.
The principal commodities handled are containers, paper and forest products, grain and animal feed.
The port is well placed to provide the preferred logistics chain for companies supplying materials for the 2012 Olympics.
Edinburgh Forthside ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 5 Our Business Property The Group owns 184 hectares of land on Edinburghs waterfront, just ten minutes from the city centre.
This represents a unique opportunity for the city to turn its face to the sea.
The process of releasing waterfront sites to create value is a dynamic process within the Group.
We also own over 1,900 hectares of seabed adjacent our landholding at Leith and Granton.
There is now the opportunity to release what is Edinburghs only major area of browneld land for development to form a vibrant and dynamic new quarter within the city.
The attraction of this new quarter is obvious to those visiting the city when it is discovered that it is only a ten minute journey from the city centre and faces the waterfront of Scotlands capital city.
