12 Operating and Financial Review continued Chief Executives Review continued 2.
Strong foundation for developing security solutions model We also saw the merger as a strong foundation for developing a security solutions model where customer relationships were driven by risk management and the ability to pull together a range of specialist security services to manage risk, security and safety.
In 2006, we combined our expertise in manned security and security systems under a single organisational structure providing one security solutions approach to the customer.
By combining this approach with our unique geographic reach, we have achieved a distinct competitive advantage.
Enhanced platform across developing markets Developing markets, which we define as New Markets, are playing an increasingly significant part in the groups development.
They continue to grow strongly and make a substantial contribution to the groups performance.
New Markets PBITA Development m % 24 70 30 In 2003, our New Markets businesses generated 60 21 25 34 million in profits, representing 17% of the groups 50 18 20 17 40 total.
In 2006, this has increased to 66 million, or 15 30 24% of the groups total PBITA.
10 20 5 10 We expect the contribution from our New Markets 0 0 businesses to accelerate in the coming years.
Leveraging expertise and operational flexibility in cash services 2006 was a very strong year for the performance of the cash services division.
This has been achieved by spreading best practice and expertise across the group.
Cash Services PBITA Development m % 10.1 100 12 9.8 In 2003, the cash services business contributed 10 80 7.7 7.6 56 million to the groups PBITA, representing a 8 60 6 PBITA margin of 7.6%.
This year, these businesses 40 4 have contributed almost 90 million and a PBITA 20 2 margin of over 10%.
Cost Synergies The final area of focus was the delivery of the synergy targets that we promised at the time of the merger.
We are very pleased that the integration of the businesses was extremely successful and that we achieved our synergy targets ahead of the planned timetable.
Alongside this and a strong business performance in 2006, we have focused on making sure the structures and strategies are in place for the next phase of the groups development.
For the purposes of comparison, we also show figures for 2003 and 2004 on a proforma basis, i. e. based on the combined figures for Securicor plc and the security businesses of the former Group 4 Falck A S 34 56 40 60 55 78 66 88 Group 4 Securicor | Annual Report & Accounts 2006 13 Future Development We knew that there would be additional strategic benefits to the creation of the group over and above the initial merger rationale.
We have created a market facing organisation which is focused on key sectors and on further developing a thorough understanding of our customers needs.
With a strong underlying performance, unique market positions, excellent customer relationships and an international, highly skilled senior management team, we are confident that we can take advantage of these additional strategic benefits and are optimistic about the future of the group.
We have excellent relationships with governments in many of the countries in which we operate the US and UK governments are particularly key to our future development.
We expect governments around the world to become increasingly important to our organisation both as a customer and regulator and we will continue to build on our expertise in the sector.
Another key element of our future strategy will be to evaluate new service opportunities which meet the growing needs of our customers.
Security expertise is one of our core values and this will remain at the heart of our service offering, but we intend to broaden our horizons on service development in the coming months and years.
Group Targets In 2004 we set ourselves an overall organic growth target of 6% per year.
In 2006 we have exceeded that target and delivered organic growth of over 7%.
We are confident that we can continue to grow at this level into the future and are increasing our minimum organic growth target to 7% for the group.
We continue to target a PBITA margin of 7% which we believe is achievable within the next two to three years.
Security expertise is one of our core values We have had very strong cash generation in the year.
We are increasing our cash generation target to 85% and this will remain at from the current 80% target.
the heart of our service offering.
We announced last year our intention to increase dividends over time and will aim to reduce our dividend cover to around 2.5 times our target is to achieve this level of cover within the next two years.
Acquisitions In 2006, we made a number of acquisitions in many different countries, with a particular focus on New Markets, including Chile, Hong Kong, Guatemala, Mozambique, Democratic Republic of Congo, Indonesia, Saudi Arabia and United Arab Emirates.
We have already made several acquisitions in 2007 in a variety of countries including the UK, Saudi Arabia, the Netherlands, South Africa and the Czech Republic.
Alongside our strategies for organic growth development, we will continue to invest in relevant acquisitions.
We are confident We expect to invest over 100 million per year in acquisitions across all service areas which provide additional about the future scale or expertise to our businesses or assist in consolidating fragmented markets.
We will also: and are therefore targeting accelerated fill appropriate geographic gaps in the security services businesses growth and higher increase our presence in new markets cash generation.
make targeted acquisitions in cash services Summary & Outlook We have achieved a strong set of results across the group in 2006, with excellent growth continuing in New Markets and strong margin progression in cash services.
We have delivered on the synergies and strategic objectives outlined at the time of the merger and are now moving into a phase of enhanced growth and development.
We are confident about the future and are therefore targeting accelerated growth and higher cash generation.
We are expecting to make good progress towards these targets in 2007 and we are excited about the future development of the group.
