26 Operating and Financial Review continued Our People OUR PEOPLE ARE THE KEY BUILDING BLOCK FOR OUR FUTURE SUCCESS.
Leadership culture security solutions and delivering sustainable business The strength and depth The strength and depth of the leadership team in results.
As well as winning awards in the wider of the leadership team G4S underpins our success as a global industry business and HR communities, the success of the in G4S underpins our leader and enables us to deliver first class programme has been demonstrated clearly on an success as a global performance year after year.
Our position in the individual level in the career progression of many industry leader.
market helps us attract driven, talented individuals, participants, and on an organisational level where the allowing us to be very selective about who joins our growing capability and confidence of the participants organisation.
We invest heavily in making the right adds real value to our business.
The diversity and senior appointments because once these people join international reach of these future leaders who us, we find they want to stay, and a good long-term come from Africa, the Americas, Europe, Asia and the match is therefore essential to both parties.
In return Middle East also helps us to collaborate across the We believe it is for accepting the challenge of working in such a organisation to continually drive up standards in our possible to nurture dynamic, ambitious group, we provide these business business, the wider industry and even the countries many of our future leaders with highly competitive reward packages in which we operate.
leaders from within which reflect their personal performance as well the organisation.
as the business results they deliver.
Moreover, as Employee engagement individuals, they enjoy the genuine satisfaction of G4S is the largest employer listed on the London delivering the right solutions for our customers and Stock Exchange and ensuring our front-line teams find real pride in working for our organisation.
are attuned to our customers needs and our own values is therefore essential to our future success.
While we are proactive in recruiting the best people Our relations with our employees and their We believe that longexternally, we believe it is possible, and right, to term partnerships with representatives are extremely important to us.
nurture many of our future leaders from within the employees and their organisation.
To help our people build long-term Throughout our operations we have established representatives can careers across national and cultural boundaries, help us raise standards global minimum standards for employee relations, our group-wide Leadership Programme was wherever we operate.
which set out our commitment to principles launched in 2004 and now provides a growing such as the ILO Core Labour Standards and stream of committed experts and managers.
the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
As a business, we are fundamentally committed to This programme combines the academic content of constructive social dialogue and believe that long-term the Executive MBA from Manchester Business School partnerships with employees and their representatives, with the expertise of G4S in building customer-led
