Group 4 Securicor | Annual Report & Accounts 2006 27 including trade unions, can help us raise standards Hong Kong, where we participate in a wide In New Markets, wherever we operate.
Thus: range of programmes to provide assistance to our presence people with disabilities and to unskilled and supports sustainable We have over 70 formal union recognition unemployed workers development as we agreements around the world give back to the Kenya, where fifty employees with children are Over half our global workforce is covered by the communities in selected each year to receive special financial which we operate.
terms of a union collective agreement assistance for their childrens education In the US, we are the most unionised company Zambia, where we run a programme of activities in the sector over 30% of our employees are to help relieve hardship and educate the local trade union members, compared to an industry communities about the affect of HIV AIDS.
average of 13% With rigorous pre-employment screening and In Europe, we have union representation levels With rigorous selection techniques for our front-line staff, we are pre-employment of 55%, compared to an industry average of 46% confident that we employ the best people in our screening and industry, whose natural talents and drive enable them In the UK, our relationship with the GMB, one selection techniques to make a difference from the start of their for our staff, we of the UKs largest unions, has continued for more employment.
Once in the business, we aim to further are confident that than 40 years.
we employ the develop our employees skills and competences, We are also proud of our role as an industry leader best people.
provide them with opportunities to build long-term in New Markets, where our presence supports careers in the group, and inspire them to reach their sustainable development as we give back to the full potential.
The resulting growth in individual and communities in which we operate.
Our socially organisational capability, together with markedly responsible employment practices of inclusion and higher levels of commitment from our people, diversity help position us as the employer of choice have a clear, positive impact on general business We aim to develop in many countries, and are demonstrated by performance and, in particular, on customer service.
our employees skills examples such as: and competences, provide them with South Africa, where our commitment to Black opportunities to build Economic Empowerment was demonstrated by long-term careers in the creation of an employee trust which owns the group, and inspire 13% of our business in South Africa them to reach their full potential.
28 Corporate Citizenship G4S RECOGNISES ITS ETHICAL RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES, CUSTOMERS, SUPPLIERS, INVESTORS AND LOCAL COMMUNITIES.
THE GROUP OPERATES IN A WIDE RANGE OF COUNTRIES AROUND THE WORLD, WHERE SITUATIONS AND ENVIRONMENTS ARE CONSTANTLY CHANGING.
WE ARE THEREFORE CONTINUALLY DEVELOPING OUR CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP POLICIES, PRACTICES AND PROCEDURES.
Corporate citizenship code Employee trust fund G4S has introduced a corporate citizenship code, The group has established an employee trust fund which seeks to establish best practice guidelines for which offers monetary support, at the discretion of all the various businesses within the organisation, the funds trustees, to those employees and former covering a number of important ethical areas employees in need of urgent financial assistance.
including human rights, health and safety, employee During 2006, the fund was utilised throughout our relations and equal opportunities & diversity.
organisation in countries as diverse as Indonesia, the UK, Canada and the Democratic Republic of Congo.
The code, reviewed every year, has been distributed to all business units within the organisation with the Investing in the community objective of setting a standard to which all business G4S is currently implementing an extensive Investing units should adhere.
Compliance with the code in the Community programme, which aims to is monitored regularly, although there is some support a range of health, welfare and community allowance made for geographical and cultural initiatives around the world, and particularly in New differences, as a result of local regulations and Market regions.
The foundations of this programme business practices.
are built on our culture of giving back to the The foundation of our corporate citizenship code communities in which we operate and encouraging lies with our employees.
We are well aware that the our employees to do the same, examples of organisations future success is being driven by the which are: performance of our employees.
Opportunities for In many African countries, G4S is working to development within the organisation are based only provide better futures for our employees, their on personal performance, ability and aptitude.
In families and their local communities, including: addition, when selecting, recruiting and developing our employees, we aim to ensure that all employees Providing financial support for schools in receive the same treatment, regardless of gender, countries like Mozambique and Uganda ethnicity, colour, age, culture, marital status, religion, Supporting and assisting a community sexual orientation or disability.
We recognise that programme in Kenya which aims to provide diversity and cultural differences are becoming an regular meals for around 800 children from important strength in our organisation.
deprived areas Respect for human rights is another cornerstone Supplying financial and building maintenance of our corporate citizenship code.
G4S is committed support to a childrens home in Zambia to and supportive of the United Nations Universal which specialises in supporting orphans who Declaration of Human Rights and the International have lost their parents to AIDS Labour Organisations Core Labour Standards.
We treat our employees in accordance with recognised Above and Beyond Award, which was awarded international human rights conventions and to The Wackenhut Corporation by an agency of regulations and aim to ensure that our employees the Department of Defence for extraordinary activities do not compromise these conventions.
support of employees who serve in the National Guard and Reserve Group 4 Securicor | Annual Report & Accounts 2006 29 The G4S Sponsorship Matching programme, The group has an international fleet of cash carrying which matches funds raised directly by vehicles which are equipped with a variety of unique employees for local community projects.
This security measures, making them difficult to reuse in programme effectively doubles the financial other areas once their life cycle has been completed.
contribution towards local community initiatives However, G4S Cash Services UK donates expired vehicles to an organisation which make use of any Howard League for Penal Reform Community spare parts and then recycles the remaining shell The group is currently Programme Award and National Mentoring and of the vehicle for future industrial use.
implementing an Befriending Foundation Approved Provider extensive Investing in Standard, were won by G4S Justice Services for Use of environmentally friendly products The group the Community its work in Wales, supporting short sentence complies with the relevant standards on vehicle programme, which aims prisoners and engaging with their communities.
emissions and encourages business units to use diesel to support a range of or unleaded petrol to fuel vehicles.
Fuel conservation health, welfare and In conjunction with our on-going encouragement is achieved through enhanced vehicle design and community initiatives to individuals and business units to become involved around the world.
regular maintenance to ensure appropriate levels with community projects on an ad hoc basis, our of health and safety and to minimise any impact on Investing in the Community programme is key to the environment through inefficient fuel management our corporate strategy we feel that our presence and emissions.
In addition, we believe that this programme will continue to help to create Paper products Where possible, the group makes The group has sustainable wealth for local communities around use of environmentally friendly products and services.
established an employee trust fund the world.
At the group level, any major printing projects such which offers monetary as the annual report and accounts, interim reports support to those and customer magazines are printed on paper The environment employees and former which is produced in accordance with ISO 1400 The main business of the group is involved in the employees in need environmental certification and is elementary chlorine provision of security solutions personnel to our of urgent financial free.
Business units throughout the organisation are assistance.
customers and therefore the organisation does not encouraged to use environmentally friendly products have a significant direct impact on the environment.
However, there are a number of areas in which the group focuses on further reducing its environmental impact.
Energy usage We aim to maximise energy conservation through the adoption of best practices.
Where practicable, computerised heating, lighting and ventilation controls are installed in buildings.
Recycling & waste management We are committed to recycling of materials where possible and where the means to recycle materials exist.
This includes the recycling of cash bags, uniforms, toner cartridges, paper and paper-based products.
