24 Operating and Financial Review continued Financial Review continued The group's funding shortfall on the valuation basis specified 1.
Price competition in IAS19 Employee Benefits was 226m before tax or 158m The security industry comprises a number of very competitive after tax 2005: 217m and 152m respectively.
In particular, manned security markets can be fragmented with relatively low economic barriers to entry The value of the assets in the funds increased by 120m and the group competes with a wide variety of operators of during 2006, continuing the trend of 2005.
Actions taken by the groups competitors may was counteracted by a reduction in the bond rates used to place pressure upon its pricing, margins and profitability.
discount liabilities for IAS19 purposes, and by an increase in inflation assumptions.
We believe that, over the very long term 2.
Major changes in market dynamics in which pension liabilities become payable, investment returns Such changes in dynamics could include new technologies, should eliminate the deficit in the schemes in respect of past government legislation or customer consolidation and could, service liabilities.
However, in recognition of the regulatory particularly if rapid or unpredictable, impact the groups obligation upon pension fund trustees to address currently revenues and profitability.
reported deficits, additional cash contributions into the two main UK schemes of around 24m are being made in 2007.
In-sourcing by customers Such additional contributions will be reviewed annually and Outsourcing activities carried out by the group include cash reassessed formally at the next actuarial valuation dates, processing and cash management functions on behalf of which are 5 April 2009 in respect of the Securicor scheme financial institutions, manned security on behalf of a range and 31 March 2007 in respect of the Group 4 scheme.
of different customers and justice services on behalf of government institutions.
If the trend towards such outsourcing Corporate governance were for any reason to be reversed, the groups revenue and The groups policies regarding risk management and corporate profitability may be adversely affected.
governance are set out in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 36 to 38.
Inappropriate investment decisions Were the group to make acquisitions or capital expenditures Going concern that were inappropriate to its strategy or over-priced, or take The directors are confident that, after making enquiries and on on excessively onerous contractual obligations, the groups the basis of current financial projections and available facilities, profitability and returns on capital may be adversely affected.
they have a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for 5.
Cash losses the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt The group is responsible for much of the cash held on behalf the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Increases in the value of cash lost through criminal attack may increase the costs of the groups Risks insurance.
Were there to be failures in the control and All businesses are subject to risk and many individual risks reconciliation processes in respect to customer cash, these are macro-economic or social and common across many could also adversely affect the groups profitability.
Many risks are to a greater or lesser degree controllable, but some are not controllable.
IT systems internal risk management process, the group identifies The group makes widespread use of IT systems both for business-specific risks.
It classifies the key risks as those which operational management, including tasks such as scheduling could materially damage the groups strategy, reputation, and route-planning, and for financial management, including business, profitability or assets and these risks are listed below.
calculating employee wages and billing customers.
Failure This list is in no particular order and is not an exhaustive in these systems, along with the failure of business continuity list of all potential risks.
Some risks may be unknown and it procedures in the event of physical damage to or inaccessibility may transpire that others, currently considered immaterial, of day-to-day operating systems, could result in reputational become material.
damage and the loss of revenue and profitability.
Group 4 Securicor | Annual Report & Accounts 2006 25 7.
Management structure The group has a The groups most significant asset is its large and The group operates a management structure that is robust risk assessment committed work force.
Were the current good appropriate to the scale and breadth of its activities.
and control process relationships between the group and its employees to Business performance and strategies are reviewed in place to identify become strained the groups operational performance continuously by regional, divisional and group and mitigate the and reputation may be adversely affected.
Potential issues requiring management controllable risks attention are therefore identified and there is a faced by the organisation.
Defined benefit pension schemes wide range of expertise available throughout the A prolonged period of poor asset returns and or organisation, which is utilised as necessary to address unexpected increases in longevity could require these issues.
increases in the current levels of additional cash The group is contributions to defined benefit pension schemes, 3.
Authorisation procedures committed to a which may constrain the groups ability to take The group has clear authorisation limits and policy of proactive engagement with advantage of growth opportunities.
procedures which are cascaded throughout the customers, industry organisation.
For example, all acquisition proposals associations, 9.
Terrorist attacks have to be submitted for approval to the group government regulators The group operates in an industry which is capex committee, assessed against the groups return and employee sometimes involved in seeking to protect its requirements, evaluated for risk and subject to representatives.
customers against acts of terrorism.
Were terrorist appropriate due diligence.
incidents in the future to involve premises or events for which the group is contracted to provide security 4.
Group standards they could result in brand and reputational damage Each of the groups businesses applies the systems and so affect earnings and profitability.
and procedures appropriate to its size and complexity.
However, the group requires that these 10.
Regulatory requirements conform to group standards in respect of matters Security can be a high-profile industry.
There is a wide such as operational and financial controls, financial and ever-changing variety of regulations applicable reporting, business continuity planning and project to our businesses across the world.
Changes in such management techniques.
Further standards, regulations may adversely affect the groups revenues particularly in respect of IT systems, are applied and profitability.
on a divisional or regional basis.
Internal audit The group has a robust risk assessment and control The Internal Audit department operates under a process in place to identify and mitigate the wide remit, which includes ensuring adherence to controllable risks faced by the organisation.
Mitigation group authorisation procedures and control standards.
The groups diversity Most of the risks to which the group is exposed The group operates around 150 businesses across are market risks.
So as to better understand and over 100 countries and across a range of product influence the market, the group is committed to areas.
Most of the risks detailed above are marketa policy of proactive engagement across its geographic specific and, therefore, any particular issue could only range with customers, industry associations, impact part of the groups operations.
government regulators and employee representatives.
