69 7 10 8 11 9 Peter W Williams, 52 Principal activities Executive focus: Non-executive Director o and business review The right people making He joined the Board in December 2003 and the right decisions is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He has The Groups principal activity is that of a recently been appointed Chief Executive of commercial radio broadcaster and licence In the first year since the merger which Alpha Airports Group Plc.
He was formerly holder in the United Kingdom.
Other activities created GCap Media plc in May 2005, Chief Executive of Selfridges and qualified as include the provision of services to the radio we have focused on getting the right a chartered accountant with Arthur Andersen.
industry, the operation of entertainment-based management team in place and the right He is a Non-executive Director of ASOS plc, internet sites and record production and operational structure to deliver our strategy Cineworld Group plc and a Member of the distribution.
The principal activities of the for growth.
Companys subsidiaries are set out on page 78.
The GCap Media Executive Directors are 10 Peter Williams, 52 A review of the Groups activities for the year Chief Executive Ralph Bernard, Group Non-executive Director and its future prospects is set out on pages 20 Finance Director Wendy Pallot and He joined the Board in May 2005, having to 39, and in the Chairmans statement and Operations Director Steve Orchard.
previously served as a Director of GWR Group Chief Executives Q&As.
He is Finance Director of Daily Mail and General Trust plc DMGT.
He is a Chartered Accountant who joined the DMGT Group in 1982.
He is also a Non-executive GCap Media Executive Directors director of Euromoney Institutional Investor plc Ralph Bernard Wendy Pallot Steve Orchard and of Ibis Media VCT plc.
Chief Executive Group Finance Director Operations Director 11 Richard Manning, 41 Company Secretary He was appointed Company Secretary in May 2005.
He joined GWR Group plc in 2000 as Group Solicitor and became Company Secretary in 2001.
He also holds the position of Group Legal Director at the Company.
He is a director of Digital One Ltd and Wildstar Records Ltd. Lord Attenborough CBE, 82 President He was appointed President of Capital Radio in 1992 in recognition of his outstanding contribution to its development.
He was Chairman of the Company from its formation in 1972 until his retirement from the Board in 1992.
GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 19 Directors report Directors report Our priorities have been to integrate the two Review of the business companies, to achieve the best possible cost synergies, to deliver an effective operational structure, to communicate and start to deliver our strategy for growth and to continue the management of our four national and 115 local radio stations Realising increased cost synergies Improving our operational structure Review of the business In September 2004, we announced that we As previously announced, many of the merger In the Groups first year after the expected synergies from the merger to be at savings are derived from the structural changes merger, our priorities have been least 7.5 million per annum, achievable in we have made to the business.
This improved to integrate the two companies, full in 2007 08.
Following the management structure is focused on the management of to achieve the best possible cost reorganisation in September 2005, we the geographic regions outlined in our strategy synergies, to deliver an effective announced that these synergy savings would presentation.
We have introduced a simplified operational structure, to be 25 million per annum, achievable in the management structure that is clearer, speeds communicate and start to deliver first full year after the merger, 2006 07, with up decision-making, and eliminates duplication.
our strategy for growth and to 9 million being delivered in 2005 06.
In fact The personnel changes announced in continue the management of our we have managed to achieve 13 million of September 2005 have all been completed.
four national and 115 local radio savings in 2005 06.
As well as accelerating stations with a focus on building the realisation of synergies, we have also Delivering our business strategy a solid base for longer-term listener increased the total cost savings to 27 million Our strategy focuses on three clear and revenue growth.
per annum achievable in the first full year priority areas for the business: of the merger.
Post merger integration Investing in our core stations: focus on Undoubtedly, one of the greatest challenges In November we announced that the costs Capital Radio in the past year has been business integration of delivering the synergies identified at that Repositioning our portfolio of stations following the merger.
Over the past year, we date would be 19.7 million.
We are now in within commercially attractive markets have focused on integrating the management the process of moving all staff in London into and developing strong national networks and staff, technology, commercial sales, one building, which will save an additional to challenge the BBC finance and property of the two companies.
The one-off cost Developing non-traditional revenue By September, all key decisions in these areas relating to this annual saving is approximately opportunities had been taken.
Over the summer of 2005, 5 million, because, in accordance with we merged our two contemporary hit radio FM accounting regulations, we have provided for This section of the report will focus on our networks to create the One Network.
We are the full cost of lease payments for the empty progress against the strategy and goals we currently finalising the implementation of building to the end of its lease term.
Some of outlined to the City in November 2005.
In March we this cost would be reversed in future should moved Classic FM to our studios in Londons the property be sub-let.
In addition there have Business performance Leicester Square alongside our other London been other savings of 1.3 million per annum While we are focused on delivering against and national digital stations and our from further redundancies and operating our strategic goals, we measure business commercial sales teams.
We are on schedule contract renegotiations involving further performance in three key areas.
They are our to relocate Digital One and Planet Rock to one-off cash costs of 4 million.
Total one-off Group financial performance, audience and Leicester Square later this year.
cash costs, including the accrual for future listening trends and our commercial activities.
lease payments, of 29 million, represent These are outlined in the business The integration of the commercial sales team 107% of annual synergy savings, compared performance section of this report.
In July 2005, we moved to the 147% ratio implicit in the announcement the newly created national sales team into of the merger in September 2004.
In addition, one location at our Leicester Square offices.
there are non-cash costs of approximately In subsequent months we have concentrated 2 million relating to asset write downs and on creating a new team culture and integrating the share element of merger related incentives.
the technology, systems and sales process which we believe will enhance customer service levels.
GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 20 Directors report Delivering our business strategy Creating Londons most effective Given that some competitors are running Delivering our commercial environment up to nine commercials in certain breaks, this business strategy: In December 2005, we launched a new research demonstrates that Capital Radio has Focusing on our core advertising inventory policy for the station considerably improved the effectiveness of the which reduced advertising minuteage by up advertising environment on the station against stations Capital Radio to half during the working day and delivered its key commercial competitors.
Background a promise of never more than two ads in Turning around the decline in audience a row.
This strategy has delivered more Our new inventory policy has delivered not numbers at our analogue stations has been programme content and fewer adverts with only more standout for advertisers but a less our immediate priority and in November 2005, less intrusion from commercial messages, cluttered station for our listeners with more we announced that we would start with making listeners less likely to tune out during emphasis on the music and other creative Londons Capital FM which in January, we commercial breaks.
It has also benefited content.
Research conducted before the policy relaunched as Capital Radio.
advertisers by reducing clutter and increasing was implemented had shown that listeners impact.
Early feedback from our customers wanted fewer ads.
Alongside this reduction Capital Radio broadcasts in a highly has been extremely encouraging and we have in advertising minuteage, we are making major competitive and commercially attractive achieved our initial objective of maintaining our changes to the on-air content of Capital Radio market.
In the last four years it has seen its pricing premium relative to our radio to meet our listeners preferences.
reach decline by 38% and share by 50%.
Advertisers recognise that advertising on Capital Radio has significantly Our aims for the station were twofold.
We had more value than on our competitor stations.
By consulting with both clients to create a better commercial environment for and agencies prior to conducting our customers in order to maintain current After implementing the new inventory policy, the research GCap Media put pricing levels and deliver greater advertising GCap Media consulted with the largest media together a well thought out piece effectiveness and we had to create a better agency groups to develop research to of research, that countered most of listener environment in order to grow reach investigate whether a commercial played out in the criticism voiced.
The research and share of listening.
a two ad break is more likely to be recalled by provides a clear insight into the listeners than the same commercial played out benefit for Capital Radio in London in a five ad break.
of moving from a 5 ad break strategy to a 2 ad break.
In time The results of this independent research the strategy will hopefully help carried out by Ipsos ASI showed that a the station regain audience in the commercial is 38% more likely to be recalled crowded London market.
in Capital Radios two ad break than in a five ad break, demonstrating tangible benefits for Cathy Lowe, PHD advertisers from our new inventory policy.
GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 21 Directors report Our aim is to convert our audience Delivering our business strategy to regular listeners by making the continued station more appealing 100,000 We undertook the Groups biggest ever music positioning research project and a research campaign to 100,000 Capital Radio listeners Getting it right for listeners which will run through every aspect from on-air Revenue impact Audience analysis conducted in late 2005 discussion topics to events.
Since launch, we In the short-term Capital Radio advertising revealed that we have a large number of have continued to conduct extensive listener revenue has fallen due to the reduction in listeners who tune in occasionally, but not research through focus groups and early available inventory.
Revenues were down by frequently enough to register on the RAJAR feedback has been extremely encouraging.
2.4 million in the last quarter of 2005 06 due weekly figures that drive advertising rates.
There is much work to be done during the to the new policy.
We estimate that revenues Our aim in the first instance is to convert this next two phases of the relaunch strategy in 2006 07 will fall by around 7 million year proportion of our audience to regular listeners further programme improvements and strong on year, in line with the guidance we gave in by making the station more appealing to them.
We are pleased that despite the November, as a result of both the new In addition, those listeners who no longer tune heavy marketing of rival stations in London, inventory policy and last years audience in to Capital Radio, or who have yet to do so, Capital Radio continues to hold the number reductions.
As expected, this revenue is should also be tempted to listen to the station two position by audience reach with no benefiting our London commercial competitors.
if we can successfully restore the appeal of the advertising support.
Johnny Vaughans However, as the benefits of our strategic station in the longer-term.
We believe that we breakfast show remains Londons number repositioning flow through, we anticipate that have a very strong position from which to one commercial breakfast show.
The strength our portfolio of leading stations in London will rebuild Capital Radios audiences and its of the Group has enabled us to take a regain revenue share over time.
revenues but only by making significant considered view of Capital Radio over an changes to the station.
extended period going forward in order to position the station at its strongest before we A key area of our initial listener feedback launch a marketing campaign to attract new centred around the number and frequency and lapsed listeners.
We do not anticipate of commercial messages.
Our listeners told audience growth until the planned marketing us that they simply want to hear fewer ads.
push has had time to impact.
Our new inventory policy has delivered not only more standout for advertisers but a less We have also strengthened the operational cluttered station for our listeners with more management of Capital Radio by appointing emphasis on the music and relevant DJ chat.
Scott Muller as the stations new Programme Alongside this reduction in advertising Director.
Scott will join the station from minuteage, we have made major changes Nova 969 in Sydney, where as Programme to the on-air content of Capital Radio to Director he has been responsible for the meet our listeners preferences.
To help us successful launch of the station, which reconfigure the music policy for the station, secured the leading position in a competitive we initially undertook the Groups biggest metropolitan market with a similar format and ever music positioning research project as advertising inventory policy to Capital Radio.
well as an email research campaign to Scott will join the Group later this year and 100,000 of our listeners.
will apply the specific skills and experience he gained at Nova to attract new listeners.
In January 2006, we began the phased Reversing the long-term decline in audience relaunch of the station with a new music and revenues at Capital Radio is a long-term position, branding, news output, features and project but we are confident that the measures schedule.
We have also started the process of we have put in place will deliver audience and giving the station a more local, London focus profit growth over time.
GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 22 Directors report Delivering our business strategy continued A complementary portfolio to target the BBC Station brand Audience target Rationale Xfm 20-30 males Strongly branded, quasi national guitar music lifestyle brand targeting hard to reach young males Core 15-24 GCap Medias Radio 1 competitor Classic FM 35-65 ABC1 GCap Medias flagship brand, in conjunction with Capital Radio Planet Rock 35-55 ABC1 Highly branded and targeted classic rock service male aimed at part of the Radio 2 audience and the older brother of Xfm Life Capital Gold 30-50 ABC1 Classic hits speech mix aimed at part of Radio 2s audience Key: Targeting Radio 1 Radio 2 Creating strong national networks Xfm: Creating a national network Delivering our business to challenge the BBC This station has a strong lifestyle focus, based strategy: Repositioning The second objective of our portfolio strategy around new and guitar based music.
Because our portfolio and is to develop national brands to attract new it targets young males difficult to reach for audiences, primarily from the BBC as shown advertisers it has strong commercial challenging the BBC in the table above.
potential and good opportunities to derive Developing an integrated portfolio revenues direct from listeners.
of local and national brands The radio footprint created in each of our GCap Media has an unrivalled portfolio markets will allow us to particularly target Previously, Xfm broadcast in analogue in of local, regional and national stations on BBC Radios 1 and 2 which have enjoyed London, on DAB digital radio in the South analogue and digital.
One of the attractions considerable success against commercial East, North, South Wales, West Midlands of merging the two companies was that there radio in the past five years.
Xfm and Core will and Scotland and across the country on Sky.
was little direct overlap, and that the merger target Radio 1 listeners and Planet Rock, In November, we announced our intention to presented considerable opportunities for Classic FM and a combined Capital Gold Life create a new national Xfm network of digital rationalisation and improved operational will target Radio 2.
This strategy will provide a and analogue stations in order to exploit its efficiency.
In November, we outlined our plans distinctive listener proposition for each station appeal to this key audience and to give a to restructure our portfolio of radio stations to and deliver effective national campaigns for stronger national proposition for advertisers.
maximise the potential of the merged Group.
We said that in the first quarter of 2006, we Our portfolio strategy has two primary and In addition to these priority brands we will be would complete plans for the national network complementary objectives.
First, we said that able to reinforce the local position in specific by achieving the following: we would concentrate our resources in the markets with additional relevant stations such eight geographic regions which are most as Choice FM.
Xfm would replace The Storm in DAB highly demanded by advertisers and in which areas where it does not broadcast, we already have a significant presence.
Classic FM increasing Xfms DAB coverage to Additionally, in light of our decision not to sell Classic FM is the UKs largest commercial over 35 million people.
stations previously marked for disposal, we radio station.
With a presence on the national Beat 106, our analogue station in Central now also operate a South West region.
digital multiplex, Digital One and an existing Scotland Glasgow and Edinburgh, would Following the restructuring, we now have listener base of 5.7 million listeners, it is the be relaunched as Xfm regional Managing Directors outside London cornerstone of our strategy to develop our Xfm would be launched in Manchester, who have responsibility for all the brands in national portfolio.
This year, the station also following the successful bid for this their region.
These regional MDs work closely saw its highest revenues since 2002 and was analogue licence earlier in 2005. with local sales teams, programmers and the the biggest revenue contributor for the Group.
national sales team to maximise all commercial We completed this project with the successful opportunities in their area and to ensure that Planet Rock launch of Xfm Manchester following the stations are complementary and crossOn DAB digital radio, Sony Gold Award January launch of Xfm Scotland.
winning Planet Rock achieved record reach reaction to the new network has been and share with almost half a million listeners extremely positive and in the last RAJAR with little marketing to date but a strong focus results Q1:06, the Xfm network reached over on content and knowledgeable presenters.
This number does not yet include Xfm Manchester which launched in March.
See page 26 for more details on Xfm audience performance in the past year GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 23 D Dir irectors r ectors report eport We will continue to develop new revenue Delivering our business strategy Delivering our business strategy activities relevant to individual station brands, continued continued such as CD compilations and book deals 380,000 Classic FM has built a database of 380,000 listeners which generates on average 1.20 per listener Life Capital Gold Our achievements Delivering our strategy As previously announced, we are now In the past year we have restructured our for growth: Developing developing a combined classic hits speech mix business to focus on developing new revenue non-traditional revenues format aimed at part of Radio 2s audience.
streams in the key area of Customer Relationship Management CRM with the Our ambitions Disposals appointment of a Group CRM Director and The third element of our strategy is to build As part of our focus on repositioning the the creation of a New Media team.
This team new revenue streams by making the most portfolio, we identified nine analogue stations has been created to support our stations with of the power of our brands and the strong for disposal because they fell outside our their new media strategy across web sites, relationships we build with our audiences.
We received several streaming content, mobile and premium line offers for these stations.
The Board did not telephone activity.
We will continue to develop new revenue feel that it would be in the best interests of activities relevant to individual station brands, shareholders to sell at the level of offers In addition, GCap Media now has its own such as CD compilations and book deals, received having taken into account the likely production division called Creation, which through rights management, partnerships post tax proceeds and the dilution to earnings supplies content and services, including and licensing.
Our past success in CD per share of the disposal.
Accordingly, the sale in-store radio, podcasts, audio channels for compilation at Classic FM, Century and process was terminated and the stations were airlines and programmes for the BBC.
In the Capital Gold gives us a firm base on retained as an integral part of the Group.
This area of in-store radio, Creation manages the which to build and we believe that there does not affect our ability to deliver the overall content advertising messages and technology is significant room for growth in this area, strategy as these remain attractive assets solutions for high street clients including especially from Xfm, Choice and Classic FM.
which are now being managed as part of Woolworths.
The Creation team have also the existing structure.
been developing opportunities for the We also plan to build revenues from direct repackaging and licensing of the Groups interaction with listeners including mobile and archive material and has recently been email activity by directly targeting sales of commissioned to supply a second series of products and services such as ringtones, Kennys Radio Days to BBC 7 the BBCs downloads, CDs and tickets.
Classic FM has comedy and archive digital radio station.
already built a database of 320,000 listeners, The first series edited archive material from which generates on average 1.20 directly former Capital Radio presenter Kenny Everett from each listener See Classic FM Case was broadcast on BBC 7 over Christmas Study on page 25. and January 2006.
Creation also supplies radio to those travelling and living outside the We aim to have a database of 2 million UK.
It produces radio programmes for a listeners as well as 8% of our listeners regularly variety of airlines including Monarch and First visiting our websites in the next three years.
Choice and provides the content for overseas ex-pat and vacation station Holiday FM which broadcasts in 15 resorts across Europe.
GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 24 Directors report Over the last year, Classic FMs customer Delivering our business strategy relationship management CRM programme continued has reached new heights, with 380,000 listeners asking to receive the stations monthly email newsletter Behind The Music.
This programme driven initiative allows listeners to interact with the station by making requests and sharing their views.
Subscribers are also surveyed about their tastes, which helps to inform decisions about both the playlist and programming Classic FM Connecting with our listeners As well as the radio station, Classic FM Classic FMs CD sales for the past 12 months boasts a magazine, a website, a TV station, topped the 100,000 mark, while the a sell-out series of concerts at the Royal audiobook, The Story of Classical Music, Albert Hall, a chart-topping series of CDs, won The Radio Times Readers Choice Award a mail-order catalogue and a range of books at The Spoken Word Awards and top honours and audio books.
in the categories for Original Work and Achievement in Production at The Audies in Latest sales figures for the Classic FM America.
It was also nominated for a Grammy Magazine show that it continues to sell more Award.
The follow-up, Famous Composers, news-stand copies in the UK each month was released at the end of 2005. than either of its two competitors BBC Music and Gramophone.
It currently has a All of these platforms enable the listeners readership of 227,000 NRS Oct 03-Sept 04, to interact further with the radio station an ABC circulation of 43,077 and a 57% and enhance the Classic FM brand.
market share of UK news-stand sales.
Classic FM is more than a radio station and is a shining example of how we During the past 12 months, classicfm.
coms can make our brands work harder.
unique users increased to a peak of 320,000 people per month.
Classic FM TV meanwhile, is continuing to build new young audiences for classical music, with 2.4 million people tuning into the channel every month.
GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 25 Directors report Business performance 5.7m 461,000 Classic FM is the UKs Almost half a million largest commercial listeners to Planet Rock, radio station with Sony Digital Station of 5.7 million listeners the Year The One Network Xfm Network Business performance The One Network, which is the UKs biggest The creation of a national Xfm Network We are reporting business performance commercial network opportunity for to challenge Radio 1 is at the heart of the in the year in two key areas: advertisers, saw reach decline by 8.5% year portfolio strategy we announced in November on year from 8.1 million listeners Q1:05 to 2005.
Xfm now broadcasts on analogue in Operational Review: Audience trends and 7.4 million listeners Q1:06 on a like for like London, central Scotland and Manchester and commercial activities basis excluding Beat 106 in Scotland.
The on digital in areas across the UK.
The most Financial Review: Key financial performance commercially attractive 15-44 demographic recent RAJAR figures include the London, indicators makes up 70% of the One Network audience Scotland and digital stations and Manchester with a reach of 5.2 million listeners.
listening will be included later this year.
Operational review: Capital Radio For the first time, Xfm now reaches over Audience trends Within this network, Capital Radio, which 1 million listeners with total hours of 6.6 million The latest set of RAJAR audience figures was relaunched in January 2006, was down making it an extremely attractive proposition Q1:06 showed that over the last 12 months, by 18% year on year with 1.7 million listeners for advertisers.
In London, Lauren Laverne while overall listener numbers reach for the accounting for 16% reach.
Share of listening took over the breakfast show from Christian Group were down around 5.3% from declined from 6.1% Q1:05 to 5.5%, OConnell in 2005 and in her first full RAJAR 17.1 million Q1:05 to 16.2 million Q1:06, representing a decrease in total hours period, increased the shows reach by 19% GCap Media remains the UKs leading of 13% year on year.
At the 2006 Sony Radio commercial radio group with almost five million Awards, Xfms Rock School won a gold listeners more than our nearest commercial Again, turning to the important 15-44 market, award for the best competition.
The Groups total listening hours Capital Radio is the number one station in decreased by 6.6% year on year RAJAR London for this age-group, beating both the Xfm has an important role in our future growth Q1:06 compared to Q1:05.
15-44s account strategy and we expect net investment in this for 72% of the total Capital Radio audience station to be 1 million in the 2006 07 year.
Classic FM with reach of 21% while share is 8.3%.
In Classic FM is the UKs largest commercial terms of share of listening, Capital Radio Choice FM radio station with 5.7 million listeners and remains the number one station for females Choice FM broadcasts on analogue in London the leading commercial breakfast show with aged 15-44 with share of listening of 10.8%.
and across the UK on DAB digital radio, Sky 2.9 million listeners.
Reach has remained digital television and online.
Recent RAJAR RAJAR Q1:06 Reach % broadly flat across the year at 12%.
figures saw Choice achieve its highest ever Adults 15-44 Importantly, Classic FM has maintained a high national reach with 657,000 listeners and Capital Radio 21% proportion of commercially attractive ABC1 highest ever total listening hours of 6 million.
Heart 20% listeners which in Q1:06 accounted for a The station now attracts 533,000 listeners in Kiss 19% record 68.7% of the stations listeners.
London with a further 124,000 outside the Magic 18% analogue transmission area.
Choice FM has Radio 1 18% Classic FM accounts for just under 30% of continued to strengthen its line-up with key Group listening hours and is an important presenters including Richard Blackwood and At breakfast, Johnny Vaughan remains element of the Groups strategy to challenge Angie Le Mar increasing their reach at Londons leading commercial breakfast show the BBC, particularly on the digital platform.
presenter and in line with the objectives of the Latest figures from RAJAR on listening by station relaunch, he is increasing his appeal platform suggest that almost 10% of all to women who account for 58% of all listening listening to Classic FM is non-analogue with to his show.
DAB digital radio accounting for more than half of that figure.
GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 26 Directors report The creation of a new Xfm Network is a Business performance great opportunity for our sales team.
It is continued a station that is popular with media buyers as it targets young male listeners that are otherwise difficult to reach Century FM Network Station performance Operational review: The Century FM Network comprises three In London, as forecast, we have seen Commercial activities stations in the North East, North West and Capital Radio advertising revenues reduce South coast and complements the One Creating a new team by 7 million due to a combination of falling Networks offering to advertisers.
Following The integration of the commercial sales team audiences and the introduction of the new the sale of the East Midlands station in May has been a priority in the past year.
However, we have protected 2005, the network continues to see a steady 2005, we moved the newly created national our price position with key agencies and performance with reach post sale maintained sales team into one location at our Leicester worked closely with our customers to develop at 18%.
In subsequent months we an advertising effectiveness study for the have concentrated on creating a new team station.
The results of this study showed ads Capital Gold Network culture, reducing staff churn and integrating on Capital to be 38% more effective and we Capital Gold remains part of the Groups the technology systems.
Much of the systems are confident that this is a positive message strategy to target the BBC and will benefit integration is now complete and we are for our customers.
Looking at our other from the move to digital in conjunction with confident that we have the right team in brands, Xfm, Choice and Classic have all Capital Life.
The network, which broadcasts place in national commercial sales.
enjoyed growth and each outperformed the on analogue on Medium Wave, continued to market in the past year.
The creation of a new see slight audience declines over the year with Selling a complementary portfolio Xfm Network is a great opportunity for our reach down from 1.3 million Q1:05 to One of the key benefits of our portfolio sales team.
It is a station that is popular with 1.2 million listeners.
strategy is that it allows advertisers the option media buyers as it targets young male of either highly targeted campaigns on stations listeners who are otherwise difficult to reach.
GCap Media digital stations such as Xfm, Choice, Classic FM and Capital Choice FM continues to benefit from a national Recent RAJAR results painted an encouraging Gold or the opportunity to plan a broader sales focus and the record ABC1s at Classic picture for the growth of our digital stations, campaign across a complementary portfolio make it even more attractive to advertisers.
particularly Sony Digital Station of the Year, of stations with very little waste or overlap.
Planet Rock which reached a record 461,000 listeners in Q1:06.
This represents more listeners than either BBC 1Xtra or 6 Music which have both had extensive marketing support.
The focus in the past year has been firmly on programming and knowledgeable presenters such as Rick Wakeman and Nicky Horne are proving popular with listeners.
GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 27 Local v National advertising and sponsorship revenue % Directors report Local National Business performance continued 32.2 32.8 67.8 67.2 2005 06 2004 05 Category performance Developing new revenue incomes here if we win new local multiplexes in Customers in Entertainment, Motors, Finance opportunities our heritage analogue areas.
Ofcom proposes and Business all increased their advertising In the area of sponsorship and promotion, to start advertising these from Autumn 2006. spend with GCap Media in the past year.
some new long-term partnerships were formed.
However the most significant potential is in the Government and Political spend increased national multiplex, which receives audience and by the highest percentage in the year with Sky extended its partnership with Capital Gold revenue related fees from service providers.
the COI seeing its highest ever monthly spend breakfast and stepped up their promotional This potential should be forthcoming as Digital in March.
Retail, which had been the number activity to cover all GCap Media London DAB penetration increases over the next few one category in 2004 05, saw spend reduce stations.
Egg became the first client to run years see page 14.
Significant providers of by around 20% in the year reflecting weak a cross-network promotion with a two-week other non-traditional revenues in the business trading on the high street.
Telecoms and Travel campaign across 60 stations in the autumn are commercial production, box office and were also down in the year.
We have seen the that yielded revenue not previously earmarked events income, internet income, news following revenue performance from our top for radio.
This was followed by an extensive provision and CDs.
10 advertising categories: campaign with the Department of Health.
Classic FM, where non-traditional revenues Year on year % of total British Airways and O2, two of our most account for 17% of total revenues, is an revenue GCap Media Category movement revenue valued and long-term partners, continued their excellent example of where such a strategy presence across our portfolio of stations.
can significantly enhance a brand see the Entertainment & Media 2.8% 14.2% case study on page 25.
Other brands which Government & Political 23.6% 12.8% Non-traditional revenues have similar opportunities include Xfm, Choice Motors 2.8% 12.7% A key area of our strategy is to develop and Gold.
Non advertising Finance 25.4% 10.3% revenues currently account for 14% of our In our new media activities, Microsoft XP Telecoms -16.1% 8.2% total revenues and we aim to increase this sponsored all the audio and visual players Business & Industrial 47.8% 5.6% proportion in the future, lessening our reliance on our websites across 2005 in the biggest Travel & Transport -19.6% 4.7% on radio advertising.
interactive deal the Group has achieved.
Household -14.2% 4.3% New technologies have formed an important Food -3.6% 4.0% Our biggest source of non-advertising revenues part of new initiatives with some innovative Other Flat 12.0% is from the administration of digital multiplexes, campaigns including SMS and podcasting.
Source: NMR where the margins are higher than in our core Of particular note is the award winning UIP business.
There is some potential for higher Hustle & Flow film promotion.
GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 28 Directors report Group revenues during this year were Business performance affected by four key factors: the Capital continued Radio inventory reduction policy, a weak advertising market, audience declines and a period of internal disruption following the merger signalled the start of more troubled trading Financial review and the hoped for post election uplift didnt Group revenue performance materialise.
Poor high street retail figures 220m In a year of significant change for the Group, reflecting lower consumer confidence linked pro-forma revenues were 220.2 million, to uncertainty over property prices were at down 32.1 million, 12.7%, year on year.
Group pro-forma the root of the issue.
Not all media suffered however: the internet continued to show good revenues were Statutory revenues for the Group for the year growth levels, outdoor also was in growth.
220.2m to 31 March 2006 were 210.7 million six What was apparent was the generally poor months ended 31 March 2005: 58.5 million.
performance of the more longstanding traditional media ITV, national press and Group revenues during this year were affected radio.
Although radio is a relative newcomer by four key factors: the Capital Radio inventory when compared to analogue TV and press, reduction policy, a weak advertising market, it had shown good revenue and share growth audience declines and a period of internal across the 1990s and has consolidated its disruption following the merger.
position this decade with the medium now an accepted part of many advertisers staple Capital Radio inventory reduction policy media choice.
Radio is now going through a Capital Radios total revenues in 2005 06 were period of transition as it has lost some 26.6 million, making it the second biggest audience against a revitalised and well-funded revenue generating brand for the Group BBC and whilst its prospects for audience behind Classic FM.
The new inventory growth are good with digital, this is probably reduction policy at Capital Radio reduced still two or three years out.
Audience stability revenues by 2.4 million in the last quarter and then growth is what the medium needs of the financial year.
The short-term revenue for positive trading.
reduction created by this policy will continue into the new financial year and together with There was some optimism at the beginning of the effect of the audience reductions last year 2006 that the new year would be a better one will, we estimate, lead to Capital Radios for the advertising industry.
A poor January to revenues in 2006 07 being down by around March has tempered that optimism.
UK GDP 7 million year on year.
This calculation growth is expected to be about 2% in 2006, assumes that we see some improved listening with household spending remaining numbers reported in the next calendar year.
The most recent Advertising Association short-term forecasts made in Weak advertising market March 2006 estimate total display revenue Weak advertising conditions during 2005 06 will grow by 1.5% year on year in the calendar have been well documented, with industry year 2006, within that radio revenues are radio revenues down 6.8% during the year forecast to grow by 0.4%.
In April 2006, to March 2006 source: RAB Ofcom.
86% Deutsche Bank estimated growth of 2.2% for of GCap Medias revenues are advertising.
the UK advertising market for 2006, with radio within that growing by 1.4% year on year.
Although the quarter to 31 March 2005 was relatively strong, with March in particular showing good year on year growth, April GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 29 Quarterly revenue movements Directors report % growth Business performance Group Market per OFCOM continued Group excluding Capital Radio Year to June 05 Sept 05 Dec 05 Mar 06 Mar 06 0 -05 -4.6 -6.4 -5.8 -6.8 -7.8 -10 -9.1 -9.2 -9.8 -9.6 -9.3 -11.3 -11.8 -15 -12.7 -14.0 -15.6 -20 Revenue split % Revenue split % Broadcast Brands Multiplex Management Advertising and Sponsorship Other Revenues Other 4.5 4.9 90.6 85.9 14.1 GCap Media Revenues in April and May 2006 resulted in a total of 99 redundancies, re-building audiences to improve revenues are down 4% year on year, but down 1% on a 32 in the sales team.
When improved like for like basis, excluding Capital Radio which listening statistics are recorded for a quarter, was down by 26% year on year.
There is still an Subsequently, following the management those numbers do not form the basis of underlying weakness in the market and early reorganisation at the end of September, revenues until a further three months after indications for June show no improvement.
estimated synergies rose from 7.5 million per the end of the quarter.
annum to 25 million per annum.
Inevitably Audience declines this involved more changes to structures and Profitability During the period that affected revenues for a further 102 redundancies, of which 27 Our successful merger related cost saving 2005 06, total listening hours for GCap Media were in the sales team.
Last year sales staff programme together with around 5 million stations fell on average by 7.4% year on year.
turnover excluding these redundancies both of revenue related cost reductions, meant Listening hours are a key indicator for revenues.
locally and nationally was running at rates that despite high operational gearing in the However other audience statistics, such as significantly above a typical year, but churn business underlying operating profits were share and demographic mix are also very levels have dropped in recent months as down by 17 million compared to the relevant.
The extent to which revenue changes there is far greater stability in structures and 32 million fall in revenues year on year.
as a result of audience movements varies with systems.
We have been active in implementing The turnover and operating profit generated different brands.
For example, our experience our plans to improve service levels in the by each segment of our business was as has shown that changes in total listening hours national sales area, in particular in the launch shown in the table at the top of page 31. at Classic FM are unlikely to materially affect of a unified planning system.
Although some revenues because advertisers tend to choose elements of the post merger technology Costs the station both because of its unique listening integration plan are still ongoing, all material The main cost emphasis during the year environment and because it delivers an parts of post merger integration are complete, has been on maximising the synergies and audience that more traditionally tunes to BBC so we do not anticipate merger disruption will bringing their achievement forward as far as rather than commercial radio.
26% of our total have a significant effect on the 2006 07 year.
We continue to look at opportunities revenues in 2005 06 were locally generated.
for making efficiencies in the business.
Total listening hour changes are not as Quarterly revenue movement important to local revenues as the overall share In the quarter to June 2005, the Group Synergies that the local station has in its market.
Total performed in line with the market.
If Capital In September 2004, we announced expected listening does however affect national revenues Radio, which was suffering from the effect of synergies from the merger of 7.5 million for the local station, but proportionately more falling audiences, was excluded, the remainder achievable in full in the year to March 2008. the larger that local station is.
A more detailed of the Group beat the market in that quarter.
We subsequently announced in September review of audience statistics is included on During the reorganisations following the 2005 that the synergies would be 25 million, pages 26 to 27 of the Directors report.
merger, the inevitable disruption led to an achievable in full in the year to March 2007 underperformance against the market for the with 9 million being achieved in the year to Merger disruption quarters to September and December 2005.
As already explained on page 20, Inevitably there has been significant disruption In the quarter to March 2006, the effect of the we have managed to achieve 13 million in in the business resulting from the merger new inventory policy at Capital Radio can be the year to March 2006 and now expect total during 2005 06.
The businesses became one clearly seen.
Also in this quarter, it can be seen synergies to be 27 million, achievable in full company on 9 May 2005.
Reorganisation of that now stability has returned to the business, in the year to March 2007.
The total one-off key departments took place quickly, with the the gap between the underlying Group and cash costs of achieving these synergies is two national sales teams being merged and the market is narrowing.
See table above 29 million, 107% of the annual synergy all in the same building by July 2005.
For more detail, see page 20. process inevitably entailed interviews for staff, Although the direct effects of the merger are The savings are generated from the some periods of uncertainty for them, and not going to be felt significantly in 2006 07, following areas of the business: GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 30 Directors report Business performance continued 13m Savings achieved in 2005 6 Pro-forma turnover and operating profit split Broadcast Multiplex Brands Management Other Total m m m m 2005 06 Turnover 199.4 10.9 9.9 220.2 Operating Profit 18.6 5.8 1.4 25.8 2004 05 Turnover 232.5 8.7 11.1 252.3 Operating Profit 37.1 4.6 0.8 42.5 The statutory turnover and operating profit split is given in note 2 to the accounts.
People Other Digital investment Costs Costs Total Investment in our digital assets in the year was as follows: m m m Head Office 2.5 0.7 3.2 2005 06 2004 05 Radio Stations 7.0 4.8 11.8 Revenues Profit loss Revenues Profit loss National Sales 5.1 0.1 5.2 m m m m Central Services 2.7 3.7 6.4 Multiplexes 10.9 5.8 8.7 4.6 Multiplex Management 0.0 0.4 0.4 Digital broadcast 1.7 14.3 0.9 13.2 17.3 9.7 27.0 Datacasting 0.2 1.4 0.2 2.3 Total 12.8 9.9 9.8 10.9 Achieved: 2005 06 13.0 To be achieved: 2006 07 14.0 Annual net digital investment peaked for the increases we will be investing more in on-air Group in 2004 05.
We are currently forecasting production and marketing to enhance these Investment breakeven in around 2010, although this is very brands.
However these brands have significant Underlying cost control and synergy dependent on the penetration of digital radio potential for profit enhancement in the GCap achievement have been excellent, enabling including the success of the BT Movio project.
Media group in the long-term given that much us to invest where the business needs it of the running costs are already in our income most.
In November 2005 we announced We currently own or have interests in 27 of the statement but none of the revenue potential our intention to invest some of the merger 46 local and regional multiplexes in the UK as of a national station is.
Even without marketing synergies back into the business.
These well as controlling Digital One, the only national investment Planet Rock now has almost half a investments, which will be made during commercial multiplex in the UK.
2006 07, are 2.5 million in marketing announced plans to advertise a further 30 and staff and 1.2 million in internet and local multiplexes from Autumn 2006, 12 of In addition GCap Media simulcasts analogue CRM initiatives.
these are areas in which GCap Media brands on digital platforms, for example, operates the heritage analogue service and Classic FM, the Xfm Network, Choice FM During 2005 06 GCap Media was awarded we will apply for those licences.
We are also and the Capital Gold Network.
Broadcasting a new licence for Manchester, which launched reviewing opportunities to participate in the analogue brands on a digital platform out in March 2006 as Xfm Manchester.
Costs of second national multiplex, as well as further of their area is the reason for the increase 0.4 million were incurred in 2005 06 for this regional multiplexes that Ofcom may advertise.
in digital broadcast revenues year on year.
station and we expect it to incur costs of We expect the multiplex businesses to be 2.4 million in 2006 07, with a net loss of increasingly profitable as more local multiplexes Datacasting 1.1 million.
are awarded and digital penetration increases.
This principally comprises GCap Medias The increase in revenues year on year is mainly interests in the BT Movio venture.
The venture, within Digital One, resulting from the BT Movio which has been successfully trialled in London venture see above.
and the M25 area, will enable mobile operators to offer consumers a simple to use and reliable We have three digital only national brands: digital TV and radio service.
The pilot was the Planet Rock, Core and Life which operate largest of its kind in Europe and revealed that on DAB digital radio and digital television.
two thirds of customers would be prepared Costs for these brands largely comprise digital to pay up to 8 per month for the innovative transmission expenses.
As digital penetration service on their current mobile network.
GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 31 Directors report We currently own or have interests in Business performance 27 of the 46 local and regional digital radio continued multiplexes in the UK as well as controlling the only national commercial multiplex in the UK BT Movio broadcasts using GCap Medias International Financial Reporting In relation to the Groups financials, the key national DAB digital spectrum and is navigated Standards IFRS amendments to GAAP were as follows: through the worlds first implementation of a In September 2005 we announced our DAB-delivered electronic programme guide restatement from UK GAAP to IFRS for Share based payment charge under IFRS 2 on a mobile TV phone.
Unlike other mobile the period to 31 March 2005, which reduced The fair value of share based awards is now TV services, BT Movios use of a broadcast underlying pro-forma profits for that year being expensed over the period of service platform allows multiple users to access by 5.3%.
The charge for the services at the same time without a reduction year, before separately disclosed items, is in quality, thereby serving to widen the range In relation to the merger itself, IFRS 3 0.8 million 2004 05: 1.6 million.
It has of services to consumers and greatly increase Business Combinations prohibits merger reduced year on year mainly because three the speed of take-up of DAB digital radio.
The merger has been accounted executive directors have left the company.
The first BT Movio enabled device will launch for as an acquisition by Capital Radio of GWR Holiday pay provision through Virgin Mobile this summer.
In accordance with IAS 38 Intangible IAS 19 requires a liability and an expense receiving payment for the use of the national Assets the acquisition price of 280.6 million to be recognised for paid annual holiday.
spectrum, GCap Media will participate in the has been allocated across the assets The Group therefore recognised an gross revenues received by BT from this acquired.
The key assets identified were: additional accrual for holiday pay of 0.7 venture.
The level of these will be very million in the pro-forma results at 31 March dependent on the extent of take up by 321.4 million of intangible assets 2005 which has been reduced by 0.1 consumers and service providers.
licences, brands and customer relationships million at 31 March 2006. which are being amortised over the period Goodwill Classic FM licence extension that they deliver economic benefit, with a As stated above, under IFRS we no We submitted our application to extend the related deferred tax liability of 96.4 million.
This resulted current licence term of Classic FM for a further This has resulted in amortisation of in 16.7 million being written back in the four years.
Classic FMs current licence expires 42.8 million in the year.
pro-forma results for the year ended in September 2007.
The four year extension 31 March 2005. will take this to September 2011.
As part of Goodwill arising on the acquisition of Pension schemes this exercise Ofcom will set new financial 81.3 million, which will not be amortised The Group has two defined benefit pension terms and we will know these terms later but is subject to an annual impairment test schemes which are both in a deficit position this summer.
comparing the carrying value of goodwill to as calculated under IFRS 19.
The total deficit its fair value.
This treatment has also been of 8.5 million 31 March 2005: 5.4 million Accounting for the merger applied to goodwill in the brought forward on a statutory basis is now included on the GWR Group and Capital Radio merged balance sheet of Capital Radio, resulting in balance sheet.
to form GCap Media plc on 9 May 2005. an impairment charge across a number of Dividends brands of 12.8 million.
Under IAS 10 dividends are now only As well as financial information required for recognised when they are formally declared, statutory purposes these accounts also that is for an interim dividend when paid include unaudited pro-forma financial and, for a final dividend, when authorised by information and underlying basic earnings a general meeting.
Dividends of 5.1 million per share, which have been provided in order at 31 March 2005 were reversed out of to demonstrate the underlying historic trends statutory results and included in 2005 06. in the combined business.
The adjustments made to the financials to compile the pro-forma and underlying information are specified on page 59.
GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 32 Directors report The conversion of operating profits to Business performance cash during 2005 06 was at a rate of 139%.
continued Working capital has improved significantly during the year Separately disclosed items Capital expenditure for the 2005 06 year The main reason that our rate is higher than The consolidated income statement includes was at just under 3% of sales, a level not the statutory rate of 30% is expenditure on a column headed Separately Disclosed Items, inconsistent with the GWR Group historically, items disallowable for tax including entertaining, which is mainly made up of: reflecting the geographic spread of that group share based payments where no deferred tax and now the GCap Media group.
asset can be recognised and depreciation on a The total merger related business non capital allowance items.
restructuring costs of 27 million, being Interest and debt this years tranche of the 31 million The Group had debt of 75.9 million at Dividend outlined above.
31 March 2006 Proforma 31 March 2005: At the time of the merger we stated that we 79.0 million.
During the year the cash effect expected to maintain the total annual dividend b 12.8 million impairment of goodwill.
of the separately disclosed items was a net of 18.5 pence per share with cover being outflow of 0.3 million.
The Board reviewed this c 10.6 million profit on the sale of Century policy in November and in the light of the very 106, a regional licence in the East Midlands, The pro-forma net financing costs for the year significant changes that occurred in the radio which was sold in May 2005, to satisfy a were 4.3 million 2005: 5.3 million as the advertising market during 2005, the audience condition of the Office of Fair Tradings Group ran at lower debt levels during this year.
declines in the GCap Media portfolio, the approval of the merger.
The consideration, At 31 March 2006, 45% of the Groups debt current trading outlook at that time and the after a working capital adjustment, was was borrowed at an average variable anticipated near term effect on earnings of the cash of 29.3 million.
borrowing rate of 0.425% above 3 month strategic steps that we intended to take to LIBOR, the remainder was borrowed at a fixed enhance the long-term value of the business.
d 0.9 million profit on the sale of our rate of 5.1%, by means of interest rate swaps.
Bulgarian interests in November 2005, The Group had undrawn committed facilities It proposed a new level of dividend which for which the consideration was cash of 83.2 million at 31 March 2006. would form the basis for a progressive dividend of 1.5 million.
policy once the financial benefits of the strategic Our rolling annual debt EBITDA and interest repositioning of the Group flow through.
Cash flow cover ratios are shown below together with The conversion of operating profits to cash the relevant bank covenant level.
The interim dividend was set at 3.1 pence during 2005 06 was at a rate of 139%.
per share and paid in January 2006.
Net debt EBITDA Working capital has improved significantly Going forward interim dividends will continue EBITDA Interest during the year.
Although this is partly due to to represent approximately one-third of the GCap Media ratios 2.3 7.8 a lower run-rate for turnover, there has also anticipated full year dividend.
The Board is Bank covenants 3.0 max 4.0 min been a steady improvement in debtor days proposing a final dividend of 6.15 pence per during the year from 41 at the date of merger share making a total of 9.25 pence for the Taxation down to 36 at 31 March 2006.
Dividend cover based on underlying The effective tax rates, based on the result of ensuring that GCap Media combines earnings per share is 0.8. pro-forma results, before amortisation of best practice in credit control from both intangibles and business restructuring costs, Capital Radio and GWR Group, from training are 32.6% including share based payments to collection policies and customer and 31.5% without that charge.
We are running a programme of system enhancements that over the next 24 months should see further improvements in debtor days.
GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 33 Directors report Corporate social responsibility 1 2 1.
Black Thunder Crew, 2-TEN Lauren Laverne, FM with a 2-TEN FM Kids Xfm London Breakfast banner 2-TEN Kids is an Show presenter.
appeal fund which raises funds for local children.
to attract, retain and develop the most creative The GCap Academy Corporate social and talented people in the industry.
The GCap Academy was set up when the responsibility company launched in May 2005.
It offers As a business, we are continually developing a range of specific, tailor-made training and Our people the leadership and coaching skills of our development opportunities for employees with GCap Media has 1,502 employees managers so that employees are given the long-term aim of creating an externally and approximately 470 freelancers guidance and training to do their jobs more recognised professional development and contractors.
The welfare and effectively and achieve their full potential.
In programme that will help attract and retain interests of our people are a high addition, through initiatives such as the GCap the right talent for the business.
priority for the Group and health Academy and the development of internal and safety principles are in place training teams, we are encouraging the spread The Academy comprises a group of qualified to ensure a safe working of learning and helping to capture and retain trainers and employees who are able to deliver environment.
We recognise the knowledge, expertise and best practice within courses in their specific areas of expertise or importance of a balance between the organisation.
These range from general work and family life and have induction through to sales, news and established comprehensive family During the first year of GCap Media, a large programming.
Regular updates on Academy policies, which include adoptive, proportion of our training and development training are published on the intranet, along maternity and paternity leave, as programme was focused on business critical with reviews and employee scores for previous well as flexible working hours.
areas, such as training on the new national courses.
Staff can also be nominated and sales system.
The performance of both our booked onto courses through the same site.
We are an equal opportunities employer sales and programming teams is crucial to and do not discriminate on the grounds of the business and two talent development In 2006, the Academy will continue offering an sex, colour, race, religion, ethnic or national programmes were introduced the Sales extensive range of development opportunities background, sexual orientation, marital status, Leadership School and the Programme delivered by both internal and external trainers age, disability or political or religious beliefs.
In addition, we ran a and supported by a Groupwide network of two-day intensive session for all breakfast mentors and coaches.
We continually monitor changes in crews and Programme Controllers across the employment law and the introduction of the Group.
We have also introduced a one-day Leadership Age Discrimination legislation in October could general staff induction event that runs on a We are actively engaged in developing have a substantial impact upon some of our quarterly basis alongside a regional commercial leadership qualities in our management team policies.
To help managers understand what induction day.
In total, from 9 May 2005 to and in the past year have focused on creating these changes are and to give them a better 31 December 2005, we delivered over a strong leadership culture as part of the understanding of Equal Opportunities law in 2,182 training days to 971 employees.
In December 2005, we general, we will be running a series of held a two day workshop for our most senior presentations and workshops throughout The next stage for us is to create an externally managers to develop the leadership qualities the year to help them continue to manage recognised professional development for the business and followed this up with an their teams successfully.
programme which will help attract new talent interactive and highly participative conference and to continue the ongoing coaching of our for all levels of Group management in April Performance development presenters and programme controllers so 2006.
We have identified the following GCap Media embraces a culture where that we can win back audience share.
We will leadership characteristics for our managers: employees can grow and develop as individuals also continue developing a coaching culture Inspiring, Honest, Courageous and Forward and fulfil both their personal and business amongst our managers and we are rolling Looking and we are committed to encouraging potential.
This commitment is a key part of our out the new performance development review better decision making processes closer to the strategy to win the war for talent allowing us process so that all employees have individual listener and customer.
GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 34 Directors report Our aim is to harness the unique role that Corporate social responsibility radio plays in listeners lives to improve and continued take action on issues that matter to them and their families Controlling our effect the principles as set out in the combined on the environment code.
The Board is accountable for the The Group recognises the importance of Groups operations and has ongoing environmental responsibility and, where procedures for identifying, evaluating and practicable, has an environmental policy managing risks.
Further details can be found in place for the relevant business areas.
The nature of its activities means it has a minimal direct effect on the environment but, Our communities where it does, the Group acts responsibly Many companies find themselves in a position and is aware of its obligations at all times.
to help the communities they serve, but few 1 more so than in radio.
Our aim as a media We are focused on minimising those activities business is to harness the unique role that with the most significant impacts.
Our main radio plays in listeners lives to improve and concerns are waste disposal computer take action on issues that matter to them and equipment, toners and paper and their families.
management of our energy consumption, notably electricity.
All of our waste is disposed As part of our commitment to our of in accordance with the Environmental communities we employ a dedicated Protection Act 1990 and recycling is actively Community Relations Director who is encouraged throughout the Group.
Examples responsible for instigating and brokering of energy savings include encouraging staff to projects at a Group level, such as the BT turn off computers, radios and photocopiers Schools Awards and Crimestoppers Week, at the end of each day.
Throughout the Group, 2 and working with stations at a local level to where possible, air conditioning and ensure their successful implementation.
refrigeration systems run on CFC-free gases.
Capital Radio DJ Margherita GCap Media regularly acts as a catalyst on a Engaging with our shareholders Taylor with winners of the wide variety of initiatives.
In the past year, we We are committed to communicating 2005 London Adventure were invited by The Russell Commission to Group strategy and activities clearly to our Playground Awards Evergreen Adventure become a partner in a new charity created to shareholders and have in place an ongoing Playground in Hackney, revolutionise youth volunteering to inspire and investor relations programme.
engage 1 million new volunteers between the to maintain a high standard of transparency 2. ages of 16-25 years.
GCap Media has of financial reporting and we encourage the Southern FM School of committed to support the cause for the next free flow of information to the investment Rock streetboy Jack the three years through giving in kind including the community.
We have regular contact with Lad spent a week with a school band as their use of airtime for campaigns.
analysts and fund managers to ensure that manager.
On the final day they are updated on any Company and of the week they played to All of our stations also play an active role in industry developments.
Our private investors 250 of their fellow pupils and live on air across Sussex.
Corporate Social Responsibility CSR, working are also a valuable part of our shareholder with local partners to identify projects and base and we communicate with them through activities that are relevant to their particular the corporate website www.
Just one of these was the Choice FM the Annual Report and the AGM.
This initiative involved a roadshow to 22 schools across London with We also recognise the importance of high Choice FM DJs talking to young people about standards of corporate governance and follow the issues and dangers of street violence.
GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 35 Directors report Corporate social responsibility continued 1 2 1.
Help a London Child Severn Sound Graffiti Capital Radio DJ Chris Capital Radios Party part of T-day, Brookes visiting the Barking official charity.
Gloucestershires dress & Dagenham Crossroads down day, raising money project in East London.
for Money Mountain, The Barking & Dagenham The Star College and Crossroads project is a the Spring Centre.
Saturday club for children with disabilities and special needs.
3 Community action case study: 2-Ten Kids 2-Ten FM Classic FM One Million Pounds of Work Mercury FM Trust Mercury FM Classic FM has a unique public service Stations often champion particular projects Operation Santa Claus SGR role in the UK radio landscape as the only or causes in their area by responding to the Broadland Kids Radio Broadland commercial station broadcasting Classical concerns of their listeners.
In April 2005, when Q103 Appeal Q103 FM music.
Accessibility has been a key driver of Rover announced the closure of its car-makingSnowball Mercia FM Classic FMs activities a belief that classical factory at Longbridge with the loss of 6,000 Horizon Appeal Horizon FM music can be enjoyed by everybody, no matter jobs, Beacon Radio launched a One Million what their age, class or geographical location Pounds of Work hotline for local employers In addition, the Group made donations to is one of the cornerstones upon which Classic to call if they had suitable jobs for ex-Rover external charities in the year.
This year, these FM was founded.
Working with Advantage West included Race for Life, Breakthrough Breast Youth Music to encourage children to begin Midlands, the Rover Task Force and Job Cancer and Shelter among others.
learning less fashionable musical instruments Centre Plus the aim was to find one million was so successful that a shortage of tubas pounds worth of work and to provide advice Corporate responsibility ensued.
Along with Channel Five, the station and support to those workers affected by the GCap Media is the only radio company to took a choir of 40 people who had never closure.
The station was flooded with have achieved GoodCorporation accreditation.
previously performed in public on a journey responses and within days the campaign The GoodCorporation Standard helps which culminated in them singing live in front achieved its target.
By the time it closed four organisations to develop, manage and monitor of 5,000 people at the Royal Albert Hall.
weeks later, it had found five million pounds of their corporate responsibilities.
Based on a The results were startling when we worked work for the area.
This initiative was nominated set of core principles devised by the Institute with the London Symphony Orchestra to for a Sony Radio Academy award.
of Business Ethics, the Standard sets out create a series of live concerts specifically a framework of policies and good practices targeted at people who had never previously Donations and charities against which an organisation can measure heard an orchestra play.
Guiding the direction Charity work is an important element of how effectively it is meeting its objectives.
of Classic FM, particularly its public service our relationship with our local communities.
It covers practices towards employees, broadcasting is the Classic FM consumer The Group provides fundraising assistance suppliers, customers, and providers of panel, whose annual report is included on and grants to a broad range of organisations, finance, as well as community and the following page.
as well as its own charities.
The Groups own environmental impacts.
charities include: The Group has been included in the Help a London Child Capital Radio FTSE4Good Index and also scored highly Help a Local Child Fox FM, in Business in the Communitys Percent Power Ocean, Standard.
The Percent Standard, recognises 2CR, Southern, and celebrates corporate giving and is a Invicta, BRMB symbol of a companys commitment to its Music Makers Classic FM local community.
It is the UKs best known 21st Century Kids Century FM benchmark for measuring a companys Help a South Wales Child Red Dragon contributions to its local community through Plymouth Sound Trust Plymouth Sound cash donations, staff time, gifts in kind and Gemini Community Trust Gemini FM management time, shown as a percentage Orchard FM Charitable Trust Orchard FM of pre-tax profits.
GCap Medias CSR activity Bristol Kids GWR Bristol was also recognised in November 2005 when GWR Community Trust GWR Swindon the Group became finalists in The National Money Mountain Severn Sound Business Awards.
GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 36 Directors report Classic FMs Consumer Panel has been in Classic FM Consumer Panel report place now for three years, and continues to perform a unique role in commercial radio Our purpose Classic FM Consumer The Consumer Panels purpose is to Panel report encourage and influence the development We consider carefully the views of of Classic FM, to meet the needs of its listeners: we question and discuss the consumers: to probe, guide, and monitor stations progress with its managers: the actions of the stations management, and and we set broad objectives for the to set ongoing aims and objectives to which station in the year ahead.
the station should aspire: to foster a sense of ownership of the station and the Panel The past year has been one of great by consumers: and to publish a Report of administrative change at what is now GCap our work each year in GCap Medias Annual 1 Media, but throughout this period Classic FM Report and on the Classic FM Website.
has broadly maintained a steady audience share, and it is highly regarded and held in Our role considerable affection by its listeners.
The In fulfilling our purpose, we seek to review really nice Consumer Panel itself has changed too, with various aspects of the stations performance, three of our original members, having come to from the point of view of its audience: things the end of their term of office, stepping down during the year: Margaret Ainsworth, Dick Interaction with consumers: the audiences Fong, and Sam Jackson.
To all of these we access to the station and how this is dealt say a big thank you for their hard work on with: enquiries and comments by phone, behalf of Classic FM Consumers.
The current letter, e-mail and text, and how the station To order call 0870 830 8007 or click www.
com members of the Panel are: responds: access to competitions, 2 nominations, requests, and presenters: the Rt Hon Lord Smith of Finsbury, Chairman, Consumer Panels minutes to be published former Culture Secretary: regularly on the Classic FM website.
Sally Anderson, a GP from Yorkshire: Delivery: the platforms used for 1.
Martin Johnston, an Environmental Scientist dissemination of Classic FM: availability Schools Prom: Classic FM The mail-order catalogue from Northern Ireland: on FM, television, DAB, internet, mobile has fostered partnerships Classic FM Collection is with a number of like-minded the latest brand extension Kirsty Young, Director of an Opera phones, and downloads: future organisations within the arts for the radio station, which Company from Harrow: developments in technology and how they world, including one with has successfully launched Peter Bailey, a retired systems analyst impact on the audience.
Music For Youth, whose a TV station, Magazine, Youth Prom takes place website, record and from Lincolnshire: Content: issues relating to the range, quality, annually at the Royal publishing division.
Carol Goodson, a junior school teacher presentation, and nature of the music Albert Hall.
from Bromley: played: the nature of programmes, news, Brian McDowell, a cathedral school adverts, self-promotion, CDs, publications, headmaster from Devon: internet newsletters, and e-mails: the Andrew McNeish, a company director purpose and findings of audience research.
from Glasgow: Policy: the general direction and purpose Ajay Nanda, another Environmental of the station: decisions made in the light Scientist, from Scotland.
of audience response and research.
GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 37 1.
Classic FM Magazine: Mozart for babies: Directors report Relaunched with a Classic FMs first CD Classic FM Consumer Panel report fresh new look in January release of the year was continued and continues to sell launched to coincide with considerably more copies the 250th anniversary of from the UK newstand Mozarts birth.
each month than its two competitors.
1 2 Objectives for Classic FM Progress on the objectives For the past two years, we have set in place We have been pleased to note substantial five broad objectives for Classic FM, and whilst progress on these objectives.
This has we have been pleased to record substantial included the tremendous success of the progress against these, we believe they should Music for Babies CD: the Composer-inremain firmly in place for the year ahead.
residence initiative: the continued sponsorship We have decided also to add a sixth objective.
of Masterprize: the range of partnerships The six therefore are: established around the country, with orchestras, a choral group and an opera 1.
To ensure the interests of all ages of company: the promotion of live concerts: audience are represented in the spectrum the continuing success of the Teacher of music broadcast, and within that aim to of the Year initiative: the separation of encourage a younger audience especially announcements of events and concerts into at early ages, including pre-school to regional areas: the decision on programmes sample classical music via Classic FM.
such as Smooth Classics at Seven to 2.
To expand Classic FMs involvement with forward-announce or to back-announce all music written during the past 100 years, in pieces of music played: and the decision to addition to the repertoire of the previous 1,400. institute an Advert of the Quarter competition 3.
To work with a range of people and to stimulate better and more tailor-made organisations to develop new audiences for quality in advertisements.
classical music, on air, in the concert hall, and in education, by fostering partnerships We look forward to further progress in all these with the wider arts community.
In particular, a Member of the Consumer 4.
To encourage as far as possible a balanced Panel will act independently as one of the judges geographical spread of the audience for of each Advert of the Quarter competition.
We Classic FM, and to seek a broad spectrum will also monitor the Classic FM Website, to of listeners for the station, reflecting the ensure that it is kept up to date, and we have range and diversity of the UKs population pressed for the inclusion of a frequently asked as a whole.
To aim to give the audience an appropriate pieces of music should be identified by name, level of information about and insight into composer and artist at least once for each piece the music that is broadcast, providing of music played on Classic FM Television, and at background and context to what is being least once for every two pieces played on Classic played, and to classical music in general.
The Consumer Panel will at each 6.
To work with advertisers, purchasers of meeting select an issue from within its remit, advertising and creatives to improve over to consider, review, and make proposals.
In this time the quality of experience listeners have way we will seek to ensure that all the Objectives of adverts broadcast on Classic FM.
we have set are thoroughly considered and monitored, and that progress is maintained.
GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 38 Directors report We have outlined the three core strands of Principal risks and uncertainties our strategy, identified the key performance indicators for the business and reported on our performance in the past 12 months We also regularly analyse the potential risks to the Company and have put in place a number of procedures and processes to mitigate against these risks Principal risks and Commercial Strategic uncertainties The risk that continued advertising The risk that the Groups structure slowdown may put pressure on fails to be flexible enough to cope Operational traditional revenues.
with any potential future acquisitions.
The risk that we fail to manage We aim to improve programming standards adequately our stations as a to increase audience.
We are also proactively The acquisition methodology was followed portfolio to maximise our improving our relationship with advertisers through in the months following the merger.
and agencies with an emphasis on customer Review processes continue assessing service to increase the perceived value of our progress for key areas.
The impact of cultural There is communication between brands to brands.
The development of non traditional changes is now better understood.
ensure that they do not programme or market revenues is a core strand of our strategy and themselves to the detriment of the other new revenue streams have been introduced.
The impact of the second national brands in that location.
We are increasingly digital multiplex on Group strategy.
focused on our offering across the whole The pressure on premium stations marketplace and have structured our and the consequent impact on price We have had discussions with Ofcom as to management team accordingly.
Our use of and volume and erosion of heritage the composition of the second multiplex to cross promotion between stations is being protection.
We have taken steps reviewed.
We have also focused on our to ensure our eligibility to participate in the experience within the Group of portfolio We have concentrated marketing at key second multiplex as part of a consortium.
management and on applying these lessons locations and at Capital Radio, have protected in future plans, developed with assistance our price premium against our commercial The risk that Digital Radio either from our research department.
We are also seeking to maximise fails to take-off or is overtaken programming quality both in terms of sound by alternatives.
The risk of the merger process of the stations and presenter talent, as well as failing to take account of the developing better offerings for customers and We are seeking to make best use of all digital risks arising.
developing new revenue streams direct with radio offers, as outlined earlier in this report.
There is increased focus on the In addition we are evaluating and reviewing There is regular communication of processes GCap Media portfolio of stations.
alternatives so as to place GCap Media at the in place, maintained internally.
We are forefront of rather than responding to changes.
continuing to review progress on key elements including technology, commercial and finance.
GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 39 Directors report additional information Financial results Details of the Groups profit and taxation are set out in the Group Income Statement on page 62 and in the Notes to the Accounts.
Dividend The Directors have decided to recommend a final dividend of 6.15p 2005: second interim dividend of 6.0p per share payable on 28 July 2006 to shareholders on the register of members at the close of business on 7 July 2006 ex-dividend date: 5 July 2006.
Donations During the course of the year, the Group raised over 4 million for its own charities and third-party charities such as The Princes Trust and many other local charities.
In addition, the Groups own donations to external charities in the year amounted to 20,000 year to 31 March 2005: 46,000.
No contributions were made to political organisations.
Staff policies The quality, commitment and effectiveness of the Groups staff are crucial to its continued success.
Staff policies and programmes are designed to encourage employees to become interested in the Groups activities and to reward all staff according to their contribution and capability.
Employee communications are a high priority and regular staff briefings are used to ensure that all staff are kept properly informed.
Employee share ownership is encouraged through savings-related and other employee share schemes.
Employment policies do not discriminate between employees or potential employees on the grounds of colour, race, ethnic or natural origin, sex, marital status, religious beliefs or disability.
If an employee were to become disabled whilst in employment and, as a result, was unable to perform his her duties, every effort would be made to offer suitable alternative employment and assistance with re-training.
Directors The names and details of the Directors holding office at the date of this report are given on pages 18 and 19.
During the year to 31 March 2006, the following Directors held office, prior to their retirement or resignation from the Board: David Mansfield stood down from the Board in September 2005 and ceased to be employed by the Company in January 2006: Paul Davies, Linda Smith and Peter Harris stood down from the Board in May 2005.
Peter Harris ceased to be employed by the Company in May 2005 and Paul Davies and Linda Smith ceased to be employed by the Company in December 2005: Peter Mitchell, Stella Pirie and Tim Mason stood down from the Board in March 2006: and Barbara Thomas stood down from the Board in May 2005.
At the Annual General Meeting held in October 2005, the following directors were re-elected to the Board: Peter Cawdron, Tony Illsley and Peter Mitchell.
Also at the Annual General Meeting in October 2005, the following directors were elected to the Board following their appointment to the Board in May 2005: Ralph Bernard, Wendy Pallot, Alastair Ross Goobey, Patricia Hodgson, Peter Michael, Stella Pirie and Peter Williams.
Steve Orchard was appointed to the Board in November 2005.
Under Article 112 of the Articles of Association of the Company Wendy Pallot, Patricia Hodgson and Peter W Williams retire by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, notice of which is set out on pages 109 to 112.
Wendy Pallot, Patricia Hodgson and Peter W Williams, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
In relation to the re-elections of Wendy Pallot, Patricia Hodgson and Peter W Williams, the Board is satisfied that each of these Directors continues to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to the Company.
Details of all Directors offering themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting can be found on pages 18 and 19.
In addition, in accordance with Article 121 of the Articles of Association of the Company, Directors appointed since the last Annual General Meeting are required to submit themselves for election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Therefore, Steve Orchard will be offering himself for election at the Annual General Meeting.
Information on Directors remuneration is given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 58.
GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 40 Significant shareholdings At 24 May 2006 the Company had been notified of the following interests of 3% or more in its Ordinary Shares: Number of Ordinary Shares % Fidelity International Limited 23,599,397 14.32 DMG Media Investments Limited 23,561,236 14.29 Morgan Stanley Investment Management Limited 11,552,307 7.01 Standard Life Investments Limited 8,534,551 5.18 SG Asset Management 8,022,841 4.87 Capital Group Companies Inc 6,703,964 4.06 Wellington Management Company 6,092,284 3.70 Legal & General Investment Management Limited 5,685,974 3.45 Share allotment and pre-emption rights In accordance with the Companys normal practice, a resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to renew the Boards authority to allot unissued Ordinary Shares up to a maximum amount of 878,774 being the lesser of the unissued share capital of the Company and 33% of the issued share capital of the Company as at the date of this report.
This authority will expire on the fifth anniversary of the date of the resolution.
A resolution will also be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to renew the Boards authority to issue shares for cash without first being required to offer such shares to existing shareholders on a pro-rata basis.
The authority will expire on the earlier of 24 October 2007 and the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting and is limited to Ordinary Shares having an aggregate nominal value of up to 206,061 which is equivalent to approximately 5% of the issued share capital of the Company as at the date of this report.
The Directors do not currently intend to issue more than 7.5% of the issued share capital of the Company for cash on a non pre-emptive basis in any rolling three-year period without prior consultation with the Investment Committees of the Association of British Insurers and the National Association of Pension Funds.
Save in connection with the allotment of Ordinary Shares pursuant to the exercise of options and shares conditionally awarded under the Companys employee share schemes, the Directors have no present intention of issuing any Ordinary Shares.
The Company does not hold any Treasury Shares.
Authority to buy-in shares Under Article 9 of its Articles of Association, the Company is empowered to purchase its own shares.
The Directors consider that it is prudent to maintain the power to make purchases in the market of the Companys own shares and the necessary special resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The maximum number of shares which may be acquired pursuant to the authority is 16,484,900 which is equivalent to 10% of the issued share capital of the Company and the maximum price exclusive of expenses payable for each Ordinary Share is 105% of the average closing middle-market quotations for an Ordinary Share as derived from the Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the purchase.
The authority will expire on the earlier of 24 October 2007 and the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting.
The Board has no immediate intention to exercise the authority and purchases will only be made if the Board believes that to do so would increase the earnings per share of the Company and be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders generally.
The authority granted at last years Annual General Meeting has not been used in the past year.
Under the Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003, companies are allowed to hold shares acquired by way of market purchase as treasury shares, rather than having to cancel them.
If any purchases of ordinary shares are made pursuant to this authority, it is intended that such ordinary shares will either be cancelled or held in treasury in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
No dividends will be paid on, and no voting rights will be exercised in respect of, shares held in treasury.
Any purchases of Ordinary Shares would be by means of market purchases on the London Stock Exchange.
As of 24 May 2006 there were options outstanding over 4,302,954 Ordinary Shares, representing 2.61% of the Companys issued share capital.
If the authority given by this resolution to buy-in shares was to be fully used, these options would represent 2.9% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 24 May 2006.
There are no warrants to subscribe for Ordinary Shares outstanding.
Supplier payment policy Community involvement is a cornerstone of the Groups radio operations and the Group considers that this extends equally to its position in the business community.
The Group does not follow a code but operates a payment policy to agreed terms in settling outstanding debts.
For certain types of regular contracted services, the Group encourages direct debit or standing order arrangements.
Most other supplies are on an ad hoc basis and the terms of payment are agreed when the order is placed.
The majority of payments are made by electronic transfer direct to suppliers bank accounts.
The amount of trade creditors shown in the consolidated balance sheet at 31 March 2006 represents 31 days 31 March 2005: 68 days of average purchases during the period for the Group.
The Company had no trade creditors at the year end 2005: creditor days 42 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 41 Directors report additional information continued Directors shareholdings, share options and conditional share awards The beneficial interests of the Directors at 1 April 2005 or date of appointment if later and 31 March 2006 or date of resignation from the Board if earlier were: At 31 March 2006 At 1 April 2005 or date of resignation from Board or date of appointment to the Board Conditional Conditional Share Share Shares Options Awards Shares Options Awards R Bernard Appointed 9 May 2005 275,746 295,741 S Orchard Appointed 24 Nov 2005 16,349 172,217 W Pallot Appointed 9 May 2005 6,861 160,220 P Cawdron 3,200 3,200 Patricia Hodgson Appointed 9 May 2005 3,367 A Illsley 4,200 4,200 T Mason Retired 31 March 2006 P Michael Appointed 9 May 2005 3,799,306 P Mitchell Retired 31 March 2006 1,000 1,000 S Pirie Appointed 9 May 2005 and resigned 31 March 2006 19,108 A Ross Goobey Appointed 9 May 2005 13,000 P W Williams 4,300 2,500 P Williams Appointed 9 May 2005 391 D Mansfield Resigned 19 September 2005 146,374 290,917 307,170 144,923 290,917 307,170 P Davies Resigned 9 May 2005 45,321 186,646 185,320 45,321 186,646 185,320 P Harris Resigned 9 May 2005 36,640 153,675 162,590 36,640 153,675 162,590 L Smith Resigned 9 May 2005 14,492 145,776 160,280 14,492 145,776 160,280 B Thomas Resigned 9 May 2005 2,414 2,414 Note Ralph Bernard, Steve Orchard, Wendy Pallot, Patricia Hodgson, Peter Michael, Stella Pirie, Alastair Ross Goobey and Peter Williams held no shares in Capital Radio plc prior to the Merger.
Upon the Merger, pursuant to the Scheme of Arrangement implementing the Merger, their shareholdings in GWR Group plc were cancelled and they received shares in GCap Media plc at the agreed conversion rate.
These holdings are reflected in the Shares column at 31 March 2006 above.
The Conditional Share Awards are awards made under the Capital Radio Long-Term Incentive Plan.
The options include those held under the 1986 Capital Radio Senior Executive Share Option Scheme, 1998 Capital Radio Share Option Scheme, the Capital Radio plc Save As You Earn Scheme, the GWR Group plc Save As You Earn Scheme and nil cost options granted pursuant to the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan and the Interim Merger Scheme.
In addition to the individual shareholdings set out above, the Directors are for Companies Act purposes deemed to be interested in 581,066 Ordinary Shares held in the Capital Radio Employee Trust, 263,011 Ordinary Shares held in the GCap Media SAYE Trust and 272,633 Ordinary Shares held in the GWR SAYE Trust.
The market value of these shares as at 31 March 2006 was 2,557,266.
There were no changes in the Directors registered interests in the shares of the Company during the period from 31 March 2006 to 24 May 2006.
None of the Directors had any interest in the shares of any subsidiary company.
Further details of options and conditional share awards held by the Directors at 31 March 2005 are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Directors and officers insurance The Company maintains insurance cover for all directors and officers of Group companies against liabilities which may be incurred by them whilst acting as directors or officers.
The Directors are granted an indemnity, in accordance with Article 171 of the Articles of the Company, in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
Treasury The Groups financial instruments comprise borrowings, some cash and liquid resources, and various items, such as trade debtors and trade creditors that arise directly from its operations.
It is, and has been throughout the year under review, the Groups policy that no trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken.
The principal risk arising from the Groups financial instruments is interest rate risk.
The Board has reviewed and agreed a policy for managing this risk and this is summarised below.
This policy has remained unchanged since the beginning of the year.
GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 42 Interest rate risk The Group finances its operations through a mixture of shareholder funds and bank borrowings.
The Group borrows at both fixed and floating rates of interest.
The Groups operating activities are principally financed by floating rate borrowings, whereas significant investment and acquisition activities are generally financed through fixed interest borrowings.
The Group uses derivatives to protect against fluctuating interest rates.
As noted above, it is, and has been throughout the period under review, the Groups policy that no speculative trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken.
Interest rates swaps, in sterling, have been entered into to achieve a suitable mix of fixed and floating rate exposure.
Liquidity risk Short-term flexibility is achieved by overdraft facilities.
The Groups operations are typically cash-generative, so exposure to liquidity risk is considered insignificant.
Foreign currency risk The Group has no exposure to foreign currency risk as it has no significant investments or financial instruments denominated in foreign currencies.
Auditors The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
During the period under review, the Company went through a tender process to appoint auditors.
Following the audit tender process, which was conducted by the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board, the Board re-appointed KPMG Audit Plc.
Resolutions are to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as Auditors of the Company and to authorise the Board to fix their remuneration.
The remuneration and expenses of the Auditors are fully disclosed in note 7 to the Accounts.
By order of the Board Richard Manning Company Secretary 30 Leicester Square London WC2H 7LA 24 May 2006 Registered Number 923454 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 43
