In November 2005, we presented our strategy to the City, our staff, customers and shareholders outlining a clear direction for the company in three key areas: Investing in our core stations: with a focus on Capital Radio Repositioning our portfolio of stations and focusing on commercially attractive markets where we can challenge the BBC Developing non-traditional revenue opportunities Realising opportunities GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 09 Opportunities More music and more Capital Radio began its phased relaunch in January 2006 with a new on-air position and new inventory policy.
We have delivered over a third more impact for advertisers with our no more than two ads in a row policy and protected our pricing position.
We are now focused on continuing to develop the on-air product to attract new listeners.
GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 10 Opportunities for listeners and advertisers Less clutter through Improved effectiveness lower minuteage We consulted with the largest media agency groups to develop research to investigate Our new inventory policy has delivered not whether a commercial played out in a two only more standout for advertisers but a less ad break is more likely to be recalled by cluttered station for our listeners with more listeners than the same commercial played emphasis on the music and relevant DJ chat.
Alongside this reduction in advertising minuteage, we have made major changes to The results of this independent research the on-air content of Capital Radio to meet showed that a commercial is 38% more likely our listeners preferences.
to be recalled in Capital Radios two ad break than a five ad break, demonstrating tangible Never more than two ads benefits and more impact for our advertisers.
in a row Given that some competitors are running up to nine commercials in certain breaks, this Our strategy has delivered more programme research showed that Capital Radio has content and fewer adverts with less intrusion considerably improved the effectiveness of the from commercial messages, making listeners advertising environment on the station against less likely to tune out during commercial its key commercial competitors.
It has also benefited advertisers by reducing clutter and increasing impact.
Advertisers recognise that advertising on Capital Radio has significantly more value than on our competitor stations.
GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 11 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 12 Opportunities for GCap Media Targeting the most commercially attractive listeners The challenge for commercial radio is to Commercial radio reach is an impressive 71% ensure that it presents a compelling alternative compared to the BBCs 60%.
By share of to the BBC to attract new listeners and grow listening, commercial radio reach delivers share of revenue for radio.
The second strand 55% share against only 43% from BBC of our strategy is about targeting the BBC radio stations.
with a complementary portfolio of stations in the most demanded areas and with great GCap Media is the leading commercial radio national brands.
group among these target listeners with 36% reach.
In the important London market, the Commercial Radio is an attractive medium difference is even greater.
Here GCap Media to advertisers because it can consistently delivers 46% reach among 15-44s with the deliver the 15-44 year olds demanded by nearest commercial competitor reaching 35% our customers, and in this demographic, of these listeners.
commercial radio outperforms the BBC.
targeted advertising GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 13 Opportunities for GCap Media Well positioned to benefit from the growth in digital listening through the growth of our national networks and national stations Opportunities for advertisers Increased reach and opportunities to target new listeners and hard to reach audiences Opportunities for listeners Greater choice of services and increased interactivity The digital opportunity DAB Digital Radio provides new business There have now been three million DAB opportunities for radio companies in digital radio sets sold.
It took five years to operating multiplexes and developing new sell the first million sets, 11 months to sell radio brands.
For listeners, it offers a much the next million and just five months to sell broader choice of services, with more than the third million.
By 2009, more than 40% 420 available around the country and more of homes in the UK are expected to own than 50 on-air in London.
the benefits are clear: the opportunity to target much wider niche audiences who are loyal to their strong radio brands.
2006 Household penetration GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 14 Opportunities for digital 2009 Household penetration DRDB figures Creating radios digital future GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 15 Our strategy is to build new revenue streams by harnessing the power of our brands and building stronger relationships with our audiences Making our brands work harder A key area of our strategy is to develop nonSponsorship of podcasts will provide a traditional revenues, which currently account growing revenue stream for GCap Media, for 14% of our total revenues, thereby with advertisers and agencies wanting to use lessening our reliance on radio advertising.
them to reach new communities of listeners.
Classic FM, where the sale of CDs and box Currently, Orange are the sponsors of a range office incomes comprise 17% of total of special interest podcasts created by GCap revenues, is an excellent example of how such Media including topics ranging from a fishing a strategy can monetise a brand.
We believe rodcast to movies, comedy and news.
that similar opportunities are available elsewhere within the Groups brands in areas In addition, we also have a rich archive to including podcasting, branded CDs and by plough and recently repackaged and sold exploiting our extensive archive.
classic Kenny Everett shows to the BBC for transmission on BBC 7.
We have been commercial radio pioneers in podcasting.
Xfm podcasts are consistently in the top 20 in the iTunes chart where the Adam & Joe podcast reached number 9.
Xfm was the first station to offer music podcasts following a deal with the V2 record label offering listeners exclusive session tracks and band interviews recorded at Xfm.
GCap Media plc Annual Report 2005 06 16 Opportunities for our brands
