qxp:Layout 1 6 3 07 13:14 Page 20 Business Review Strategy and Key Performance Indicators To implement our strategy successfully we need to be able to measure our progress.
Our Key Performance Indicators, together with other measures, are used by the Board to measure the overall progress of the Group against its business objectives and its strategy.
Our Goals Group Key Performance Indicators Our goal is to become the leading national housebuilder KPI Profit before tax in the UK and in the markets in which we operate in the Earnings per share US.
We seek to deliver maximum value for our shareholders, Target We strive to achieve We seek to provide not just in the short term but for many years to come.
the highest level of continuous growth in The Company will deliver shareholder value by growing profit before tax in the earnings per share.
profit before tax, increasing earnings per share and housebuilding sector.
providing an attractive progressive dividend which is secure and sensibly covered by cash flows and earnings.
Profit on ordinary activities, The basic earnings per share Measure In the UK our strategy is to grow completions and excluding exceptional items based upon the profit attributable operating profit and, through improved effectiveness and and before charging tax.
to ordinary shareholders before efficiency, increase our operating margin.
The delivery of exceptional items divided by the an improved operating margin will be supported by our average number of shares in issue strategy of acquiring value added land and continuously during the year.
In the US, our long term strategy is to grow completions, operating profit and operating margin.
In the short term, UK Key Performance Indicators our strategy is to manage current market conditions by focusing on costs and efficiencies to establish a platform for KPI Operating profit Landbank rapid volume growth, as market conditions return Target We strive to increase We will improve the size, quality to normal.
and balance of our landbank over time.
The success of our growth strategy will be influenced by our ability to grow completions across the Group, which can be positively impacted by achieving high customer satisfaction levels.
We believe that if we can become the Measure Profit on ordinary activities Landbank size Landbank quality before exceptional items, housebuilder of choice for our customers we will gain Total number of Plot cost as a finance costs and tax.
owned and controlled percentage of average plots in the short term selling price in the People are one of our greatest assets.
We strive to landbank excluding landbank.
be a company that people want to work for.
We take all strategic acres.
our moral responsibility to provide a safe working environment for our employees seriously and encourage our employees to consider their safety as well as that of others at all times.
US Key Performance Indicators Key Performance Indicators KPI Operating profit Landbank To implement our strategy successfully we need to be able to measure our progress.
Set out to the right are our We strive to increase We will improve the size, quality and Target Key Performance Indicators.
These indicators, together operating profit.
balance of our landbank over time.
with other measures, are used by the Board to measure the overall progress of the Group against its business objectives and its strategy.
Measure Profit on ordinary activities Landbank size Landbank quality We take our Corporate Social Responsibility CSR duties before exceptional items, very seriously and have developed a number of measures Plot cost as a Total number of finance costs and tax.
to track our progress in this area.
Within our CSR report owned and controlled percentage of average there are 26 Key Performance Indicators relating selling price in plots in the landbank.
the landbank to governance, health and safety, the environment, employees and customer care.
A summary of the CSR report can be found on pages 30 and 31.
20 George Wimpey Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business Review WP100 p20-21 vAW1 tp.
qxp:Layout 1 6 3 07 13:14 Page 21 Focused on continuous improvement Dividend per share Staff attrition We aim to deliver an We endeavour to attract attractive progressive and retain the highest dividend.
calibre of employees and strive to be a company that people want to work for.
The total number of employees The sum of the interim dividend and the final within the Group who resigned during the year divided by the proposed dividend for the year.
average number of employees within the same year expressed as a percentage.
Completions Operating margin Customer satisfaction Employee turnover Health and safety We aim to grow UK Our target is to deliver We strive to maintain and We are committed to We want to send completions without an above sector average improve our customer reducing employee our employees and compromising operating margin.
safely and uninjured day after day.
Total number of homes that Profit on ordinary activities The percentage of customers The number of employees The total number of have been legally completed.
before exceptional items, who would recommend George who left the company during reportable injuries in the Where the company enters finance costs and Wimpey to their family or friends, the year divided by the average financial year divided by into joint ventures, the share of joint venture profits calculated using the responses number of employees within the average number of equivalent number of divided by revenue, to our in-house customer the same year expressed as direct employees and completions represented expressed as a percentage.
satisfaction surveys that are a percentage.
sub-contractors employed by our share of ownership mailed to every customer during the year multiplied is also included.
Completions Operating margin Customer satisfaction Employee turnover Health and safety We strive to grow Our target is to deliver We strive to maintain and We strive to reduce We want to send completions in an above sector average improve our customer employee turnover.
our employees and excess of underlying operating margin.
Total number of homes that Profit on ordinary activities Calculated from the Woodland The number of employees Total number of sub-contractor have been legally completed.
before exceptional items, OBrien customer satisfaction who left the company during and employee accidents in one Where the company enters finance costs and share of survey.
The score is the overall the year divided by the average year, divided by the total into joint ventures, the joint venture profits divided percentage of customers number of employees within number of employee hours equivalent number of by revenue, expressed as answering yes to the question, the same year expressed as worked multiplied by 200,000. completions represented a percentage.
Would you recommend Morrison a percentage.
by our share of ownership Homes to a friend wishing to is also included.
geor rge gewim wimpe pey ypl plc c. co. co. uk.
