qxp:Layout 1 6 3 07 13:09 Page 36 Governance Board of Directors John H Robinson Chairman John has been Chairman since 1999, originally joining George Wimpey as a Non Executive Director in September 1998.
He is also Chairman of Affinity Healthcare Limited, Bespak plc and is an operating partner at Duke Street Capital.
During the year John was a Non Executive Director of Esporta Group Limited.
John has previously been Chairman and Chief Executive of Smith & Nephew PLC and Chairman of Low & Bonar Plc, Railtrack PLC and UK Coal PLC.
During the year John stood down as Chairman of the Governing Council of the University of Hull and also stood down as Chairman of Paragon Health Care Group Limited.
Peter Redfern Group Chief Executive Peter joined the Company as Finance Director of George Wimpey UK in January 2001.
At the beginning of 2004 he became the Managing Director of George Wimpey UK and in October 2004 was appointed Chief Executive of the UK business and joined the Plc Board.
In July 2006 Peter was appointed as the Group Chief Executive of George Wimpey Plc.
Prior to joining George Wimpey, Peter was Finance Director of Rugby Cement.
David Williams Non Executive Director David was appointed in May 2001.
He retired as Finance Director of Bunzl plc in January 2006, having been on the Board for 14 years.
During the year David joined Tullow Oil plc and Meggitt PLC as a Non Executive Director.
Previously David has held Non Executive positions at Dewhirst Group Plc, Medeva PLC and The Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation Company.
David is the designated Senior Independent Director.
Andrew Carr-Locke Group Finance Director Andrew was appointed in May 2001.
Previously he was Group Finance Director of Courtaulds Textiles Plc.
Andrew held a Non Executive Position with AWG Plc, from October 2003 to January 2007.
Christine Cross Non Executive Director Chris was appointed in December 2002.
She is a retail consultant and was previously Group Business Development Director at Tesco.
She is Non Executive Director of Sobeys Inc. in Canada and Next plc.
Since June 2005 Chris has been the Retail Advisor to Apax Partners Ltd. Age 55.
Baroness Dean of Thornton-le-Fylde Non Executive Director Brenda was appointed in October 2003.
She is a member of the House of Lords and active in a range of public areas.
She is Chairman of the New Covent Garden Market Authority and a Non Executive Director of Dawson Holdings PLC.
Brenda retired as Chairman of the Housing Corporation in 2003 and has previously held Non Executive positions with Take Care plc, Chamberlain Phipps Plc and Inveresk plc.
36 George Wimpey Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Governance WP100 p36-37 vAW1 tp.
qxp:Layout 1 6 3 07 13:09 Page 37 Steve Parker President, Morrison Homes Steve was appointed in January 2006.
He joined Morrison Homes in 1996 as Orlando Division President and in 1998 was promoted to Senior Vice President of the Florida Region.
In 2004 he became Executive Vice President, before being appointed President in 2005.
Anthony Reading MBE Non Executive Director Tony was appointed in April 2005.
Previously Tony was an Executive Director of Tomkins Plc and Chairman and Chief Executive of Tomkins Corp USA.
He is a Non Executive Director of The Laird Group Plc, Spectris Plc and e2v technologies plc.
Ian Sutcliffe Managing Director, George Wimpey UK Ian joined George Wimpey in February 2006 as George Wimpey UK Managing Director and in October joined the Plc Board.
Prior to joining George Wimpey, Ian held a number of senior roles with Royal Dutch Shell Plc, lastly being Vice President Retail for Shell Oil in the US.
Robert Sharpe Non Executive Director Robert was appointed in September 2005.
Robert is Chief Executive of the Portman Building Society, a post he has held since 1999.
Prior to that Robert held a number of senior executive positions within the mortgage market.
He is a member of the Building Societies Association Council and also the Council of Mortgage Lenders Executive Committee.
James Jordan Group Company Secretary and General Counsel James, a solicitor, was appointed Group Company Secretary in February 2002.
Audit Committee Nominations Committee Current members: Anthony Reading Current members: John Robinson Committee Chair, Committee Chair, Brenda Dean, Robert Sharpe Christine Cross, Brenda Dean, Anthony Reading, and David Williams.
Peter Redfern, Robert Sharpe and David Williams.
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Remuneration Committee Current members: Christine Cross Committee Chair, Current members: David Williams Committee Chair, Brenda Dean, Steve Parker and Ian Sutcliffe.
Christine Cross, John Robinson, Anthony Reading and Robert Sharpe.
