Board of Directors CN EC N CA R N Roy Brown Age 60 Sir Kevin Smith, CBE Age 52 Sir Ian Gibson, CBE Age 60 Chairman Chief Executive Senior Independent Director Appointed a non-executive Director in Joined GKN in 1999 as Managing Joined the Board as a non-executive 1996 and became Chairman in May Director Aerospace and appointed Director in 2002 and appointed Senior 2004.
Senior Independent Director Chief Executive in January 2003.
Prior Independent Director on 1 January of HMV Group plc and non-executive to GKN, held various positions in BAE 2006.
Non-executive Chairman of Trinity Director of British United Provident Systems over a 20 year period, latterly Mirror plc and non-executive Director Association Ltd BUPA and the as Group Managing Director New of Northern Rock plc and Greggs plc.
Franchise Board of Lloyds of London.
Deputy President of Former Chairman of BPB plc, former Former executive Director of Unilever The Society of British Aerospace President of Nissan Europe and plc and Unilever NV and former Companies Ltd and Co-Chairman of the corporate officer of Nissan Motor Co Ltd non-executive Director of Brambles Governments Manufacturing Forum.
Japan, former Deputy Chairman of Industries plc and Brambles Ltd Fellow of the Royal Aeronautical Society ASDA Group plc and former Director of Australia.
Member of the CBI and Companion of the Chartered Chelys Ltd.
Fellow of the Institute of International Advisory Board.
Degree BSc in Applied Engineer, Fellow of the Institution of Director of Scottish and Southern Physics from Manchester University.
Mechanical Engineers and Fellow of Energy plc.
Degree BA in Business the Institution of Engineering and Studies from the University of Central Technology.
Degree BSc in Mechanical Lancashire.
Engineering from University College London and MBA from Harvard Business School.
CA R N CA R N CA R N Helmut Mamsch Age 62 Sir Christopher Meyer Age 63 John Sheldrick Age 57 Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointed in 2003.
Chairman of the Appointed in 2004.
Group Finance Chairman of Electrocomponents plc, Press Complaints Commission.
Former Director of Johnson Matthey plc non-executive Deputy Chairman of British Ambassador to the United States since 1990 prior to which was Group LogicaCMG plc and non-executive and Germany, and also served in the Treasurer of The BOC Group plc.
Former Director of Sappi Ltd South Africa.
British Diplomatic Service in Russia, non-executive Director of API Group plc.
Member of Supervisory Board of K S Spain and the UK Representatives Fellow of the Association of Corporate Aktiengesellschaft and Cemex ofce to the European Community, Treasurers and Fellow of the Chartered Deutschland AG.
Former Prime Ministers Institute of Management Accountants.
Board member of VEBA AG now Chief Press Secretary.
Degree MA Degrees in Natural Sciences MA from E. ON AG.
in History from Cambridge University.
Cambridge University and Management Sciences MSc from the University of Manchester Institute of Science and Technology.
44 GKN plc Annual Report 2006 E CA R N E Nigel Stein Age 51 Sir Peter Williams, CBE Age 61 Grey Denham Age 58 Finance Director Non-executive Director Company Secretary Joined GKN in 1994 and appointed to Appointed in 2001.
Chancellor of the Joined GKN in 1980 and was head the Board as Finance Director in 2001.
Former Master of the Group Legal function for nine Has held a range of commercial, general of St Catherines College Oxford, prior years before being appointed Company management and finance roles within to which Chairman and previously Chief Secretary in 1996.
Non-executive the Group, most recently Senior Vice Executive of Oxford Instruments plc.
Director of Charter plc and Young President, Finance and Chief Financial Non-executive Chairman of NPL Enterprise UK.
Holds various positions officer of GKN Sinter Metals.
Prior to Management Ltd and non-executive on Industry bodies and currently GKN, had extensive experience in the Director of W S Atkins plc.
Fellow of Chairman of the CBI in the West commercial vehicle and manufacturing the Royal Society and of the Royal Midlands.
Former Chairman of the sector.
Non-executive Director of Academy of Engineering, former Primary Markets Group of the London Wolseley plc.
Member of the Institute President of the British Association Stock Exchange.
Law Degree LLB of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
for the Advancement of Science and from London University and a barrister.
Degree BSc in Engineering Science former Chairman of the Engineering from Edinburgh University.
Degree MA in Natural Sciences and PhD from Cambridge University.
In addition to Sir Kevin Smith, Nigel Stein E Member of Executive Committee and Grey Denham, the other members of C Member of Chairmans Committee the Executive Committee are as follows: A Member of Audit Committee R Member of Remuneration Committee Marcus Bryson Age 52 N Member of Nominations Committee Chief Executive GKN Aerospace The Company Secretary is secretary Arthur Connelly Age 49 to the non-executive Board Committees.
Chief Executive GKN Driveline Driveshafts The responsibilities of all Board Maureen Constantine Age 57 Committees are described in the corporate Group Human Resources Director governance statement and in the Audit Committee report.
Simon Pryce Age 45 Chief Executive GKN Diversied Businesses Group Andrew Reynolds Smith Age 40 Chief Executive GKN Sinter Metals Martyn Vaughan Age 51 Chief Executive GKN OffHighway Annual Report 2006 GKN plc 45
