DIRECTORS REPORT The directors present their report and audited financial statements for the year ended 1 July 2006.
Activities The principal activities of the group are the provision of passenger transport and aviation services.
Trading The income statement appears on page 30.
The directors propose that a final dividend of 38p be paid making a total of 56p for the year.
A review of the business of the group during the year and its prospects for the future together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the group, can be found in the Chairmans Statement and the Operating and Financial Review on pages 6 to 16.
A description of the groups funding and risk management policies can be found in note 23.
Directors The names of the directors at the year end appear on page 17.
Christopher Moyes retired from the board and as group chief executive after the year end on 8 July 2006.
In accordance with the provisions of the articles of association, Sir Patrick Brown and Rupert Pennant-Rea retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
At the annual general meeting, a resolution will be put to shareholders to approve the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 21 to 25.
The shareholder vote will be advisory only.
The directors interests in the share capital of the company at the respective year ends, with comparative gures for the 2005 year end, were as follows: 2006 2005 No.
Sir Patrick Brown beneficial 7,500 7,500 Ian Butcher beneficial 61,111 53,142 Christopher Collins beneficial 10,000 10,000 Keith Ludeman beneficial 31,442 23,612 Christopher Moyes beneficial 1,959,161 1,947,678 Non-beneficial 37,400 37,400 Rupert Pennant-Rea beneficial 2,000 2,000 Includes 31,055 2005 23,572 shares held under the rules of the executive directors share bonus scheme as described in the Directors Remuneration Report.
In addition, 338 2005 242 shares are held in The Go-Ahead Group plc Share incentive plan.
Includes 31,055 2005 23,225 shares held under the rules of the executive directors share bonus scheme as described in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Includes 11,483 2005 0 shares held under the rules of the executive directors shares bonus scheme as described in the Directors Remuneration Report.
There were no changes in these interests up to 7 September 2006.
Details of directors interests in share options, including awards granted to the executive directors as participants in the Long Term Incentive Plan, can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 21 to 25.
Substantial shareholdings As at 25 August 2006 the company has been notied of the following interests in its ordinary shares excluding the directors above which represent 3% or more of the issued share capital of the company.
% J P Morgan Asset Management 3,852,345 8.08 Mr M S A Ballinger 3,481,008 7.30 Schroder Investment Management 2,493,157 5.23 Threadneedle Asset Management 2,148,429 4.50 F&C Asset Management 1,947,030 4.08 Legal & General Investment Management 1,812,842 3.80 AEGON Asset Management 1,806,956 3.79 Lloyds TSB Group 1,753,050 3.68 These holdings include, where applicable, the aggregate of investment management clients interests within the respective asset management companies.
26 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Review for the year ended 1 July 2006 Directors responsibilities in relation to the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and those International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union.
The directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year which present fairly the financial position of the group and the financial performance and cash ows of the group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specic requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and state that the company has complied with IFRSs, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Directors declaration In accordance with the Companies Audit, Investigations and Enterprise Act 2004, as far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditors are unaware and each director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
Management and staff There are approved share option and share incentive schemes in existence intended to enable all staff to share in the prosperity of the group.
It is the groups policy to give full consideration to suitable applications for employment by disabled persons.
Disabled employees are eligible to participate in all career development opportunities available to staff.
Opportunities also exist for employees who become disabled to continue in their employment or to be trained for other positions in the group.
The group is committed to involving all employees in the performance and development of the group.
Employees are encouraged to discuss with management matters of interest to the employees and subjects affecting day-to-day operations of the group.
Discussions take place regularly with trades unions representing the employees on a wide range of issues.
Suppliers Each company agrees terms and conditions for its business transactions with suppliers.
Payment is then made on these terms, subject to the terms and conditions being met by the suppliers.
At 1 July 2006 the number of days purchases outstanding for the company and the group were 15 and 31 respectively 2005 12 and 29.
Charitable donations Charitable donations, sponsorship and community support over the year amounted to 400,000 2005 552,000.
No payments were made for political purposes.
27 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Review for the year ended 1 July 2006 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Special business at the annual general meeting Resolution 8 set out in the notice of annual general meeting, which will be proposed as a special resolution, will empower the directors to allot shares in the company.
Specic shareholder authority pursuant to section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 is required before the directors can allot shares.
This authority shall expire on the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the company or, if earlier, fifteen months after the passing of the resolution.
Resolution 9 set out in the notice of annual general meeting, which will be proposed as a special resolution, will supplement the directors authority to allot shares in the company.
Section 89 of the Companies Act 1985 requires a company proposing to allot equity securities for cash to offer them first to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings.
Equity securities includes ordinary shares the only class of share capital the company has at present but does not include shares issued under employee share schemes.
If this resolution is passed, the requirement imposed by section 89 will not apply to allotments by the directors in three cases: 1 in connection with a rights or similar issue, where strict application of the principle in section 89 could for example either result in fractional entitlements to shares arising or require the issue of shares where this would be impractical because of local legal or regulatory requirements in any given overseas jurisdiction: 2 allotments of shares for cash up to a total nominal value of 242,041 representing 5% of the companys issued share capital at 1 July 2006.
This gives the directors exibility to take advantage of business opportunities as they arise, whilst the 5% limit ensures that existing shareholders interests are protected in accordance with guidelines issued by institutional investors bodies: and 3 in connection with the sale by the company of shares held by it in treasury.
Whilst shares are held in treasury they will not be entitled to vote or receive dividends declared by the company.
Section 89 pre-emption rights would normally apply to the subsequent sale of the shares held in treasury in the same way as they apply to an issue of new shares for cash.
This resolution disapplies section 89 pre-emption rights in the event of sales of treasury shares.
Any acquisition of shares to be held in treasury by the company and any subsequent disposals, will be subject to compliance with any applicable rules or guidelines issued by institutional investors bodies.
The board also confirms its intention that including any sales of shares held in treasury equity securities equivalent to no more than 7.5% of the issued share capital of the company will be allotted for cash on a non pre-emptive basis during any rolling three-year period, again in line with institutional investor guidelines.
This authority will lapse on the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the company or, if earlier, fifteen months after the passing of the resolution except in so far as commitments to allot shares have been entered into before that date.
Resolution 10 set out in the notice of annual general meeting, which will be proposed as a special resolution, gives the company authorisation to use its available cash resources to acquire its own shares in the market for either cancellation or to hold them as treasury shares.
This resolution renews a similar authority given at the last annual general meeting.
The directors use this authority only after careful consideration, taking into account market conditions prevailing at the time, other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels, and the overall position of the company.
The directors only purchase such shares after taking into account the effects on earnings per share and the benets for shareholders.
This authority will lapse on the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the company, or if earlier, fifteen months after the passing of the resolution.
The extent of the authority sought is calculated in accordance with good corporate governance practice.
Auditors Resolutions to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the companys auditors and to authorise the directors to x their remuneration will be put to the forthcoming annual general meeting.
By order of the board C Sephton Secretary Registered ofce 3rd Floor 41 51 Grey Street Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 6EE 7 September 2006 Registered No.
2100855 28 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Review for the year ended 1 July 2006
