qxd 28 9 06 17:09 Page 43 Board of Directors David Ross Manjit Dale Zillah ByngNon-Executive Chairman Maddick Director David Ross was appointed Independant NonManjit Dale is co-founder Chairman of the Company Executive Director of TDR Capital, a UK in October 2005.
He Zillah Byng-Maddick joined based private equity firm specialising in was one of the original founders of The the Company as a Non-Executive Director in leveraged buyouts across Western Europe.
Carphone Warehouse, and was appointed October 2005.
Zillah is currently Chief He has over 10 years of private equity and Finance Director in 1991, Chief Operating Financial Officer of Thresher Group, where consulting experience gained with a Officer in 1996, and Deputy Chairman in she has worked for four years.
Prior to variety of organisations including Andersen 2003.
He is also currently a non-executive joining the Thresher Group, she held Consulting, 3i plc, NM Rothschild, Bankers director of National Express Group plc, finance positions at HMV Group and GE Trust and Deutsche Bank.
He has invested Wembley National Stadium Limited and Capital.
Zillah has a degree in management in excess of 1 billion of equity in over 20 Cosalt plc.
David has a degree in law from from Glasgow University, and is a member transactions during this period and has Nottingham University, and is also a of the Chartered Institute of Management particularly strong experience in the UK qualified Chartered Accountant.
Accountants and an Associate of the leisure sector.
He also holds non-executive Corporation of Treasurers.
positions at Pearl Group Ltd, and Rapala Harvey Smyth Normark NV.
Manjit has a Masters Degree Executive Director Richard Grigson in economics from Cambridge University.
Harvey Smyth joined Senior Independent PizzaExpress in October 2003 Non-Executive Director as its Chief Executive Officer.
Julian Seaward Richard Grigson joined the He was previously Deputy Chief Executive Non-Executive Company as a Non-Executive Officer and UK Managing Director of Pret A Director Director in October 2005.
He has been Manger, having joined the company in 1996 Julian Seaward has been a Senior Bursar of Peterhouse, Cambridge as Finance Director.
Harvey has a degree in Private Equity Operating since 2003.
Between 1989 and 2003, he biochemistry from Bristol University, and is Partner since 2001, firstly for the Nomura worked in the investment banking divisions also a qualified Chartered Accountant.
Principal Finance Group, and subsequently of CSFB and Morgan Stanley, latterly as a for Deutsche Bank Capital Partners and Managing Director, specialising in corporate Julia Jo Fleet then TDR Capital.
Since joining TDR Capital, finance advice for retail and luxury goods Executive Director Julian has been responsible for companies.
Richard has a degree in Literae Jo Fleet joined ASK in 1998 PizzaExpress since January 2004, and for Humaniores from Oxford University.
and became Operations ASK since its acquisition in May 2004.
He Director in 2002 having was previously a Partner at McKinsey & Karen Jones previously been Operations Manager Company for eight years, leading the firm's Independent Nonresponsible for all London branches of support for several major clients and also Executive Director both ASK and Zizzi.
Jo was promoted to the UK Property and Casualty Insurance Karen Jones joined the Managing Director of ASK in January 2005 Practice, and chairing the Worldwide Company as a Non-Executive and is now its Chief Executive Officer.
Prior to Director in October 2005.
She is currently to joining ASK, she spent 10 years with My joining McKinsey & Company in 1987, also a non-executive director of Halifax Kinda Town as Operations Manager.
Jo has he worked for Price Waterhouse, where he Bank of Scotland HBOS and Royal a BA degree from Leeds University.
qualified as a Chartered Accountant in 1981.
National Theatre Enterprises Limited and a Julian has a degree in mathematics from Governor of Ashridge Business School.
Chris Heath was Chief Executive of the Spirit Group until Executive Director its sale in January 2006, and was part of the Robert 't Hooft Chris Heath joined the team that acquired Allied Domecq's pub Non-Executive Company as Group Chief portfolio in October 1999 and Scottish & Director Financial Officer and Newcastle's pub estate in November 2003.
Robert 't Hooft became a Commercial Director in October 2005.
He Prior to joining the Spirit Group, she director of PizzaExpress in previously worked for Allied Domecq plc founded the Caf Rouge restaurant chain, 2003, and is currently Managing and where he held a number of senior positions, which was floated as the Pelican Group plc.
Founding Director of Nando's UK.
including Global Finance Director, European Karen has a first-class honours degree in Robert was born in South Africa and has Finance Director, Managing Director UK English and American literature from the a BA Hons degree from London University.
Chris is a University of East Anglia, and also studied member of the Chartered Institute of at Wellesley College, Massachusetts, USA.
40 GONDOLA HOLDINGS PLC - ANNUAL REPORT 20O6 3502 - Financial Rep 06 Start Q7.
qxd 28 9 06 17:09 Page 44 PizzaExpress Oxford Castle
