8 GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 Directors Report and Business Review continued In 2006, we faced an exceptional increase in energy costs MANAGING DIRECTORS REPORT following the end of a long term electricity supply agreement We are significantly increasing our customer focus to and significant hikes in gas and other power costs.
In total, enable us to drive a stronger and more unified Greggs the Groups energy bill rose by 4.5 million compared with 2005, brand that can respond more rapidly and effectively and this was the largest single contributor to the 4.9 million to changing needs and tastes.
We are taking major reduction in operating profit before restructuring costs.
initiatives in the areas of management, customers, Through forward buying we managed to avoid the peak of products, shops and marketing.
These actions will create the energy cost spike and, as a consequence, these costs in a more streamlined Group with the capability to deliver 2007 are likely to be at a similar level to 2006. progressively improving performance through a focus Advantageous forward buying also enabled us to mitigate the on innovation and best practice.
effects of a significant increase in the market price of flour, TRADING PERFORMANCE Trading conditions during 2006 our most important ingredient, from autumn 2006, as poor were the most demanding that we have encountered for well harvests worldwide resulted in a shortage of good quality over a decade, and these were reflected in our disappointing milling wheat.
Labour, our largest single cost, reflected underlying like-for-like sales performance.
The flat like-for-like sales trend wage inflation of just under 4 per cent, partially offset by of the first half 24 weeks continued for longer than we had improved scheduling of shop staff hours and a continued drive expected in the second half, partly because of the effects of an to enhance efficiency.
We also robustly challenged all spending exceptionally hot summer.
Real improvements were achieved, as part of a determined focus on tighter cost management across the Group.
against progressively easier comparatives, in the final two months of the year, with like-for-like sales in the six weeks to Greggs brand UK.
The Greggs brand in the UK recorded a 9 December growing by 2.0 per cent and in the final three like-for-like sales decline of 0.3 per cent in the first half and an weeks to 30 December by 3.3 per cent.
As the Chairman has improvement of 1.2 per cent in the second half, making an noted, these delivered an uplift of 0.9 per cent over the second increase of 0.5 per cent for the year.
Selling price inflation half as a whole, making an increase of 0.5 per cent for the year.
averaged 3.1 per cent, once again reflecting improvements to With our selling price inflation averaging 3.0 per cent, this our product offer as well as the recovery of cost increases.
represented a 2.5 per cent decline in core volumes year-on-year.
Like-for-like sales under the Bakers Oven brand grew by 0.8 per cent in the first half and recorded The market in which we operate has become progressively a marginal decline of 0.1 per cent in the second half, making more competitive, with the proliferation of high street an increase of 0.4 per cent for the year as a whole.
Selling convenience formats operated by the major supermarket price inflation averaged 2.6 per cent.
groups, and the growth of numerous specialist takeaway food chains.
This has occurred at a time when high street footfall Greggs Continental Europe.
Our Belgian business is now has in any case been under pressure.
The high operational trading from six shops in Antwerp and Leuven, which are gearing of the business makes it sensitive to changes in likeachieving good core sales growth.
We plan to open at least for-like sales.
two more shops in Belgium during 2007.
GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 9 Sir Michael Darrington Managing Director STRUCTURE AND STRATEGY: GREGGS As the product contains less than 400 Kcalories, less than 10g of fat, Chairman has noted, we have conducted a comprehensive less than 4g of saturated fat and less than 2g of salt.
The range is complemented by a healthy fruit salad pot.
Together, review of our structure and strategy during 2006.
Whilst Healthier Options products already account for over 10 per confirming the fundamental strengths of the business, it has cent of our sandwich sales.
made us even more determined to drive harder in those areas where there are opportunities for improvement.
The strategic review has confirmed the fundamental strength of our retail property portfolio.
We are now seeking Management.
We operate in an increasingly fast-moving to develop our range of outlets and opening times so that market place, and it is essential that we have the capacity they are appropriately geared to each meal occasion and to to react quickly to changing consumer demands and tastes.
local demand for food on the go.
In developing our retail Following our review, the Board concluded that the previous estate, we will progressively focus on new types of locations management structure, which allowed considerable autonomy where there is demand for high quality takeaway food, as to the eight Greggs divisions in the UK, could no longer meet well as on the traditional high street.
We will also put increasing this key requirement.
Raymond Reynolds was therefore emphasis on capital investment devoted to enhancing the appeal appointed Retail Director in December 2006 to unify the of our existing shops through refits and refurbishments.
Greggs brand and to drive an improvement programme based on an even greater understanding of our customers and Marketing.
All these changes will be supported by a their needs.
significant increase in our marketing expenditure, including a campaign to promote awareness of the Greggs brand.
Our market research has confirmed the great will place particular emphasis on the freshness, quality and loyalty of the million customers who visit Greggs each day.
It enjoyability of our products, including the excellent provenance has also highlighted clear opportunities to strengthen of our ingredients.
engagement with our existing customers and to extend our appeal to new groups of consumers.
Our objective is to develop As our new structure becomes established, we will speed the Greggs brand to deliver quality food on the go to customers up the adoption of best practice throughout the Greggs throughout the day, with a range that is capable of satisfying business, both in the product range we offer and in the way their varying lifestyles and preferences.
This will help us to drive down costs as well as building Greggs reputation as a consistent, Products.
While maintaining our focus on delivering great taste national brand.
and enjoyment at competitive prices, we will develop our offer to cater for more aspirational demands.
We will continue to STRUCTURE AND STRATEGY: BAKERS OVEN In August offer iconic bakery products such as our sausage rolls and we announced the restructuring of Bakers Oven in the North doughnuts.
These will be complemented by more and Scotland, involving the closure of these two divisions and adventurous new products and by further expansion and the transfer of 49 of their shops either to the Greggs brand development of our Healthier Options range of wraps, rolls or the successful Bakers Oven Midlands operation.
A further and sandwiches, which currently comprises seven lines.
Each 14 poorly performing shops were closed.
These changes have 10 GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 Directors Report and Business Review continued CAPITAL INVESTMENT Capital expenditure during the MANAGING DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED year was 30.0 million 2005: 41.7 million.
This was been implemented in accordance with our plans, and will significantly below our original budget of 40 million, deliver the projected profit enhancement of 1.25 million per principally as the result of site problems which delayed the annum from 2007. start of work on our new Glasgow bakery, and the scaling back of planned shop openings.
We plan to invest some 39 We incurred total restructuring costs of 3.5 million, slightly million in the business during 2007, which will include the below our revised estimate but exceeding our original budget Glasgow bakery construction: the completion of a smaller of 2.5 million owing to higher than expected property costs.
scale expansion of our South Wales facility: and a substantial Since the beginning of the current year we have completed increase in our expenditure on shop refits and the sale of the Carricks bakery site in Newcastle upon Tyne, refurbishments.
formerly the headquarters of Bakers Oven North.
As we have previously disclosed, the property profit on this sale will help CASH FLOW AND BALANCE SHEET The business to mitigate the costs of closure.
remains consistently highly cash generative, underpinning the Bakers Oven in the South and Midlands remains a successful Boards strategic decision to maintain our long-established, and profitable business, delivering good returns on our progressive dividend policy, reduce dividend cover and conduct investment, and we remain committed to its future growth a continuing share buyback programme.
During the year the and development.
Company and the Greggs Employee Benefit Trust together spent 55.9 million on the purchase of shares: the Company RETAIL PROFILE We opened 48 new shops during the year paid dividends to shareholders totalling 12.1 million: and we and closed 31, giving us a net increase of 17 units to a total of made an additional contribution of 5.5 million to our main 1,336 at 30 December 2006.
There were a larger number of pension scheme, reducing its deficit under IAS19 to 1.9 million closures than usual as a result of the restructuring of Bakers at 30 December 2006 2005: 9.7 million.
Oven in the North and Scotland.
Following these changes, our portfolio at the year end comprised 1,165 shops 2005: 1,098 Despite these substantial outlays, we ended the year with net under the Greggs brand in the UK, an increase of 67: 165 cash on the balance sheet of 19.6 million, a reduction of 2005: 216 under the Bakers Oven brand, a reduction of 51: 46.0 million since our previous year end.
and six under the Greggs brand in Belgium, an increase of one.
COMMUNITY AND ENVIRONMENT We are proud to We completed 29 comprehensive shop refurbishments and have maintained our commitment to the communities in 24 minor refits during the year.
which we operate during 2006, both through the Companys During 2007, we expect to add a net 20 25 new shops to continued charitable donations and the efforts of our employees.
our portfolio, after a continuing programme of action to weed In total Greggs gave 548,000 to charities during the year out underperforming outlets.
As part of our drive to enhance 2005: 609,000, amounting to 1.3 per cent of our pre-tax the customer appeal of our stores, we will accelerate the profit.
This was directed principally through the Greggs pace of our programme of refurbishments and refits during Trust and our Greggs Breakfast Clubs scheme, where the the year.
number of clubs operating in primary schools in GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 11 disadvantaged areas rose from 113 to 124.
In addition to this THE FUTURE We are taking clear steps to address the our staff helped to raise 345,000 for childrens cancer charities difficulties we encountered in 2006, and have initiated a through regional fun runs and over 70,000 for the BBC programme of change that will build on the enormous Children In Need appeal.
fundamental strengths of the Group.
This will help us to develop an even more responsive and cost-effective business that can We have maintained our drive to improve energy efficiency satisfy the needs of customers, employees and shareholders and reduce carbon emissions through our SEBA Save Energy alike.
We will do so without compromising our core values or Be Aware initiative in all our shops and bakeries.
I am pleased our commitment to delivering excellent products and service.
to report that this delivered a 10 per cent reduction in our I am confident that this will provide the most solid of foundations energy usage in production during 2006.
We have also for the delivery of our vision of long term growth as Europes continued to pursue various initiatives to increase recycling finest bakery-related retailer.
and reduce the amount of food waste going to landfill.
PEOPLE Our excellent people have again demonstrated their dedication to the business, and have worked hard to Sir Michael Darrington overcome the challenges created by a more demanding Managing Director market place.
I would like to record my special appreciation 12 March 2007 of the way those affected by the restructuring of Bakers Oven pulled together to help us to make those changes as quickly and smoothly as possible.
I would also like to thank and send our good wishes for the future to two senior members of our management team who retired this year after long periods of service: Ian Edgeworth, who had been Personnel Director at our Group head office in Newcastle upon Tyne since 1983: and Peter Rossi, who joined the business in 1988 and had been Managing Director of Greggs of Yorkshire since 1997.
In addition we have two other significant retirements coming in 2007 and, as the Chairman has noted, a personal tribute from me to Ian Gregg and Malcolm Simpson appears on pages 4 and 5.
