GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 19 Internal Audit are set out in note 26 to the accounts.
Details of directors The internal audit function visits every division on an annual share options are set out in the Directors Remuneration basis and reviews performance of the division across a Report on pages 58 to 64. range of financial and non-financial requirements, reporting On 13 March 2006, 1 April 2006 and 18 December 2006 findings to the relevant senior managers and direct to the Richard Hutton, Sir Ian Gibson and Raymond Reynolds were Audit Committee.
respectively appointed as additional directors and on The Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of 30 September 2006, Susan Johnson retired as a nonthe system of internal control covering all material controls, executive director.
including financial, operational, compliance and risk In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, management systems during the year under review and up Stephen Curran, Ian Gregg, Raymond Reynolds, to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
Derek Netherton, Malcolm Simpson, Richard Hutton and Bob Bennett retire from the Board.
All, except Ian Gregg ACCOUNTABILITY, AUDIT AND GOING CONCERN and Malcolm Simpson who have decided not to seek reThe Board acknowledges its responsibility to present a election, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
This is fulfilled by the statements DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES As at the date of this report, contained in the Chairmans statement and Managing Directors indemnities are in force under which the Company has agreed report, which supplement the statutory accounts themselves.
to indemnify the directors, to the extent permitted by law, A statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the in respect of losses arising out of or in connection with the preparation of accounts is given on page 24.
A statement of execution of their duties, powers or responsibilities as auditors responsibilities is given in the report of the auditors directors of the Company.
The indemnities do not apply in on page 25. situations where the relevant director has been guilty of fraud or wilful misconduct.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
FIXED ASSETS In the opinion of the directors the market value of all of the Groups properties is not significantly different from their historical net book amount.
DIRECTORS AND THEIR INTERESTS The names of the directors in office during the year together with their relevant interests in the share capital of the Company as defined in the Companies Act 1985 at 30 December 2006 and 31 December 2005 or at date of appointment if later
