4 GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 Tribute to Ian Gregg and Malcolm Simpson by Sir Michael Darrington The Greggs business was started by Ians parents in the bit of an act of faith.
However, I had met Ian on a number of late 30s, selling yeast and eggs from a van.
As a young occasions and as we got to know each other I felt we shared boy, after his parents bought their first shop and bakery lots of ideas and had a lot of values in common and that Ian in 1951, Ian found himself helping with all the tasks in was somebody to be trusted.
the bakery, as well as studying.
Just as Ian qualified as The business floated on the London Stock Exchange in May a lawyer, his father died unexpectedly.
1984 and we carried on growing and improving the business.
Ian agreed to help his mother with the business for a Ian became progressively more non-executive in his Chairmans short period but, to his surprise, found he became role.
He retired as Chairman in 2002 but, fortunately for us, enthused by it.
At that time, the business comprised agreed to stay on for a few more years.
Ian was amazing in that a bakery in Gosforth with one shop and seven delivery the understanding we had was that he would leave me to get vans and, in those days, the business was mainly on with doing things my way rather than getting involved bread, rolls and cakes.
He did this even when, on a number of occasions, he Ian progressively built the business over the next 20 years, must have felt pretty uncomfortable.
I doubt that anyone else growing it both organically and by acquisition.
He developed could have done this as well as Ian.
the savoury business, putting ovens into all the shops and he Even during his most frenetic times, Ian found time for the found himself working bakers hours.
He also reintroduced other passion in his life salmon fishing.
He has always been the iconic Stottie Cake.
very involved in conservation including being the Chairman of As those who know him understand, Ian loves working with the River Tweed Commissioners and Tweed Foundation, for people and is excellent at choosing them, which has contributed which he was awarded an OBE.
He is also very generous and to the strong and stable team that was built.
He has excellent set up a significant charitable trust to help the disadvantaged.
personal values which he built into the business in the early He has a large number of achievements, both in and out of days and which we have progressively developed as the business the business, which have influenced a lot of people.
He is remarkable in that he has the vision of an Ian is a very modest and unassuming man, with great strength entrepreneur but was never happier than when he went in to of character.
His retirement from Greggs is the end of an era.
help out with a problem in the bakery.
The AGM also sees the retirement of another pillar of Greggs In the early 80s, Ian decided he had done his bit in growing Malcolm Simpson, who has been Financial Director of Greggs Greggs, which was still a private business, and he asked me to join and to continue the improvement and expansion of the since 1975.
He was a great help to Ian in the early days and, business.
I came to Greggs as MD in 1983 from a large public when I joined Greggs in 1983, Malcolm was particularly company, joining a relatively small family business, which was a welcoming and supportive in what was initially a challenging time.
GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 5 Ian Gregg Malcolm Simpson Malcolm steered us through our flotation in May 1984.
I know that I, and many others, will miss them tremendously He is a larger-than-life character who has had a wide-ranging and would like to wish them every success and happiness in involvement in most areas of our business and has made a the future.
major contribution to our success over many years.
He is Sir Michael Darrington very strong minded and most of the time!
I have appreciated Managing Director both his challenging approach as well as his supportiveness.
12 March 2007 Greggs have been very fortunate to have two such excellent people giving such long-term commitment to the very successful building of our business.
