Roy Davis Executive Chairman Chief Operating Officer 3.
Michael Garner Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Deputy Chairman 5.
Dr Katherine Innes Ker Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director 7.
Professor Charles Cummings Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director 9.
Dr Charles Goodson-Wickes Non-Executive Director Gyrus Group PLC 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 1.
Keith Krzywicki Non-Executive Deputy Chairman Non-Executive Director Executive Chairman and CEO Michael Garner, Non-Executive Deputy Keith Krzywicki, Non-Executive Director, Brian Steer, Executive Chairman and Chairman, is 69 years old and was the is 62 years old and has over 30 years CEO, is 73 years old and has a wealth Finance Director of TI Group PLC from experience in the Pharmaceutical Industry of international senior management 1979 to 1993.
Since then he has been with responsibility for manufacturing and experience in the healthcare industry.
He a Non-Executive Director of a number of commercial operations.
He has held Chief was President of Zimmer International Inc. companies including Enterprise Inns plc Executive positions in Denmark and from 1983 to 1993 and prior to that was from September 1995 to January 2005.
Belgium and from 1990 until 2003 President of Travenol International He was a founder member of the was President of Pharmacia Ltd, UK Services Inc. now Baxter Healthcare Accounting Standards Board and has and Ireland.
V Corporation and has considerable been a member of The Hundred Group experience in international markets for of Finance Directors since 1978.
Professor Charles Cummings medical devices.
He originally joined Non-Executive Director Gyrus as a consultant in January 1994, 5.
John Rennocks Professor Charles Cummings, Nonwas appointed to the Board in November Non-Executive Director Executive Director, is 71 years old and is 1994 and became Executive Chairman John Rennocks, Non-Executive Director, the Director Emeritus of Otolaryngology in 1996.
Mr Steer has overseen the is 61 years old and a qualified Chartered Head and Neck Surgery at the Johns development of the Groups business Accountant with significant sector Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore, Maryland, organically and by acquisition since its experience with Smith and Nephew plc US and is on the Board of Directors of flotation in 1997. from 1974 to 1989, becoming Group Johns Hopkins Medicine.
He has written Finance Director in 1981.
Subsequent to over 125 scientific papers, is a past 2.
Roy Davis that, he was Finance Director of Powergen president of both the American Society Chief Operating Officer plc and Corus Group plc, before taking up for Head and Neck Surgery and the Roy Davis, Chief Operating Officer, is 51 a number of non-executive director American Academy of Otolaryngology, years old and has over 25 years of line positions of public and private companies, Head and Neck Surgery and has served management and strategic consulting providing broad experience in on the American Board of Otolaryngology experience.
He joined Gyrus from NTERA, biotechnology, support services and for 19 years.
a Nanotechnology company, where he manufacturing.
He is currently Chairman of was Chief Executive.
Dr Charles Goodson-Wickes Nestor plc, Diploma plc, Intelligent Energy nearly 10 years with Arthur D. Little, the Non-Executive Director Holdings plc, and Deputy Chairman of global management consulting company, Dr Charles Goodson-Wickes, NonInmarsat plc.
He is the Chairman of the where he was Vice President and Global Executive Director, is 61 years old and Audit Committee and a member of the Head of its Operations Management is qualified both as a physician and a Remuneration Committee and business.
Mr Davis has also held senior barrister.
He has held appointments in Nominations Committee.
operational positions for Tricom, Reuters the NHS, has seen active service in the and Molex in the US, Taiwan and Europe.
Dr Katherine Innes Ker Army as a Medical Officer and built up Before becoming Chief Operating Officer Non-Executive Director his occupational medicine practices.
Mr Davis served as a Non-Executive Dr Katherine Innes Ker, Non-Executive He was a Member of Parliament for Director of Gyrus from its flotation in 1997.
Director, is 46 years old and gained a 10 years, serving as Parliamentary He has a mechanical engineering degree D. Phil in Molecular Biophysics from Private Secretary in three Government and an MBA.
He currently holds a pursued a career in the City as an Equity number of Non-Executive Directorships.
Simon Shaw Analyst with UBS Phillips & Drew, and Chief Financial Officer later with Dresdner Kleinwort Benson, Simon Shaw, Chief Financial Officer is where she was a Director and UK Media 42 years old and joined the Group in Analyst, before moving to SBC Warburg October 2003 to take responsibility for as a Director and Pan European Media the Group financial management, financial Analyst.
She is a Non-Executive Director strategy and investor relations.
He is of Taylor Woodrow plc and Ordnance non-executive Chairman of Synairgen plc, Survey Ltd and is Chairman of Shed listed on AIM and is a member of the Productions plc.
Dr Innes Ker has also TechMark Advisory Group of the London previously occupied non-executive Stock Exchange.
Mr Shaw was Chief positions in a number of other public Operating Officer of Profile Therapeutics companies.
She is the Chairman of the plc, a listed drug delivery and medical Remuneration Committee and a member devices business, from 1997 to 2003. of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Prior to 1997 he was a corporate financier, latterly with Hambros Bank.
He qualified as a Chartered Accountant in 1990.. Gyrus Group PLC 27 Annual Report and Accounts 2006
