DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their report and audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006.
Principal Activities The Group designs, develops, manufactures and markets advanced surgical systems.
It develops innovative tissue management and visualisation systems for minimally invasive surgery.
Business Review A review of the activities of the Groups Divisions and of the Groups results, activities during the year and financial position at the end of the year can be found in the Chairmans Statement, the Business Reviews, the Operations and Research and Development Review and the Financial Review on pages 2 to 24.
These pages also include, where relevant, a number of key financial and nonfinancial performance indicators KPIs and an indication of future developments.
The KPIs include the following items which are regularly reviewed by management in respect to changes between reporting periods.
Revenue Group and Divisional Gross margin Overhead expense ratios Operating margin Components of working capital The installed base of PK generators in the US Disposable revenues derived from installed base of PK generators Capital expenditure Key Risks The following risks and uncertainties are regarded as key to the Group: Patents and proprietary rights The success of the Group depends, inter alia on its ability to establish, protect and enforce proprietary rights relating to the manufacture, use and sale of its existing and future products.
Whilst the Group seek patent protection where appropriate for its inventions, there can be no assurance that: patent applications will mature into granted patents: that existing patents will provide the Group with sufficient protection in the case of an infringement of its technology: or that existing or future patents will not be successfully challenged, revoked or circumvented by competitors.
Dependence upon reimbursement The ability of the Group to commercialise its products successfully depends in part at least on the extent to which reimbursement for the costs of surgical procedures is available from governments, health administration authorities, private insurers and other organisations.
There can be no assurance that changes in reimbursement policy in the Groups main markets will not have an adverse affect on the Groups ability to sell products into those markets.
Regulatory approval The majority of the Groups products require marketing authorisation from national or federal regulatory bodies prior to being offered for sale.
In addition some regulatory bodies, such as the US Food and Drug Administration FDA have rights of access and audit of the Groups manufacturing facilities worldwide.
There can be no assurance that any product developed by the Group will achieve and maintain its Marketing Authorisation throughout its lifecycle or that the Group will always pass regulatory inspection at each of its plants.
Failure to do so could have adverse consequences upon the Groups ability to sell products in any relevant territory.
Integration risk The integration of the Groups activities after acquisitions can involve the transfer of significant manufacturing operations, the closure of plants, reductions in staff and the implementation of new computer systems.
Many of these activities carry a variety of risks and can represent expensive projects to undertake.
There can be no assurance that the Group will not encounter difficulties in effecting its integration plans or that the expected benefits of such integration will be realised in the future.
Currency risk Currency risk is addressed in the Financial Review on pages 22 to 24 and in Note 22 to the Financial Statements on pages 76 to 78.
Treasury risk Treasury risk is addressed in the Financial Review on pages 22 to 24 and in Note 22 to the Financial Statements on pages 76 to 78. Credit risk Credit risk is addressed in Note 22 to the Financial Statements on pages 76 to 78.
Results and Dividends The audited financial statements are set out on pages 43 to 88.
The Group made a profit after taxation for the year ended 31 December 2006 of 13,193,000 2005: 6,276,000.
The Directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend.
Gyrus Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 28 Directors The Directors who held office during the year were: BL Steer Executive Chairman SJB Shaw Chief Financial Officer GR Davis Chief Operating Officer MF Garner Independent Non-Executive Director, Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director C Goodson-Wickes Independent Non-Executive Director KT Krzywicki Independent Non-Executive Director CW Cummings Independent Non-Executive Director NM Goble Non-Independent Non-Executive Director resigned 15 March 2006 K Innes Ker Independent Non-Executive Director appointed 16 October 2006 J Rennocks Independent Non-Executive Director appointed 16 October 2006 Remuneration Details of Directors remuneration is included in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 36 to 41.
Substantial Shareholdings At 1 March 2007, substantial interests in the issued share capital of the Company, notified and registered in accordance with section 198 of the Companies Act 1985, were as follows: Number of Percentage of ordinary shares issued share capital Fidelity Investments 11,462,520 7.80% AXA Group SA 11,021,919 7.50% Lazard Asset Management LLC 6,316,875 4.30% Legal & General Group 5,815,014 3.96% Standard Life Investments 4,751,165 3.24% Lloyds TSB Group plc 4,437,484 3.02% Directors Interests in Shares The interests of the Directors and their families in the share capital of the Company appearing in the register of directors interests were as follows: Ordinary shares Ordinary shares 31 December 2006 31 December 2005 Executive BL Steer note 1 572,865 572,865 SJB Shaw 18,000 18,000 GR Davis 4,000 4,000 Non-executive MF Garner 20,010 20,010 C Goodson-Wickes note 2 11,350 10,000 KT Krzywicki 8,000 8,000 CW Cummings 4,500 4,500 K Innes Ker note 3 J Rennocks note 3 5,000 Notes: 1 Includes 321,617 ordinary shares held by Royal and Sun Alliance Inc for the benefit of Mr BL and Mrs S Steer.
2 Includes 8,914 ordinary shares held by Alliance Trust SIPP Self Invested Personal Pension 3 Dr K Innes Ker and Mr J Rennocks held no shares at the time of their appointment to the Board on 16 October 2006.
There have been no changes to Directors shareholdings since 31 December 2006.
Gyrus Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 29 DIRECTORS DIRECTORS REPOR REPORT T CONTINUED CONTINUED Directors Interests in Contracts None of the Directors had a beneficial interest in any contract of any significance in relation to the business of the Company or its subsidiaries at any time during the financial year.
Auditors A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company is to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, to be held on 30 April 2007.
Corporate Governance Application of the Principles set out in the Combined Code Throughout the year to 31 December 2006, the Company complied with the provisions of the Revised Combined Code On Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 except for the non-separation of the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer which is explained below in the section headed Board of Directors.
The Board considers that it applies the principles of the Combined Code in an appropriate and effective manner.
This is demonstrated as follows: Board of Directors Until 16 October 2006, the Group was managed by a Board of Directors comprised of seven Directors.
The names of the Directors together with their biographical details are set out on page 27.
All the Directors served throughout the period under review.
From 16 October 2006, the number of Directors was increased to nine with the appointment to the Board of K Innes Ker and J Rennocks.
Six of the Directors were Non-Executive Directors and, with the exception of MF Garner and C Goodson-Wickes, each of whom have served in their capacity as Directors for greater than nine years, all the Non-Executive Directors are considered independent based on the guidelines in the Combined Code.
MF Garner has been the Deputy Chairman since 22 May 2003 and Non-Executive Director since 20 October 1997.
Accordingly, he has exceeded a nine-year service period, which the Combined Code suggests is the maximum period for which independence can be presumed.
In view of his close knowledge of the Group and strong non-executive experience, the Board considers that Mr Garner should retain the role of Senior Independent Director and Deputy Chairman through the Chairman and Chief Executive succession process to be conducted in 2007 details of which are set out on pages 32 to 33.
C Goodson-Wickes will be retiring from the Board of Directors at the Annual General Meeting on 30 April 2007.
All of the Non-Executive Directors bring strong independent judgement and considerable knowledge and experience to bear in matters of strategy, performance, resources, corporate governance and financial control.
From time to time, the Chairman holds meetings with the Non-Executive Directors without the executives present.
The Board meets at least seven times a year and has adopted a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its decision.
This includes overall Group strategy, planning for the succession of the executive and the Board itself, approving appointments of Board Directors and of the Company Secretary, financing arrangements, material licensing transactions, acquisitions and disposals of companies, approval of the annual budget, major capital expenditure, risk management, treasury policies and the operation of internal controls.
At each meeting the Board is briefed on issues arising, reviews the progress of the Group towards its objectives and monitors financial performance against budget.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board through the Chairman on all governance matters.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
They are encouraged regularly to update and refresh their skills and knowledge, for example, through attending courses on technical areas or external briefings for Non-Executive Directors.
Newly appointed Directors are provided with appropriate induction training.
The Board has established a procedure for Directors to take, if necessary, independent professional advice at the Groups expense.
Appropriate Directors and Officers liability insurance has been arranged by the Company.
All Board members receive monthly management accounts and regular management reports enabling them to review the Groups performance against agreed objectives.
Regular reports and papers are circulated to Directors in a timely manner in preparation for Board and Committee meetings.
This information includes items specifically requested by the Non-Executive Directors from time to time.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection by request at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and at the AGM.
The Board is led by BL Steer who holds dual responsibility as both Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
The Board is aware that Mr Steers role as both Chairman and CEO is contrary to the recommendations of the Revised Combined Code.
The current position derives from the origins of the Company and Mr Steers entrepreneurial role in growing the organisation.
Subject to unforeseen circumstances, Mr Steer will relinquish his Chief Executive responsibilities during 2007, from which date the roles will be separated in accordance with the Combined Code.
Mr Steer has no other significant business commitments.
The dual role performed by Mr Steer is balanced by a strong independent non-executive presence on the Board of Directors including an experienced Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director, MF Garner.
In addition there is the Operating Board, which meets monthly and is responsible for the creation and implementation of Gyruss strategy, reporting to the Gyrus Group PLC Board of Directors.
In addition to the Executive Chairman, the Operating Board includes several senior executives with clearly defined responsibilities: SJB Shaw, Chief Financial Officer, has responsibility for Finance, Legal, Partnered Technologies and Investor Relations: GR Davis, Chief Operating Officer, has responsibility for Operations, Research and Development, Human Resources and the integration of the ACMI business: TF Murphy, US-based Executive Vice President, has responsibility for customer service and Group-wide implementation of an enterprise resource management system: the Division Presidents and the US-based Vice President of Legal Affairs.
Gyrus Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 30 The number of full Board meetings and Committee meetings attended by each director during the year was as follows: Scheduled Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Name Meetings Attended Committee Committee Committee BL Steer 7 N A N A 2 SJB Shaw 7 N A N A N A GR Davis 7 N A N A N A MF Garner 7 3 3 2 C Goodson-Wickes 7 3 3 2 KT Krzywicki 7 3 N A N A CW Cummings 7 N A 3 N A K Innes Ker note 4 1 0 1 N A J Rennocks note 4 1 1 0 N A Number of meetings in 2006 7 3 3 2 Note: 4 There were three scheduled meetings after the appointment of K Innes Ker and J Rennocks to the Board on 16 October 2006 being a full Board meeting, an Audit Committee meeting and a Remuneration Committee meeting.
Appointments to the Board and Re-election of Directors There is a Nomination Committee to consider the appointment of new Directors and make recommendations to the Board.
All Directors terms of appointment are governed by the Companys Articles of Association requiring that all Directors should be subject to election by shareholders at the first AGM following their appointment and that at each AGM one third of the Directors retire and submit themselves for re-appointment.
During the year, the Board approved that K Innes Ker and J Rennocks be appointed as Non-Executive Directors with effect from 16 October 2006 and each will be proposed for election at the forthcoming AGM.
C Goodson-Wickes will resign from the Board of Directors at the forthcoming AGM.
K Krzywicki retires by rotation pursuant to Article 113 of the Articles of Association and stands for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
The Companys Articles do not require Board members to retire at 70 years of age but as a matter of best practice Board members over 70 years stand for re-election on an annual basis.
Accordingly BL Steer and CW Cummings stand for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
MF Garner, who has already served nine years as independent Non-Executive Director and was re-elected at the 2006 AGM for one year, retires and submits himself for re-election at the forthcoming AGM for a further year.
The Board has undertaken rigorous formal performance reviews and has concluded that Mr Garner continues to be effective and to demonstrate independence and commitment to the role.
Biographical details of all Directors standing for re-election at the AGM and the Boards reasons for recommending their re-election are contained in the Notice of AGM which will be sent to all shareholders.
Board Performance Evaluation A formal process of Board performance evaluation was followed during the year which included individual completion by all Board members of questionnaires regarding the effectiveness of the Board and of each of the Board committees together with discussion by the Board of the performance evaluation results and agreement of actions arising.
Individual evaluations of each Board member were performed by the Chairman and discussed with the relevant Director on a one to one basis.
The independent Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director meet annually to conduct a performance evaluation of the Chairman and take into account the views of the executive Directors.
Gyrus Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 31 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Board Committees Audit Committee The Audit Committee is comprised of four Non-Executive Directors, J Rennocks Chairman, MF Garner, K Innes Ker and KT Krzywicki.
MF Garner was Chairman of the Audit Committee for most of the year, until the Audit Committee Meeting of 19 December 2006, at which time J Rennocks assumed Chairmanship of that committee.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee has a wealth of experience in finance in both an executive and non-executive capacity.
The Board considers that Mr Rennocks provides the Audit Committee with the necessary recent and relevant financial experience required by the Smith guidelines and the Combined Code.
His biographical details can be found on page 27.
The main responsibilities of the Committee as defined under its agreed terms of reference are: To review the appointment of the external auditor and assess the independence of the external auditor.
To review and recommend the audit fee to the Board and pre-approve any fees in respect of non audit services provided by the external auditor and to ensure that the provision of non audit services does not impair the external auditors independence or objectivity.
To review with the external auditor the nature and scope of the external audit.
To review the external auditors management letter and managements response.
To regularly review the need for a formal internal audit function and make appropriate recommendations to the Board.
To review the Companys procedures for handling allegations from whistleblowers.
To review managements reports on the effectiveness of systems for internal financial control, financial reporting and risk management.
To review, and challenge where necessary, the actions and judgements of management in relation to the interim and annual financial statements before submission to the Board.
To review the Companys statement on internal control systems prior to endorsement by the Board and to review the policies and processes for identifying and assessing business risks and the management of those risks by the Company.
The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year to discharge its responsibilities and provides the forum through which the Groups external auditors report to the Board.
Executive Directors and finance management are regularly invited to attend Audit Committee meetings but the Committee meets at least annually with the external auditor in the absence of executives and management.
The Audit Committee continually reviews the need for a formal internal audit function.
In the light of the involvement of Group finance staff in regular reviews of the finances and controls operating in subsidiary companies, the Audit Committee has concluded that a separate internal audit department is not required at this stage in the Groups development.
However, the Audit Committee and management have formalised the activities required to be performed by Group finance staff on internal audit and have established procedures for the reporting of such activities to the Audit Committee.
External auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded by a policy that any non audit services over 25,000 other than tax compliance work, must be pre-authorised by the Chairman of the Audit Committee and be supported by a tender process where appropriate.
Details of the amounts paid to the external auditors during the year for audit and other services are set out on page 59 in note 5 to the financial statements.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is comprised of three Non-Executive Directors, K Innes Ker Chairman, J Rennocks and CW Cummings.
C Goodson-Wickes was Chairman of the Remuneration Committee until the conclusion of the Remuneration Committee meeting of 30 October 2006, at which time K Innes Ker assumed the Chairmanship of that committee.
Details of the role and responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee and the Companys Remuneration Policy are given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 36 to 41.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is comprised of three members, the Executive Chairman, BL Steer Chairman of the Nomination Committee, with Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director, MF Garner Deputy Chairman of the Nomination Committee as his alternate, and Non-Executive Directors K Innes Ker and J Rennocks.
The Committee meets at least once a year and more frequently when required.
In 2006, the Committee met twice.
The main role of the Committee is to: Regularly review the structure, size and composition of the Board and make recommendations to the Board with regard to any adjustments it deems necessary.
Prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment including the time commitment required.
Identify and nominate for the approval of the Board suitable candidates to fill Board vacancies.
Recommend to the Board whether or not Directors retiring by rotation should be put forward for re-appointment at the next Annual General Meeting.
Satisfy itself with regard to succession planning in respect of both Board and senior executive positions.
The Executive Chairman does not chair the Nomination Committee when it deals with matters relating to the appointment of a successor to the Chairmanship of the Board or the role of CEO.
The Deputy Chairman chairs the Nomination Committee on these occasions.
Gyrus Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 32 The Nomination Committee commissioned an independent review by Korn Ferry International of the senior management team in 2006.
During 2006, it also reviewed a number of Non-Executive Director candidates, and recommended the approval of K Innes Ker and J Rennocks.
The Nomination Committee has appointed Korn Ferry International to advise it on the process for selecting Mr Steers successor as CEO, with a brief to compare both internal and external candidates.
It is expected that this process will be completed in 2007.
The terms of reference for each of the Board Committees may be obtained from the Company Secretary or from the Companys website: http: www.
com Relations with Shareholders Institutional Investors The Group has designated BL Steer, Executive Chairman, and SJB Shaw, Chief Financial Officer, as its principal spokesmen with institutional investors, analysts, press and other interested parties.
Meetings are held with the Groups institutional investors at least twice a year following the interim and final results announcements.
Visits to the Groups operating facilities are arranged on a regular basis depending upon demand.
All members of the Board are encouraged to attend analyst or brokers briefings to develop an understanding of the views of shareholders.
In addition, the Executive Chairman and CFO provide feedback to the Board at least twice a year on issues raised with them in meetings with shareholders.
The AGM is normally attended by all Directors and shareholders are invited to ask questions during the meeting and to meet with Directors after the formal proceedings.
The Senior Independent Director, MF Garner, is available to shareholders if they have concerns for which the normal channels of communication through the Executive Chairman or CFO are inappropriate.
Major shareholders are offered the opportunity to meet the Executive Directors and investors may request meetings with Directors, including the Senior Independent Director.
Private Investors All shareholders are sent copies of the Interim and Annual Reports and are given notice to enable them to attend the Companys Annual General Meeting and any Extraordinary General Meetings.
Persons nominated by shareholders to exercise all or any of the specified rights of the shareholders in relation to the Company and persons nominated by shareholders to enjoy information rights will also be provided with this information.
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, two resolutions will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM to allow the Company to communicate with shareholders in electronic form and by means of a website.
Information on the Group, its products and technology, press releases, and the Interim and Annual Reports may be found on the Groups website: http: www.
com Internal Control The provisions of the Code in respect of internal controls require that Directors review all controls including operational, compliance and risk management, as well as financial controls.
The Directors, through the Audit Committee, have reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control during the period covered by the Annual Report and Accounts and for the period to the date of approval.
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for ensuring that the Group maintains an adequate system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, it is noted that any system of internal control can only be designed to manage rather than to eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The key elements of the Groups internal control system are as follows: Control environment An organisation structure with clearly defined responsibilities and levels of authority.
The appointment of experienced and professional staff with the necessary ability to fulfil their allotted responsibilities.
Regular monitoring of key areas of business risk.
An approved Group policies and procedures manual and a self-certification process for management to confirm compliance.
Control Procedures, Monitoring and Risk Assessment The Group has a framework of control procedures that are communicated to all relevant employees.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
The risk assessment process involves the senior management of all the Groups businesses in addition to the Groups Executive Directors.
The results of these assessments are summarised and the results reviewed regularly by the Board.
In line with the Turnbull guidance, the process is designed to enable management to determine the likelihood of the risk, the adequacy of controls in place to minimise the occurrence of the risk and the appointment of an individual to be responsible to the Board for mitigating or managing that risk.
Gyrus Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 33 Information to Groups Auditors The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he she might have taken to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Management Information The Group has a comprehensive process of medium-term planning, annual budgets, mid-period forecasts and detailed monthly reporting of performance against budget.
The annual budgets are reviewed and revised, if appropriate, by the Executive Directors before formal approval by the Board.
The Group seeks continuous improvement of its management information systems.
Going Concern After making detailed enquiries, the Board has a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and accordingly continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
EU-adopted International Financial Reporting Standards For reporting periods on or after 1 January 2005, the consolidated accounts of the Group must comply with EU-adopted International Financial reporting standards Adopted IFRSs and accordingly the 2006 financial statements have been prepared under Adopted IFRSs.
The Company only financial statements have been prepared under UK GAAP UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Employees The Group continued its policy of providing regular information on the financial performance, business activities and related matters to all employees.
Extensive team briefing is operational in the Group to ensure employee awareness of factors affecting Group performance and their involvement in decisions.
Group policy with regard to disabled people is to provide equal employment opportunity by giving full and fair consideration to their applications for employment and continuing employment, wherever possible, of employees who become disabled and providing suitable opportunities for their training, career development and promotion.
Policy on payment of suppliers It is the Groups policy to agree the terms of payment with all suppliers when entering into a transaction, to ensure that all suppliers are aware of the terms of payment and pay them in accordance with their agreed terms and conditions.
The Groups average creditor payment period at 31 December 2006 was 37 days 2005: 35 days and the Companys average creditor payment period at 31 December 2006 was 20 days 2005: 33 days.
Donations and contributions During the year the Group made charitable donations of 24,687 2005: 19,173.
No political donations were made during the current or preceding year.
Market value of land In the opinion of the Directors there is no material difference between the market value of the land owned by the Group and the value included in the balance sheet.
By order of the Board R Honig Company Secretary 15 March 2007 Gyrus Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 34
