Directors Report The directors of Halfords Group plc the Company In accordance with the Companys Articles of present their annual report to shareholders, together Association, Nick Carter is retiring by rotation at the with the audited consolidated financial statements for forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being the financial year ended 31 March 2006. eligible, has indicated that he will offer himself for re-election at that meeting.
Principal activities and business review The principal activity of the Group is the retailing of Directors interests auto, leisure and cycling products.
The Chief The directors interests in shares and options over Executives Review and the Finance Directors Report shares in the Company are shown in the Directors on pages 6 to 21 set out in more detail the Groups Remuneration Report on pages 34 to 39.
No director business during the year and its plans and prospects has any other interest in any shares or loan stock of any over the coming year.
The Corporate Social Group company.
Responsibility statement referred to on page 24 includes a report on the Groups performance No director was or is materially interested in any against relevant environmental criteria.
contract subsisting during or existing at the end of the financial year which was significant in relation to the Results and dividend Groups business, other than his service contract.
The Groups results for the year are set out in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 42.
During the year the Company maintained liability insurance for its directors and officers.
The directors of The profit of the Group before tax amounted to 77.0m the Company, and the directors of each of the 2005: 74.3m and the profit after tax amounted to Companys subsidiaries, have the benefit of an 53.6m 2005: 51.1m.
indemnity provision in the Companys Articles of Association that was approved by shareholders at last Subject to shareholders approval at the Annual General years Annual General Meeting.
The indemnity Meeting to be held on Wednesday 2 August 2006, a provision, which is a qualifying third party indemnity final dividend of 8.75p per ordinary share will be paid provision as defined by section 309A of the Companies on 14 August 2006 to shareholders whose names are Act 1985, was in force throughout the year and is on the register of members at the close of business on currently in force.
This payment, together with the interim dividend of 4.0p per ordinary share paid on 9 January The Articles of Association of the Company were 2006, makes a total for the year of 12.75p per ordinary amended by special resolution at last years Annual share.
The total dividend payable to shareholders General Meeting in order to reflect the relaxation of the is estimated to be 19.9m.
prohibition contained in the Companies Act 1985 regarding indemnities granted to directors and others.
Directors Having reviewed the existing indemnity provision in the Profiles of the current directors are given on pages 22 Companys Articles of Association in light of current and 23. market practice, the directors have proposed that the existing indemnity provision is replaced by a new The following have served as directors during the year indemnity provision so that the Company shall ended 31 March 2006: indemnify its directors and other officers but not its auditor to the full extent permitted by the Companies Rob Templeman resigned 31 March 2006 Act 1985.
The directors believe that amending the Richard Pym existing Article 143 is important to ensure that the Ian McLeod Company can continue to attract and retain both Nick Carter executive directors and non-executive directors, and Jonathan Feuer resigned 11 January 2006 other senior officers, of the highest calibre.
Full details Keith Harris regarding the proposal will be set out in the Notice of Bill Ronald Annual General Meeting to be sent to shareholders in Nigel Wilson advance of this years Annual General Meeting to be Rob Templeman resigned as Chairman on 31 March held on Wednesday 2 August 2006.
2006 and Richard Pym was appointed Chairman on 1 April 2006.
Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Directors Report 25 Directors Report Charitable donations and political contributions to report any concerns on matters affecting the Group During the year the Group contributed 20,000 2005: or their employment, without fear of recrimination, and 36,000 to charities in the UK, principally to support reduces the risk of things going wrong or of malpractice motor industry families in need.
The Groups policy is taking place and remaining unreported.
In addition, the not to make any donations for political purposes.
Group takes a zero-tolerance approach to matters of However, the Companies Act 1985 defines the term discrimination, harassment and bullying in all aspects of donations very widely and, as a result, certain its business operations, whether they relate to sex, expenses legitimately incurred as part of the process race, national origin, disability, age, religion or sexual of talking to Government at all levels and making the orientation, and policies and procedures are also in Groups position known, are now reportable.
Although place for reporting and dealing with these matters.
during the year no such expenditure or political donations were made, resolutions were passed at the Owning shares in the Company is an important way of 2005 Annual General Meeting that provided for limited strengthening employees involvement in the authority for such expenditure, such authority remaining development of the Groups business and bringing valid until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting together their and shareholders interests.
Company therefore encourages and helps the Groups employees to participate in its Sharesave Scheme.
Employees The Board seeks to instil high standards of customer The Companys pension arrangements for the UKcare and service in the Group and the commitment of based employees of the Group are summarised in every employee to this business requirement is note 23 on page 68. considered to be critical.
The Company has established a framework of communication for employees Corporate social responsibility concerning business performance including financial The Group takes its obligations to employees, and economic factors affecting performance, Company customers, suppliers, and to the environment and benefits including share options, and innovation.
To this end, a detailed Group-wide training reinforces the Groups commitment statement of corporate social responsibility has been to employee involvement and development.
developed and can be found on the Groups website: www.
The statement includes the The Group is committed to the principle of equal Groups environmental policy, including waste opportunity in employment and to ensuring that no management and recycling, prevention of pollution and applicant or employee receives less favourable damage to the environment, compliance with applicable treatment on the grounds of gender, marital status, industry standards and legislation.
The statement also race, ethnic origin, religion, disability, sexuality or age, sets out the Groups social responsibility policy which, or is disadvantaged by conditions or requirements amongst other matters, sets out the Groups which cannot be shown to be justified.
The Group commitment to fair employment practices, working applies employment policies which are fair and arrangements and pay and working hours, health and equitable and which ensure entry into and progression safety matters, and a prohibition on the exploitation of within the Group.
Appointments are determined solely the labour of children and young people.
by application of job criteria, personal ability and competency.
A summary of the statement is on page 24.
The Group gives full and fair consideration to Supplier payment policy applications for employment made by disabled The Group does not follow any formal code or standard persons, having regard to their particular aptitudes and on payment practice, but agrees terms and conditions abilities, wherever suitable opportunities exist, and for its business transactions when orders for goods and training and career development support are provided, services are placed, and includes the relevant terms in where appropriate.
Should an employee become contracts, where appropriate.
These arrangements are disabled when working for the Group, efforts are made adhered to when making payments, subject to the to continue their employment and retraining is provided, terms and conditions being met by suppliers.
number of trade creditor days outstanding at the period end for the Group was 49 days 2005: 53 days.
The A whistle-blowing policy and procedure is in place Company is a holding company and had no trade and has been notified to staff.
The policy enables them creditors at the end of the financial year.
26 Directors Report Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Major shareholders At 7 June 2006, the Companys share register of substantial shareholdings showed the following interests in 3 per cent or more of the Companys issued ordinary shares: Number % of Holder of shares issued shares Henderson Global Investors 17,026,300 7.5 CVC European Equity Partners 16,698,400 7.3 F&C Asset Management 14,647,800 6.4 Resolution Asset Management 11,469,000 5.0 Autobacs Seven Co. Limited 11,400,000 5.0 Newton Investment Management 10,568,900 4.6 Jupiter Asset Management 9,173,500 4.0 Legal & General Investment Management 8,533,200 3.7 M&G Investment Management 8,012,765 3.5 State Street Global Markets Europe 6,996,300 3.0 Disclosure of information to auditors Annual General Meeting Each of the persons who are directors at the date of The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Holiday approval of this report state that so far as he is aware, Inn Hotel, Bridgefoot, Stratford-upon-Avon, there is no relevant audit information of which the Warwickshire, CV37 6YR, on Wednesday 2 August Companys auditors are unaware, and that he has taken 2006 at 12.30 pm.
The notice of the Annual General all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director in Meeting and explanatory notes regarding the special order to make himself aware of any relevant audit business to be put to the meeting are set out in a information and to establish that the Companys separate circular to shareholders accompanying the auditors are aware of that information.
Going concern By order of the Board The directors believe, after making enquiries that they consider to be appropriate, that the Group and the Philip Parker, Company Secretary Company have adequate resources to continue in 7 June 2006 operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Auditors  LLP has indicated its willingness to accept reappointment as the external auditor of the Company.
A resolution proposing its reappointment is contained in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting and will be put to shareholders at the meeting.
Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Directors Report 27
