10 Halma p. l. c. 2006 This is saving El Paso 6 million gallons of water per day.
Health and Analysis City-wide electronic surveillance cuts water wastage The 700,000 residents of the city of El Paso, Texas, are benefiting from our water pipework leak location technology which is credited with saving the city about 6 million gallons of water a day.
El Paso has invested in the worlds largest permanently installed network of underground water pipework leak detectors.
About 11,000 of our Permalog sensors monitor the citys water distribution network.
On top of the environmental benefit of conserving water resources, the city has made financial savings in reduced water treatment costs, and also energy and cost savings from reduced pumping.
Halma p. l. c. 2006 11 12 Halma p. l. c. 2006 This is helping to keep Shanghai safely on the move.
Infrastructure Sensors High speed trains run safely with our door sensors Protected by our automatic door control products, passengers on Chinas revolutionary magnetic levitation railway in Shanghai enter and exit carriages in safety.
Our infrared sensors protect passengers from harm by ensuring that the doors cannot close while people enter or exit the train.
Claimed to be the fastest train in the world, the Maglev transports passengers from Longyang Road Station in downtown Shanghai to Pudong International Airport at extraordinary speeds of up to 430 kph 267mph.
The 30 kilometre 19 mile journey takes just 7 minutes.
Halma p. l. c. 2006 13 14 Halma p. l. c. 2006 This is protecting thousands of holiday makers in Slovakia every day.
Health and Analysis We keep the water safe at AquaCity Holiday makers enjoying the pools and spas at AquaCity, a luxury holiday resort recently opened in Slovakia, have fun and relax in sparkling clear water treated by our UV water disinfection systems.
A modern alternative to chlorination, ultraviolet light treatment of pool water has many benefits for swimmers and pool operators.
A unique feature of this resort is that the pools, whirlpools, saunas and spas are fed from a naturally pressurised and geothermally heated underground lake.
AquaCitys developers chose our non-chemical UV water treatment technology partly because it complements their desire to minimise the environmental impact of the resort.
Halma p. l. c. 2006 15 16 Halma p. l. c. 2006 This is preventing injury to the staff at Walkers Snack Foods.
Industrial Safety Forklift operators can load lorries safely Forklift truck operators at Walkers, Britains biggest snacks maker, are now protected from the danger of lorries driving away while they are still loading them by a unique safety product that we launched last year.
Our Salvo safety system has been fitted across six of Walkers UK logistics centres.
Salvo makes workplaces safer by imposing rigorous control on peoples behaviour, which could otherwise lead to accidents.
It simply removes the opportunity for human error.
You can find out more about Salvo on our dedicated website www.
Halma p. l. c. 2006 17 18 Halma p. l. c. 2006 This is protecting the lives of shoppers in Dubai.
Health and Analysis We provide instant warning of gas hazards at this shopping mall in the United Arab Emirates If potentially deadly carbon monoxide gas from car exhausts reaches danger levels in the car parks of the Mall of the Emirates shopping and leisure complex in Dubai, a network of 660 gas sensors will activate the ventilation system and trigger an alarm.
Dubai, part of the United Arab Emirates, is fast becoming the business capital of the Middle East and is a key trading route between East and West.
With a rapidly expanding economy founded on oil exports, the UAE is investing heavily in tourism infrastructure.
Dubais recently announced 14 billion Bawadi Project will see the construction of 31 luxury hotels, 100 theatres and 1,500 restaurants.
Halma p. l. c. 2006 19 20 Halma p. l. c. 2006 This is keeping lift passengers in Mumbai safe.
Infrastructure Sensors High-rise buildings in India are being fitted with our lift safety sensors The Hinduja Hospital in Indias fast-expanding capital, Mumbai, is one of hundreds of high-rise offices and residential buildings throughout India where our infrared lift door sensors have been installed to protect people from contact with moving doors.
Indias rapid economic growth, estimated at around 8% per year, plus a constant population drift to metropolitan centres, is driving a construction boom and demand for our elevator products.
During 2005 06 we opened a new sales and technical support centre in Mumbai which has the largest number of skyscrapers in South Asia and a population estimated at 13 million.
