28 Halma p. l. c. 2006 Business and financial review Health and Analysis sector review Sector overview We make components and products used Health and Analysis is our fastest growing business sector to improve personal and public health.
and contributed 36% 112 million of Group revenue and 38% We also develop technologies and products 23 million of Group profit.
which are used for analysis in safety, We serve a very wide range of specialised applications in areas such as eye health, food and beverage manufacturing, environmental and leisure related markets, clinical and medical diagnostics, bio-hazard detection, water including Water.
purification, water conservation and leisure industries.
There are four major sub-sector businesses.
KPI Group target 2006 2005 Water We are the world leaders in monitoring and finding leaks 1 Revenue growth 5% 20% 27% in underground water pipelines and among the world leaders in 2 UV technology used to disinfect and treat water.
We manufacture Profit growth 5% 56% 17% water instrumentation in the UK, Europe and the US.
3 Return on sales 18% 21.0% 16.1% Fluid technology We make critical components such as pumps, 4 ROCE Return on probes, valves, connectors and tubing used by the major Capital Employed 45% 79% 58% scientific, environmental and medical diagnostic instrument 5 manufacturers for demanding fluid handling applications.
R&D as a % of sales 4% 4.9% 4.6% These products are made in the US and UK.
KPIs are calculated on results from continuing operations.
Photonics We have market-leading technologies and products which generate light, condition light and analyse the interaction 1.
Sector revenue compared with the prior year.
The range of applications is vast, ranging 2.
Adjusted sector profit before finance expense compared with the prior year.
6 from cancer detection to specialised architectural and theatre 3.
Return on sales is defined as adjusted sector profit before finance expense and taxation expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
We have three manufacturing sites in the US 6 4.
Adjusted sector profit before finance expense expressed as a percentage of sector and two in Europe.
Health optics We make handheld devices used to assess 5.
Sector research and development expenditure expressed as a percentage of sector eye health, diagnose disease and assist with eye surgery.
Our Keeler and Volk brands are used by the worlds leading 6.
Adjusted to remove the amortisation of acquired intangible assets.
Our ophthalmic products are made in the UK and US.
Sector strategy After a year of restructuring, our Water business recovered ahead of schedule.
The costly product rationalisation completed on our network monitoring and leak detection product range and the changes to US management in our ultraviolet UV business, enabled double-digit organic revenue and profit growth to be delivered this year.
Market conditions helped because UK water companies increased capital investment as they started a new five-year AMP period a five-yearly capital investment cycle regulated by the Drinking Water Inspectorate.
The acquisition of Radio-Tech brought new RF wireless communications technology to our Water business and a broader asset monitoring and wireless connectivity opportunity to many other businesses across the Group.
Strategic achievements Strategic directions Revenue increased by 20% and profit by 56% Organic profit growth driven by revenue growth Water business recovered profitability ahead of schedule Target further acquisitions with revenue growth of 13% and profit growth of 134% Increase sales and operational resources in China Radio-Tech acquired in August 2005 bringing new wireless and Asia regions communications technology to our Water business and Launch new products in Photonics and Water other Group companies Increase investment in Optics Photonics manufacturing Over 60 new products launched during the year to secure and leverage IP further 1 million investment in expanding our leading edge optical coating manufacturing facility at Ocean Optics, US Business and financial review Halma p. l. c. 2006 29 Our rate of innovation and that of our customers, in new UV water treatment is another market dominated by product products and processes, is a major driver of success in this certifications.
During 2005 06 we launched new products to sector.
During the year we increased our investment in R&D satisfy the latest European DVGW and norm approvals and a at 4.9% of revenue and launched over 60 new products.
product line complying with the new US National Water Research Institute standards will be launched in 2006 07.
The forecast Relative to our other two sectors, Health and Analysis has a recovery in our UV business, following reorganisation in the US, larger proportion of revenue and profit made in US Dollars, delivered 20% sales growth.
The leisure industry is showing high hence significant movement in this currency can have an growth and sales to semiconductor fabricators were the highest impact on Sterling results.
Market trends Our photonics business saw record revenue and profit with We sell fluid technology products into the analytical, life science the latter 24% ahead.
Our core photonics products, miniature and medical instrumentation markets which continue to grow at spectrometers which measure light, are sold into a highly high single-digit rates.
Demand is driven by growing populations, fragmented but rapidly growing global market valued at improving conditions in developing countries and biotech between 50 million and 150 million per year.
Typically, instrumentation for these markets must meet stringent testing and regulatory requirements The largest market for water leakage control products remains which make it difficult for the instrumentation manufacturer the UK due to its ageing water network, environmental and to change key components once they are designed-in and regulatory pressures on water companies, regional population certified.
Our primary global market, life science instrumentation, growth and recent drought conditions.
We expect these factors continued to grow in the high single-digit range.
to drive UK demand for the foreseeable future.
The US is our second largest leakage control market where we won further As we indicated in our 2004 05 Operating review, the United large contracts in 2005 06, notably for the cities of Albuquerque, States Postal Service awarded further contracts for biohazard New Mexico, and Birmingham, Alabama, and for the island of detection equipment which created additional demand for our Hawaii.
There is little regulatory pressure on US water companies components.
Also predicted last year, the fuel cell market is to reduce leakage and rising US demand for our products is moving slowly from prototyping towards low production volumes.
driven by water shortages and increasing energy costs.
Markets for our ophthalmic instruments are heavily regulated.
Sector performance New health optics products require lengthy technical approvals, The strong revenue and profit growth 20% and 56% and instruments using new diagnostic methods need clinical respectively continued the trend of the previous year.
These factors add cost and time to new product This growth came in part from acquisitions but predominantly development, but are a strong disincentive to new competitors.
from the recovery in our Water businesses and strong There are very strong underlying drivers for moderate growth performances across the sector.
These factors restored the to continue in the health optics sector.
The increasing number of return on sales to a more typically high figure of 21%.
older people in the developed world inevitably promotes demand ROCE and investment in new products were both at good levels.
Added to this, as GDP rises in developing countries, Sector outlook demand for healthcare rises too.
The exceptional growth levels achieved in 2005 06 included the We estimate the size of the global market for UV water treatment benefit of a rapid recovery in our Water business.
We expect systems to be in the region of 350 million per year.
Forecast the Health and Analysis sector to make further progress in the growth rates vary from 5% to 15%, with highest growth predicted coming year albeit without this one-off extra boost to profits.
Demand for UV drinking water treatment systems in the US was boosted in 2005 06 when the Environmental Protection Agency the principal regulator approved UV technology for controlling the cryptosporidium micro-organism in drinking water.
Geographic regions Main growth drivers Safety regulations and legislation Canada France Risk and cost of accidents Germany Construction industry growth new build and refurbishment Netherlands Capital investment in industrial facilities UK USA Population growth, ageing and urbanisation Rising expectations of health and safety Industrial growth in developed countries Industrialisation of developing world Energy and water resources markets growth New technology
