30 Halma p. l. c. 2006 Business and financial review Industrial Safety sector review Sector overview We make products which protect property This is our smallest sector, contributing 22% of Group revenue and people at work 67 million and 22% of Group profit 13 million.
Following the sale of our high power Resistor business in February 2006, KPI Group target 2006 2005 there are now three sub-sectors.
1 Revenue growth 5% 17% 1% Gas detection We make portable instruments and fixed systems 2 which detect flammable and hazardous gases.
We have a Profit growth 5% 28% 6% leading position in the UK market.
We make our gas detectors 3 Return on sales 18% 19.0% 17.4% in the UK.
4 ROCE Return on Bursting discs We make one time use pressure relief devices Capital Employed 45% 75% 59% used to protect large vessels and pipe work in process 5 industries.
We are UK market leaders and number four in the R&D as a % of sales 4% 3.1% 3.3% world market.
Our bursting discs are made in the UK and US.
KPIs are calculated on results from continuing operations.
Safety interlocks We make specialised mechanical, electrical and electromechanical locks which ensure that critical processes 1.
Sector revenue compared with the prior year.
6 operate safely and prevent accidents.
Adjusted sector profit before finance expense compared with the prior year.
market strength in petrochemical, oil and gas and significant 6 3.
Return on sales is defined as adjusted sector profit before finance expense and geographic market share in Western Europe and Australasia.
taxation expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
6 We manufacture interlocks in the UK, The Netherlands, 4.
Adjusted sector profit before finance expense expressed as a percentage of sector operating assets.
Sector research and development expenditure expressed as a percentage of sector Sector strategy revenue.
Competition in the portable gas detectors sector is stepping up, 6.
Adjusted to remove the amortisation of acquired intangible assets.
particularly for fixed-life disposable products.
Our response has been to differentiate our offering through technical innovation and high quality customer service.
To maintain competitive position in gas detectors, we are strengthening management, focusing on reducing manufacturing costs and sharpening procurement.
This strategy led to improved margins and gas detector profit 7% ahead in 2005 06.
Speeding up product development cycles to continually refresh product lines is a key strategic objective to drive gas detector growth during the next five years.
Our R&D function has been extended and we are also using development resources in China and India to help cut development timescales.
Strategic achievements Strategic directions Profit grew by 27% and revenue by 17% Organic profit growth driven by revenue growth Underperforming high power Resistors business group sold Increase direct international sales presence in Eastern Europe for 14 million in February 2006 and Asia Netherlocks acquired in July 2005 adding to our presence in Develop low cost manufacturing operation in Tunisia the oil and petrochemical safety market Continue to exploit the fast growing oil and petrochemical New low cost safety interlocks manufacturing operation market opportunity established in Tunisia Major new products launched including the Tetra 3 gas detector and new e-Gard interlock and machine control system Business and financial review Halma p. l. c. 2006 31 Our bursting disc competitors consolidated during 2005 06: The acquisition of Netherlocks, based in The Netherlands, we now compete with just six other manufacturers worldwide.
extended our presence in the growing petrochemical, oil and On a global scale, we rank fourth.
To realise our aim of raising gas market.
We believe this market offers attractive prospects global market share, we will extend our sales operations and for the next decade and beyond.
Adoption of Western safety continue to improve our operating efficiencies.
standards in China and Eastern Europe is a clear trend but sales of interlocks to these territories will build more slowly than for During the year, one of our French safety interlock businesses petrochemical, oil and gas.
established a new manufacturing operation in Tunisia.
This offers an interesting alternative to traditional low cost locations giving Over the past two years we have been creating a new market us a highly educated work force and no language or time zone for interlocking devices in the logistics industry.
The early signs of this strategic move are positive.
system, which prevents accidents to forklift truck operators, has been very well received by the market and has contributed over Market trends 1 million of revenue.
The trend towards higher levels of health, safety and environmental awareness globally provides long-term growth Sector performance prospects for our Industrial Safety businesses.
While a lot of Following the sale of our Resistors business, we achieved manufacturing industry is moving East, much of it is still driven by organic growth in all sub-sectors and in all major geographic the relocation of Western companies who are exporting safety territories.
Revenue growth was particularly strong in our standards.
Overall, we believe the long-term growth rate of the traditional markets of the UK, mainland Europe and the USA.
Revenue and profit growth included some benefit from acquisitions but also strong organic growth in our businesses The global market for portable personal protection gas serving the oil and gas markets.
Return on sales improved and detectors is estimated to be valued at 275 million per year.
ROCE continued to be very strong.
We also sell fixed gas detection systems into a global market As planned a relatively lower percentage of sales was invested worth approximately 250 million per year.
Both markets are in R&D in this sector than in our other sectors as the markets expanding annually at about 3%.
Because gas detection served here tend to be more mature and conservative.
equipment is safety-critical, it requires regular servicing However, good growth opportunities continue to exist.
Service is a key component of our gas instrumentation offer and makes a substantial contribution Sector outlook to sales.
Whilst we have had an excellent year, we will continue to pursue our geographic expansion and new product development plans We have built a market-leading position in the UK for boiler energetically.
Regulation and legislation and reducing the risk of combustion test instruments which optimise gas burning accidents play an increasingly important role in the working efficiency and minimise energy use.
We recently won a tender environment.
We are well placed to deliver growth in line with valued at 1 million to supply these instruments to British Gas.
market growth rates, at least, for the coming year.
The world market for bursting disc pressure safety devices continues to grow slowly.
We are seeing a gradual relocation of our customers manufacturing activities to low labour cost countries.
Our response is to step up selling operations in Eastern Europe, India and China.
We won significant new business in both Europe and the US due to our strategy of providing industry-leading technical support and fast deliveries.
This contributed to bursting disc profit growth of 30% in 2005 06.
Geographic regions Main growth drivers Safety regulations and legislation Australia France Risk and cost of accidents India Construction industry growth new build and refurbishment Italy Capital investment in industrial facilities Malaysia Netherlands Population growth, ageing and urbanisation Singapore Rising expectations of health and safety Tunisia Industrial growth in developed countries UK USA Industrialisation of developing world Energy and water resources markets growth New technology 32 Halma p. l. c. 2006 Business and financial review Operating environment, risks and uncertainties Macro-economic, regulatory and competitive environment We recognise the necessity of safeguarding the health and With a world economic growth rate forecast to be in the region safety of our own employees whilst at work and operate so of 4.8%, we anticipate that the 2006 07 macro-economic as to provide a safe and comfortable working environment for environment will be broadly favourable to our growth strategy.
employees, visitors and the public.
Our policy is to manage our In global terms, we see the US and Chinese economies as the activities to avoid causing any unnecessary or unacceptable principal growth drivers.
We also expect that the continuing risks to health and safety and the environment.
We have an development of the Indian economy will create growth in excellent long-term record for addressing environmental issues demand for several core products, albeit from a low base.
that affect our businesses and for developing products that protect the environment and improve safety at work and in Safety and environmental legislation is constantly evolving, public places.
worldwide, towards increased safeguards and protection.
This favours us because it relentlessly drives demand growth Many of our innovative products play a very direct role in in many of our core markets.
Legislative change challenges monitoring and improving the environment.
Our brands lead us to continually refresh our product portfolio whilst regulatory the world in a number of technologies which help to minimise compliance is also a powerful barrier-to-entry for competitors.
Our well developed capacity to innovate, coupled with strong We support the concept of sustainability and recognise R&D resources, positions our companies for leadership of that, in common with all businesses, our activities have an chosen markets dominated by regulatory control.
Our products do not require capitalThe markets we operate in are generally highly competitive.
intensive manufacturing processes, so the environmental effect Our diversified product portfolio and wide geographic of our operations is relatively low compared to manufacturers coverage means that competitive product manufacturers are in other sectors.
analysed at subsidiary company or operating sector level.
Halma was designated a member of the FTSE4Good UK index We have commented on the competitive environment on its establishment in July 2001. in the sector reviews.
Resources, risks and uncertainties Employee, health and safety and environmental issues The main intangible resources which deliver competitive Our core values are Innovation, Empowerment and Achievement.
advantage and which support our strategic objectives are: Our culture is one of openness, integrity and accountability.
the patents and trade marks which protect our products: our We encourage our employees to act fairly in their dealings with employees, whose understanding of our customers needs and fellow employees, customers, suppliers and business partners.
the dynamics of the markets we operate in, enable us to maintain We recognise that our employees determine our success and leadership in many markets: and the enviable reputation enjoyed therefore have invested in and encouraged their development by our brands for superior product quality and market-leading more this year than ever before, not only through our new customer support.
Our businesses build competitive advantage intranet training facilities and Halma Executive Development and strengthen barriers-to-entry in many ways including patents, Programme, but also through clearer leadership and decisive product approvals, technical innovation, product quality, customer action.
By ensuring that our team has the approach and skills service levels and branding.
We look for these qualities in the required to succeed, we are better placed to meet the businesses we seek to acquire.
We like regulated markets which require suppliers to achieve compliance with demanding product standards but also look for other long-term growth drivers such as demographic change.
Business and financial review Halma p. l. c. 2006 33 We seek to continuously grow our profit, generating a high return Financial and treasury risks The Group does not use complex for shareholders over the long term.
We view risk within the derivative financial instruments and no speculative treasury context of this objective as well as in absolute terms.
Foreign currency risk is the most significant treasury related risk for the Group.
In any business the inherent risks that are an integral component Significant currency denominated net assets are hedged but of business activities must be identified, managed and mitigated.
future currency profits are not hedged.
Therefore, the Sterling Our key means of risk control is the choice of the markets in value of overseas profit earned during the year is sensitive to the which we operate and the people and methods we use to exploit strength of Sterling, particularly against the US Dollar and the those market opportunities.
We perceive our primary operational Euro.
The Group is exposed to a lesser extent to other treasury risks to emanate from remoteness of operation and the actions risks such as interest rate risk and liquidity risk.
These financial and quality of our people.
risks are discussed more fully in note 26 to the Accounts.
Our choice to operate in the safety products and health-related Financial irregularities We recognise that the size and technology markets, and the depth of market knowledge we remoteness of some operations may not permit full segregation have built up within the Group, allows us to adequately evaluate of duties and that Internal and External Audit procedures may and assess the risks we encounter throughout our operations.
not always identify a financial irregularity.
Therefore the Group We do not place undue reliance on any one Group company nor regularly reiterates to the operating company officers their does any one Group company rely heavily on one customer or fiduciary responsibilities and ensures they are adequately trained transaction.
In managing the portfolio of companies within the in financial matters whilst maintaining a culture of openness to Group and in managing the transactions in any one company, we promote disclosure.
We have processes in place to ensure Pension deficit Monitoring the funding needs of the pension any major transactions are reviewed at the appropriate level, obligations is essential to controlling the cash the pension plan including at Board level if necessary.
We are currently awaiting the final results Another factor limiting risk is that our products are predominantly of the main schemes December 2005 Actuarial Valuation at critical components or instruments which are warranted as fit for which time the Company will examine its options to deliver on the purpose rather than systems or intangible products where its pension obligations at an acceptable cost.
satisfactory performance is contingent upon third parties.
Laws and regulations Group operations are subject to Our procedures to identify, manage and mitigate the risks within wide-ranging laws and regulations including employment, the Group address the following major risk factors: environmental and health and safety legislation.
All Group companies have an employee handbook detailing employment Organic growth and competition The Group is affected by practices and, we consider our relations with our employees competition in the form of pricing, service, reliability and to be good.
Each operating company has a health and safety substitution.
Our focus on improving our rate of innovation manager responsible for compliance and our performance is a direct result of assessing this risk and determining how in this area is excellent.
best to concentrate our efforts.
In addition, all businesses analyse revenue and margin by product line on a monthly basis.
By ensuring that management are well resourced and responsive to their markets, we feel that the adverse impact of competition can be mitigated.
34 Halma p. l. c. 2006 Business and financial review Financial review Organic growth in revenue of 11% and profit of 15% Revenue from continuing operations increased by 42.0 million 15.7% to 310.8 million of which 13.1 million 4.9% came from acquisitions made this year and from the extra months benefit of acquisitions made last year.
Underlying organic revenue growth was therefore 10.8%.
Profit before tax from continuing operations before amortisation of acquired intangibles grew by 20.3% to the record figure of 58.1 million and after adjusting for acquisitions, organic profit growth was 14.9%.
Statutory profit before tax was 17.9% higher at 56.6 million.
Currency translation contributed a modest 1% to revenue and profit growth.
We disposed of eight businesses in the year.
The table on the Kevin Thompson Finance Director opposite page shows the results both excluding and including those businesses.
In overview, revenue growth was strong in the year and Revenue from continuing operations by destination gross margins held firm.
Overheads were increased, in particular % million Revenue change in the Infrastructure Sensors sector, to accelerate future opportunity across the world.
The net result of our operational United States of America 94.0 19.4% activity, acquisitions and disposals was to grow the return on United Kingdom 82.9 18.0% sales to 18.7% and increase profit on continuing operations before amortisation of acquired intangibles and tax by Mainland Europe 77.2 6.2% 9.8 million.
Asia Pacific and Australasia 33.3 10.2% During the year under review we increased revenues in all Africa, Near and Middle East 14.8 49.5% territories, with 73% of sales being made outside the UK.
Indeed, sales outside of our traditional primary markets in Other 8.6 23.6% the UK, mainland Europe and the USA grew by 20%.
310.8 15.7% Revenue from continuing operations increased to all of our geographic destinations and is shown on the table to the left.
The biggest absolute revenue growth came in our largest geographic sectors of the USA and UK where organic growth was strong.
There was double-digit organic growth in Africa, Near and Middle East, in addition to the extra revenue in that region coming from the acquisition of our security sensor business, Texecom, which has a substantial branch network in South Africa.
Mainland Europe showed a lower rate of growth and although Asia Pacific and Australasia grew by more than 10%, we see the opportunity for higher rates of growth here in the future.
All three of our sectors increased revenue by more than 10%, with the Infrastructure Sensors sector benefiting from the acquisition of Texecom.
The Industrial Safety sector grew revenues by 16.8% and the Health and Analysis sector increased by the highest rate at 20.0%, with the growth in these two sectors predominantly organic.
All three sectors increased profits.
Revenue, profit and returns are discussed on a sector basis in the Sector reviews on pages 26 to 31.
Adjusted earnings per share which we consider gives a more consistent measure of underlying performance and statutory earnings per share on continuing operations increased by 20% and 18% respectively, very good rates of growth.
A reconciliation of adjusted earnings figures to statutory figures is given in note 2 to the accounts.
Business and financial review Halma p. l. c. 2006 35 Important acquisitions and disposals were completed Growing investment in new products and business assets in the year Expenditure on Research & Development R&D in our We paid out cash of 36 million on acquisitions and received continuing operations increased by 20% to 13.5 million, 15 million for disposals in 2005 06, a net outflow of 21 million.
representing 4.3% of revenue a little higher than the prior year.
The acquisition payments included 8 million in deferred R&D expenditure as a percentage of revenue in each of our consideration, mainly in relation to Ocean Optics which we three sectors was consistent with last year, with Health and acquired in 2004 05 and which achieved its maximum targets.
analysis the highest at 4.9% of sales and Infrastructure sensors These acquisitions and disposals were an important part of at a similar rate.
Under IFRS we are required to capitalise certain reallocating Group resources and positioning us for higher development expenditure and include it as an asset on the rates of growth.
Consolidated balance sheet and also to amortise expenditure from prior years.
In the year we capitalised 2.5 million of such The largest acquisition in the year was that of Texecom Limited expenditure and amortised 1.4 million, resulting in an asset of UK in November 2005.
We paid a total cash consideration of 3.8 million on the closing balance sheet.
All of these figures are 26 million with the last audited accounts showing revenues of at higher levels than in the prior year, demonstrating the increase 19.2 million and earnings before interest and tax of 3.9 million.
in the amount of development work which we believe will have Prior to this we acquired Netherlocks Safety Systems B. V. a future benefit.
The net impact is that the Consolidated income The Netherlands in July 2005 for13 million 2.1 million statement was charged with an 11% higher cost than last year.
and Radio-Tech Limited UK in August 2005 for 2 million, these two businesses having a combined annual profit of Expenditure on property, plant, equipment and computer 0.7 million on revenue of 3.2 million in their last audited software was 34% 3.2 million higher than 2004 05 accounts.
There is no deferred consideration for Texecom but at 12.6 million.
There was less expenditure on property this there is the potential to pay a further 7.3 million of consideration year but more investment in operating assets to improve the for the other two businesses conditional on substantial profit performance of our businesses.
The years expenditure was growth.
The performance of each business has exceeded 150% of depreciation amortisation, a higher ratio than typical but our expectations with all achieving very good growth and all indicative of our continued intention to invest for future growth.
delivering a return well in excess of the Group weighted average Strong cash flow with significant financial resource available cost of capital which is calculated as being 8%.
Cash flow was once again very good.
Cash generated from In April 2006, early in the new financial year, we purchased operations was 70 million, including a small cash outflow Mikropack GmbH Aufbautechnik in der Sensorik Mikropack 0.7 million, 2005: 2.5 million inflow into working capital for 12.3 million 1.5 million with up to a further 12.3 million despite high rates of growth in the business overall.
We started 1.5 million payable depending on performance.
Mikropack and finished the year ungeared.
The table on the next page manufactures light sources and photonic accessories and joins summarises the change in net cash, the main elements of which our Ocean Optics business.
are discussed in this financial review.
Disposal of the eight businesses converted assets, which During the year we started to purchase Halma shares to were performing below acceptable Group levels, into cash.
be held in Treasury to fund the new performance share plan.
In aggregate the businesses sold contributed operating In the coming year we would expect to purchase 1 million to profit of 1.5 million to total Group profit in 2005 06 and 2 million of Halma shares for this purpose and this is likely to 1.6 million in the prior year.
The largest element of the be an ongoing activity.
We also expect to increase the amount disposal proceeds came from the sale of our group of five of cash paid into the Halma pension schemes following the high power Resistor businesses, sold for 14 million in February anticipated outcome of the main scheme valuation now in 2006.
The Consolidated income statement shows a profit from progress.
The additional cash contributions in 2006 07 are discontinued operations of 1.3 million.
This comprises a pre-tax expected to be in the order of 4 million.
These additional gain on disposal of 5.9 million, tax on disposal of 0.1 million, demands on our cash will have some impact on our financial operating profit less tax of 0.9 million and is after writing off position but we do not believe they will significantly affect our goodwill of 5.4 million attributable to these businesses.
Continuing operations Including discontinued operations million 2006 2005 % change 2006 2005 % change Revenue 310.8 268.7 15.7% 337.3 299.1 12.8% Profit before tax 58.1 48.3 20.3% 59.6 49.9 19.4% Return on sales 18.7% 18.0% 17.7% 16.7% Excludes amortisation of acquired intangibles and profit on disposal of operations.
Comparatives have been restated on an IFRS basis.
See Financial highlights on page 4.
36 Halma p. l. c. 2006 Business and financial review Financial review continued Change in net cash Return on Capital Employed ROCE is our measure of operating performance see the calculation in note 3 to the million 2006 2005 accounts and it increased to 56.9% 2004 05: 48.8%, a high rate Cash generated from operations 70.2 61.4 but not untypical for Halma.
ROCE measures our stewardship of the assets we use and the efficiency with which we run our Acquisition of businesses 36.2 24.6 businesses to generate the Groups strong cash flows.
Disposal of businesses 14.6 1.7 Return on Total Invested Capital ROTIC increased to 12.8% Development costs capitalised 2.5 1.1 2004 05: 12.1%.
The calculation basis is described in note 3 to the accounts it is a post-tax measure and includes in the Net capital expenditure 11.6 9.0 denominator all historic goodwill but excludes the pension deficit Dividends paid 24.5 23.3 and also excludes the creditor relating to the pension obligations for companies sold.
We feel that a basis where an increased Taxation paid 16.8 14.5 pension deficit improved ROTIC would not be appropriate.
Issue of shares 0.6 2.5 The increased ROTIC arises because we have grown earnings faster than the underlying capital base and we continue to Net finance expense income 0.4 0.2 exceed our weighted average cost of capital WACC by Exchange adjustments 1.9 0.6 a large margin, sustaining the generation of significant value for shareholders.
Together with Total Shareholder Return, 8.5 9.5 ROTIC is the key measure of performance which we employ Net cash brought forward 12.0 21.5 in our performance share plan, aligning our senior executives with shareholders.
Net cash carried forward 3.5 12.0 5% dividend increase and dividend cover raised The Group finances its operations from retained earnings We have a progressive dividend policy: growing our dividend and third party borrowings when needed.
There are no but with the objective of increasing cover towards a figure of material funds outside the UK where repatriation is restricted.
around 2 over time, a level we feel is appropriate for our business.
The Groups Treasury policies seek to minimise financial With the high level of earnings growth this year we have taken a risks and ensure sufficient liquidity for foreseeable needs.
good step towards this objective.
The Board has recommended No speculative transactions are undertaken.
Day to day a 5% increase in the final dividend to 4.12p which together implementation of the policy is largely delegated to the operating with the interim dividend which was also 5% higher than last companies, overseen by Halma Head Office and co-ordinated year will give a total dividend of 6.83p per share, assuming the in areas where we feel value will be added.
Purchase and sale final dividend is approved.
The total cost of the final dividend is transactions are hedged into the functional currency of the expected to be 15.2 million, giving a total cost of 25.2 million relevant operating company and balance sheet net currency for the dividends paid in respect of the year ended 1 April 2006. assets are hedged but foreign currency profits are not hedged.
We believe we have adequate distributable reserves for the foreseeable future after taking into account the impact of Whilst we were again ungeared at the year end we seek to inclusion of the pension deficit discussed below.
Dividend cover, maintain financial flexibility so that short and long-term funding based on continuing operations before amortisation of acquired needs can be met and to allow opportunities to be taken as they intangibles, is 1.6 times 2004 05: 1.5 times.
The Group is able to borrow at competitive rates and therefore consider this the most effective means of funding IFRS adopted with little impact on profits increased investment in the immediate future.
During the year During 2005 06 the Group adopted International Financial we secured a 60 million five-year debt facility from our Reporting Standards IFRS in common with other listed well-established banking partners, improving our ability to companies in the European Union.
This has required restatement fund our medium-term growth plans.
of the 2004 05 results reported previously under UK GAAP.
The financial information in respect of the Company, Halma p. l. c. Strong margins and returns with ROTIC increased to 12.8% is not required to be reported under IFRS and has therefore High margins and strong returns underpin the resilience and been prepared under UK GAAP and is included from page 74 strength of Halma.
We have benefited from the improvement in to 80, at the end of the financial section of this Annual report.
returns resulting from the sale of lower return businesses and this is demonstrated by the fact that return on sales for the total There was little overall impact on Halmas reported financial Group, including discontinued operations, would have increased results from the adoption of IFRS.
The Groups underlying from 16.7% to 17.7% in the year.
Return on sales on continuing business economics are unchanged.
operations increased from 18% to 18.7% this year with Health Profit before taxation and amortisation of acquired and Analysis growing sharply from 16.1% to 21.0%, in part intangibles goodwill under IFRS was 0.1 million higher than benefiting from the recovery in our Water business but across under the accounting policies used in 2004 05.
The two main the Group we achieved a widespread improvement.
elements of these IFRS adjustments are as follows: We do not specifically target improvement in return on sales however we have found that as our businesses grow, many of them generate higher returns and higher margins due to significant operational leverage we have high-margin businesses which benefit greatly from sales growth.
Business and financial review Halma p. l. c. 2006 37 Share-based payments Under IFRS an expense is now included the US Dollar relative to Sterling would reduce revenue and in the Consolidated income statement in relation to employee profit by approximately 0.33% which represents 1 million in share related schemes operated by the Group.
A performance terms of revenue and 0.2 million of profit.
share plan PSP was introduced in 2005 and phasing it in Sector reporting changed to improve clarity and collaboration has caused the major element of the year on year increase in On 28 November 2005 we announced the change to reporting the share-based payment expense.
There would have been the Groups financial performance under three new sectors, an extra element of cost for this and future years under the old defined by markets rather than product type.
A restatement of share option plans which the PSP replaces.
The total cost of the last three years financial results under the new sector all share-based payments is expected to have an annual run headings was given at that time together with growth drivers rate of approximately 2 million by March 2008, depending and market characteristics by sector.
Each new sector, Infrastructure Sensors, Health and Analysis Development costs Certain development costs are capitalised and Industrial Safety, includes businesses with similar operating and amortised although the majority of R&D continues to be and market characteristics.
This makes the Group more simple expensed as incurred.
Capitalisation of development costs to understand, helps us further develop our market driven exceeded amortisation by 1.1 million in the year.
strategies and enables more proactive collaboration across The main IFRS changes on the Consolidated balance sheet the Group.
are as follows: FTSE sector classification changed Dividends Now only accrued when the dividend is approved.
Halma has recently disposed of a number of non-core businesses including its high power Resistors businesses and Pensions The net pension liability on the Groups two defined over the past two years acquired significant new electronics benefit schemes, which are closed to new members, is now based businesses so that now over 60% of Group revenues included in the Consolidated balance sheet.
At 1 April 2006 the are generated from electronics based businesses.
As a result liability amounts to 46.0 million with 13.8 million deferred tax Halma has been reclassified into the Electronic and Electrical asset 2 April 2005: 40.8 million with 12.3 million deferred tax Equipment Sector of the FTSE.
In addition to the Consolidated balance sheet includes a creditor of 4.8 million relating to the pension obligations for Key risks are actively managed the businesses sold during the year.
The total pensions related The main risks and uncertainties facing Halma are discussed liability at 1 April 2006 was 50.8 million 2005: 41.4 million.
The structure of the Group, with a number of relatively Although the value of scheme assets has grown over the year, small autonomous companies, is designed to spread risk.
the deficit has increased as a result of the decrease in the High quality local teams manage each business, including discount rate being applied to the scheme liabilities and by a finance professional, so that they can respond quickly and longer life expectancy.
The net charge included in the effectively to risks as they emerge.
Consolidated income statement is now split between an Our internal control processes have been strengthened even operating charge and a finance charge.
There has been a widespread positive An unaudited summary of the restatement to IFRS was issued response to the use of financial warning signs in each business by the Group on 2 September 2005.
There are a number of which highlight potential risks at an early stage for corrective disclosure changes throughout these financial statements action.
The actions taken have actively reduced risk across the and note 29 below gives the restatement of opening figures Group.
However, we must never be complacent and our internal in further detail.
control processes, discussed in more detail on pages 93 and 94 remain under constant review.
Tax rate stays at 30% The effective rate of tax on profit from continuing operations, before amortisation of acquired intangibles, is 30.1% 2004 05: 30.2%.
This years tax rate is expected to be representative of the tax rate in the near future, depending on the actual mix of profits made across the world.
Cautionary note Foreign exchange movements were not significant this year This Business and financial review has been prepared solely The Group has both translational and transactional currency to assist shareholders to assess the Boards strategies and their exposures.
Translational exposures arise on the consolidation of potential to succeed.
It should not be relied on by any other party, overseas company results into Sterling.
Transactional exposures for other purposes.
Forward-looking statements have been made arise where the currency of sale or purchase differs from the by the Directors in good faith using information available up functional currency in which each company prepares its local until the date that they approved the Report.
Forward-looking accounts and these exposures are the responsibility of local statements should be regarded with caution because of the management.
The largest translational exposures are to the inherent uncertainties in economic trends and business risks.
US Dollar and to a lesser extent the Euro.
In preparing this Business and financial review, the Directors Translational impacts on the 2005 06 results were modest have aimed to comply with the Accounting Standards Boards and increased revenue and profit by approximately 1%.
2006 Reporting Statement guidance on Operating and Financial US Dollar results were translated into Sterling at a rate of Reviews.
However, non-financial Key Performance Indicators 1.78 2004 05: 1.84 and Euros were translated at 1.47 have not been included in this Annual Report as they are not 2004 05: 1.47.
Around one-third of Halmas revenue and at a sufficiently advanced stage of development.
See pages 100 profit is generated in US Dollars and so a 1% weakening of to 103 for commentary on employee and environmental issues.
38 Halma p. l. c. 2006 We are achieving good results Halma p. l. c. 2006 39 02 Our results Consolidated income statement 40 Consolidated balance sheet 41 Statement of recognised income and expense 42 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders equity 42 Consolidated cash flow statement 43 Accounting policies 44 Notes to the accounts 47 Independent Auditors report Group 73 Company balance sheet 74 Notes to the Company accounts 75 Independent Auditors report Company 81 Summary 1997 to 2006 82
