26 Halma p. l. c. 2006 Business and financial review Infrastructure Sensors sector review Sector overview We make products which detect hazards Infrastructure Sensors is our largest business contributing 42% to protect people and property in public of Group revenue 132 million and 40% 24 million of Group and commercial buildings.
There are four main sub-sectors: Fire detectors We make fire and smoke detectors and KPI Group target 2006 2005 audible visual warning devices.
We are the second largest 1 manufacturer of point smoke detectors in the world.
We make fire Revenue growth 5% 12% 2% products in the UK and US with sales offices in the US, Europe, 2 Profit growth 5% 2% 3% Africa, the Near East and Asia.
3 Return on sales 18% 18.3% 20.1% Security sensors Through our acquisition of Texecom, we have 4 ROCE Return on established a strong presence in this strategically important and Capital Employed 45% 60% 70% fast growing market.
We are the market leaders in the UK and South Africa for security sensors used in public and commercial 5 R&D as a % of sales 4% 4.4% 4.2% property.
These products are made in the UK.
Automatic door sensors We are the worlds largest manufacturer KPIs are calculated on results from continuing operations.
of sensors used on automatic doors in public and commercial 1.
Sector revenue compared with the prior year.
These products are made in China, Europe and 6 2.
Adjusted sector profit before finance expense compared with the prior year.
Return on sales is defined as adjusted sector profit before finance expense and taxation expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
Elevator safety We are the worlds largest manufacturer of 6 4.
Adjusted sector profit before finance expense expressed as a percentage of elevator lift door safety sensors.
We also make emergency sector operating assets.
communication devices, display modules and control panels for 5.
Sector research and development expenditure expressed as a percentage of elevators.
These products are made in the UK, Eastern Europe, sector revenue.
New Zealand, the US, China and Singapore.
Adjusted to remove the amortisation of acquired intangible assets.
Sector strategy In this sector, our strategy is to be the leading supplier of sensors and other critical components and not an installer of complete fire, security, automatic door or elevator systems.
Our strong focus on safety-critical sensor components enables us to sell to the major global players in the building infrastructure markets who supply complete, installed systems such as GE, Honeywell and Tyco in Fire, and OTIS, Mitsubishi and Kone in Elevator Safety.
By concentrating all our efforts on a single system component, we can offer high performance products complying with all the major international and national regulations and standards.
Strategic achievements Strategic directions Revenue increased by 12%, profit by 2% Organic profit growth driven by revenue growth New sales and technical support offices in China, India, Increase direct presence further in China and Asia regions USA, Spain, Ireland, Dubai and South Africa Devise and implement revised growth strategies for New low cost manufacturing in Czech Republic for Elevator and Door Safety businesses Elevator Safety Continue to reduce manufacturing costs Texecom acquired for 26 million in November 2005.
Complete integration of Texecom and develop The strategically important Security market has relatively technical commercial collaboration opportunities higher growth potential and increasing legislation and regulation Over 30 new products launched Business and financial review Halma p. l. c. 2006 27 Our Infrastructure Sensor products are used in both new During 2005 06 we saw continuing price competition in our build and refurbishment projects, so we work hard to ensure elevator products and automatic door sensor markets.
new sensor products are backwards-compatible with The Middle East, China and India are experiencing some of the existing installations.
highest rates of high-rise building development in the world.
To strengthen our local presence, we recently established new R&D investment and product innovation is central to maintaining elevator product sales offices in Dubai, Mumbai and Chongqing competitive advantage in this sector.
This is because constantly our fourth regional office in China.
changing technical standards and regulations drive our infrastructure sensor markets.
We make an active contribution to In our 2004 05 Operating review we identified growing demand the development of international technical standards.
In the past for products which assist evacuation during fire emergencies.
year we worked closely with trade bodies such as CENELEC and Our investment in advanced technology audible and visual EURALARM which set standards in the EU for intruder alarms, devices which assist safe building evacuation produced and also with the British Security Industry Association and the double-digit sales growth for these products.
British Standards Institute on the interpretation and Sector performance implementation of EU standards.
Revenue growth at 12% for this sector included the benefit To enhance public safety, governments worldwide set of the Texecom acquisition made in the year.
Despite this, increasingly stringent standards for fire protection products.
profit growth at 2% was below our target largely because of In the past year alone, our fire products companies have the extra investment in overheads made this year to improve added 500 new technical approvals which allow us to sell longer-term growth potential.
This also has had the effect of our products worldwide.
reducing the return on sales although this remains at a high level because product margins were sustained.
ROCE Market trends continues to be excellent.
Our security sensors sell into a global market, worth approximately 2 billion annually, which is growing at 6% to 7% Sector outlook per year.
Since acquisition, Texecom has continued to grow Investment to increase our direct presence in key developing faster than the market and we hold a dominant market share markets and changes to senior management are aimed at in the UK and South Africa.
In the coming year, we expect those actions taken in 2005 06 to start to deliver organic A global fire detection market growth of 4% per year is expected profit growth.
Growth in this sector will also be boosted by a full to continue for the foreseeable future.
Demand for fire detectors years contribution from our new security business, Texecom.
is particularly strong in China and India, where infrastructure We will continue to explore collaboration opportunities across investment is generating annual market growth of 15%, and in all Infrastructure Sensor businesses.
the Middle East which is growing by 8% per year.
Conversely, demand in developed markets such as Europe and the US has lagged behind the global market growth rate.
Falling end-user fire detector prices coupled with shorter product life cycles have been characteristics of this market since we first entered it over 20 years ago.
However, we believe that our investment in product development, manufacturing and the supply chain will continue to deliver organic growth and maintain our excellent margins.
Geographic regions Main growth drivers Safety regulations and legislation Belgium China Risk and cost of accidents Czech Republic Construction industry growth new build and refurbishment Germany Capital investment in industrial facilities India Japan Population growth, ageing and urbanisation New Zealand Rising expectations of health and safety Singapore Industrial growth in developed countries South Africa UK Industrialisation of developing world USA Energy and water resources markets growth New technology
