qxp 26 2 07 14:49 Page 12 12 Operating and financial review Our products Hanson supplies a Aggregates broad range of heavy 3 Aggregates : 250.8m metric tonnes Ready-mixed concrete : 21.4m m 3 building materials in North America 144.9m mt North America 3.2m m 3 UK 37.0m mt UK 5.3m m 3 Australia and Asia Pacific 38.0m mt Australia and Asia Pacific 8.6m m two main categories: 3 Europe 30.9m mt Europe 4.3m m Aggregates and Hanson is one of the worlds largest Ready-mixed concrete is made from producers of aggregates.
Aggregates aggregates, cement, water and chemical Building products.
include sand, gravel and hardstone such admixtures.
Ready-mixed concrete is as granite and limestone.
Sand and gravel used in a range of applications in the may be extracted from the sea as marine construction sector.
We supply a variety of Our principal products dredged aggregates, as well as from customers, ranging from major international land-based deposits.
Aggregates are an construction companies to DIY enthusiasts.
are described on essential component of a wide variety of Cement : 2.8m metric tonnes these two pages.
These include uses such as a base material for road building, rail lines North America 1.6m mt and water transmission as well as Australia and Asia Pacific 1.2m mt drainage pipelines and as landll.
Cement is a ne powder that is produced Asphalt : 13.0m metric tonnes by mixing calcium carbonate, silica, alumina North America 4.7m mt and iron ore.
This is heated and then rapidly UK 4.3m mt Australia and Asia Pacific 3.4m mt cooled down to produce clinker.
The clinker Europe 0.6m mt is mixed with gypsum and nely ground to produce cement.
Asphalt is made from a mixture of 90% to 95% of dried aggregates, combined with Ground granulated blast furnace 5% to 10% of heated liquid bitumen.
slag GGBS : 2.0m metric tonnes Aggregates: Sand and gravel from our Bitumen is a by-product of the petroleum Bulls Lodge quarry in Chelmsford, UK.
North America 0.2m mt rening process and the price of bitumen UK 1.8m mt is, in general, governed by the price of oil.
Asphalt is used as a surfacing material for roads, airport runways and car parks.
GGBS is manufactured from blast furnace Different types of asphalt surface can slag, a by-product from the manufacture of be produced depending on the grade iron, and is used as a cement replacement, of aggregates used, which will give the mostly in ready-mixed concrete, and also in surface differing qualities such as many other concrete products used in the improved grip for vehicles or quieter construction industry.
With higher ultimate tyre noise.
strength and durability, it can replace 50% or more of the conventional cement in concrete.
Replacing a tonne of conventional cement with GGBS saves a tonne of CO 2 emissions which demonstates its significant Ready-mixed concrete: Ready-mixed concrete environmental benets.
being delivered from our Maroochydore plant in Queensland, Australia.
qxp 26 2 07 14:51 Page 13 13 Building products Bricks : 2,102m of construction engineering applications, primarily in infrastructure, including drainage North America 1,387m UK 715m systems and water transmission.
Gravity and pressure pipes are manufactured to rigorous technical specications.
The vast majority of our bricks are made from clay, which is extracted from the Precast concrete structures ground, processed, shaped and then red Our North American precast products are in kilns.
Bricks can be produced in a wide used for roadway drainage, airport drainage, variety of colours and textures.
They are stormwater management and utility used primarily in the housing segment of construction.
In addition, we manufacture Concrete pipes: Our pipes, ranging from 0.25 the construction sector, both new build metres to over 3.5 metres in diameter, ready for highway noise barriers, bridges and and RMI.
Bricks are selected for their customers in Dallas, USA.
attractive appearance, versatility, low maintenance and durability.
Automation Other building products: in brick plants is increasing, including the In addition to the product lines described use of robotics to improve brick handling.
above, we produce a variety of other building products as follows: Concrete roof tiles : 1,807ts North America 1,807ts Building Products North America also UK XXts produces steel pipes which are used Australia XXts primarily in water transmission applications and which range from 45 centimetres to Concrete roof tiles are made by extruding three metres in diameter.
a sand-based concrete mix into individual In our Building Products UK division, the moulds, which are dried and hardened for precast range includes a variety of ooring a period of approximately one week.
They Bricks: Bricks at the end of the production line systems such as hollowcore and solid are then ready for installation.
at our brick factory in Claughton, UK.
composite beam and block, stairs, culverts, North America: concrete products : and a comprehensive range of bespoke 4.6m metric tonnes precast products.
UK aggregate blocks are In Australia, we produce concrete blocks, produced using dense and lightweight North America 4.6m mt concrete pavers and precast products.
They are available in a variety precast range includes a variety of walling, of densities, strengths, congurations ooring and architectural precast products.
Concrete products in North America Aerated concrete blocks are produced consist primarily of concrete pipes and under the Thermalite brand and are much precast concrete structures.
They are used by builders and speciers for wall, Concrete pipes oor and below ground construction, Concrete pipes include gravity ow pipes offering added properties of heat insulation, and pressure pipes and range in diameter Including joint-ventures and associates moisture resistance, strength and ease of from 0.25 metres to over 3.5 metres.
UK Building Products also bags are produced by embedding a reinforcing m mt millions of metric tonnes ts thousand of squares squares 100 square feet steel structure within concrete.
The largeboth decorative and other aggregates for 3 m m millions of cubic metres scale structures are used in a wide variety sale into the trade and retail sectors.
m spu millions of standard production units Our products
