Report of the Directors 58 The Directors submit their report together with the consolidated financial Except for such indemnification and insurance and except for the respective statements of Hanson PLC and its subsidiary undertakings for the year ended terms of service of such Directors and officers, no Director or officer of December 31, 2006.
Hanson or any of their respective relatives or spouses either had an interest in any contract or transaction which was material to Hanson or such Business activities and review related party or unusual in its nature or conditions or had any outstanding Hanson is a focused heavy building materials company with operations indebtedness of a material nature owing to Hanson at any time during the in the UK, North America, Australia, Asia Pacific and Continental Europe.
A review of the groups activities during the year, including financial Charitable and political donations performance, key performance indicators and a description of the principal During the year, the group made worldwide charitable donations of 348,000 risks and uncertainties facing the group are included in the Chairmans 309,000, 321,000, including 84,000 93,000, 183,000 in the UK.
statement, the Chief Executives overview, A decade of delivery and beyond, As in the previous year, no political donations were made to EU political the Operating and Financial Review, the Corporate governance statement parties or organisations.
and the Remuneration report of the Annual Report as detailed on page 1.
The Annual Report contains some forward looking Policy on payment of suppliers information statements which by their nature involve some uncertainty The holding company, Hanson PLC, has no trade creditors.
The policy of and should not be construed as a profit forecast.
Hanson companies is to agree payment terms with their suppliers and abide by those terms, subject to satisfactory performance by the supplier.
Results and dividends The profit for the year was 401.5m 387.6m, 264.2m.
Auditors and disclosure of information to auditors The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Report of the An interim dividend of 6.45p per ordinary share was paid on September 15, Directors each confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit 2006.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 15.35p per ordinary share information as defined in the Companies Act 1985 of which the Companys which will, if approved at the AGM, be paid on May 4, 2007, to ordinary auditors are unaware: and that they have each taken all the steps that ought shareholders on the register at close of business London time on to have been taken as a director of the Company to make himself herself April 10, 2007. aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Dividends of 147.5m were paid during the year.
This confirmation is given in accordance with the provisions of Property, plant and equipment Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
Details of movements in Hansons property, plant and equipment are shown in note 13 of the Notes to the accounts.
Ernst & Young LLP are the independent auditors of Hanson and, having expressed their willingness to continue in office, a resolution proposing their Subsequent events re-appointment will be submitted at the AGM.
The Auditors reports on the There have been no material post balance sheet events since financial statements are on pages 68, 69 and 135.
By order of the Board Research and development Paul Tunnacliffe The development and improvement of new and existing products is an Company Secretary essential continuing process in our companies.
Expenditure that does not February 22, 2007 meet the capitalisation criteria of an intangible asset is expensed as occurred.
Research costs are also expensed as incurred.
Registered Office 1 Grosvenor Place Share capital London SW1X 7JH Details of changes in share capital during the year and the number of ordinary shares reserved for issue at December 31, 2006 are shown in note 23 of the Registered in England and Wales No 4626078 Notes to the accounts.
Details of shares purchased by the Company are shown in note 24 of the Notes to the accounts.
Substantial shareholdings Details of substantial interests 3% or more in Hansons share capital, as notified to Hanson, are shown in the Investor information section.
Annual General Meeting The AGM will be held at 11.00am on April 24, 2007, at The Institution of Engineering and Technology, 2 Savoy Place, London WC2R 0BL.
Shareholders being sent this document will also be sent a separate notice of the AGM incorporating explanatory notes of the resolutions to be proposed at the meeting.
Directors The names and biographical details of the Directors are given on page 57.
J C Nicholls resigned as a Director of the Company during the year under review.
M W Welton, J W Leng and G Dransfield will retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
P S Binning, having been appointed since the last AGM, will seek election to the Board.
Directors interests Details of the Directors service contracts, emoluments and share interests at December 31, 2006, appear in the Remuneration report on pages 63 to 67.
Directors Indemnities The Companys Articles of Association were amended following the 2005 AGM to expand the circumstances in which a Director can be indemnified by the Company in accordance with Companies Act 1985.
In addition to providing this indemnification and any other indemnification provided pursuant to the Articles of Association, charter or by-laws of Hansons subsidiaries, Hanson maintains directors and officers liability insurance for Directors and officers of Hanson and its subsidiaries.
