qxp 23 2 07 22:16 Page 08 08 Chief Executives Q&A A decade of delivery... 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 1997 saw the final The transformation of A strong performance 2000 has been a year The group delivered a demerger of a series of Hanson into a unied from our North American of significant growth for strong performance in four companies with the company: Cornerstone operations, supported by Hanson.
The USA distribution of shares in has become Hanson higher capital expenditure of Pioneer in May was will continue to be a the Energy Group PLC to Building Materials and bolt-on acquisitions a major deal for Hanson focus for investment.
shareholders on February America and ARC has was the foundation for and accelerated our With our strengthened 24, 1997.
The remaining become Hanson Quarry another encouraging strategy of growth balance sheet, we have companies within Products Europe.
through investment to the capacity to resume Hanson are now rmly operations will share establish strong local our value-adding bolt-on focused on our new the new visual identity.
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Over the past five years 2003 was a challenging 2004 was a good year In 2005, we have We rank within the we have demonstrated year for Hanson.
A for Hanson, thanks to delivered double digit top 25 companies our ability to deliver value more resilient trading the hard work of our earnings growth, in the FTSE 100 from bolt-on acquisitions.
Our strategy completed a significant for the increase in This remains our USA, price increases, remains straightforward.
number of valuable total shareholder preferred route for a newly restructured US We will stay focused.
acquisitions and value achieved over growing the Company.
management team and We intend to generate increased our returns the past ten years.
ongoing cost reductions cash, invest in the to shareholders.
measures should ensure business and maintain a return to growth.
qxp 23 2 07 22:16 Page 09 09... and beyond Alan Murray, Chief Executive, reviews a decade of delivery for Hanson and talks about his plans for the next ten years.
We operate in 15 countries, with a particular In the UK and Australia, the aggregates markets are relatively consolidated and focus on North America, the UK and Australia.
Our products fall into two acquisition opportunities are more likely to be in Building Products.
categories: Aggregates and Building Products.
Within our divisions, we have We will continue to look for selective some excellent local market positions with opportunities in our other markets, such a unique aggregates mineral reserve and as Continental Europe.
resource position of 92 years in North America and 58 years in the UK.
What are your priorities for the next ten years for the group?
Where do you expect to see the most We want to add value for our shareholders.
potential for Hanson to grow earnings?
I see four key aspects to this as we grow At Hanson, we believe that we are wellour business: positioned in each of our core geographies.
Remain focused on our strategy and A significant part of our growth is likely to disciplined in our use of cash.
We enjoy come from the USA.
You refer to the last ten years as strong operating cash ow and intend to a decade of delivery.
What would you Underlying demand for our products is continue to invest in capital expenditure consider to be the main areas of delivery?
driven by demographic growth and the USA and acquisitions, to grow dividends and to First, we have delivered sustainable is expected to grow by around three million make share buybacks when appropriate.
shareholder value as evidenced by our people each year.
Demand is supported by Invest in our people.
Attracting and TSR performance since 1997. a US government infrastructure programme retaining talent in our sector is a key A second area of delivery has been our committed to investing $286 billion over a priority.
We need to ensure we provide investment track record.
Since 1997, we six year period to 2009.
Around 45% of the right opportunities for growth and have invested around 4 billion in over our turnover in the USA is from the development, together with high standards 100 acquisitions, including 1.7 billion for infrastructure sector.
of health, safety and welfare.
We are pleased with Improve our customer focus.
The the returns we have generated from these requirements of our customers are We have signicantly acquisitions.
Our commitment to invest in changing rapidly and we are working new plant and equipment in order to increased the value of Hanson hard to anticipate and respond to improve productivity and reliability has over the last ten years and these demands.
This has also enabled us we believe we have the Play our part in protecting and enhancing to raise health, safety and environmental the environment.
I believe that Hanson opportunity and the capability standards across our operations.
and our industry play an important role to deliver the same over the in enhancing the quality of peoples lives Thirdly, we have delivered a large amount of next ten years.
We are the environmental products to our customers, where and when custodians of the sites we operate and we they need it, supplying around two billion have a very good track record in the areas tonnes of aggregates from our quarries On the supply side, North America provides of reclamation and restoration.
We aim to over the last ten years.
an attractive environment for our business be well-placed to meet the increasing given its high operating standards and high demand for products and services which What is Hanson today?
In addition, the market for deliver environmental benets.
As one of the worlds leading heavy building both building products and aggregates materials companies, our products are vital is still fragmented in many areas which We have signicantly increased the value to the construction industry.
They are used provides acquisition opportunities.
We of Hanson over the last ten years and we to build the world around us in the are one of the five largest aggregates believe we have the opportunity and the capability to deliver the same over the construction of houses, roads, schools, producers in North America, yet only have around a 5% national market share.
