qxp 23 2 07 22:17 Page 10 10 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review Our industry and markets Our customers housing, offset by supply constraints such We supply heavy Hanson supplies its products and services as house prices and planning permissions.
to a broad range of customers, ranging from Statistics for housing starts and building materials to large multi-national construction companies completions are published in several of our to DIY enthusiasts.
the public and private major markets, including North America and the UK.
RMI work includes Do-ItOur aim is to provide premium quality construction sectors.
Yourself DIY spend and is therefore products and services to all our customers.
often linked to consumer confidence.
Contact with customers is through our Our key markets are divisions at local, regional and national levels.
Infrastructure includes transport such North America, the Dedicated sales teams are the principal dayas roads, rail and airports and utilities to-day support for our customer base, with including water transmission, sewerage, UK and Australia.
strong management structures in place to power and communications.
Infrastructure ensure adherence to guidelines.
Our markets spend on both new projects and RMI is We operate in 15 countries.
Approximately often government funded, for example Service and quality 90% of our 2006 turnover was generated through the SAFETEA Safe, Accountable, The service and quality elements of our in North America, the UK and Australia.
Flexible, and efficient Transportation Equity product offering are essential components Other operations are located in Continental Act programme in North America.
For example, our Europe and Asia Pacic.
Infrastructure demand is driven by Aggregates divisions may advise on the demographics, namely population growth, technical strength specication in readyEnd use markets and demand drivers along with government scal policy and mixed concrete, the grip and durability of The end use of our products and planning constraints.
Some infrastructure asphalt and the on-time delivery to site and services may be categorised into work is related to housing.
consistency of size and grade of aggregates.
residential, infrastructure and industrial Industrial & Commercial includes ofces, Our Building Products divisions can colour & commercial construction.
This match bricks and design the strength and Residential includes public and private category of construction is funded by both precision of pipes and precast products.
housing and comprises both new build the public and private sectors and may and repair, maintenance and include public finance initiatives PFI.
The level of new Drivers for private spending include Our aim is to establish Hanson as one housing spend in this sector is driven by economic growth.
Typically, public spending of the leading suppliers in each of the local population growth and demand for new is driven by political priorities.
markets in which we operate.
We have a Group turnover by division End use USA End use UK Year ended December 31, 2006 % Year ended December 31, 2006 % Year ended December 31, 2006 % Aggregates North America Building Products UK Infrastructure Infrastructure Building Products North America Australia and Asia Residential Residential Aggregates UK Continental Europe Industrial & Commercial Industrial & Commercial 6.6 25 25 14.7 27.4 40 45 9.3 21.0 30 21.0 35 Hanson 2006 www.
qxp 26 2 07 17:34 Page 11 11 network of well-located operations to customers and thus maintain our overall advances can provide the opportunity optimise customer service and transport competitive position in each market.
for reinvestment and upgrading of costs.
These competitive positions may be Delivery to the final destination is principally manufacturing facilities.
strengthened through acquisitions, which by road, but we do use alternative transport Low substitution threat and can add value through the realisation of such as rail or marine to move products low price elasticity operating and cost saving synergies in where possible.
Building products may have The threat of substitution for most of areas such as increased asset utilisation longer economic delivery distances, our products is low.
Recycled aggregate and reduced administrative overheads.
materials are used in certain applications, particularly in the UK following the Vertical integration for aggregates Barriers to entry introduction by the UK government of an In some markets, aggregates producers are The main barriers to entry for our aggregates levy.
We are looking to increase integrated into ready-mixed concrete and aggregates and brick operations are access the proportion of high value aggregates asphalt production.
In addition, asphalt to mineral reserves and the ability to obtain produced in our plants in the UK.
producers may undertake road and other the necessary legal permissions for maintenance contracts and surfacing work.
These barriers to entry are often Our products, in general, have low price Ready-mixed concrete producers may have increasing in the markets in which we elasticity.
For example, the volume of upstream cement operations.
Our focus is operate as planning and environmental aggregates required in a road project may on aggregates, but we look to own and controls become more onerous.
We aim not be particularly sensitive to the selling operate ready-mixed concrete, asphalt and to work with planning authorities and local price of those aggregates.
cement operations where this is desirable.
communities to ensure we comply with all regulatory requirements and maintain Economic characteristics a strong reserve position.
In general, our products have a low value Our other, non-brick building products to weight ratio.
This means the cost of operations may have barriers to entry due transport is a significant element of the total to significant scale, capital and expertise cost of our products to our customers.
For example, concrete pipe example, in some markets the maximum and precast products are produced for economic road delivery distances for engineered applications where significant aggregates may be as little as 30 Excluding joint-ventures and associates technical expertise is required in design, Continuing operations kilometres.
Consequently, we aim to Based on internal management estimates, manufacturing and sales.
Technological rounded to nearest 5% establish a network of plants for our End use Australia Projected population growth Year ended December 31, 2006 % 2007 to 2016 % Infrastructure UK USA Australia Residential Industrial & Commercial % 12 15 8 60 25 4 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Source: US Census Bureau, UK National Statistics online, Australia Bureau of Statistics.
Linear growth assumed between source data points.
