qxp 23 2 07 22:18 Page 20 20 Operating and financial review Our business objectives Our primary Our six point strategy: objective is to create We plan to focus on growing our sustainable, longcore products in selected markets 1. term value for our shareholders.
We believe this can We aim to generate margin improvement only be achieved 2. by working in partnership with our customers and We intend to continue to invest in capital other stakeholders.
expenditure to maintain and enhance 3.
We aim to enhance the value of our the performance of our operations existing assets and market positions by growing group turnover, earnings and group margins, through the business cycle.
This will be supported by the appropriate combination of maintenance, We intend to continue to generate greeneld and value adding capital value-adding growth through our 4. expenditure.
acquisition programme Additional value is sought through acquisitions, primarily targeting products or locations which can be bolted-on to complement our existing operations.
We are prepared to make disposals We believe there is an opportunity to add value in the medium term and to reinforce of underperforming or non-core 5. our position as one of the worlds leading operations if required suppliers of heavy building materials.
We intend to continue to enforce strong financial discipline in order to create 6. long-term shareholder value Hanson 2006 www.
qxp 23 2 07 22:18 Page 21 21 We plan to continue to grow both our aggregates business and our heavy building products business We do not plan to enter distribution or the manufacturing of light-side building products We prefer to operate in developed markets which have solid demand drivers and high entry barriers and in which we believe we may establish and retain a strong competitive position We intend to maintain strong pricing discipline to reect the full economic value of our mineral reserves, products and services We seek to continue to operate continuous efficiency and cost saving programmes We aim to maintain capital expenditure at or above our annual depreciation charge Capital investment is targeted towards cost saving or revenue enhancing projects to add value We also invest capital to improve health and safety standards, to improve environmental performance and to replace ageing plant and equipment We aim to continue to adopt a targeted approach to acquisitions Potential targets are evaluated on a discounted cash ow basis against our cost of capital, taking into account strategic t and risk and return targets We are prepared to sell operations if they do not meet our medium-term ownership criteria.
However, we believe that, at present, we have completed the required disposals We plan to continue our progressive dividend policy We plan to continue our routine and gradual share buyback programme when appropriate We plan to maintain our investment grade debt ratings over the cycle We will continue to be disciplined in our operating, investing and nancing decisions We will not target short-term benets to the detriment of the longer-term performance of the business Our business objectives
