qxp 23 2 07 22:18 Page 22 22 Operating and financial review Our key performance indicators indicates our ability to offset any cost The Board of Financial KPIs: ination with productivity initiatives, including value adding capital expenditure Hanson PLC uses Group turnover and with selling price increases.
the following financial # In 2006, our group operating margin was 11.2% 12.8% 12.1%, an increase of 0.7ppts.
and non-financial profitability measures key performance Our primary profitability KPI is operating # Group operating margin profit before impairments.
A number of indicators to measure other profitability KPIs are used, namely strategic and profit before taxation, profit for the year 0.7ppts and basic earnings per share.
discussed in more detail in the financial review section of this report.
Financial KPIs # Operating profit Net cash inow from operating activities Group turnover Net cash inow from operating activities is This represents the total amount charged dened as the cash ow generated by the to customers for our products and 15.1% operations, including dividends from jointservices, including delivery but excluding ventures and associates and after payments joint-ventures and associates, interfor discontinued items such as asbestos.
company sales, property profit and sales It is stated after receipts and payments for taxes such as VAT.
Net cash inow from interest and tax but before investing and operating activities Our aim is to increase turnover each nancing activities.
year through a combination of price and Our aim is to increase net cash inow from volume growth, from our existing market -5.5% operating activities in line with the increase positions and assets, and additional in profit for the year.
This is an indicator of turnover from acquisitions.
our ability to convert earnings into cash.
For In 2006, we increased our group items such as finance costs and tax, the turnover by 11.2% to 4,132.7m.
cash impact may be a more meaningful Acquisitions made in 2006 contributed measure than the complex accounting in 5.8% of this growth.
The increase from the income statement.
the existing operations of 5.4% was due In 2006, our net cash inow from operating primarily to increases in selling prices activities reduced by 25.7m, or 5.5%, to rather than volume growth.
445.5m, compared to a 3.6% increase in # the profit for the year.
The reduction Group operating margin included an adverse movement in working This represents the group operating # capital of 87.5m, largely due to an increase profit, divided by group turnover.
Further detail is The word group designates that it provided on page 48. excludes our share of joint-ventures and associates profit after tax.
Group # operating profit is therefore group turnover less group operating costs.
Excluding joint-ventures and associates Our overall aim is to grow or maintain Continuing operations group operating margin each year.
This #Before impairments Hanson 2006 www.
qxp 23 2 07 22:18 Page 23 23 Non-financial KPIs quality of advice, product availability, product LTI comparison by year Jan-Dec The nature of our business means that quality and on-time delivery.
most of our non-financial performance We aim to make the administrative support indicators are measured locally.
Areas of for our customers as efficient and accurate particular importance are described below: 1.50 as possible and use indicators such as dispute resolution and debtor days to 1.25 Health and safety measure progress.
The progress of safety performance 1.00 throughout our business worldwide is Employees tracked and reported regularly to the 0.75 Human capital measures include gender, Board using standard measures.
tenure, age, occupational group, job grade, 0.50 We use the following indicators to provide ethnicity, labour turnover and reasons for 0.25 a consistent measure of our performance: leaving.
These are supplemented by regular 02 03 04 05 06 employee surveys.
0.00 Lost time incidence LTI rate: this is the frequency rate of injuries resulting in an Sustainability LDI comparison by year Jan-Dec employee being absent for one or Our sustainability strategy is being more shifts.
developed to include a set of non-financial Lost day incidence LDI rate: this is the performance indicators.
In the near term, frequency rate for days lost as a result we will prioritise the measurement of 30 of accidents.
energy efficiency, CO emissions, the 2 25 use of recycled material and the quality Total case incidence TCI rate: this is the frequency rate of accidents.
of water that leaves our sites.
20 In 2006, the LTI reduced from 1.2 to 1.1 Other performance indicators 15 and the LDI reduced from 21 to 18.
TCI In addition to the key performance 10 was 3.4 for 2006.
This was the first year indicators detailed above, Hanson uses a TCI was measured on a comparable basis number of other financial and non-financial 5 throughout the group.
Cost control is 02 03 04 05 06 0 supported by ratios such as tonnes per Regrettably, there was one employee manhour and overheads as a percentage work-related fatality and one contractor of turnover.
Investment decisions are based fatality during the year.
A further employee on risk versus return evaluation using cash work-related fatality has sadly occurred ow projections discounted at a weighted in February 2007.
In such circumstances, average cost of capital.
Assets, including we co-operate fully with the appropriate mineral reserves, are monitored for quality, investigating authorities.
We also age and replacement need.
Financing endeavour to ensure that the deceaseds indicators include interest cover ratios, family and work colleagues have as much gearing and cash ow to net debt.
We share the on capital and economic value added lessons we have learned from these calculations are used to measure and incidents and review our standards for incentivise value creation.
Customers A key part of our focus is to improve our Excluding joint-ventures and associates service at each point of customer contact, Continuing operations #Before impairments from initial enquiry to receipt of payment.
According to best international practice, the frequency Key customer satisfaction measures include measures are as per 200,000 hours worked 30 1.5 22 1.5 22 1.2 21 1.2 18 1.1 Our key performance indicators
