Annual Report and Accounts 2006 5 Hays plc INVEST D l r e r i u v d i o o e n f g g f m i n c o i i s t e p a s n e c e c r i i l a n e p t i s i e s o R u n b a l Strategy Hays plc is the largest publicly-listed recruitment group in the United Kingdom and a world-leading Specialist Recruitment Company.
Our aim is to be the best Specialist Recruitment Group in the world.
Our strategy enables us to deliver a balanced and sustainable business: PROFIT CASH successfully driving investment, profit, growth and cash ow The following case studies illustrate how Hays is implementing this strategy.
com Strategy Developing specialist activities through investment Hays Sales & Marketing and The growth of Hays Sales & Marketing Hays Purchasing and Hays Purchasing has come from The recruitment of skilled professionals in the Sales & a specialist understanding of their Marketing and Purchasing sectors respective sectors and by exploiting is a demanding and specialist service which requires a team the unique existing advantages that which has market and sector Hays has as a business the size knowledge and is dedicated to the provision of a premium service and coverage of the UK network and both to clients and candidates.
These are the type of sectors where Hays is able to deliver Andy McRae, Managing Director, United Kingdom & Ireland a focused, timely and ultimately successful recruitment service.
Over the last year Hays Sales & Marketing has made a large impact on its market place and grown net fees by 35%, doubled the number of ofces and increased the London, United Kingdom number of recruitment consultants business clients in a variety of Net fees Sales & Marketing by nearly 50%.
The growth in Hays specialist business sectors.
and Purchasing Purchasing this year has been 04 2.0m even more impressive with net The future growth and expansion of fees increasing by over 100%.
Hays Sales & Marketing and Hays 05 4.0m Purchasing is set to continue as 06 7.5m The growth and development of each of the businesses leverages Hays Sales & Marketing and Hays the power of the established Hays Purchasing in the last 12 months brand and expands its geographic has been achieved by using our footprint by increasing the number well-established business model of ofces across the extensive and by investing in our people to Hays network.
successfully add new specialist activities to the growing Hays portfolio of specialist recruitment services.
These businesses have also been quick to successfully combine both permanent and temporary recruitment services and have developed a broad mix of both corporate and smaller 8 Hays plc www.
com Strategy Replicating our business model to generate profit Developing a start-up Hays continues to gain momentum business in Spain in Spain.
The performance so far has In 2000 we opened our first ofce in the capital city of Madrid.
We have built a strong that time the Spanish specialist brand, we have a committed recruitment market was smaller and less developed than some management team and a business of its European neighbours.
model that has been welcomed in a fast However, it was clear early on that the Spanish specialist growing specialist recruitment market.
recruitment market could offer Mark Bowden, Managing Director, Hays Spain and Portugal Hays significant growth prospects.
Hays was the first recruitment business in Spain to provide clients with a success only, no placement no fee, based service.
With a growing Spanish economy and the increasing sophistication of the Spanish specialist recruitment market there was a clear Madrid, Spain opportunity to offer clients this Hays investment in the Spanish Net fees Spain unique service.
market will continue by adding 04 0.7m more recruitment consultants, Since opening, the business has opening new ofces and the 05 1.5m expanded and now operates from growth of new specialist activities.
06 3.1m Spains three largest cities, Madrid, Barcelona and Valencia.
Hays offer recruitment services in Accountancy & Finance, Sales & Marketing, Information Technology, Engineering & Construction and Legal.
All of the growth in Spain has been organic: during the last three years the business has grown net fees by more than 100% each year.
The business now employs over 55 recruitment consultants who in the last year generated more than 850 permanent placements from both Spanish and international clients.
com Strategy Expanding overseas to generate growth China & Hong Kong In May this year we purchased Hays was already doing business St. Georges Harvey Nash, a small in Hong Kong through offshore work from Australia.
From our permanent recruitment business experience it was obvious that based in Hong Kong and China.
there was a substantial opportunity for Hays in this region and we This acquisition provides Hays with opened a new ofce in Hong Kong a quality platform to enter the large earlier this year.
and developing specialist recruitment Our opening in Hong Kong was market in China.
followed closely by the acquisition of St. Georges Harvey Nash, a Matt Underhill, Regional Director, Asia Pacic specialist recruitment business which has operations in both Hong Kong and China.
The Hong Kong operation has been an excellent complement to our own new business but, more signicantly, the acquisition has also provided Hays with a high quality platform to enter Hong Kong, China the specialist recruitment market with the business and have fully in mainland China.
integrated the businesses into Hays existing operations in the 4 The opportunities in China for Asia Pacic region.
ofces Hays are substantial: a burgeoning economy accompanied by double There is a significant opportunity digit GDP growth, a large working to expand the business in China population and a fast developing and we have seen strong demand recruitment market.
We have for skilled candidates in our core 50 50 staff who are a mixture of brands, Accountancy & Finance, recruitment both Chinese nationals and Construction & Property and expatriates working across our Information Technology.
Taking consultants ofces in Shanghai, Shenzhen advantage of the opportunities and Guangzhou.
We are expanding for growth in the region we will the ofce network by opening an continue to invest in adding ofce in Beijing shortly.
new recruitment consultants and the roll-out of specialist The highly experienced management activities into the market.
team, who have worked extensively in the Chinese and Hong Kong recruitment markets have remained 12 Hays plc www.
com Strategy Driving operational efficiencies to generate cash Web-based timesheets The introduction of web-based We are always striving to improve timesheets has been a great success operational efficiency at Hays and the successful implementation and with our clients, temporary workers and use of web-based timesheets is an our own staff.
This is a great example excellent example of how we are using technology.
It has been so of how Hays has used technology to successful that the business in increase both the productivity and Australia is now processing 5,000 timesheets per week through the profitability of the Australian business.
system, which is 70% of the total Phil Allen, Finance Director, Asia Pacic temporary workers processed.
For Hays there are some clear and valuable savings from this new technology.
There is the elimination of manual entry of the timesheet, the reduction of costly re-work and the reduction of potential timesheet fraud.
This new technology ensures that each timesheet reconciles, that Sydney, Australia it includes both the correct client We have seen a reduction of errors Temporary worker completes and temporary worker details and in customer invoicing which has timesheet within Hays 1 website via a login to their has been correctly authorised, which produced a cash ow benefit by own secure area is sometimes impossible to achieve reducing the length of the payment first time when using conventional cycle from our customers.
An email prompts the line Our recruitment consultants have manager to enter their 2 Our temporary workers have benefited from the elimination secure area on the Hays website and to authorise benefited from being paid on time of dealing with incorrect or lost the timesheet every week, with a reduced error timesheet queries.
This allows rate and are able to both complete them to focus on their core task The authorised timesheet their timesheets and collect their which is placing candidates in jobs is imported into the Hays 3 pay slips in their own secure area and we have seen a positive impact payroll system to produce on the internet.
Our clients have in their overall level of productivity.
temporary workers pay and create the client invoice benefited with new on-line access to both current and historical The temporary worker is timesheet data and are able to paid and a self service pay 4 authorise their temporary workers slip is available from their timesheets in one go.
