Annual Report and Accounts 2006 21 Hays plc Board of Directors From left to right Bob Lawson Denis Waxman Paul Venables Lesley Knox Brian Wallace Alison Yapp William Eccleshare Paul Stoneham Bob Lawson, 61 a member of the Executive Board of Alison Yapp, 40 Exel plc.
During 13 years with Exel he Chairman Company Secretary and held a number of senior finance and Appointed Chairman of the Board and General Legal Counsel operational roles, including Finance of the Nomination Committee on 1 July Appointed Company Secretary and Director of Exels European and Global 2001.
Joined Hays as a non-executive General Legal Counsel on 30 January operations.
Director on 1 July 1998 and became 2006.
A qualied Solicitor, with over Deputy Chairman on 11 November 1999.
14 years experience within a number of Lesley Knox, 53 A qualied engineer with an MBA, his international groups, she was previously Independent Non-Executive Director career has spanned several United Company Secretary and Group Legal Appointed non-executive Director on Adviser of Charter plc, an international Kingdom and continental groups, 30 April 2002, she is Chairman of the including three years as Managing engineering company, and prior to that Remuneration Committee and a member Director of Vitec Group plc and more held senior legal positions in Johnson of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
recently 10 years as Chief Executive Matthey plc and Cookson Matthey A founder director of British Linen of Electrocomponents plc, where he Ceramics plc.
Advisers a specialist corporate finance remains non-executive Chairman.
adviser until 2002, previously she was William Eccleshare, 50 a Corporate Finance Director and then Denis Waxman, 59 Independent Non-Executive Director Head of Institutional Asset Management Chief Executive Appointed non-executive Director on at Kleinwort Benson.
She is Chairman Appointed Chief Executive on 24 November 2004, he is a member of of the Alliance Trusts plc, and also a the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration 1 July 2004.
He joined the Hays plc non-executive Director of HMV Group plc Committees.
He is Chairman and Chief Board on 10 March 1998 as Director and MFI Furniture Group plc.
Executive of BBDO Europe, Middle He has been Managing Director of the East and Africa.
Formerly Chairman Brian Wallace, 52 business since it was acquired by the and CEO of Young & Rubicam Independent Non-Executive Director Wunderman Europe.
Group in 1986 and was one of the original Appointed non-executive Director on founder Directors of the business in 1969.
5 March 2001, he is Chairman of the Paul Stoneham, 44 Audit Committee and a member of Independent Non-Executive Director Paul Venables, 44, the Nomination and Remuneration Appointed non-executive Director on Group Finance Director Committees and is Senior Independent 24 November 2004, he is a member Appointed Group Finance Director on Director in accordance with the Combined 2 May 2006.
A chartered accountant, he of the Audit, Nomination and Code.
From 1995 to February 2006, he came to the Group from DHL Logistics, Remuneration Committees.
He is was a Director of Hilton Group plc, latterly a division of Deutsche Post World Net.
President, Global Business Development as Deputy Chief Executive and Finance for the Colgate-Palmolive company.
Prior to the acquisition of Exel plc by Director.
Prior to that, he held various Formerly Managing Director of Boots Deutsche Post in December 2005, he financial positions with Price Waterhouse, was Deputy Group Finance Director and Schlumberger, APV plc and Geest.
