Headlam Group plc 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Directors, Officers and Advisors BOARD OF DIRECTORS COMPANY SECRETARY ADVISERS G Waldron G M Duggan Auditors Executive Chairman Geoff joined the company in April 1998.
He is KPMG Audit Plc Graham was appointed an executive director in an associate of the Institute of Chartered 2 Cornwall Street June 1991 becoming Chairman later that year until Secretaries and Administrators and a fellow of Birmingham B3 2DL 31 December 1999.
On the resignation of Trevor the Chartered Institute of Management Larman on 1 June 2006 he was re-appointed Accountants.
Taxation Advisers Chairman for a short period whilst his successor Deloitte & Touche is sought.
He has 54 years experience in the Four Brindleyplace floorcovering industry.
He is the non-executive EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Birmingham B1 2HZ Chairman of Tandem Group plc.
A J W Simpson Principal Bankers A J Brewer Managing Director UK Operations Barclays Bank PLC Group Chief Executive Andrew joined the company during September PO Box 34 Tony was appointed an executive director in 1991 and is the Managing Director of UK 15 Colmore Row June 1991, becoming Managing Director of the Operations.
Andrew has 34 years experience in Birmingham B3 2BY Floorcoverings Division in January 1992, and was the floorcovering industry.
Age 54. appointed Group Chief Executive in November The Royal Bank of Scotland plc 2000.
He has 29 years experience in the G B Phillips Corporate and Institutional Banking floorcovering industry.
Finance Director Operations 5th Floor, 2 St Philips Place Gary joined the company in June 1992 and is Birmingham B3 2RB S G Wilson the Finance Director of floorcovering Group Finance Director operations.
He is an associate of the Chartered Stockbrokers Steve was appointed Group Finance Director Institute of Management Accountants.
Arden Partners Limited in December 1991.
He is the non-executive Arden House Chairman of Synergy Healthcare plc and is a fellow A R Judge 17 Highfield Road, Edgbaston of the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
Managing Director, Coleshill and Tamworth Birmingham B15 3DU businesses T J Anderson Tony joined the company in May 1992 and is Registrars Senior Independent Director Managing Director of all businesses operating Capita Registrars Tom was appointed a non-executive director in from the Coleshill and Tamworth distribution Northern House August 1998.
He was formerly a non-executive centres.
Tony has 26 years experience in the Woodsome Park director of Azlan Group PLC and a group general floorcovering industry.
Fenay Bridge manager of Electrocomponents Plc.
He is a Huddersfield HD8 0LA chartered engineer and a member of the K R Yates Institute of Electrical Engineers.
Managing Director, Mercado Keith joined Mercado in April 1983 and was R W Peters subsequently appointed its Managing Director Non-executive Director in 1996.
Keith has 24 years experience in the Dick was appointed a non-executive director in floorcovering industry.
He was formerly Senior Partner for the East Midlands practice of Deloitte & Audit committee Touche in Nottingham.
He is a BSc in Remuneration committee Mathematics and Statistics and is a fellow of the Nomination committee Institute of Chartered Accountants.
Executive management Charities committee M K OLeary Non-executive Director Mike was appointed a non-executive director in March 2006.
He was formerly a director of MISYS plc and chief executive of Marlborough Stirling plc.
Mike has worked in domestic and international markets and brings a wealth of general management experience to the company.
