Headlam Group plc 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Directors Report The directors present their annual report on the affairs of the % group, together with the audited financial statements and Ordinary of issued auditors report, for the year ended 31 December 2006. shares share of 5p each capital Principal activity Schroders plc 8,289,262 9.52 The groups activities are wholly aligned to the sales, marketing, AXA SA 7,003,815 8.04 supply and distribution of floorcovering products.
The principal Aberforth Partners LLP 6,989,439 8.03 subsidiary undertakings are listed on page 100.
Aviva plc 6,847,352 7.86 Lloyds TSB Group plc 5,816,182 6.68 Review of the business Aegon UK Group of Companies 4,347,020 4.99 The company is required to set out in this report a fair view Legal & General Group Plc 3,354,498 3.85 of the business of the group during the financial year ended 31 December 2006, the position of the group at the end of Directors and their interests the financial year and a description of the principal risks and The names of the directors of the company at the date of this uncertainties facing the group.
The information that fulfils these report and biographical details are given on page 22.
A complete requirements includes a business review on pages 12 to 17, a list of directors who served during the year is shown within the financial review on pages 18 to 21, risks and uncertainties on remuneration report on page 38.
No other person has acted as pages 25 to 27 and corporate social responsibility on pages a director of the company during the financial year ended 31 41 to 43, which are incorporated into this report by reference.
Details of directors service contracts are given in the report on corporate governance.
Dividends An interim dividend of 4.85p per share 2005: 4.40p was paid on The companys articles require that one third of the directors 2 January 2007 and your board is recommending a final dividend retire by rotation each year.
Accordingly, Graham Waldron and of 15.30p per share 2005: 13.60p, making a total dividend of Steve Wilson retire by rotation and being eligible, offer 20.15p per share for the year 2005: 18.00p.
The final dividend, themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
In proposing if approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting AGM, their re-election, the board confirms to shareholders that will be payable on 2 July 2007 to shareholders whose names following a formal performance evaluation, each of these appear on the register at the close of business on 8 June 2007. individuals performance continues to be effective and they have expressed a willingness to continue in their roles.
Share Capital Details of the companys share capital, including the number of Tom Anderson retires from the board at the conclusion of the shares issued during the period under review are given in note 22 forthcoming AGM having served nine years as a non-executive to the financial statements.
At the AGM of the company held on director.
The directors thank Tom for his contribution to the 1 June 2006, the shareholders approved a resolution for the continuing success of the business.
He will be succeeded as company to make purchases of its own shares up to a maximum Senior Independent Director by Mike OLeary.
number of 13,007,600 ordinary shares of 5 pence each.
The resolution remains valid until either it is substituted by the Details of directors remuneration and service contracts are set granting of a new authority to make market purchases at this out on page 37.
The beneficial interests of the directors and their years AGM or the conclusion of this years AGM.
No shares were immediate families in the companys shares and their interests in bought back under this authority during the year and at present share options are detailed on page 39.
No director had, at any the company does not hold any shares in treasury.
time during the period under review, a material interest in any contract with the company or any of its subsidiaries.
Substantial shareholdings As at the last date prior to posting these report and accounts, the company had been notified in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the following interests in the voting rights attached to the ordinary share capital of the company.
A Accounts ccounts Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 25 Directors Report continued Employment, training and development The group considers it important that its employees provide for The group remains committed to providing a workplace that is their retirement and accordingly provides opportunities for them safe and environmentally sound and which complies with to participate in retirement plans.
The group expects employees to respect confidential information and company time and assets Health and safety and believes in open and honest communication, fair treatment The group monitors its health and safety processes and seeks to and equal opportunities.
The group supports the fundamental make continual improvements.
The group provides guidance and principles of good governance.
solutions to the operating businesses on all aspects of health and safety and serves to strengthen further the health and safety It is the groups policy that employment opportunities, training, culture within the group.
The system sets and closely monitors career development and promotion should be available to all, the achievement of standards for health and safety on all sites and irrespective of age, gender, ethnic origin, religion or disability.
during the year the average performance exceeded the benchmark Due consideration is given to applications for employment, standard set by the group.
The board is committed to ensuring having regard to the particular aptitudes and abilities of the that the groups activities are carried out in accordance with applicants.
Any employee who develops a disability during relevant statutory provisions and all reasonable and appropriate employment is given the opportunity to retrain for alternative measures are taken to avoid risk to employees or others who may employment where practicable, given the nature of the groups be affected.
Whilst management is committed to providing a safe activities.
working environment with the appropriate working practices and training, this can only be achieved if employees equally give their The groups human resources policies are available to all staff and commitment to a rigorous health and safety culture.
The group include guidance on employment matters, ethics, equal continues to improve its health and safety performance with a opportunities, staff benefits and training and development.
reduction in reportable accidents and dangerous occurrences to the Health and Safety Executive.
There were no prosecutions for It is the groups continued practice to maintain employee breaches of health and safety in the year.
participation and involvement in matters which affect their interests.
The group places considerable value on the Principal risks and uncertainties involvement of its employees and has continued to keep them The groups business, results and financial condition are informed on matters affecting them as employees and on the influenced by a range of risks and uncertainties many of which various factors affecting the performance of the group.
This is are beyond the control of the board.
achieved through formal and informal meetings and through the annual and interim financial statements.
Employee Whilst the following highlights some of these risks it is not representatives are consulted regularly on a wide range of intended to provide an exhaustive analysis of the risks affecting matters affecting their current and future interests.
For instance, there are some risks which are as yet not known and others which whilst not presently material could The directors encourage employee interest in the groups become a significant factor in the future.
performance through the executive and savings related share option schemes.
Market demand Approximately 94% of the groups sales are to independent Employee turnover remains low and as a result the employee retailers and flooring contractors.
The group is firmly committed to developing the potential of its people and regularly reviews its succession The activity levels within this customer base are determined planning processes.
Recruitment, training and development is by consumer demand created through residential property designed to ensure the group has suitably skilled and qualified refurbishment or moves, new residential housing developments employees to meet the operational needs of the business and and a wide range of commercial refurbishment and new offer the opportunity for employees to develop and grow.
Training is delivered primarily through internal resources with assistance from external providers on specialist subjects as and Periods of recession, low consumer confidence or changes in when required.
trends and preferences have the potential to affect market Headlam Group plc 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Directors Report continued activity and therefore demand for products supplied by the group.
The group has standardised credit checking and debt collection However, market activity is monitored in each individual business procedures at each individual business.
Businesses are and at group level on a daily basis which enables a rapid encouraged to share credit information with other group response to any factors adversely affecting trading.
businesses on a regular basis in order to prevent the escalation of small credit risks.
All open accounts are subject to credit Furthermore, since the groups principal activities are supply and limits and businesses must obtain central approval for credit distribution, it has the ability to quickly respond to market limits in excess of 10,000. changes.
This, coupled with the development of broad market penetration through the establishment of a range of diverse These procedures, combined with the local knowledge of the regional, national and specialist businesses provides the group credit control teams, not only reduce the risk of default, but also, with a degree of resilience and protection.
in a number of instances, provide opportunities to assist the customer to trade out of their default position.
Competitor risk The group operates in four different geographical markets which The group does not use credit insurance since the level of default generally share similar trading characteristics.
Appropriate provisions are made on a regular basis whenever the likelihood of default is high.
Within each market, the group competes with a variety of regional and national distributors, manufacturers selling directly Infrastructure to our customer base and indirectly with multiple retail chains.
An important element of the groups ability to service its customer base is its network of distribution and service centres.
The group seeks to sustain its competitive position by The groups policy of improvement through continued investment maintaining close relationships with its supplier and customer in new or extended facilities has been one of the principal base.
Substantial and continued investment in drivers behind the groups historic growth rates.
management: an extensive product offering: In order to support growth rates in the future, the group will a knowledgeable sales resource: continue to invest in new centres.
stock availability: efficient material handling and There is a risk that future growth will be constrained if these logistics development projects are unduly delayed either through land removes the need to compete strictly on price and allows the availability, planning consent, prohibitive building cost or capital group to enhance its overall market position through its availability.
Systems The distribution competition in Continental Europe is diverse and The group is highly reliant on its IT systems to deliver its very fragmented.
The group has deliberately adopted a cautious operational objectives and maintain financial control and as acquisition policy in these markets searching for opportunities a consequence, any prolonged IT failure has the potential to that provide good growth opportunities but at sensible valuations.
Given the number of opportunities it is possible that a However, each business has its own dedicated system and failure competitor, following a more aggressive acquisition strategy on in one will not interrupt another.
Furthermore, the group operates the Continent, could challenge the groups position as Europes well defined back up procedures and has contingency plans in leading floorcovering distributor.
place to enable swift recovery from a failure of this nature.
Credit risk Transport The group trades with the majority of its customers on credit The majority of customer orders are delivered within twenty four terms and therefore there is always the risk that customers are hours on vehicles operated by the group.
Any interruption to this unable to pay outstanding balances.
service, for example, major disruption to road networks or the prolonged reduced availability of vehicle fuel could have an adverse affect on activity.
Accounts Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 27 Directors Report continued People continue to be developed to meet the groups specific The groups ability to deliver continued success is very dependant requirements and is not based on any particular code or standard upon its people.
The number of creditor days of the company at 31 December 2006 was 40 days 2005: 41 days.
The group is committed to providing a workplace that is safe and environmentally sound.
Recruitment, training and development is Auditors designed to ensure that the group has suitably skilled and qualified KPMG Audit Plc has expressed its willingness to continue in office people to meet the operational needs of the business and there are as auditor of the company and in accordance with the provisions opportunities for individuals to progress their careers.
of section 385 of the Companies Act 1985, a resolution for its re-appointment and to authorise the directors to agree its Pension remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Auditors The cost of funding the groups defined benefit plans may remuneration and fees paid during the year to 31 December 2006 increase due to a decline in investment returns, movement in are set out in note 3 to the financial statements.
interest rates and longer life expectancy.
In accordance with the provisions of section 234 ZA of the As a result of the triennial actuarial valuation of the UK plan, the Companies Act 1985 the directors who held office at the date of group agreed to make an additional payment of approximately approval of this directors report confirm that, so far as they are 1.5 million every year until 2016. each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditors are unaware, and each of the directors has The results of future scheme valuations could result in this taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make commitment increasing.
himself aware of any relevant audit information, as defined, and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
Government legislation The groups operations are affected by a variety of laws and Resolutions regulations covering health and safety, environmental, Authority to allot shares employment, legal, financial and tax.
The Companies Act 1985 provides that directors shall only allot unissued shares with the authority of shareholders in general The group is committed to complying with these requirements meeting.
Resolution 8 will be proposed as an ordinary resolution in each of the markets in which it operates and achieves this by for the renewal of the directors general authority to issue managing its obligations at the group level or within individual relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of businesses.
Where appropriate, the group engages the services of 1,035,000, representing approximately 23.8% of the current competent third party advisers.
issued share capital of the company.
The authority sought will be in substitution for the previous authority taken at last years Changes in regulations are incorporated into the groups polices AGM, and this authority will expire at the conclusion of the next and procedures on a timely basis.
The directors have no present intention of exercising this authority other than in respect of Donations shares which may be issued pursuant to the Companys share The groups Charities Committee considers requests for charitable option schemes.
The group contributed charitable donations of 54,661 2005: 36,289 during the year.
The board Disapplication of pre-emption rights has maintained its policy of not making political donations.
The Companies Act 1985 also provides that any allotment of new shares for cash must be made pro rata to individual shareholders Supplier payment policy holdings, unless such provisions are disapplied under section 95 The groups policy with regard to the payment of suppliers is to of the Companies Act 1985.
Resolution 9 will be proposed as a agree the terms of payment as part of the conditions of supply of special resolution for the renewal of the directors authority to goods and services.
The group seeks to strictly comply with these allot equity securities for cash, without first offering them to payment terms whenever it is satisfied that the supplier has shareholders pro rata to their holdings.
This authority facilitates provided the goods and services in accordance with the agreed issues made by way of rights open offer or other pre-emptive terms and conditions.
The payment policy has been and will offer to shareholders and other persons entitled to participate to Headlam Group plc 28 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Directors Report continued shareholders and authorises other allotments of up to a maximum AGM aggregate nominal amount of 217,775 of shares, representing The notice of the fifty ninth AGM to be held at 10.00am on approximately 5% of the current issued share capital of the 25 May 2007 at the groups distribution facility in Coleshill, company.
This authority also allows the directors, within the Warwickshire has been mailed to shareholders with this Annual same aggregate limit, to sell for cash shares that may be held by Report.
Going Concern The directors have no present intention of exercising this The group continues to place considerable emphasis on its authority.
budgeting and forecasting procedures and each month produces a forecast of trading and cash flow for the accounting period.
Purchase of own shares Accordingly, the group continues to have in place all the Resolution 10 will be proposed as a special resolution for the procedures and information appropriate to the going concern renewal of the companys authority to purchase its own shares in assessment required by the Combined Code on Corporate the market for up to 13,066,500 ordinary shares, representing Governance.
Having reviewed the groups resources and a range approximately 15% of the issued share capital of the company.
The of likely trading out-turns, the directors believe that they have price payable shall not be more than 5% above the average price of reasonable grounds for stating that the group has adequate the middle market quotation as derived from the Daily Official List resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable of London Stock Exchange plc for the ordinary shares for the five future and therefore to continue to adopt the going concern basis business days before the purchase is made and in any event not in preparing the financial statements.
less than 5p per share, being the nominal value of the shares.
It is the directors intention only to exercise the authority to purchase This directors report has been approved by the board and signed the companys shares where it would increase the earnings per on its behalf by share of those ordinary shares that are not repurchased.
This power will only be used if the directors consider that to do so would be in Geoff Duggan the best interests of shareholders generally.
As at 1 April 2007 Company Secretary being the latest practicable date before publication of this report, 20 March 2007 there were 2,209,691 options to subscribe for ordinary shares in the company outstanding which represent 2.5% of the companys current issued share capital.
If the authority to purchase shares were to be used in full, these outstanding share options would represent 3.0% of the companys issued share capital excluding any shares then held in treasury.
