Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Directors report 24 Board of Directors 5 3 6 1 4 7 2 1 Samih Darwazah 3 Ali Al-Husry 5 Breffni Byrne CEO and Chairman, 76 Non-Executive Director, 49 Independent Non-Executive Director, 61 Samih Darwazah, a qualified pharmacist, worked for Ali Al-Husry has been a director of Hikma Pharma Limited Breffni Byrne was appointed to the Board in October Eli Lilly from 1964 to 1976, before establishing Hikma and other companies within the Hikma group since 1991.
2005 and holds the position of Chairman of the Audit Pharmaceuticals Ltd. in 1978.
Between 1995 and 1996 He is also serving as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Committee.
He is also a member of the Remuneration he served as Minister of Energy and Mineral Resources of Capital Bank of Jordan.
He is also a director of The Committee.
As a chartered accountant with over 30 years in Jordan.
He also founded the Jordan Trade Association Association of Banks in Jordan, the Jordanian Insurance of experience in public practice, including significant and was a member of the Advisory Economic Council to Commission and several other organisations.
He brings international responsibilities, he has extensive experience His Majesty the King of Jordan.
Samih holds a masters great financial experience to the Board as well as an inin financial reporting, corporate governance and general degree from the St. Louis College of Pharmacy, Missouri.
depth knowledge of the MENA region.
Ali has a degree in financial and commercial matters.
Breffni is Chairman mechanical engineering from the University of Southern of NCB Stockbrokers and a director of Irish Life and 2 Mazen Darwazah California and an M. B.
Permanent plc, Coillte Teoranta the Irish state forestry Executive Vice-Chairman, CEO of MENA, 48 company, Adsteam Europe Limited and other companies.
Mazen Darwazah joined Hikma in 1985 as a medical 4 Michael Ashton representative and has held several positions, including Independent Non-Executive Director, 61 6 Sir David Rowe-Ham Chairman and CEO of Hikma Pharmaceuticals Limited Michael Ashton was appointed to the Board in October Senior independent Non-Executive Director, 71 Jordan, Chairman of Trust Pharma Limited and Pharma Ixir 2005 and holds the position of Chairman of the Sir David Rowe-Ham was appointed to the Board in Co. Ltd.
He is a member of the Nomination Committee.
He is also a member of the October 2005 and holds the position of Chairman of He is a director of Jordan International Insurance Company, Audit Committee and the Nomination Committee.
He is also a member of the Capital Bank of Jordan and of several other organisations.
Michael is the Group President and Chief Executive Officer Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
From 2001 to 2003 he was the president of the Jordanian of LMA International and also serves on the Boards of Sir David brings to Hikma a wide experience in financial Association of Manufacturers of Pharmaceuticals and Transition Therapeutics and Proximagen.
matters, corporate governance, public affairs and the Medical Appliances, and has served as a member development of listed companies.
He is also Chairman of the Jordanian Higher Education Council since 2003. of Arden Partners plc, Olayan Europe Ltd. and Peninsular Mazen holds a degree from Beirut University, Lebanon.
South Asia Investment Co. Ltd. 7 Ronald Goode Independent Non-Executive Director, 63 Ronald Goode was appointed to the Board on 12 December 2006.
He is a member of the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
Ron has spent over 30 years in the international pharmaceutical industry, including having held senior positions with Pfizer and Searle.
He is the chairman of The Goode Group, advisers to the pharmaceutical industry, and is a director of Mercy Ships International and a trustee of Thunderbird.
He is also a director of Genitope Corporation, a NASDAQ-listed company.
He was formerly President and Chief Executive Officer of Unimed Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and eXegenics Inc. and a director of several other companies, including Hokuriku Seiyaku and Vitro Diagnostics.
