Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Directors report 25 Senior management 1 4 5 2 3 6 7 1 Bassam Kanaan 4 Majda Labadi 7 Susan Ringdal Chief Financial Officer Vice-President of Injectables and General Manager, Investor Relations Director Bassam joined Hikma in 2001 and played a leading role in Hikma Pharmaceuticals Susan joined the Company in November 2005, having preparing the company for its IPO in 2005.
Prior to joining Majda joined the Company in 1985 as a purchasing previously worked for the pharmaceutical distribution and Hikma, Bassam was the CFO of PADICO from 1994 to manager at Hikma Pharmaceuticals Limited and held retail pharmacy group Alliance UniChem plc as Investor 2001.
He currently serves on the board of Zara Holding and several positions there culminating in her current Relations Manager.
She also has experience as an equity has previously served as a board member of several large appointment in March 2001.
Majda holds a master analyst at Morgan Stanley in London.
A. in corporations including Palestine Telecommunication Co. degree in health economics and a B.
A. from the History from Cornell University and an M. B.
A. from London and Central Electricity Generation Company in Jordan.
He qualified as a CPA with Deloitte & Touche in Los Angeles where he worked as audit manager.
5 Gabriel Kalisse Bassam holds an Executive M. B.
A. from Northwestern General Manager, West-ward Corporation University and a B.
A. from Claremont McKenna College Gabriel took up the position of General Manager of the in the United States.
Prior to this, he held the position of Chief Information Officer for the Group.
Gabriel joined 2 Nabil Rizk the Company in 1989 and during 19962001 served as the CEO of Generic Pharmaceuticals and Senior Corporate Group Chief Financial Officer and from 2001 to 2003 as Vice-President of R&D and API sourcing the General Manager of Hikma Pharmaceuticals Limited Nabil joined the Company in 1991 from Pioneer Jordan.
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. a division of Dow Chemical, where he worked as Vice-President of Operations.
From 1976 6 Henry Knowles to 1983 he served in various capacities with Hudson General Counsel and Company Secretary Pharmaceuticals, a division of Cadence Corporation Henry joined the Company in September 2005.
Prior to including as Manager of Quality Control and Quality joining Hikma, he worked for the international law firm, Assurance and Laboratory Supervisor Research & Ashurst, where he specialised in corporate law, gaining a Development.
Nabil holds a masters degree in chemistry wide knowledge of corporate and commercial issues in from the New Jersey Institute of Technology and a B. Sc.
both domestic and international fields.
Henry is admitted in applied chemistry from Cairo University.
as a solicitor in England and Wales and holds an M. A. in Social and Political Science from Cambridge University.
3 Taghreed Al-Shunnar Corporate Vice-President Branded Pharmaceuticals, MENA Taghreed joined the Company in 1988 after graduating from the University in Jordan with a degree in pharmacy.
In 1995, she was appointed as Marketing Planning Director of Hikma Pharmaceuticals Limited and in 2002, promoted to General Manager of Hikma Pharmaceuticals Limited.
In 2005, Taghreed became Corporate Vice-President of Branded Pharmaceuticals MENA.
Taghreed is expected to complete her Executive MBA from INSEAD in December 2007.
