Annual report and accounts 2006 HMV Group plc 35 Directors report The Directors submit their report and audited financial Directors are listed together with their biographical details, statements for the 52 weeks ended 29 April 2006 which on pages 20 and 21.
On 31 December 2005 Brian McLaughlin were approved on behalf of the Board on 5 July 2006. retired as an employee of the Company and became a NonExecutive Director of the Company.
In accordance with the Business review Articles of Association of the Company, Carl Symon will offer The principal activities of the Group are the retailing of himself for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General pre-recorded music and video and electronic games under Meeting.
The Companys Articles of Association require the HMV brand and the retailing of books principally under one-third of the Directors to retire by rotation at each Annual the Waterstones brand.
The Group has operations in eight General Meeting and, in any event, each Director must offer countries, with the principal markets being those of the UK, himself or herself for re-election at least once every three years.
The Business and Financial Review on Accordingly Roy Brown and Neil Bright will offer themselves pages 6 to 19 contains details of the principal operations of for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
the Group during the year and likely future developments.
As previously announced, Alan Giles will serve as an Executive Director until no later than 31 December 2006 as he intends to Results and dividends leave the Company to develop a portfolio of non-executive The consolidated profit after deducting taxation amounted to directorships outside the Group.
In addition, David Kappler will 56.2m 2005: 91.7m.
The Board of Directors recommends a resign voluntarily from the Board on 6 July 2006. final dividend of 5.6p per Ordinary Share.
This together with the The Directors interests in the shares of the Company, interim dividend of 1.8p, already declared and paid, makes a together with their remuneration where applicable and further total for the year of 7.4p per Ordinary Share 2005: 6.8p per details of their service agreements are detailed in the Directors Ordinary Share.
Subject to approval at the forthcoming Annual Remuneration Report on pages 25 to 32.
General Meeting the final dividend will be paid on 13 October No Director, at any time during the period under review, 2006 to those shareholders whose names are on the register had a material interest in any contracts with the Company or of members on 15 September 2006. any of its subsidiary undertakings, other than the Executive Directors who had such an interest through their service Directors agreements with the Company, details of which are summarised Robin Miller ceased to be a Director on 28 July 2005, leaving on page 32. the Company of his own accord.
Steve Knott was appointed None of the Directors nor their families at any time during a Director on 1 August 2005 and Carl Symon was appointed the period under review, or subsequently, were interested in any a Director on 1 February 2006.
All other Directors served shares of the Companys subsidiary undertakings.
throughout the year under review and details for all present Principal shareholders As at 27 June 2006 the Company had been advised of the following holdings representing 3% or more in its issued Ordinary Shares: Number of Percentage Ordinary of issued Shares share capital Barclays PLC 51,686,104 12.84 UBS AG 40,490,076 10.06 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC 39,166,758 9.73 Brandes Investment Partners LP 35,711,585 8.90 Aviva plc 30,611,083 7.60 Fidelity International Limited 18,750,651 4.66 Morgan Stanley Securities Ltd 17,111,813 4.25 Prudential plc 16,437,649 4.08 Legal & General Investment Management Limited 15,123,415 3.76 Investec Asset Management 14,679,479 3.65 Tameside Metropolitan Borough Council 12,385,238 3.08 Policy on payment of creditors At 29 April 2006, the Group had undrawn committed bank The Group does not impose standard payment terms on its facilities plus cash available to it totalling 376.9m.
suppliers but agrees specic terms with each and ensures that each supplier is made aware of such terms.
It is the Groups Interest rate risk policy to pay its suppliers in accordance with the terms that they With reported net debt of 15.6m at 29 April 2006, and with the have agreed.
The Company is a holding company and therefore Group being in a net cash position in the third quarter as was has no trade creditors.
the case in the previous year, the Group currently considers that there is limited interest rate exposure and thus there are no Financial instruments requirements for interest rate hedging.
The net exposure will The Groups Treasury Department is principally responsible continue to be monitored throughout the year.
for managing the Groups funding arrangements and certain financial risks, described below, to which the Group is exposed.
Counter party risk Treasury manages these risks using policies approved by Treasury deposits any cash balances that arise with counter the Board.
parties that have a strong credit rating, with an agreed limit for each counter party, so as to limit the risk of loss arising from a Liquidity risk failure.
Counter parties include AAA-rated Liquidity funds, and The Group has committed bank facilities comprising a multivarious banks.
currency revolving credit facility of 260m and an undrawn 80m term facility which together with cash on deposit provides sufficient funding for the Groups operations.
The adequacy of the funding arrangements is reviewed regularly.
36 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Directors report continued Foreign exchange risk Charitable donations The Group uses forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge The Group made charitable donations of 25,000 in the the foreign exchange risk of imports where volumes are period under review 2005: 121,000.
It is Group policy not significant.
However, the Groups operating businesses to make donations to political parties and therefore no political generally source the majority of their product from suppliers donations were made during the period.
The Group is also within their country of operation and so the foreign exchange involved in charitable fundraising, details of which can be exposure is small.
found in the Corporate and Social Responsibility Statement The Group is also exposed to foreign currency translation on page 33. risk through its investment in overseas subsidiaries.
This is partially hedged by local debt, but the Group does not hedge Auditors the remaining exposure.
Generally, the Group does not hedge The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of any net translation exposure of overseas earnings, although approving the Directors Report are listed on pages 20 and 21. it may in certain circumstances implement hedges to secure Having made enquiries of fellow Directors and of the Companys short-term financial objectives.
auditors, each of these Directors confirms that: to the best of each Directors knowledge and belief, there Employee policies is no information relevant to the preparation of their report The Group is a decentralised organisation with the aim of of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and employing and developing the best people, putting them in each Director has taken all steps a director might the right positions with a significant level of delegated authority reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of and supporting them with the infrastructure and technology relevant audit information and to establish that the required to perform at the highest levels and at the lowest Companys auditors are aware of that information costs with the quickest response time.
Ernst & Young LLP has indicated their willingness to continue Responsibility for employment matters therefore rests in ofce and ordinary resolutions reappointing them as auditors primarily with each business operation under the general and authorising the Directors to x their remuneration will be guidance of central policy and procedural guidelines.
proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Group companies are committed to the maintenance of a work environment free of discrimination on the grounds Annual General Meeting of gender, nationality, ethnic or racial origin, non-job related The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at disability, sexual orientation or marital status.
2.30 pm on 28 September 2006 at UBS, 1 Finsbury Avenue, The Group gives full consideration to applications from London EC2M 2PP.
The special business to be proposed at that disabled persons where a disabled person can adequately meeting will be the renewal of the Directors authority to allot full the requirements of the job.
Where existing employees new Ordinary Shares and to disapply pre-emption rights in become disabled, it is the Groups policy, wherever practicable, certain circumstances: the renewal of the Directors authority to provide continuing employment under normal terms and to buy back the Companys shares in the market: the approval conditions and to provide training, career development and of a new share incentive plan for employees: and, to avoid promotion to disabled employees wherever appropriate.
an inadvertent breach of the Political Parties, Elections and In order to promote employee involvement in the Group, Referendums Act 2000, the renewal of the Groups authority to regular meetings are held between local management and make political donations.
The Notice of Meeting and details of employees to allow a free ow of information and ideas.
the special business to be proposed can be found in the letter The Company encourages staff involvement in the Groups to shareholders which will be sent to shareholders in August.
performance via a combination of employee bonus and share schemes.
The Group has established a Share Incentive Plan, By order of the Board details of which are set out on page 26, in which nearly all the Elaine Marriner Company Secretary Groups employees are entitled to participate provided they meet certain service conditions.
5 July 2006 Shelley House Share capital 2-4 York Road At the Annual General Meeting held in September 2005, Maidenhead shareholders authorised the Company to purchase up to Berkshire SL6 1SR a maximum of 40.4m of its own Ordinary Shares, representing 10% of the issued share capital of the Company.
During the period under review the Company purchased in the market, and cancelled, 7.5m of its Ordinary Shares of 1p for an aggregate consideration of 18.6m including expenses, which represented some 1.86% of the issued ordinary share capital as at 29 April 2006.
As at 27 June 2006 the latest practicable date for inclusion in this report, the Company had an unexpired authority to repurchase further shares up to a maximum of 32.9m Ordinary Shares of 1p.
Details of the Companys share capital, together with the number of shares issued or cancelled during the period under review, can be found in Note 25 to the financial statements.
Since the end of the period under review the Company has increased its issued share capital by a further 4,640 Ordinary Shares, which were issued pursuant to the exercise of options under the Companys share option schemes.
