20 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Board of Directors Alan Giles Chief Executive officer Aged 52 Alan Giles was appointed to the Board as joint Chief Executive in March 1998 and became sole Chief Executive in March 1999, leading the Group through its otation on the London Stock Exchange in May 2002.
He joined WH Smith plc in 1982, served as General Manager Books for WH Smith Retail and Operations and Development Director for Do It All, and became Managing Director of Waterstones in 1993 before being appointed to the Board of WH Smith in 1995.
Previously he spent seven years in buying and marketing with Boots the Chemists.
He is a non-executive director of Wilson Bowden plc and was recently appointed a non-executive director of Rentokil Initial plc.
In January 2006 he announced his intention to leave the Group at the end of 2006.
Neil Bright Group Finance Director Aged 43 Neil Bright was appointed to the Board as Finance Director in March 1998.
He joined HMV in August 1996 as Group Finance Director from its then parent company, Thorn EMI plc where he was Group Planning Manager.
He is a Chartered Accountant, having trained and qualied with Coopers & Lybrand in London.
Steve Knott Executive Director Aged 53 Steve Knott was appointed to the Group Board on 1 August 2005.
He has been Managing Director of HMV UK & Ireland since May 2003 and for the previous two years was Managing Director of Waterstones.
He originally joined HMV UK in 1990 as Operations Director.
He was formerly Managing Director of World Duty Free Europe Ltd and had 10 years experience in retail management with the Burton Group now Arcadia Group.
He is Chairman of the British Association of Record Dealers BARD and the Ofcial UK Charts Company Ltd. Executive Directors Alan Giles Neil Bright Steve Knott Non-Executive Directors Carl Symon Chairman Roy Brown Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director David Kappler Lesley Knox Mark McCafferty Brian McLaughlin Audit Committee Lesley Knox Chairman Roy Brown Mark McCafferty Nomination Committee Carl Symon Chairman Roy Brown David Kappler Lesley Knox Mark McCafferty Remuneration Committee Roy Brown Chairman Lesley Knox Mark McCafferty 21 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Carl Symon Chairman Aged 60 Carl Symon, a US national, was appointed to the Board as Chairman on 1 February 2006.
He is a non-executive director of BT Group plc and Rolls-Royce Group plc and the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of Rexam PLC.
He is also Chairman of BT Groups Equality of Access Board and a number of private companies, and an advisory board member of Cross Atlantic Capital Partners.
He retired from IBM in May 2001 after a 32 year international career during which he held several senior executive positions.
Roy Brown Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director Aged 59 Roy Brown was appointed to the Board as Deputy Chairman on 23 April 2002.
He is Non-Executive Chairman of GKN plc and a non-executive director of Brambles Industries plc, The British United Provident Association Limited BUPA and Lloyds Franchise Board.
In 2001 he retired from Unilever Group where he held several management positions before joining the main Boards of Unilever plc and Unilever NV in 1992.
He is a member of the CBI International Advisory Board.
David Kappler Independent Non-Executive Director Aged 59 David Kappler was appointed Non-Executive Director on 23 April 2002.
He was acting Chairman from August 2005 until February 2006.
He is a Chartered Management Accountant and currently Non-Executive Chairman of Premier Foods plc, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC and a non-executive director of Shire plc.
Until April 2004 he was Chief Financial officer of Cadbury Schweppes plc where he had been a main board director responsible for finance since 1995.
Mr Kappler will resign from the Board on 6 July 2006.
Lesley Knox Independent Non-Executive Director Aged 52 Lesley Knox was appointed to the Board on 23 April 2002.
She was a founder director of British Linen Advisors, a specialist corporate finance adviser focusing on growth companies.
Prior to that she was Corporate Finance Director then Head of Institutional Asset Management at Kleinwort Benson Group.
She is Non-Executive Chairman of the Alliance Trusts, and a non-executive director of MFI Furniture Group plc and Hays plc.
She is also a governor of the Museum of London and a director of the arts charity The Federation of British Artists Ltd based at Mall Galleries.
Mark McCafferty Independent Non-Executive Director Aged 47 Mark McCafferty was appointed to the Board on 23 April 2002.
He is Chief Executive of Premier Rugby and a non-executive director of Umbro plc as well as an Associate of the Institute of Bankers.
Until November 2003 he was Chief Executive of Avis Europe plc, having joined Avis in April 1998 as Group Managing Director.
In 1987 he joined Thomas Cook Group from Midland Bank International and became Managing Director, Worldwide Travel-Related Businesses.
Brian McLaughlin Non-Executive Director Aged 56 Brian McLaughlin was appointed to the Board on 23 March 1999 and became a Non-Executive Director in January 2006 after having served as the Groups Chief Operating officer since January 2001.
He has spent almost all his working life with HMV having originally joined as a sales assistant in 1968 and subsequently becoming Managing Director of HMV UK in 1987 and HMV Europe in December 1996.
He is a member of the Governments Music Industry Committee, a non-executive director of Music Industry Trusts Ltd, governor of the board and Chairman of the Fundraising Committee of Nordoff-Robbins Music Therapy.
