Directors Biographical Details Board Brian Whitty 52, FCA Richard Harpin 41, BA Hons CdipAF Justin Jewitt 52, BA Hons Executive Chairman since April 2004 Chief Executive since April 2004.
Appointed Appointed to the Board in 2003.
Senior nonfollowing six years as Chief Executive and to the Board in May 2001 and previously executive Director of NHS Shared Business three years as Finance Director.
Previously Chief Executive of the original Homeserve Services and a Director of a number of Finance Director of ACT Group plc.
business having founded Home Service in private companies.
Previously Chief Executive conjunction with South Staffordshire Group of Nestor Healthcare Group plc and in 1993.
Previously a Brand Manager with Managing Director of two of BETs business Procter & Gamble, followed by management services companies.
He is visiting professor of consultancy with Deloitte and his own healthcare at Glamorgan University.
Andrew Belk 42, BSc Hons ACA John Maxwell 61, CA, CCMI Barry Gibson 54 Group Finance Director since September Appointed as Senior Independent Appointed to the Board in April 2004.
2002, having previously been commercial Director in April 2004.
Previously Director Currently senior non-executive Director director of the original Homeserve business.
General Chief Executive of The Automobile of William Hill plc and National Express Previously Chief Executive Of cer of a UK Association and an executive Director of plc.
Previously Group Retailing Director telecoms company and a corporate finance Prudential Corporation plc.
Currently a at BAA plc, Group Chief Executive of Director with Andersen.
non-executive Director of a number of Littlewoods plc and non-executive Director companies including Royal & Sun Alliance of Somer eld plc.
plc and Provident Financial plc.
He is also chairman of DX Services plc.
Ian Carlisle 44 Emma Thomas 39, MA Appointed to the Board in November 2004.
Appointed Group Company Secretary in Joined the executive team in June 2003 March 2005.
A solicitor, she was previously as Chief Operating Of cer of Homeserve Group Company Secretary of Nestor Assistance and Chief Executive Of cer of Healthcare Group plc, Assistant Secretary Highway.
Previously Managing Director of of King sher plc and Company Secretary of Autoglass Ltd and Divisional Commercial Hazlewood Foods plc.
Director at Marks & Spencer plc.
Report & Accounts 40 Directors Biographical Details Executive Board Rachael Hughes 35, BA Hons Jonathan King 45, BSc Hons Jeremy Middleton 45, BA Hons Appointed as Managing Director of Appointed as Chief Executive Of cer of Non-executive Director of the original Homeserve Europe in 2005 having been Home Service USA in 2005 following 4 Homeserve business since set up in 1993.
Managing Director of Domo, Homeserves years as Managing Director of Homeserve Director of the Marketing Department joint venture with Generale des Eaux GB and a year as Business Development Ltd since 1991, a management consultancy Services in France, since its launch in June Director.
He previously worked in retail specialising in new business development.
Previously Managing Director of marketing with the Boots Company as CHEP Argentina SA following a total of Group Brand Manager for No.
seven years with CHEP Equipment Pooling Systems in North and South America and GKN Group in the UK.
Edward Fitzmaurice 43, MBA, BE Hons Claire Tiney 45, BA Hons Joined the Executive Board in April 2005 as Joined as Group HR Director in January Chief Executive of Homeserve Warranties 2006.
She has 10 years experience as an HR from Dixons Store Group PLC where he Director.
She was previously HR Director at was the Managing Director of Mastercare.
Mothercare Plc, WH Smith High Street, and Previously he worked in consultancy and Waterstones Booksellers.
Key: Non executive Audit Committee Chairman: John Maxwell Nomination Committee Chairman: Brian Whitty Remuneration Committee Chairman: Justin Jewitt Executive Board only Homeserve plc 41
