Directors Report The directors have pleasure in presenting their Report and The bene cial interests of the directors in the shares of the Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2006.
Company and the options held as at 31 March 2006 and 22 May 2006 are set out in the Remuneration Report.
None of the Principal activities and review of business directors serving during the year had a bene cial interest in the During the year the Group was engaged in the provision of insured share capital of any subsidiary company.
repair solutions and emergency services to the home.
Details of Group activities and a review of the business are set out in the Each of the directors con rms that as far as he is aware, there is Chairmans Statement and Chief Executives Review on pages 2 no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are to 22. unaware and that he has taken all reasonable steps to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Details of the Key Performance Indicators used by the directors to Companys auditors are aware of that information.
assist in the management of the business and to provide evidence of the achievement of its strategies are included on page 26 in the Annual General Meeting Financial Review.
The following special business will be transacted at the Annual General Meeting of the Company, to be held at 30 Old Broad A description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Street, London, EC2N 1HQ on 28 July 2006 at 10.00am.
Group are included on pages 29 and 30 in the Financial Review.
Special business - Allotment of shares and Information relating to the environment and employees is included pre-emption rights in the Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 31 to 39.
There will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting a renewal of the directors general authority to allot shares up to a maximum Financial results and dividends nominal amount the Section 80 Amount and the directors The Groups results are shown in the Group income statement authority to issue shares for cash without applying the statutory on page 64.
The directors are recommending the payment on 7 pre-emption rights up to a maximum nominal amount the August 2006 of a final dividend of 13.9 pence per ordinary share Section 89 Amount.
The directors con rm that they presently to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 2 June have no intention to issue more than 7% of the issued ordinary 2006 which, together with the interim net dividend of 6.1 pence share capital shown in the latest published annual accounts by way per ordinary share paid on 3 January 2006, results in a total net of non pre-emptive issues for cash in any rolling three year period.
dividend for the year of 20.0 pence per share 2005: 16.0p.
For further details of the dividend see note 12 to the accounts.
They also con rm that, in the event of an issue of shares other than on a pre-emptive basis, the amount of the discount if any, Directors at which equity is issued for cash other than to shareholders, will The directors who held of ce during the year were: be limited to a maximum of 5% of the middle of the best bid and offer prices immediately prior to the announcement of an issue or Brian Whitty, Richard Harpin, Andrew Belk, Ian Carlisle, Barry proposed issue.
Gibson, Justin Jewitt and John Maxwell, all of whom served throughout the year.
Richard Harpin, Justin Jewitt and Barry Gibson retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Mr Harpin serves under a contract of employment terminable on 12 months notice by either party.
Messrs Jewitt and Gibson serve under three-year renewable letters of appointment which provide for liquidated damages limited to the payment of a maximum of one years fees in the event of termination by the Company.
Homeserve plc 43 Directors Report Special business - Authority to purchase own shares Taxation status Approval will be sought for the Company to renew the The Company is not a close company within the meaning of the authority contained in the Articles of Association to purchase Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988. its own ordinary shares.
The Board has no rm intention that the Company should make purchases of its own shares if the Employment policies proposed authority becomes effective, but would like to be able to It is the Groups policy that all persons should be considered for act quickly if circumstances arise in which such a purchase would employment, training, career development and promotion on the be desirable.
Purchases will only be made on the London Stock basis of their abilities and aptitudes, regardless of physical ability, Exchange and only in circumstances where the Board believes age, gender, sexual orientation, religion or ethnic origin.
that they are in the best interests of the shareholders generally and would result in an increase in earnings per share.
Any shares Homeserve applies employment policies that are fair and equitable purchased would be cancelled.
for all employees and which ensure entry into and progression within the Company are determined solely by application of job Further details of the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual criteria and personal ability and competency.
General Meeting can be found in the Notice of Meeting.
Full and fair consideration having regard to the persons particular Auditors aptitudes and abilities is given to applications for employment and A resolution proposing the reappointment of Deloitte & Touche the career development of disabled persons.
Homeserves training LLP as auditors and authorising the Board to x their remuneration and development policies make it clear that it will take all steps will be put to the Annual General Meeting.
practicable to ensure that employees who become disabled during the time they are employed by the Group are able to continue to Fixed assets perform their duties.
Capital expenditure on tangible xed assets amounted to 14.5m during the year.
Employee involvement Homeserve attaches considerable importance to ensuring that all Donations its employees are provided with information concerning them as Charitable donations of 28,000 2005: 37,000 were made during employees, particularly the economic and financial factors affecting the year.
No political contributions were made in either year.
its performance and the market in which it operates.
Involvement of employees in the Groups performance is also encouraged by Payment of creditors the availability of performance-related bonuses as well as share The Groups policy is to pay suppliers in line with the terms of option schemes, which are described in more detail elsewhere in payment agreed with each of them when contracting for their this report.
Trade creditors at 31 March 2006 represent 64 days of purchases during the year 2005: 63 days for the Internal circulars and newsletters are issued on a regular basis Group and 45 for the Company.
and consultation between management and staff is an ongoing process.
Employees are consulted on issues directly affecting them Substantial shareholdings wherever practicable.
Further details of Homeserves policies and As far as the directors are aware, no person had a bene cial practices relating to employee involvement may be found on pages interest in 3% or more of the voting share capital at 22 May 2006, 31 and 32 of this report.
except for the following: Ordinary By Order of the Board Shares Percentage Richard Harpin 10,852,459 16.8% Emma Thomas Invesco Perpetual 9,597,576 14.9% Company Secretary Jeremy Middleton 2,913,397 4.5% 22 May 2006 Report & Accounts 44
