Board of Directors Will Samuel age 55 Non-executive Chairman Will was appointed a non-executive director and Chairman designate in July 2006 and became Chairman in October 2006.
He is a Vice Chairman of Lazard & Co Ltd, Deputy Chairman of Inchcape plc and is a non-executive director of the Edinburgh Investment Trust plc and of Ecclesiastical Insurance Group plc.
Prior to this he was a director of Schroders plc, Co-Chief Executive Officer at Schroder Salomon Smith Barney a division of Citigroup Inc and Vice Chairman, European Investment Bank of Citigroup Inc and Chairman of H P Bulmer plc.
Matthew Ingle age 52 Chief Executive Matthew was appointed Chief Executive on 3 October 2005 and continues to be Chief Executive of Howden Joinery.
He set up Howden Joinery in 1995 and has been responsible for its growth into a successful business today.
Prior to joining the Company he had been Managing Director of the Magnet Trade operation.
He was elected to the Board of the Company in 1998.
Gerard Hughes age 47 Group Commercial Director appointed 6 March 2007 Gerard Hughes became Group Commercial Director on 6 March 2007.
Gerard joined the Group in April 2000 as Company Secretary.
Since October 2005, Gerard has played a major role in the restructuring and refinancing of the Group including the business disposals during the course of 2006.
Before joining the Group he was Deputy Group Secretary at WH Smith plc.
Mark Robson age 48 Chief Financial Officer Mark joined the Board in April 2005 as Chief Financial Officer.
Mark spent the previous six years as Group Finance Director at Delta plc and was extensively involved in the successful restructuring of that group.
Previously he had held a number of senior financial positions with ICI between 1985 and 1998.
He is a Chartered Accountant and qualified with Price Waterhouse.
30 Galiform Annual Report 2006 Non-executive directors Angus Cockburn age 43 Non-executive director Angus was appointed a non-executive director in October 2006 and became Chairman of the Audit Committee on 6 March 2007.
He has been Group Finance Director of Aggreko plc since 2000, having previously been Managing Director of Pringle of Scotland and Regional Finance Director Europe for PepsiCo Foods.
He is a Chartered Accountant and qualified with KPMG Peat Marwick.
Tony fide Nunzio age 46 Non-executive director resigned 6 March 2007 Tony joined the Board in September 2000 and also served as Deputy Chairman, Chairman of its Audit Committee and Senior Independent Director.
Tony is currently Executive Chairman of Maxeda, a leading Dutch retailer.
Prior to that he was President and Chief Executive Officer of Asda Stores Ltd having, in the lead up to the takeover by Wal-Mart, been Group Finance Director of Asda Group plc: his career with the company beginning in 1994 after a spell as Finance Director of Allied Maples.
Prior to this he was Planning Director for Central Europe at PepsiCo in the early 1990s after having been Group Financial Controller for LOral UK.
Tony started his career with Unilever plc.
Lesley Knox age 53 Non-executive director resigned 6 March 2007 Lesley was appointed non-executive director in May 2001 and also served as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Lesley was a founder director of British Linen Advisers, a specialist corporate finance adviser focusing on growth companies.
She was previously Head of Institutional Asset Management and then Group Director at Kleinwort Benson.
She joined the Corporate Finance Division of Kleinwort Benson in 1981 and has advised many domestic and international clients on strategic issues.
She is also Chairman of the Alliance Trusts and a non-executive director of HMV Group plc and Hays plc.
Galiform Annual Report 2006 31 Board of Directors continued Ian Smith age 52 Non-executive director Ian was appointed non-executive director in September 2001.
He was appointed Chief Executive Officer of Taylor Woodrow plc on 2 January 2007.
Prior to that he had been Chief Executive Officer of the General Healthcare Group since 2004, having previously been CEO Europe for Exel, Group Commercial Director of Ocean Group plc before its merger with NFC to form Exel and prior to that, Managing Director of Monitor Company Europe, a strategy consulting firm.
Ian began his business career with Royal Dutch Shell Group of companies, working with Shell UK Oil in various roles including Marketing Director of Shell Oman and then setting up and managing the Shell joint venture in Jordan.
Ian received an MA from Oxford University and received an MBA with high distinction from Harvard Business School.
Peter Wallis age 59 Non-executive director Peter was appointed a non-executive director in January 2001.
Peter is Senior Partner and founder of the respected SRU strategy and market research consultancy.
His speciality is advice to CEOs on strategic direction.
Michael Wemms age 67 Non-executive director Michael was appointed a non-executive director in November 2006 and became Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Senior Independent Director on 6 March 2007.
Michael was Chairman of House of Fraser plc from 2001 until November 2006 and is a non-executive director of Inchcape plc, Majid Al Futtaim Group and Cole Myers Limited.
He was an executive director of Tesco plc from 1989 to 2000, with responsibility for Store Operations from 1991.
He commenced his management career with Tesco in 1971 and held a wide range of executive positions in Supply Chain, IT, Finance and Administration before assuming his Board responsibilities.
He was Chairman of the British Retail Consortium from 2004 until 2006.
