Directors Report In this section: The directors have pleasure in submitting Charitable and political contributions Principal activities their report and the audited financial In addition to furniture products and Share capital statements for the 53 week period services donated to various charities, Dividends ended 30 December 2006.
Comparative the Group made charitable donations Substantial shareholdings figures relate to the 52 weeks ended during the period amounting to 376,600 Charitable and political contributions 24 December 2005.
The Group made no Fixed assets political donations during the current and Suppliers payment terms Principal Group activities, business previous period.
Employees review and results Audit information The principal activities of Galiform plc Fixed assets AGM and its subsidiaries are the manufacture, There is no material difference between Directors purchase, distribution and sale of kitchen the book value and the current open cabinetry and associated products.
market value of the Groups interest in A detailed review of the development land and buildings.
and activities of the Groups business is contained in the Chairmans Statement, Suppliers payment terms Chief Executives Review, Financial The Group and Companys policy, in Review and Corporate and Social relation to all its suppliers, is to settle its Responsibility Review set out on pages 15 terms of payment when agreeing the to 29.
This information fulfils the terms of the transaction and to abide by requirements of the Business Review and those terms provided that it is satisfied is incorporated in this report by reference.
that the supplier has provided the goods The full results for the period are or services in accordance with the agreed shown in the Financial Statements on terms and conditions.
The number of days purchases outstanding for payment by the Group at the Share capital period end was 27 days 2005: 23 days and The total number of ordinary shares of nil 2005: nil for the Company.
10p each in issue at the period end stood at 631,659,746.
Details of the Companys Employees share capital are given on page 76.
Details The average number of employees of share options granted and exercised and their remuneration are shown in during the period are given note 8 to the Financial Statements.
The Group has approximately 6,360 employees throughout the UK Dividends and overseas and strives to engage The Board has recommended that no final its employees wherever possible dividend be paid 2005: nil pence per in its business goals by means of share.
No interim dividend was paid regular regional and local meetings during the year 2005: 2 pence per share.
The Board remains committed to Substantial shareholdings linking reward to business budgets and The following substantial interests targets thereby giving employees the 3% or more in the Companys share opportunity to share in the financial capital had been notified to the Company: success of the Group.
The Board recognises employees for their Hermes UK Focus Fund 13.2% contribution in this regard and includes Standard Life Investments 11.9% employee incentive plans and share Artisan Partners Ltd 6.4% plans within remuneration overall.
Halifax Trustees 6.2% Coal Pension Trustees 6.0% Classic Fund Management 4.7% North Yorkshire Pension Fund 3.0% The percentage interest is as stated by the shareholder at the time of notification and current interests may vary.
Galiform Annual Report 2006 33 Directors Report continued The Group promotes the importance Annual General Meeting of diversity and adopts an Equal The Annual General Meeting is to be held Opportunities Policy under which training at The Lincoln Centre, 18 Lincolns Inn Fields, and career development opportunities are London WC2A 3ED on 18 May 2007. available to all employees, regardless of gender, religion or race.
The Group is Directors and their interests committed to meeting the code of Details of the directors in office on practice on the employment of disabled 30 December 2006 are shown on people and full and fair consideration is pages 30 to 32. given to disabled applicants for Ian Smith will retire by rotation employment.
It aims to do all that is at the Annual General Meeting and practicable to meet its responsibility in accordance with Article 72 of the towards the employment and training Articles of Association offer himself of disabled people and welcomes and for reappointment.
Will Samuel, Angus considers fully, applications by disabled Cockburn, Michael Wemms and Gerard persons, having regard to their particular Hughes, having been appointed by the aptitudes and abilities.
It is also the directors on, respectively, 20 July, Groups policy to retain employees who 16 October, 22 November 2006, and may become disabled while in service and 6 March 2007 will also offer themselves to provide appropriate training.
The Group for reappointment at the meeting.
is a member of the Employers Forum on Bob Wilson, Paul Cheng and Ian Disability and of Opportunity NOW.
Peacock resigned as directors on, respectively, 5 April, 19 May and Audit information and auditors 16 October 2006 and Lesley Knox and The directors at the date of approval Tony fide Nunzio resigned on 6 March of this report confirm that: 2007.
Information on the directors service agreements and interests of the directors so far as each of the directors is and their families in the share capital of aware, there is no relevant audit the Company, are set out in the Report information of which the Companys on Remuneration on pages 35 to 42. auditors are unaware: the directors have taken all the steps By order of the Board they ought to have taken as directors Gerard Hughes in order to make themselves aware of Secretary any relevant audit information and to 6 March 2007 establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
The confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
Deloitte & Touche LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
