group operating review emerging markets seizing the initiative in emer competitive advantage to our customers around the world.
Building on our progress in previous years, in 2006, in In 2006 we announced a three year programme to line with our overall strategy to focus on sectors and spend 20m each year from 2006 to 2008 to economies that are themselves growing, we extended our restructure our operations to increase the proportion of involvement in the worlds fastest developing nations.
our manufacturing in lower cost economies from 25% Countries like China, many of the states of Eastern Europe to 40%.
At the completion of this programme the and the Middle East provide opportunities for sales to operating margin is expected to benefit by between 150 new customers.
Equally significant is our work in these and 200 basis points.
The great majority of the capacity markets with existing customers who value our expertise being transferred is to existing facilities in Mexico, The to help them achieve advantage in markets where they Czech Republic and China.
This programme is on track also see opportunity.
At the same time, supply chain and will start to deliver margin benefits in 2007. developments in these new economies help us to bring China Chinas high level of investment in process industries has Our Indoor Climate business has now trained more than driven demand for the highly customised severe service 7,000 heating and ventilation system engineers in seminars valves produced by our CCI business.
These products, across the country.
very highly regarded across the world for their ability to Our main production facility at Tianjin builds components protect the critical components of a plant and maintain for our Beverage Dispense business.
Sales offices exist optimum operating conditions, have led IMI sales activity across the country.
Regional offices are centred in China.
Our Merchandising Systems business currently on Shanghai below.
has the least presence or activity in China, but supported Motorola, one of our most valued global clients, with dramatic new merchandising systems for new stores in Shanghai and Beijing.
18 Group operating review ging markets Annual revenue growth 42% 18% 12% Eastern Europe Middle East In the growth economies of the Gulf states, demand for precise, reliable indoor temperature control in hotels, offices and other major public buildings, provides opportunities for our TA business.
In particular, many of Dubais spectacular new buildings below are able to control the indoor environment effectively because they are fitted with TA balancing systems.
The process industries of the region including water desalination, power generation and the production and transport of hydrocarbons all benefit from the control provided by the products and services of our Severe Service businesses.
In the growing aluminium smelting industry crust breaker systems use Norgren technology designed Norgrens plant at Brno in The Czech Republic above, opened precisely to operate in such in 2002 and is our largest single production facility in Eastern extreme conditions.
A smaller sister plant in the same city, employing 75 people, supports CCI operations across Europe.
Our newest facility in Eastern Europe, the Cornelius plant in the Ukraine, began production in 2006.
This plant will focus on supplying Russia and the states of the former Soviet Union with advanced beverage dispense solutions that guarantee the brand promise and quality of dispense for both local and international brands.
Across Eastern Europe demand for Indoor Climate products and services, particularly where driven by government legislation requiring energy conservation and the fitting of energy-saving devices, is growing strongly.
19 IMI plc Annual Report 2006 China Eastern Europe Middle East
