group operating review fluid controls controlling critical processes We are experts in engineered valve solutions that enhance Performance and prospects performance and reliability in critical plant applications.
Severe Service revenues grew 41% to 300m.
Our high integrity valve systems control the handling of Of this growth, acquisitions contributed 67m and organic potentially dangerous gases and liquids in extreme physical growth was 11%.
Managing flow rates and pressures protects The growth in new construction project orders remains valuable machinery such as turbines and compressors and healthy at around 25%, led by the strength of the oil and gas enables them to operate with maximum efficiency.
Understanding our customers processes and challenges enables We have experienced good growth in power markets and us to provide outstanding custom-engineered control valves renewed interest in the nuclear sector, which is an area of for power generation, oil & gas production, petrochemical, particular expertise for our Severe Service business.
pulp and paper and other process facilities.
Together with our Our order book momentum continues to outpace our dedicated customer service network, which delivers support for shipment growth with a consequent lengthening of the the life of the plant, we reduce risk and improve efficiency, order book.
reduce maintenance and operating costs, and help minimise The US and Middle East markets were particularly positive downtime, enabling our clients to optimise their operating and and we continued to see good progress in the Far East.
Truflo was acquired in April 2006.
Those Truflo businesses The activities of CCI, Truflo Rona, and Orton, our main integrated into Severe Service are benefiting from their businesses in Severe Service, are split nearly equally between exposure to the liquefied natural gas market which is the Americas, Europe Africa Middle East and Asia.
Power generation, fuel, and energy process industries are The operating profit margin rose from 13.3% to 15.0%.
growing fast across the globe to satisfy the worlds increasing We continue to invest in both capacity expansion and sales need for energy.
Our expertise is integral to this growth and and engineering resource to support the strong growth we expect our Severe Service valve solutions to enjoy strong potential in this business.
demand for the foreseeable future.
Factfile Severe Service Revenue Operating Operating m profit margin Key businesses CCI, Truflo Rona, Orton.
m 300 % Strategic focus Controlling critical in-plant processes by providing superior custom-engineered severe service or critical service valve, actuation and 213 45.1 silencer solutions.
Main markets Power generation: oil & gas production: 28.3 combined heat & power CHP : liquefied natural 15.0 gas LNG : petrochemical and gas processing.
13.3 Major operational USA, Switzerland, Sweden, Austria, Italy, locations China, Japan and South Korea.
Employees 2,200 before restructuring costs and intangible amortisation 8 Fluid Controls 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 customer Experience, advanced planning and design, and on time, on budget delivery were critical to the success of the project.
Rick Oughtred Director of Procurement Atomic Energy Canda Limited AECL engineering advantage Construction of the Cernovoda 2 power plant in Romania by prime contractor AECL required IMIs Newman Hattersley severe service valves and other critical components to be designed and delivered to exacting time and budgetary constraints.
key account manager Our experience enabled us to support AECL with reduced lead times and costeffective valve solutions that delivered the specified design performance.
Lorraine Wiseman Director Newman Hatterlsey 9 IMI plc Annual Report 2006 group operating review fluid controls creating competitive advantage in motion and fluid control Our motion and fluid controls business, Norgren, provides Performance and prospects sophisticated solutions to control air and other fluids in precision Fluid Power revenues were 557m representing an increase of engineered applications.
These range from the ultra-fine control 13%.
Excluding acquisitions and currency movements, of medical dosing valves to the arduous environment of on-board underlying revenue growth for Fluid Power was 6%.
Our sector businesses, which account for nearly 30% of Fluid Our considerable technical expertise and experience contribute to Power revenues, performed well with solid progress in our customers success across a range of industries.
Our targeted commercial vehicles and strong results in print and medical, the market sectors include commercial vehicles, medical, printing and latter being helped by our expansion in China.
packaging, and these show particularly strong growth potential for Recent acquisitions, including GT Developments and the relevant our business model.
parts of the Truflo business, provided 2006 revenues of 38m.
Intimate relationships with our customers and their markets give The industrial pneumatics business made steady progress with us a sound understanding of their businesses, their needs and strong growth in Asia Pacific, firmer markets in Europe, and stable values, processes, and commercial and regulatory environments.
This knowledge enables us to develop design-led, innovative and Operating margins continued to make steady progress and reliable solutions that help our OEM customers to grow their increased from 12.2% to 13.0%.
The restructuring programme to revenues and reduce the lifetime costs of ownership for the transfer manufacturing capacity to lower cost operating end user.
environments is progressing well, with the project to relocate At the same time, Norgren Express, launched in 2005, provides capacity from the US to Mexico on track.
Further programmes rapid delivery of standard products from stock to improve the to transfer UK and German capacity have been announced in servicing of our valued smaller customers and enables us to early 2007. improve our own stock and logistics efficiency.
With operations worldwide, Norgren can manage the most demanding of international projects, and support the continuing growth of its customers wherever they seek competitive advantage.
Factfile Fluid Power Revenue Operating Operating m profit margin Key businesses Norgren.
m 557 % Strategic focus Engineering advantage in motion and fluid 492 control solutions.
72.4 Main markets Industrial pneumatic application: 60.0 on-board commercial vehicles: medical packaging: printing: in-plant automotive: semi-conductor: rail transportation.
13.0 12.2 Major operational USA, UK, Germany, Switzerland, Mexico locations and The Czech Republic.
Employees 6,400 before restructuring costs and intangible amortisation 10 Fluid Controls 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 customer Norgren helps us to provide the worlds most efficient and effective milking systems by sharing our passion for performance, service and innovation in a highly competitive industry Patrick Lacavalier President DeLaval Local Sales Organisation USA engineering advantage From cow to consumer DeLavals commitment to progress in milk production demands increasingly sophisticated and customised fluid power systems, capable of raising efficiency and operating reliably in often arduous conditions.
key account manager Our technical expertise and understanding help us to bring efficiency and operational benefits to DeLavals equipment, enabling them to add significant value to their customers businesses.
Jonathan Steigerwald Key Account Manager Norgren USA 11 IMI plc Annual Report 2006 group operating review fluid controls perfecting indoor climate Problem-free, energy efficient and cost effective heating, Investment in our strong TA and Heimeier brands, new ventilation and air conditioning HVAC systems for buildings products and customer training, positions us to benefit and indoor environments remain a challenge for building positively from global energy concerns and the fast growing designers, operators, architects and engineers.
For fluid-based Eastern European, Asian and Middle Eastern economies.
HVAC systems our Indoor Climate business addresses this challenge and the issues associated with it.
Performance and prospects Our products and services focus on the twin objectives of Indoor Climate revenues were 186m, with organic growth of personal comfort and energy efficiency.
In these markets, 8% in the year.
strong balancing system design knowledge, experience, The balancing valves business, which focuses on larger commissioning and project management skills are essential commercial properties, showed good growth in mainland if hospitals, airports, offices, retailers, hotel chains and Europe, and made excellent progress in the Middle East, Asia restaurants for example, are to enjoy indoor environments that and the US on the back of significant investments in sales optimise the comfort of their employees and clients, while also and engineering resource over the last two years.
Our thermostatic radiator valve business, where the valves Rising energy costs increase the need for successful energy are primarily installed in residential properties, benefited from management in buildings.
For both new and refurbished a stronger Continental European market, particularly buildings we analyse the relationship between heating, Germany, although there was some pull forward into 2006 ventilation, air conditioning, lighting and power systems to due to VAT changes introduced in January 2007.
Growth in deliver the most efficient energy performance.
Eastern Europe was very strong, including Russia, where we As a major indoor climate specialist, we provide products have recently commenced local assembly.
principally balancing systems and thermostatic radiator valves Metal price increases were significant in the year but were and services that satisfy increasingly demanding legislative recovered through selling prices.
Helping our clients to meet local and international regulatory obligations, reduce energy consumption and deliver personal comfort is what we do and do well.
Factfile Indoor Climate Revenue Operating Operating m profit margin Key businesses TA, Heimeier, FDI.
m 186 % 172 Strategic focus Perfecting indoor climate through the provision of critical energy-efficient heating, 29.5 ventilation and air-conditioning HVAC 25.6 products and services.
Main markets Heating and cooling balancing systems for 15.9 commercial buildings and temperature 14.9 control for residential buildings.
Major operational Sweden, Germany and USA.
locations Employees 1,600 before restructuring costs and intangible amortisation 12 Fluid Controls 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 customer The IMI Indoor Climate team understood how to deliver our requirements by working closely with all the contractors on the project to deliver what we needed on time and on budget.
Mr Qu Mingguang Chairman Beijing Finance Street Investment Co. engineering advantage Energy efficient indoor climate management for The Arches - a landmark office development in Beijings fast growing financial district.
key account manager Our experience enabled us to analyse the complex indoor climate requirements of this prestigious building, and then design and install more than 200 TA balancing valves within a tight timescale to meet all the project's requirements.
Sam Feng Key Account Manager TA 13 IMI plc Annual Report 2006
