achieving our goals our goals and how we are Our goal is to deliver sustainable organic growth equivalent to twice GDP growth and over time to reach operating margins of 15%.
We continue our vigorous pursuit of the same We operate in markets where we already hold or can clear strategy that has moved our business forward achieve a market leadership position and where we significantly in recent years.
We are focused on growth can clearly differentiate from our competitors with with industry or sector leading customers in niche end-user insight and the application of innovative markets which are themselves growing.
Key account management and project such customers and improving their performance is the management are important disciplines for the effective route to sustainable profits growth for our shareholders.
delivery of bespoke solutions to our leading customers.
the 4 key strategic growth drivers Accelerating our Increasing our key account focus creative abilities Highly talented, customer-focused, entrepreneurialWe invest in techniques that improve market and minded teams of people in IMI add long-term value customer insight.
We then use our acquired knowledge for both customers and ourselves.
Developing these to apply our engineering capabilities and to improve skills, understanding the drivers of our customers' our customer offerings.
businesses, and our own, and carefully targeting our Our dedicated innovation unit, IMI Vision, provides a customer partners, are critical components of our powerful resource to develop new concepts with our business model.
Recognising where value can be five businesses.
Able to draw on partners in other added for both parties is a fundamental part of our industries and academic institutions, IMI Vision helps to approach.
bring appropriate, new, value-adding technologies to our customers.
Chris Patient, Norgrens Technical Director in Europe, ensures that product development is firmly focused Highly skilled key on adding value to both our customers and IMI.
account managers in different IMI businesses, like Dominique Vernier TA Director, Southern Europe and Michael Corbis Cornelius Retail Sales Director, Europe, share best practice in managing key accounts effectively.
2 Strategic growth drivers achieving them We also provide aftermarket support in the form IMI plc is the ultimate holding company of the Group of service and spares to our customers installed and has been listed on the London Stock Exchange product base.
Our five business platforms share this common At 31 December 2006 it had a market value of 1.7bn philosophy.
While each business platform is and shareholders funds of 412.7m.
The companys predominantly an autonomous business, they operate in headquarters is at Lakeside, Birmingham Business Park, two main areas.
The Severe Service, Fluid Power and England.
IMI Group trading activities are conducted Indoor Climate business platforms serve Fluid Controls through subsidiary companies.
markets, where our customers are plant operators and Our strategic growth imperatives are understood by original equipment manufacturers.
all the senior management in IMI and embedded The Beverage Dispense and Merchandising Systems throughout our businesses.
businesses operate in Retail Dispense markets, where our customers are brand owners and retailers.
Seizing the Balance sheet initiative in rapidly management growing economies We are expanding our local resources and continue Strategic acquisitions that align with and support our to invest in the fast-growing markets of Eastern Europe, existing businesses help us to develop new markets the Middle East and Asia, particularly China.
We are interested only in acquisitions that Sales, manufacturing and procurement opportunities align with our growth and margin targets and which in these territories are all important to us.
meet key criteria including technology, talent, market We support our customers as they enter new markets sector or key account relationships and the ability to and ensure that we have the right people on the create significant differentiation in the market place.
ground with local knowledge wherever possible.
In addition to our acquisition programme, we will A high-profile advisory board supports continue to invest in our existing businesses where our commitment to current and we see potential to promote organic growth and future activities in China.
use the share buy back programme to help manage our balance sheet efficiently.
Procurement professionals Sukhjit Purewal, Director of like Krisztina Strath, with Business Development, CCI, multiple language skills leads efforts to find, secure and extensive global supply and assimilate acquisitions chain experience, ensure that that will contribute to the cost-saving opportunities in growth ambitions of our emerging markets are fully Severe Service business.
