group operating review retail dispense pioneering beverage dispense solutions Our Cornelius business supplies products and systems that as well as our traditionally strong carbonated drinks and beer combine beverage merchandising and dispensing in a total sectors.
Providing our beverage and retail customers with the package that delivers tangible customer benefit.
We drive means to expand into such new markets, presents significant growth for our customers, the worlds leading beverage brand opportunities for our business.
owners and major retailers, by helping them to increase beverage incidence the number of times that a consumer Performance and prospects chooses a drink.
The 3% decline in organic revenues for the year reflects some Both cutting edge technology and market awareness contribute of the short term challenges facing Beverage Dispense, with to our business proposition, which encompasses everything Quick Service Restaurants QSR continuing to give priority to from system development and equipment specification to their hot side investments and with margin pressure on some operational management and technical field support.
of our older equipment lines.
We are confident that both Our deep relationships with customers across the world are these pressures will abate in time.
Investment levels in the based on strong local presence in all our geographic markets.
QSR sector are expected to return to normal levels later in Operations in the Ukraine, China and Mexico are fully integrated the year and significant cost reduction programmes are now with facilities in North America, Europe and the UK to service underway, most notably the further relocation of local, regional and global customers.
manufacturing capacity to China and Mexico.
These will help Our successful US-based on-line parts service was rebranded to reverse downward margin trends, albeit volumes and as 3Wire in 2006.
This bold move reflects strong growth for margins for at least the first half of 2007 are unlikely to show this service over the past two years both organic and by much improvement on 2006. acquisition, its further growth potential and its success in Our aftermarket business continued to perform strongly and setting industry standards for after sales support, optimising the Northern Parts business acquired in November 2005 inventory control and reducing operating costs for our made a solid contribution.
We see opportunities to expand customers.
this business further and continue to invest in sales and New products improve our customers' competitive positions systems infrastructure accordingly.
and meet the changing demands of their consumers.
The longer term prospects for Beverage Dispense continue to Cornelius beverage dispensing solutions, point of sale displays look promising, with many customers now enjoying some and outstanding service support, help to attract consumers in volume growth as they navigate their way through the swing growing sectors such as non-carbonated soft drinks and coffee, in consumer preferences to healthier drinks.
Factfile Beverage Dispense Revenue Operating Operating m profit margin Key businesses Cornelius, 3Wire.
m % 282 278 Strategic focus Supplying innovative beverage cooling and dispense solutions to brand owners and 28.4 retailers around the world.
25.4 Main markets Soft drinks and alcoholic beverage cooling, dispense and point of sale equipment for bars, restaurants and retail outlets.
Major operational USA, UK, Germany, Mexico and China.
10.2 9.0 locations Employees 2,700 before restructuring costs and intangible amortisation 14 Retail Dispense 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 customer The Cornelius Ultraflow system and soft drinks fountains helped us to deliver our vision of a 21st century sports arena.
John Beattie Stadium Manager Arsenal Football Club Limited engineering advantage In depth knowledge of the stadia sector resulted in the development of a unique fast dispense solution for beer and soft drinks, capable of serving 35 public concessions, 16 corporate bars and 8 restaurants, with a minimum of waste.
key account manager Innovative technology and 3 kilometres of delivery lines connect up to 532 beer kegs in 8 cold cellar rooms to ensure an uninterrupted flow to the outlets around the stadium, enabling up to 31,000 pints of beer to be served at half time.
Mahon Devereux Director of Sales Stadia Cornelius Europe 15 IMI plc Annual Report 2006 group operating review retail dispense driving impulse purchase Permanent point of sale solutions, capable of influencing In a generally fragmented industry, our Merchandising Systems consumer purchase decisions, demand a rare combination of businesses based in the US and the UK, demonstrate the engineering expertise and marketing skills.
Our sophisticated advantages that a well co-ordinated team can bring.
bespoke solutions, based on knowledge and in-depth research, The benefits are particularly valuable to major global customers drive tangible sales and profits benefits for our brand owner and our proposition is increasingly attractive to the worlds and retailer customers.
Impulse purchase plays a particularly strong role in consumer Performance and prospects decision making in cosmetics and consumer electronics sectors.
Although organic revenues were marginally down in the year, Our Artform and DCI businesses provide a deep understanding momentum in the majority of our sectors is positive, with the of these sectors that consumer brand leaders can rely on.
consumer products segment, which includes merchandising In bulk dispense and grocery stock management systems equipment for electronic games, mobile phones and MP3 Display Technologies and Cannon Equipment bring their players, particularly buoyant.
customers inventory control, theft reduction and labour Sales to the grocery sector were also strong but automotive, benefits as well as sales uplift.
dairy and newspaper equipment sales declined in difficult Cannon is developing new products and services for major markets with older product lines coming under pricing pressure.
retailers in increasingly sophisticated retail markets.
The acceleration of our low cost sourcing programme from Retailers are increasingly dependent on such point of sale China and India should start to generate margin improvement expertise to deliver volume and profit improvements.
We provide retail insight as well as the design, engineering Prospects for 2007 are encouraging, particularly the second and logistics expertise to handle major customer product half for which we have recently secured orders for a number programmes to demanding timescales.
of important projects in the cosmetics and consumer electronics sectors.
Factfile Merchandising Systems Revenue Operating Operating m profit margin Key businesses Cannon, DCI Marketing, Artform, Display m % 186 180 Technologies.
Strategic focus Providing permanent point of sale solutions and technologies that enhance retailer and 21.4 brand owner profitability by driving impulse 19.4 purchase.
Main markets Global brand owners and retail sales outlets.
Major operational USA and UK.
11.5 10.8 locations Employees 1,400 before restructuring costs and intangible amortisation 16 Retail Dispense 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 customer DCI delivers.
"From design to implementation, we know that we can count on them to be nimble and understand our business needs. """
Parisa Zander Group Manager Worldwide Visual Merchandising, Microsoft engineering advantage Microsoft's launch of its digital music and video player, Zune, required DCI Marketing to engineer electricallypowered point of purchase systems that would help sell the product by demonstrating its audio, video and file sharing features.
key account manager With a proven track record on Microsoft's Xbox and Xbox 360 launches, we designed and deployed 17,000 in-store Zune displays for 21 different retailers, each with its own unique requirements for size and location.
Janet Budecki Key Account Manager DCI Marketing 17 IMI plc Annual Report 2006
