directors report directors report The years results The Company has been informed of the following notifiable The Group consolidated income statement is shown on interests in its voting rights and capital in issue: page 52.
Group profit before tax, restructuring costs Standard Life Investments 10.03% and intangible amortisation amounted to 194.9 million Goldman Sachs Group Inc 6.31% 2005: 160.9 million and profit before taxation amounted Legal and General Group plc 3.52% to 158.2 million 2005: 151.1 million.
Earnings applicable Deutsche Bank AG 3.42% to shareholders of IMI plc amounted to 72.7 million Corporate social responsibility 2005: 13.5 million.
The Board has adopted a range of corporate policies, including Dividends a Corporate Social Responsibility Policy, which reflect the high The directors recommend a final dividend at the rate of 11.7p standards of conduct it sets for itself and its employees across per share on the ordinary share capital payable on 25 May 2007 the Group.
A relevant selection of corporate policies is available to shareholders on the register at the close of business on on our website www.
Together with the interim dividend of 7.0p per corporate social responsibility matters is set out on share paid on 20 October 2006, this final dividend brings the pages 24 to 27. total distribution for the year to 18.7p per share 2005: 17.5p Employment policies per share.
The Group continues to support employee involvement at all Business review levels in the organisation.
A formal joint consultative process During 2006 the Groups businesses were organised into two is operated in all except the smallest units where it is strongly principal activities: Fluid Controls and Retail Dispense.
The main encouraged on an informal basis.
During the year consultative subsidiary companies operating within these two areas of arrangements, including formal committees and team briefings, business are listed on pages 94 and 95. were used to consider and discuss employees views, to develop The revenue, profit and capital employed attributable to each understanding of business aims, to increase awareness of of these businesses are shown in note 3 on page 62.
Further financial and economic factors affecting performance, and descriptions of the Group, its strategy and its businesses, and to improve effectiveness.
The Group has a European Works their development and performance during the year, appear on Council which meets at least once a year to exchange views on pages 2 to 27.
All these pages are incorporated by reference pan-European issues facing the Group.
and form part of this business review.
The Annual Report is available to all employees.
The Company Research and development operates an all employee share ownership plan covering all UK Expenditure on research and development in the year was employees of certain operations, under which an annual bonus 34.1 million compared with 29.4 million in 2005: of this worth up to 3,000 can be awarded to employees in shares and amount 4.4 million 2005: 5.2 million has been capitalised.
employees can invest their own money to acquire additional Shareholders funds shares in a tax efficient manner.
A savings-related share option Shareholders funds decreased from 417.6 million at the end of scheme, which is available to the majority of UK employees, 2005 to 412.7 million at 31 December 2006. has operated since 1984.
Share capital A number of management development initiatives are In 2006 the Company made market purchases of a total of co-ordinated across the Group, including the IMI Academy and 6,990,313 of its own shares at an aggregate cost of 35.2 a senior talent management programme called Aspire.
Aspire is million nominal value 1,747,578 including dealing costs of a merit-based scheme for which the starting point for entry is 0.2 million.
self-nomination, with managers from across the Group free to On 4 April 2006 1,244,130 shares were purchased and are held put their own names forward for a series of assessment and in an employee trust for use in relation to certain executive selection activities.
Those managers achieving the benchmark incentive plans.
Voting rights attached to shares held in the are invited to join Aspire and take part in a range of tailored employee trust were not exercised during the year.
The Group encourages its operating year 2,423,236 new ordinary shares were issued under employee units to train and develop employees at all levels and a wide share schemes: 644,642 under the all employee share ownership range of business-related education and training opportunities and save as you earn plans and 1,778,594 under executive are made available.
30 Directors report It is Group policy to promote equal opportunities in Under the Companys articles of association, Mr T M Gateley employment consistent with the requirements of the countries and Mr L Browne retire by rotation at the forthcoming annual in which the Group operates.
The policy applies to both general meeting and are both recommended for re-election.
employees and applicants for employment.
Companies in In addition, Mr D M Hurt and Mr R M Twite will be standing the Group are required to eliminate discrimination and for election at that meeting, being the first annual general communicate and promote the policy to all employees.
meeting since they were appointed.
Biographical details Managing Directors of operating units have responsibility for appear on pages 28 and 29.
Messrs Gateley and Browne are compliance and each employee is required to abide by the non-executive directors with a letter of appointment and policy.
Every effort is made to ensure that applications for do not have a service contract.
Messrs Hurt and Twite are employment from disabled persons are fully and fairly executive directors and have service contracts terminable on considered and that disabled employees have equal opportunity one years notice.
As a matter of longstanding policy, The Company maintains directors and officers liability where appropriate, employees who become disabled have been insurance and all directors of the Company benefit from given suitable training for employment within the Group or qualifying third party indemnity provisions in place during elsewhere.
The Group also supports charities for assisting the financial year.
At the date of this annual report there were disabled people into work.
such indemnity arrangements with each director in respect of Health, safety and the environment the costs of defending civil, criminal and regulatory proceedings It is Group policy to maintain healthy and safe working brought against them, in their capacity as a director, where not conditions and to operate in a responsible manner with regard covered by insurance.
Information on key performance indicators Directors interests in this area is given on page 7 and further information is The interests of the persons including the interests of their available on our website www.
families who were directors at the end of the year, in the share Policy and practice on the payment of trade creditors capital of the Company, and their interests under share option Operating units are responsible for making their suppliers aware and incentive schemes, are shown on pages 46 to 49. of the terms of payment and agreeing such terms with their Directors responsibilities for the financial statements suppliers for each business transaction.
The Company is not a The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report trading entity.
and the Group and parent company financial statements, in Donations accordance with applicable law and regulations.
316,000 was given during 2006 for community and similar Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and purposes including 235,000 for charitable purposes.
The Group parent company financial statements for each financial year.
supports a range of selected national charities and smaller Under that law the directors are required to prepare the Group charitable organisations operating in communities where the financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by Group has a presence.
Our approach to charitable and other the EU and applicable law.
They have elected to prepare the donations is explained on page 26.
No donations to political parent company financial statements in accordance with parties were made during the year.
UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Directors Accepted Accounting Practice.
The persons who were directors throughout the year were The Group financial statements are required to present fairly Mr N B M Askew, Mr T M Gateley, Mr L Browne, Mr K Beeston, the financial position and performance of the Group.
The Mr M J Lamb, Mr W R Whitney and Mr D C Nicholas.
Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial Ms A M Frew was appointed as a non-executive director with statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to effect from 2 March 2006.
Mr D M Hurt joined the Board on financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to 1 July 2006 as Finance Director and Mr T J Slack retired on the their achieving a fair presentation.
On 31 January 2007 Mr W R Whitney retired from The parent company financial statements are required by law the Board and Mr R M Twite was appointed as an executive to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent director from 1 February 2007. company.
31 IMI plc Annual Report 2006 directors report directors report In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial to identify, manage and mitigate business risk.
A summary of statements, the directors are required to: the Groups risk management structure is given on page 37.
The Groups financial risk management practices are also select suitable accounting policies and then apply them discussed in note 1 to the accounts.
In addition, the Groups consistently: approach to corporate social responsibility and associated risks make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and is described on pages 24 to 27. prudent: The principal risks faced by the Group, as identified by the for the Group financial statements, state whether they have Board, are summarised below: been prepared in accordance with IFRS: The Groups worldwide operations expose it to economic, for the parent company financial statements, state whether business, political and other risks such as sudden changes in applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, regime, expropriation of assets, imposition of trade barriers subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in and wage controls, limits on the export of currency and the parent company financial statements: and volatility of prices, taxes and currencies.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis The Groups worldwide operations also expose it to different unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the legal and regulatory requirements and standards in each of parent company will continue in business.
the jurisdictions in which it operates including those for The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting taxation, environmental, operational and competition records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the matters.
financial position of the parent company and enable them to The nature of the Groups operations exposes it to the ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies potential for litigation from third parties which may arise in Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps the ordinary course of business.
as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Certain of the Groups businesses benefit from close Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
commercial relationships with key customers and suppliers.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also The loss of any of these key relationships could have a responsible for preparing a Directors' Report, Directors' material impact on the Groups results.
Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement The Groups products contain various raw materials or that comply with that law and those regulations.
purchased components including metals and plastics.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity Any increases or volatility in prices and shortages in supply of the corporate and financial information included on the could affect the Groups performance.
Legislation in the UK governing the In response to the rising costs of base metals, the Group preparation and dissemination of financial statements may centralised its hedging process for exposure to copper, zinc, differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The exposure is managed Disclosure of information to auditor through a combination of financial contracts and local supply The directors who held office at the date of approval of this agreements in order to minimise the short term impact of directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, metal price volatility.
there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys The Group operates in highly competitive markets.
auditor is unaware: and each director has taken all the steps Significant product innovations, technical advances or the that he or she ought to have taken as a director to make intensification of price competition could all adversely affect himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and the Groups results.
to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
The majority of the Groups operating profit is earned outside the UK.
As such, the Group is exposed to movements in Risks and uncertainties exchange rates between sterling and other world currencies, In common with all businesses, there are a number of risks and which could impact results.
The Group is also exposed to uncertainties which could have a material impact on the movements in global interest rates.
The Group has in place a risk management structure and internal controls which are designed 32 Directors report It is the Groups policy to minimise risk to exchange rates by Cautionary statements hedging currency exposures at the time of commitment or The foregoing statements of directors responsibilities for the when there is a high probability of future commitment using financial statements, and the confirmations regarding audit currency instruments primarily forward exchange contracts.
information, are addressed solely to shareholders and made The Groups wide geographic spread both in terms of cost pursuant to and for the purposes required by UK legislation and base and customer locations helps to reduce the impact on regulations without any other or special assumption of profitability of swings in exchange rates as well as creating responsibility on the part of the Company or its directors and opportunities for central netting of exposures.
Currency loans and foreign exchange contracts are used to The business review and other content of this annual report is reduce the translation risks associated with holding currency addressed to the shareholders of IMI plc as a body.
The Group reduces its exposure to short the Company nor its directors or officers accept or assume term swings in interest rates through a combination of fixed responsibility to any person for this annual report beyond the rate debt and derivative contracts where appropriate.
The responsibilities arising from the production of this annual report effect of a global rise of 1% in short term interest rates pursuant to and for the purposes required by UK legislation.
during 2007 would be immaterial to the Groups interest cost.
Sections of this annual report may contain forward-looking If the Group is unable to recruit and retain high calibre statements about the Group, including for example statements managers and engineering talent, it may not be able to relating to: future demand and markets for the Groups effectively implement its business plans and strategy and products and services, research and development relating to could experience delays in the development of, or increased new products and services: liquidity and capital resources difficulty in developing and selling, its products and services.
and implementation of restructuring plans and efficiencies.
Any forward-looking statements are by their nature subject to The Group is exposed to risks associated with the commercial numerous risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results failure of new products, projects and technologies.
"to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such Poor investment returns and longer life expectancy may statements depending on a variety of factors, including for result in the cost of funding defined benefit pension example those described above under the heading ""Risks and arrangements becoming a significant burden on the Groups uncertainties""."
IMI undertakes no obligation to update any financial resources.
forward-looking statements whether as a result of new The Group may be subject to liabilities as a result of past or information, future events or otherwise.
Annual general meeting IMIs growth strategy is in part dependent on acquisitions.
The annual general meeting will be held at the Hilton The execution and integration of acquisitions involves a Birmingham Metropole Hotel, National Exhibition Centre, number of risks, including diversion of managements Birmingham on Friday 18 May 2007, commencing at noon.
attention, failure to retain key personnel of the acquired Notice of the meeting will be sent to shareholders as a separate business and risks associated with unanticipated events or circular.
Auditor The Group is exposed to certain credit risks.
Resolutions for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as A central view is taken on credit risk in respect of deposits, auditor of the Company and to authorise the directors to financial instruments, receivables and provision of funding determine the auditors remuneration are to be proposed at arrangements.
A group of core relationship banks provides the forthcoming annual general meeting.
the bulk of the banking services with pre-approved credit limits set for each institution.
At the end of 2006 surplus By order of the Board cash was deposited with the Groups banks with no single John OShea institution or individual trade debtor creating an exposure Company Secretary greater than 30m.
5 March 2007 33 IMI plc Annual Report 2006
