board of directors non-executive directors Norman B M Askew Norman Askew has extensive international experience in Chairman industry including previous positions as Chief Executive of Age 64: non-executive: joined Virginia Power in the USA and BNFL.
His current positions the IMI Board in 2005. include the chairmanship of both Taylor Woodrow plc and the Board of Governors of Manchester University.
Terry M Gateley Lance Browne CBE Kevin S Beeston Anita M Frew Age 53: non-executive: Age 57: non-executive: Age 44: non-executive: Age 49: non-executive: joined the IMI Board joined the IMI Board joined the IMI Board joined the IMI Board in in 2003. in 2005. in 2005.
Terry Gateley began his Lance Browne is the Kevin Beeston has been the Anita Frew is the senior noncareer as a chartered non-executive Chairman of Executive Chairman of Serco executive director of Victrex plc accountant and was in Standard Chartered Bank, Group plc since May 2004. and a non-executive director of private practice until moving China, where he was Chief He is a member of the Aberdeen Asset Management into investment business and Executive between 1996 and CBIs Presidents Committee, PLC, Northumbrian Water Ltd, management in 1999.
He has held a range of Chairman of the CBIs Public and Securities Trust of Scotland a member of the Industrial senior positions in banking and Services Strategy Board and plc.
She was previously an Advisory Board of Alchemy engineering businesses and a director of Ipswich Town executive director of Abbott Partners LLP and his current has lived in China for over 20 Football Club plc.
Mead Vickers PLC, Director of directorships include Kestrel years.
An Honorary Citizen of Corporate Development at Holdings Limited, Everyday Shanghai, he has also received WPP Group Plc and Head of Loans Holdings Limited and a CBE for his work in China.
UK Equity Investment at Presentation Service Providers Scottish Provident in Edinburgh.
28 Board of directors executive directors David C Nicholas Douglas M Hurt Roy M Twite Martin J Lamb standing left seated left standing right seated right Executive Director Finance Director Executive Director Chief Executive Age 57: joined the IMI Board Age 50: joined IMI in May 2006.
Douglas Hurt was appointed Roy Twite was appointed to Martin Lamb was appointed David Nicholas is responsible to the Board in July 2006. the Board in February 2007 to the Board in 1996 and for Fluid Controls, which He was previously with with responsibility for Retail as Chief Executive in 2001. comprises Fluid Power, Indoor GlaxoSmithKline, where both Dispense which comprises He has extensive experience Climate and Severe Service.
financial and operational roles Beverage Dispense and of engineering and managed His recent past directorships included a number of US and Merchandising Systems.
several major businesses include Tyco Flow Control European senior management He was previously president of within the Group before his Europe.
He is a member of IMI's Indoor Climate business, present appointment.
experience in managing the Institute of Chartered having held a number of senior engineering businesses.
