The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Board and to the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees.
He assists the Chairman in ensuring that all Directors have full and timely access to all relevant information.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that the correct Board procedures are followed and advises the Board on all corporate governance matters.
He also administers the procedure under which Directors can, where appropriate, obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
The appointment or removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
Attendance at scheduled Board and Board Committee meetings held in 2006 Full Nomination Remuneration Audit Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings in 2006 Eligible Eligible Eligible to Eligible to attend Attended to attend Attended attend Attended to attend Attended P B Ellwood 8 8 1 1 Dr J D G McAdam 8 8 A Baan 88114344 A J Brown 8 8 Lord Butler 87114343 J T Gorman 8 8 1 4 2 4 4 D C M Hamill 8 7 R N Haythornthwaite 88114 443 C F Knott 8 8 Baroness Noakes 88114444 W H Powell 2 2 Committee Chairman In addition to the meetings noted above, an unscheduled Board Nomination Committee meeting was held to approve the divestment of the Quest business to The Nomination Committee is responsible for proposing new Givaudan.
Directors were provided with comprehensive background appointments of Directors to the Board and reviews succession plans information for this meeting and nine members of the Board were and arrangements for the Board and EMT.
It met on one occasion in available to participate in the proceedings.
2006 to conduct a review of its effectiveness.
In accordance with ICIs Articles of Association, the Directors and The Nomination Committee comprises the NonExecutive Directors, Officers of the Company are all indemnified out of the assets of the under the chairmanship of Mr Ellwood.
Company to the extent permitted by law in respect of liabilities Remuneration Committee incurred as a result of their office.
In addition to the general indemnity The Remuneration Committee determines, on behalf of the Board, contained in the Articles, the Company has also put in place a the Companys policy on the remuneration of the Chairman, Executive specific deed of indemnity a copy of which may be viewed upon Directors and the most senior management of the Company.
The request at the Companys registered office setting out in greater Committee determines the total remuneration packages for these detail the terms and conditions of the Companys indemnity.
The individuals, including any compensation on termination of office.
Company also purchases and maintains a directors and officers liability insurance policy.
The Board believes that these arrangements It met on seven occasions in 2006, three of which were unscheduled.
are in the best interests of the Company, to enable it to attract and These unscheduled meetings were primarily to confirm finalisation of retain high quality Directors and Officers.
Neither the Companys matters discussed in detail at scheduled meetings and were attended indemnities, nor insurance, provide cover in the event that a Director by those Committee members available at the time to participate.
or Officer has acted fraudulently.
The Committee comprises the NEDs under the chairmanship of Board Committees Mr Haythornthwaite.
The Chairman of the Committee normally The principal Board Committees, which report to the Board, are the invites the Chairman, Chief Executive, Executive Vice President Nomination Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Human Resources and Vice President Performance & Reward to Committee.
The Remuneration and Audit Committees meet at least attend meetings, to respond to specific questions raised by the quarterly and the Nomination Committee meets as and when Committee.
This specifically excludes any matter concerning their required.
Summary remits of the Committees are set out below and own personal remuneration.
full terms of reference are available via the Investors section of ICIs The work of the Remuneration Committee during 2006 has included corporate website www.
com and in paper form from the Company consideration of the following matters: Secretariat on request.
Directors attendance at scheduled Board and Board Committee meetings during 2006 is set out in the table above.
approving the 2006 Annual Incentive Plan AIP ranges and key strategic objectives for the Chief Executive and the EMT: a review of the reward components comprising the executive remuneration package and making changes as required to ensure it remained fully aligned with the remuneration policy: www.
com ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2006 39 Board of Directors, governance and remuneration
