Business review strategy ICI is now well positioned to focus on transforming the performance of its core businesses.
As a result, ICIs future development will focus on accelerating profitable growth, improving operational effectiveness and developing a culture of sustainable improvement.
FROM TURNAROUND ICIs Vision Strategic focus on performance improvement ICIs vision is to become the leader in formulation science, creating As a result of an underperformance in a number of ICIs businesses complex mixtures that deliver the effects valued by consumers and in the years up to 2003, ICI had found itself in challenging financial customers.
To achieve this leadership goal, and through this create circumstances and a turnaround in performance was required, driven superior returns for shareholders, the Group is building a portfolio of by operational improvement initiatives within ICI.
As a result, ICI businesses that are leaders in their respective industries, bringing pursued a clear strategy to create and capture additional value from together consumer understanding, outstanding knowledge of customer three principal sources: needs and processes, and leading edge technology platforms to Differentiated resource allocation provide a distinctive, competitive advantage for its customers.
Investing in technology and marketing in those businesses where Strategic alignment of ICIs businesses sustainable competitive advantage can be created: At the last strategic review, ICIs business units were evaluated in Cost and capital effectiveness terms of market attractiveness e. g. financial strength and sustainability Achieving a step-change in cost and capital effectiveness for and competitive position e. g. quality of products, technology and ICI overall in the near term through the successful delivery of market share.
Reflecting their different strengths and weaknesses, restructuring, and sustainably through changing the organisation, each business was then mapped onto the 2x2 matrix shown below.
culture and behaviour in ICI to consistently deliver improvements: This matrix is fundamental to the strategic development of the and business.
For example, ICI intends to invest to support growth in businesses with strong positions in high-growth markets the grow Strategy execution aggressively segments which are more attractive in the long term.
A greater focus on strategy execution, upgrading operational In contrast, ICI will invest to improve cost and capital effectiveness in capabilities and enhancing rewards for short to medium-term its businesses in relatively low growth markets the maintain performance delivery.
selectively segments with the aim of continued cost effectiveness The strategy was underpinned by a clear set of strategic plan targets and resilient financial performance.
that focused attention on delivering appropriate levels of sales growth, improving trading margin and returns on capital employed and generating sustained cash flow.
1 ICIs strategic matrix This turnaround strategy has continued through 2006 and examples Maintain aggressively Grow aggressively Paints North America Paints Asia of what has been done can be found in the following section as well Paints UK & Ireland Adhesives Asia as in the business descriptions on pages 12 to 16.
Packaging Coatings Starch Asia Pan-Atlantic Adhesives Electronic Materials Pan-Atlantic Starch Strategic Progress in 2006 Overall, 2006 has been another good year with ICI making further Maintain selectively Grow selectively Regional and Industrial Specialty Polymers strategic progress.
Against the strategic plan targets, comparable Paints Continental Europe sales growth of 6% compared well with estimated real growth in Paints Latin America Adhesives Latin America global GDP of 3.9%.
In addition, after adjusting for discontinued Starch Latin America activities, our businesses sustained their improved efficiency despite Strategic approach some cost pressures, with the overall trading margin unchanged from 2005 at 10.4%.
Taken together with improved capital management, 1 this has helped the Group improve return on capital employed on the Continuing businesses only.
same basis by 1.7%, to 18.3%, and again generate positive cash flow before acquisitions and divestments of 26m in 2006 2005 170m despite increased pension contributions and restructuring costs.
Source: Oxford Economics December 2006. www.
com ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2006 09 Strategic stance Business review
