Business review ICI Group and its businesses continued Discontinued businesses In September 2006, ICI completed the divestment of Uniqema to Developments in 2006 Croda International Plc.
The intended divestment of Uniqema was During 2006, Quest invested in developing its growth platform in outlined in the 2005 Annual Report.
In November 2006, ICI Asia, including an investment in a new regional technical centre in announced the proposed sale of Quest to Givaudan SA.
The decision Shanghai, China, and several efficiency investments in Europe and to divest Quest was based on the significant shareholder value that North America.
would be delivered by the sale.
In 2006 Quest also launched new technologies, through leveraging Quest existing innovation platforms: Qsense for sweet tastes, with Background launches like Berrysense, Citrusense and Applesense, and for Quest is a manufacturer of flavours and fragrances used in a wide culinary tastes Quisine, with new vegetable and meat flavour ranges.
The business is headquartered in ImpaQ continued its market development after the successful launch Naarden, The Netherlands, and is organised around two operating in 2005.
Quest has now sold the first collection of products that address divisions, Flavours and Fragrances, each of which accounts for flavour aspects of salt, sweetness and umami as well as the acidity, around half of Quests revenue.
bitterness and fruitiness impact in food and beverages concepts.
ICIs strategy for Quest prior to divestment This is in line with the increasing consumer demand for low salt, Within the ICI strategic matrix, both the Flavours and Fragrances low fat and low carbohydrate intake via food and beverages.
businesses were positioned in the grow aggressively segment, The Fragrance division continued its global creative expansion reflecting four distinctive strengths: plan with the opening of its new regional Asian Creative Centre in quality of its customer relationships and consumer understanding: August.
Throughout the year, a selection of novel materials was launched internally.
creative skills of its perfumers and flavourists: Exploitation of the Bio-Captive and Malodour management platform technological advances resulting from R&D: and continued under the Neutrozone trademark.
Furthermore, Mood customer service and support provided by its marketing and and Emotion Sensory technology has continued to be successfully application groups as well as its global network of servicing units.
Quest believes these strengths enable the business to assist Fine Fragrances had a good year with launches including customers in making their brands and products successful.
During Dolce&Gabbanas The One, Elizabeth Ardens Hilary Duff, Lacostes 2006, while a continuing business within the Group, Quests strategy Inspiration, Donna Karan and Hugo Boss.
was to continue to build on these strengths while: Uniqema focusing on growth with key customers in the markets it chooses Background to prioritise: ICI announced in 2005 that it was evaluating its options in respect of Uniqema, with a view to divesting the business, subject to a deal investing in consumer understanding and creativity: realising value for shareholders.
On 1 September 2006 ICI completed creating and making best use of an effective and efficient innovation the sale of the Uniqema business to Croda International Plc.
process: and Uniqema is a leading manufacturer of surfactants, oleochemicals ensuring excellence in service and costs by focusing on appropriate and related derivatives with major operations in North America parts of the value chain and by continuous process improvement.
Brief description of activities The performance of Uniqema in 2006 is covered in the financial review.
Quests innovative flavour and fragrance products consist of compounds of blended ingredients created by expert flavourists, perfumers and scientists.
Certain compounds contain molecules which have been created by Quests chemists and which add distinctive characteristics to its products.
Quest also has a strong position in nature-identical flavours for sweet and culinary applications.
In addition, Quest manufactures and sells a range of fragrance ingredients that are the scented building blocks of fragrance formulae.
They can also contribute additional technical characteristics to the finished compound such as deodorisation or insect repellence.
The Flavours division is organised around several key markets and global customer accounts.
The principal markets are sweet and savoury foods and beverages.
Similarly, the Fragrance division is organised around product applications and key accounts.
The principal markets are fine fragrance, personal care, home care products and oral care.
16 ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
