ICI Group summary continued History and activities Spread and balance of activities History ICI is headquartered in the UK, where it also has a number of major The Company was formed in 1926 by the merger of four UK chemical manufacturing activities.
Outside the UK, the Groups activities are companies: Brunner Mond, Nobel Industries, British Dyestuffs and geographically diverse, with Asia and Latin America accounting for United Alkali.
ICI is one of a small number of companies listed 36% of sales, North America 33%, Europe 29% and the rest of the continuously on the leading UK stock index originally the FT 30, world 2%.
Typically, ICIs businesses are staffed almost entirely by now the FTSE 100 since the 1930s.
local nationals and, in total, 87% of ICIs 29,130 employees are located outside the UK.
During the course of its history, ICI has been an acknowledged leader in diverse disciplines, including fundamental science, engineering, The Group has operations in over 50 countries around the world and manufacturing and human resources.
The Groups major inventions its customers are spread across a diverse range of product sectors.
have been equally diverse, ranging from the plastics polythene and More than 60% of ICIs revenue is in sectors the Group believes are Perspex to beta blockers and the antimalarial treatment Paludrine.
relatively non-cyclical, for example, food and beverages, decorative coatings, personal and household care products, and water In 1993, ICI demerged its bioscience businesses to a publicly listed treatment.
Other sectors with a greater degree of cyclicality include company, Zeneca Group PLC now AstraZeneca PLC.
In 1997, ICI electronics, construction and parts of our diverse industrial markets began its transformation from regional manufacturer of bulk chemicals e. g. automotive.
to a global specialty chemicals and paints leader with the acquisition of Unilevers Speciality Chemicals businesses.
ICI believes this spread and balance of activities provides a good exposure to higher growth markets, for example, in Asia, and to Over the last decade, ICI has transformed its portfolio through a emerging products and technologies including food nutrition number of acquisitions and divestments worth more than 12bn.
Divestment proceeds have been used to repay debt and improve balance sheet strength.
No one customer represents a material proportion of Group revenue.
Group revenue by market sector 2006 Group revenue by customer location 2006 continuing operations continuing operations 29% Europe 45% Decorative & Architectural 33% North America 16% Food & Beverage 9% Latin America 7% Personal Care 27% Asia 7% Textiles & Footwear 2% Other 7% Diverse Industrial 7% Paper & Packaging 6% Construction 5% Electronics 08 ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
