Business review ICI Group and its businesses Revenue by market sector Revenue by customer location 90% Decorative & Architectural 36% Europe 10% Food & Beverage 38% North America 9% Latin America 17% Asia Paints 2006 Paints 2006 Group Organisation Continuing businesses ICI is organised around three continuing operating businesses: ICI Paints ICI Paints on pages 12 and 13, National Starch on pages 14 and 15 Background and Regional and Industrial on page 15.
The two discontinued ICI Paints is a leading international paint business and accounted businesses are Quest on page 16 and Uniqema on page 16. for 50% of the Groups continuing sales in 2006.
It concentrates The businesses are supported by Group functions that provide primarily on decorative paint 90% of ICI Paints sales in 2006 and expertise in information technology, procurement, human resources, packaging coatings for food and beverage cans.
finance, sustainability, safety, security, health and the environment ICI Paints global business headquarters is located in Slough, UK.
SSHE, and applied technology, where value can be created for Major manufacturing facilities are located in the USA, UK, Brazil, ICIs customers through the application of advanced technology Argentina, Germany, the Netherlands, France, China, India and across the Group.
Additional manufacturing facilities are in 14 other countries.
A number of senior management functional boards leverage the ICI Paints maintains its own sales distribution network in over 30 combined skills and experiences across ICI.
The business also sells through agents and distributors.
are responsible for establishing functional strategies and ensuring Strategy Group-wide implementation of best practice.
The strategy of ICI Paints is to develop its leading market positions in In addition, the Business Development Board aims to accelerate the the global paints and coatings industry, particularly where it benefits commercial exploitation of technology opportunities within ICI, and from strong retail brands.
ICI Paints expects to develop its strategy reflects the desire to develop continuously and strengthen the links further by: between market needs and technology capability.
differentiated resource allocation channelling scarce resources revenue expenditure, capital and people to those areas which will generate the highest rewards: innovation driving for new major differentiated products and services, linking marketing insights with world-leading technical skills: cost and capital effectiveness implementing key restructuring plans and improving planning operating processes to reduce costs and inventory while improving customer delivery reliability: and people and organisation capability development.
Key competencies, which ICI Paints employs across its businesses, include: marketing identifying areas of significant potential through market understanding and exploiting these through highly professional category and brand management skills: research and development supporting the increased emphasis on innovation in products, packaging and services, and targeting high impact cost reductions through leading edge colour, polymer and formulating science: operations implementing process improvements and improved delivery reliability by sharing expertise and best practice across its businesses: and procurement optimising the mix of central contracts using ICIs total purchasing power and local contracts, bringing the advantages of tailored solutions and flexibility.
12 ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
com Business review The regional markets for decorative paint are at different stages Brief description of activities of growth and maturity and the ICI Paints strategy reflects this.
The decorative paints business has well-established brands in paint, woodcare, metalcare, adhesives and fillers.
These include Dulux, The Asian region is one of generally higher growth.
Paint markets Glidden, Devoe, Valentine, Coral, Alba, Xyladecor, Cuprinol, tend to be fragmented, with a large number of country-specific Hammerite, Polycell, Polyfilla and Alabastine.
Obtaining competitive advantage across the region requires leveraging marketing and manufacturing capabilities and Paint is manufactured through a mixing process that requires a high transferring best practice in innovation, purchasing, marketing and degree of control over product measurement, quality control and channel development.
The key focus of the ICI Paints business is continuous assessment.
Typically manufacturing operations are not to continue the development of core brands in the region, including capital intensive and are relatively responsive to changes in demand.
Dulux, and maintain accelerated, profitable growth, with particular Developments in 2006 focus on China, India, Indonesia, Thailand and Vietnam.
ICI Paints continued to pursue vigorously growth opportunities in The European region has some large mature markets and a number developing markets, particularly in Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin of developing growth markets in Eastern and Central Europe.
This was supported by a number of investments, including Paints has a leading position in the UK and Ireland, with strong new facilities in China and Vietnam.
ICI Paints continued to focus on brands underpinned by a focus on innovation.
There is significant strengthening its brands and developing innovative products and brand equity with Dulux, Hammerite, Cuprinol and Polycell.
services which anticipate and meet customers needs around the The focus of the European business is on improvement of the world.
In 2006, 30% of Decorative Paints sales originated from product range, expansion in developing markets, reduction of the innovative products launched within the last three years.
cost-base and the improvement of operational efficiency and These included: profitability of the Continental European operations.
Light & Space, a novel product range using patented LumiTec The Latin American business has strong positions in Brazil, Argentina technology that helps reflect up to twice as much light around and Uruguay, where brand strength is maintained through capability the room.
in marketing and a focus on innovation.
Weathershield Max, a waterborne high performance North American markets are generally mature.
Though ICI has a masonry paint.
significant presence in both trade and retail channels, the business is some way behind the market leader, limiting its overall competitive Weathershield Easyspray, a spray-applied masonry paint.
In trade markets, the strategy is to establish insights into Extensions to the highly successful Cuprinol Sprayable end user needs that can create competitive advantages, and in woodcare range.
securing good distribution density within attractive metropolitan areas.
In the retail business, the route to market is highly consolidated with Polycell Smoothover to cover textured wallpapers and ceilings.
a few major retailers controlling around 80% of retail distribution.
ICI ICI Paints also generated incremental benefits in 2006 from the cost Paints has a significant relationship in this market with The Home savings initiatives under the restructuring programme announced Depot, a leading retailer.
The Paints restructuring programme includes supply chain ICI Paints is also a leader in internal and external coatings for food projects in Europe and North America as well as initiatives to improve and beverage cans.
It manufactures and distributes a broad product the effectiveness of the sales forces in the UK, Ireland, North America offering of packaging coatings with significant market positions in the and Continental Europe.
established markets of Europe and North America and the emerging Despite these numerous positive developments, the performance of markets of Asia and Latin America.
The strategy is threefold: to focus the North American business was adversely affected by a significant on profitable growth in South East Asia and Latin America, to explore downturn in the housing market which particularly affected the retail opportunities for growth in non-metal packaging, in particular with channel.
This resulted in modest overall profit improvement in 2006 polyethylene terephthalate PET bottle coatings, and to optimise the for ICI Paints.
efficiency and effectiveness of its supply chain.
com ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2006 13 Business review Business review ICI Group and its businesses continued Revenue by market sector Revenue by customer location 26% Food & Beverage 28% Europe 16% Personal Care 37% North America 6% Latin America 16% Construction 25% Asia 15% Paper & Packaging 4% Other 12% Diverse Industrial 10% Electronics 3% Textiles & Footwear 1% Decorative & Architectural 1% Water Treatment National Starch 2006 National Starch 2006 National Starch Adhesives are also used in bookbinding, disposable nappies diapers, Background personal sanitary products and disposable hospital supplies.
National National Starch, which accounted for 41% of the Groups continuing Starchs adhesives and primers are used in the assembly of sports sales in 2006, is a leading player in specialty chemicals, with shoes and for assembly operations in the woodworking, construction, important positions in specialty industrial adhesives, specialty food recreational vehicle and transportation industries.
The Acheson starches, specialty polymers and electronic materials.
It provides business provides process lubricants and application systems used many specialty ingredients and formulations to consumer-oriented in metalworking and casting.
markets that, with the exception of electronic industries, tend to be Specialty Starches relatively non-cyclical in nature.
National Starch also manufactures a wide range of specialty starches, National Starch operates an international network of 145 focused principally on food and industrial applications.
The National manufacturing and customer service centres, located in 39 countries Starch Food Innovation business concentrates on modifying food on six continents.
National Starch believes that its position in these formulations to enhance texture, appearance and flavour delivery.
markets has been achieved through a strong combination of natural Certain products provide effects which enable end-consumer products and synthetic polymer technology, application understanding and a to withstand the rigours of ultra-high temperature processing, high degree of technical support for customers.
microwave cooking, freeze thaw cycles and extended storage.
The nutritional content of food can be improved by a number of National National Starch is headquartered in Bridgewater, New Jersey, USA, Starchs products which add health-enhancing ingredients such as with regional offices in the UK Europe and Singapore Asia.
National Starch helps its customers develop new food manufacturing facilities are located in the USA, Germany, Mexico, concepts to satisfy growing consumer needs for new, wholesome Japan, Thailand, Korea, China and Brazil, with additional and nutritious food.
manufacturing facilities in 26 other countries around the world.
Specialty Polymers Strategy The specialty polymers business develops and markets synthetic and National Starchs strategy focuses on delivering value through three natural polymers for diverse end-use applications including personal main activities: care, construction, industrial water treatment, fabric and home care building on strengths in areas where it has good opportunities and paper coatings.
for profitable growth: The division is organised around three businesses: Alco Chemical, delivering innovative new products to customers: and Elotex and Personal Care.
Alco Chemical sells dispersants and antiscalants for water treatment and fabric and home care, as well continually improving cost efficiency, particularly in its more mature as thickeners for paper coating.
emulsion powder polymers, which improve the adhesion, strength, Consistent with the ICI strategic matrix, National Starch allocates flow and water resistance properties of cement and mortar products.
resources preferentially to those businesses within the grow Specialty polymers for personal care provide the holding power in hair aggressively segment.
These include the Electronic Materials and sprays and gels, and add manageability and softness to mousses, Specialty Polymers businesses, in addition to National Starchs other conditioners, shampoos and other styling aids.
They are also used to activities in Asia.
thicken and emulsify cosmetic and beauty products and increase the functionality of sunscreens, hand and body creams and lotions.
Brief description of activities Adhesives Electronic Materials National Starch is one of the largest and most global producers of National Starch also manufactures, markets and sells a range of industrial adhesives in the world, based on both natural and electronic materials, particularly adhesives, encapsulants and specialty synthetic polymer chemistry, including waterborne, hot melt and coatings used in the assembly of semiconductor packages and the pressure sensitive products.
Products from the Adhesives division are production of electronic, automotive, medical and aerospace devices.
used in packaging applications to seal cases and cartons and to fix Within the Electronic Materials division, Ablestik supplies adhesives labels to bottles and cans.
Paper applications include laminating, bag and encapsulants used for semiconductor packaging and making, paper tissue, paper tube winding and box manufacturing.
Products include adhesive pastes, 14 ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
com Business review Revenue by market sector Revenue by customer location 67% Textiles and Footwear 3% Europe 20% Diverse Industrial 1% North America 8% Personal & Home Care 13% Latin America 3% Paper & Packaging 83% Asia 2% Food and Beverage Regional and Industrial 2006 Regional and Industrial 2006 printable paste and films, and underfill encapsulants.
Emerson and Regional and Industrial Cuming supplies adhesives, encapsulants, and coatings used in the Background fabrication of electronic, electrical, and electromechanical components.
Regional and Industrial comprises several businesses which are essentially local in their scope, the most significant of which is located Developments in 2006 in Pakistan.
The businesses accounted for 9% of the Groups National Starch made good progress in 2006 in developing its continuing sales in 2006.
In Pakistan, ICI operates through non businesses, through reorganisation, investments in innovation and wholly-owned subsidiary companies, quoted on the local improvements in efficiency and effectiveness.
National Starch reorganised its activities around four global Strategy divisions, each led by a senior management team.
National Starch ICI has divested many of the Regional and Industrial businesses in aims to accelerate profitable growth through closer alignment of recent years, and further divestments will be made if they enhance management to global business strategies and strong product value.
The strategies of most of the businesses are focused on development platforms.
selective areas of growth, with an emphasis on improving cost and National Starch also made a number of investments in innovation capital effectiveness.
These included an agreement with Roquette Frres, Brief description of activities of France, to be the exclusive distributor of the NUTRIOSE soluble ICI Pakistan Limited has interests in a number of different market fibre product line in food and beverage segments in the USA and sectors.
The more important of these are the manufacture of Mexico.
NUTRIOSE, a water-soluble fibre ingredient, is an excellent polyester staple fibre for the textile industry and soda ash for soaps, complement to Nationals Hi-maize resistant starch insoluble detergents, glass and paper.
Other businesses of ICI Pakistan Limited fibre and fits with the companys focus on health-orientated include pharmaceuticals and specialty products.
Pakistan PTA Limited, located at Port Qasim near Karachi, In addition, a new Customer Application and Process Simulation manufactures pure terephthalic acid PTA for the fibre industry.
Centre was opened in March at the adhesives site in Kleve, Germany.
The state-of-the-art facility houses more than 20 R&D and Technical Developments in 2006 Service specialists focused on adhesive technologies for the pressure Following reviews of all manufacturing operations within Regional and sensitive, woodworking and building components markets.
Industrial, a series of continuous improvement programmes is being implemented.
This is resulting in increases in productivity, improved National Starch also officially opened its expanded adhesives, raw material efficiencies and reduced energy use.
synthetic polymers and electronic materials manufacturing facilities at its Salisbury, North Carolina, USA plant.
The new facility will supply ICI Pakistan has continued to invest in maintaining a strong market high-quality, innovative adhesives to the pressure sensitive and position in the expanding domestic soda ash market.
A 50,000 tonne transdermal markets, specialty polymers to the hair care and skincare expansion current capacity is 235,000 tonnes per annum is due to markets, and custom resins and fillers used in the manufacture of come on line early in 2007 and further investment is under evaluation.
adhesives, coatings and encapsulants for electronic assembly.
ICI invested $20m in a second emulsion polymerization facility in China, underlining its strategic commitment to aggressive growth in the region.
The plant is scheduled for completion in mid-2007 and will produce solution-acrylic adhesives for high-end tapes and labels, specialty polymers for water treatment, detergent, packaging coatings and emulsion for decorative coatings industries.
com ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2006 15 Business review
