ICIs commitments to disabled people include: a guaranteed job The sale of Uniqema in September 2006 has resulted in a interview for applicants with a disability who meet the minimum requirement, under section 75 of the Pensions Act 2004, for the criteria for a vacancy: regular consultation on what can be done Company to make additional contributions towards funding the to ensure that they can develop and use their abilities at work: deficits in the ICI UK Specialty Chemicals Pension Fund and the ICI wherever possible retaining employees if they become disabled: UK Pension Fund of 48m that have been paid during the first quarter improving employee knowledge, awareness and understanding of 2007.
Following the disposal of the Quest business, the Company of disability to make our commitments work: and measuring the expects to make contributions to the ICI UK Specialty Chemicals Groups achievements against these commitments, planning ways Pension Fund and the ICI UK Pension Fund of approximately 203m.
of improving our performance and communicating future initiatives The total present value of the liabilities of the Groups post-retirement to employees.
benefit schemes, measured in accordance with IFRS, was 9,348m Retirement benefits at 31 December 2006.
The fair value of scheme assets at the same The Groups policy objective since 2000 has been to provide retirement date was 8,043m resulting in an overall net liability in respect of benefits for its new employees on a defined contribution basis.
75% of pensions and post-retirement healthcare liabilities of 1,305m.
This ICIs employee population works in countries which have now switched comprises 697m in respect of the ICI UK Pension Fund, 287m in to defined contribution provision for new employees.
In addition, a respect of other funded pension schemes and 321m in respect of further 14% of employees work in countries where the main retirement unfunded pension schemes and post-retirement healthcare benefits.
benefit provision is via state and other mandatory arrangements.
ICI For accounting purposes, the Group has adopted the option in also has significant defined benefit retirement liabilities for its existing accounting standard IAS 19 Employee Benefits to recognise in full employees, principally in closed pension schemes.
In addition, posteach year any actuarial gains and losses in the Statement of Group retirement healthcare benefits are provided, principally to employees recognised income and expense on page 66.
The net recognised within the US businesses, and from 2006 these are now on a defined deficit at the balance sheet date is based on the assets valued at contribution basis for new employees.
market rates on the balance sheet date, and liabilities valued using The main defined benefit schemes are in the UK the ICI UK Pension discount rates also determined from market rates.
This net deficit is Fund and ICI UK Specialty Chemicals Pension Fund, the USA, the thus subject to considerable volatility based on changes in market Netherlands, Germany, Belgium and Canada.
With the exception of conditions.
The detailed assumptions are disclosed in note 26 relating the retirement benefit schemes in Germany and the post-retirement to the Group accounts.
In the income statement the Group has healthcare plans, all the tax-approved schemes are funded.
The chosen to present the net finance expense separately from current funds are generally administered by fund trustees or fiduciaries under and past service costs which are included within operating costs.
trust deeds and legislation appropriate to the relevant jurisdictions.
Legacy issues The ICI UK Pension Fund is by far the largest scheme and makes Group legacy issues relate principally to those businesses divested up 81% of the total Groups defined benefit pension and other following ICIs acquisition of Unilevers Speciality Chemicals businesses post-retirement plan obligations: in addition to 827 employee in 1997.
Their management involves a range of activities concerned members, this fund has 57,618 retired pensioner members and with handling the consequences of such divestments and managing 13,835 deferred pension members.
ICIs interests where the Group has retained certain obligations.
Investment and liability decisions for the funded defined benefit schemes Most legacy issues relating directly to these divestments have been are based on underlying actuarial and economic circumstances with the dealt with.
However, new issues may arise from time to time.
In objective of ensuring that the schemes have sufficient assets to meet addition, some agreements relating to divested businesses have not yet liabilities as they fall due.
Investment strategy is generally to ensure an been novated, although the new business owners fulfil ICIs obligations appropriate balance between risk and reward having regard to the under those agreements.
Over the past few years the scale of the net maturity of the fund.
For example, the ICI UK Pension Fund has 84% contingent liabilities in this area has reduced significantly.
invested in bonds and 16% in equities and other return-seeking assets.
This mix of investments takes account of the proportion of Current activities include managing residual land and property which liabilities relating to pensioner members.
was not sold with the businesses and most are subject to remediation programmes with the expectation that many of these will be sold in The funds are valued regularly, with assistance from independent due course.
actuaries, for funding purposes and are valued at least annually for accounting purposes.
Given the size of the pension liabilities, The Group has made provision for such matters as set out in changes in their value or in the value of the assets in the funds due more detail in note 25 relating to the Group accounts.
More to fluctuations in investment conditions can result in significant details of contingent liabilities can be found in note 33 relating volatility in funding levels and can have a material impact on the to the Group accounts.
A funding valuation of the ICI UK Pension Fund was completed in 2005 and identified a deficit of 657m at 31 March 2005.
Subsequently, the Company agreed to make top-up payments to the ICI UK Pension Fund over nine years, comprising annual payments of 122m for four years starting in 2006 and payments of 62m for the following five years.
com ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2006 21 Business review
