Research and development With the steady growth of ICIs business in China, the provision The Technology Leadership Team, comprising the senior business R&D of technical capabilities in that region is of increasing importance.
managers and leaders of key ICI Technology areas, and led by the Product development laboratories have been established for Paints Senior Vice President of Technology, is responsible for the development and the divisions of National Starch.
In addition, in 2006 we of the Groups technology strategy and its implementation by the R&D committed to the creation of an ICI research laboratory in Shanghai staff employed by the Groups businesses.
In 2006, expenditure on to work as part of our central applied research network.
Ground was R&D in the continuing businesses, excluding Technical Service, broken in the autumn of 2006, recruitment is progressing well and the amounted to 88m 2005 82m.
This expenditure represented laboratory is expected to be fully operational by the end of 2007.
Sustainability and SSHE Each of the Groups businesses is responsible for driving innovation ICI operates according to the triple bottom line of sustainability: to meet the needs of its customers and markets.
The business economic, social and environmental.
A Group Sustainability Policy innovation teams are complemented by a central applied research was adopted in 2002, and the sustainability strategy is an integral resource that aims to provide world-class capabilities that are common part of the Groups business strategy, setting out specific indicators to all the businesses.
The Groups distributed technology network of progress across key activities in all three areas.
Since 1990, ICI has draws on the expertise across ICI, allowing new products and set out five-year Challenge programmes with objectives to deliver processes to be developed and exploited by individual businesses continuous improvement in these activities.
Results for each objective more rapidly, and stimulating new options from the combination of are reported in full every year on ICIs corporate website the technical capabilities of the Groups different businesses.
The Groups prime science and technology areas of materials An Executive Director is responsible at ICI Board level for ICIs science, molecular science and measurement and modelling have sustainability activities.
A sustainability board was established in 2004. been established to support its goals for sustainable product It is made up of senior and middle managers from across the Group development for selected growth markets and to establish its who oversee the Groups sustainability programmes and is chaired by position as a leader in formulation science.
the Group Vice President, Sustainability.
Since 2003, the Group has had a Science Advisory Board which The Group has an internal recognition programme for sustainability includes leading external scientists who work with ICIs senior research excellence.
ICIs Chief Executive gives an award each year to the top executive.
The boards remit is to help challenge and develop the performing team or site in five categories: Safety, Health, Environment, Groups expertise across the breadth of rapidly changing science and Product Stewardship and Community Involvement.
ICIs Chairman technology needed in its businesses.
The Science Advisory Board chooses one of these winners to receive ICIs top sustainability has been closely involved in developing strategy in key capability award each year.
areas such as colloids and complex fluids, novel polymer design, Regulation, safety, security, health and the environment delivery systems, and filler resin systems.
The Science Advisory ICIs businesses are subject to the normal regulatory framework Board also contributes to the choice of external partners.
applicable to a specialty products and paints company, notably Materials science underpins much of the Groups product various health, safety and environmental rules both at national and development.
From such research has come the rapidly growing local levels in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
The scope EASY-PAC range of cool adhesive products, where exceptional of these laws varies across the different businesses and jurisdictions.
packaging bonding ability is reached at lower operating temperatures, The various manufacturing processes require consents and licences, giving increased productivity for key customers.
Fundamental including relevant emission permits.
The Group requires full research on the material physics of filled polymer systems underpins compliance by its businesses with all relevant Safety, Security, Health the growth of the Electronic Materials business of National Starch, and Environment SSHE laws and regulations wherever it operates.
providing systems which have exceptional robustness and ICIs businesses also voluntarily conform to many international and conducting properties.
national codes of best practice.
Molecular sciences underpin several of the Groups product ICI attaches great importance to safety and health, to reducing any development activities.
This has lead to the development of new adverse environmental impact of its activities year-on-year and to latex technologies soft acrylic mini-emulsions, which allow developing products and services with improved environmental features.
formulation of premium performance water-based gloss and trim paints.
For the National Starch food ingredients business, research The main process by which the Group manages SSHE issues and has led to novel starch-based systems which allow for fat uptake seeks to meet its objectives is the Responsible Care Management during cooking and frying.
This sets out standards along with guidelines, training, auditing and procedures for reviewing and reporting These prime technology areas are underpinned by strong capabilities performance, all of which are essential to continuous improvement.
in measurement science and in modelling, both critical elements of ICIs strong formulation science base.
Efficient formulation is a multi-functional business process, and ICI is making investment in designing and implementing a world-class process and enabling tools to support knowledge transfer across ICIs businesses.
com ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2006 17 Business review
