Statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive During 2006, we made major progress in focusing our business: as a result of the Quest and Uniqema disposals, ICI will have a focused portfolio of market-leading coatings, adhesives, starch and synthetic polymer businesses combined with a significantly stronger balance sheet.
During 2006, we made major progress in focusing The Uniqema disposal to Croda International Plc our business portfolio, with the sales of Uniqema, was completed in September for a gross completed in September, and Quest, with completion consideration of 410m.
We would like to thank all expected during the first quarter of 2007.
These Uniqema employees for their great service to ICI, and disposals enable ICI to focus on its coatings, their endeavours to improve the performance of the adhesives, starch and synthetic polymer businesses.
The restructuring of ICI continues and in May we In November, we announced the agreed sale of announced a further transformation programme that Quest to Givaudan SA for 1.2bn.
The consideration will take the Company through to 2011. obtained by ICI reflects the strategic value of Quest Furthermore, we continued to deliver the operating to Givaudan as it enables them to increase their performance improvements set out in our last leadership in the global flavours and fragrance strategic plan.
Against a backdrop of mixed trading industry.
It also reflects the positive trend of Quests conditions, the Group delivered good overall results, performance in recent quarters.
with solid sales growth, sustained trading margins We would like to thank the Quest team for their and a 17% increase in adjusted earnings per share.
outstanding efforts in rebuilding the performance and These were achieved despite further rises in raw value of the business over the past three years.
material costs and weakness in the North American market for decorative paint.
From Turnaround to Transformation As a result of these recent developments combined Our focus on emerging markets continues to deliver with the performance improvements delivered through Peter B Ellwood CBE good results with sales from our Paints and National restructuring, ICI has moved from a turnaround Chairman Starch businesses in developing countries in Asia strategy, which we embarked on in 2003, to one of growing over 14%.
National Starch and Paints John D G McAdam transformation, which we signalled in part with our opened a new manufacturing centre in China for Chief Executive restructuring plans announced in May 2006.
Delivery resins and other polymers.
Construction of a second of our transformation strategy will focus on three Paints plant in Vietnam was also completed.
In important levers accelerating profitable growth, addition, we continue to develop our businesses in sustaining our improvements in operational Latin America, Eastern Europe and the Middle East.
effectiveness and developing a culture of We are also pleased to report a significant sustainable improvement.
strengthening of ICIs balance sheet.
Including the We will focus on accelerating profitable growth by: Uniqema disposal proceeds, Group net debt over the year fell from 763m to 329m a major change continuing the focus on the successful from the late 1990s when year-end net debt peaked development of our core businesses in developing at over 4bn.
Additionally, ICIs overall post-retirement markets in Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin America: benefit deficit fell from 1.7bn to 1.3bn, on an IFRS increased focus on technology: our research basis, during 2006.
We expect further reduction in resources will concentrate on 14 science pillars, net debt and the pension fund deficit following the which will support ICIs innovation programmes completion of the Quest disposal.
across all our paints, adhesives, polymer and Major business portfolio developments starch businesses.
This will help deliver a more As a result of the Quest and Uniqema disposals, significant contribution from new products to future ICI will have a focused portfolio of market-leading revenues: and coatings, adhesives, starch and synthetic polymer strengthening our target market positions through businesses combined with a significantly stronger selected acquisitions, innovative technology balance sheet.
04 ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
com Statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive
