ICI Group strategy and progress ICI is now well positioned to focus on transforming the performance of its core businesses.
As a result, ICIs future development will focus on accelerating profitable growth, improving operational effectiveness and developing a culture of sustainable improvement.
FROM TURNAROUND ICIs Vision Strategic focus on performance improvement ICIs vision is to become the leader in formulation science, creating As a result of an underperformance in a number of ICIs businesses complex mixtures that deliver the effects valued by consumers and in the years up to 2003, ICI had found itself in challenging financial customers.
To achieve this leadership goal, and through this create circumstances and a turnaround in performance was required, superior returns for shareholders, the Group is building a portfolio of driven by operational improvement initiatives within ICI.
As a result, businesses that are leaders in their respective industries, bringing ICI pursued a clear strategy to create and capture additional value together consumer understanding, outstanding knowledge of customer from three principal sources: needs and processes, and leading edge technology platforms to Differentiated resource allocation provide a distinctive, competitive advantage for its customers.
Investing in technology and marketing in those businesses where Strategic alignment of ICIs businesses sustainable competitive advantage can be created: At the last strategic review, ICIs business units were evaluated in Cost and capital effectiveness terms of market attractiveness e. g. financial strength and sustainability Achieving a step-change in cost and capital effectiveness for ICI overall and competitive position e. g. quality of products, technology and in the near term through the successful delivery of restructuring, market share.
Reflecting their different strengths and weaknesses, and sustainably through changing the organisation, culture and each business was then mapped onto the 2x2 matrix shown below.
behaviour in ICI to consistently deliver improvements: and This matrix is fundamental to the strategic development of the business.
For example, ICI intends to invest to support growth in Strategy execution businesses with strong positions in high-growth markets the grow A greater focus on strategy execution, upgrading operational aggressively segments which are more attractive in the long term.
capabilities and enhancing rewards for shortto medium-term In contrast, ICI will invest to improve cost and capital effectiveness performance delivery.
in its businesses in relatively low growth markets the maintain The strategy was underpinned by a clear set of strategic plan targets selectively segments with the aim of continued cost effectiveness that focused attention on delivering appropriate levels of sales growth, and resilient financial performance.
improving trading margin and returns on capital employed and generating sustained cash flow.
1 ICIs strategic matrix This turnaround strategy has continued through 2006 and examples Maintain aggressively Grow aggressively of what has been done can be found in the following section as well Paints North America Paints Asia as in the business descriptions on pages 9 to 11.
Paints UK & Ireland Adhesives Asia Packaging Coatings Starch Asia Strategic Progress in 2006 Pan-Atlantic Adhesives Electronic Materials Pan-Atlantic Starch Overall, 2006 has been another good year with ICI making further strategic progress.
Against the strategic plan targets, comparable Maintain selectively Grow selectively Regional and Industrial Specialty Polymers sales growth of 6% compared well with estimated real growth in Paints Continental Europe global GDP of 3.9%.
In addition, after adjusting for discontinued Paints Latin America Adhesives Latin America activities, our businesses sustained their improved efficiency despite Starch Latin America some cost pressures, with overall trading margin unchanged from Strategic approach 2005 at 10.4%.
Taken together with improved capital management, this has helped the Group improve return on capital employed on the 1 same basis by 1.7%, to 18.3%, and again generate positive cash flow Continuing businesses only.
before acquisitions and divestments of 26m in 2006 2005 170m despite increased pension contributions and restructuring costs.
Source: Oxford Economics December 2006 1965 1968-71 1971 1984 ICI launches Inderal, the first beta-blocker ICI develops protein substitute, The acquisition of Atlas Chemical ICI is the first UK listed company for treatment of hypertension and other Pruteen.
A commercial failure Industries in 1971 gives ICI a base to achieve 1bn in annual heart ailments, created by Sir James Black.
for ICI, it leads others to develop for expansion into the USA.
He later wins a Nobel Prize for medicine.
high-fibre, low calorie, no cholesterol protein replacements.
com ICI Annual Review 2006 05 Strategic stance ICI Group strategy and progress TO TRANSFORMATION Overall, comparable sales growth for continuing businesses which There were several major strategic moves made during the year ICI intends to grow aggressively was over 10% in 2006.
Capital that will have a significant impact on ICI going forward.
In September expenditure for these operations was in excess of depreciation as the 2006, ICI completed the sale of Uniqema, its oleochemicals and businesses made further investments in growth opportunities.
Paints derivatives business, to Croda International Plc for 410m.
In and National Starch commissioned a joint facility in Shanghai to November, ICI announced the proposed sale of Quest to Givaudan manufacture a range of specialty resins and polymers for adhesive SA for 1.2bn.
In addition, ICI began construction of a new Developing ICIs strategy for 2007 onwards technology centre in Shanghai and ICI Paints invested in new As a result of these two major divestments, together with the manufacturing projects in China and Vietnam.
Product innovation improved financial performance of the remaining businesses, ICI is was once again a strong driver of new business and the Group now well positioned to focus on transforming the performance of its maintained its investments in research and development R&D, core businesses rather than just securing a turnaround.
As a result, as well as applications engineering, to support growth.
ICIs future development will focus on three major areas of activity: Both ICI Paints and National Starch made good progress in the key accelerating profitable growth: developing economies of Asia with full year comparable growth of continuing to make substantial improvements to operational 16% for the Decorative Paint business and 13% for National Starch.
effectiveness: and As a result, together with the impact of divestments, reported sales in Asia were 27% 2005 24% of the Group total.
creating a culture of sustainable improvement.
At the same time as investing in grow businesses ICI sustained its Against each of these the Group has set out a number of targeted focus on restructuring, principally benefiting its maintain activities.
key performance indicators that align the delivery of change and Cumulative savings from the programme launched in 2003 reached performance within the organisation with the strategic objectives.
In May, the Group launched a major new programme that These are explained in more detail below.
will take the Group through to 2011, expected to deliver gross cost ICI will focus on accelerating profitable growth through a savings per annum of some 170m from a net cash investment of combination of organic and acquisition growth.
been successful in leveraging its strong technologies and consumer 2006 key performance indicators insight to develop products needed by its customers in their end Title Description Performance to date markets.
Going forward, there will be greater focus on aligning R&D and product development across the Group, leveraging ICIs vision Sales Average sales revenue Average sales growth over plan Growth growth at, or better than, the period to the end of 2006 is 6%, of leadership in formulation science with investments in an enhanced growth in real GDP over the above the estimated rate of growth technology organisation.
In addition, improved organic growth is four-year period 2004 to 2007 in real GDP of 3.8% expected to be supplemented by acquisitions in the core coatings, Group Increase by an average Increased by on average 0.5% adhesives, starch and synthetic polymer businesses.
These will trading of 0.5% per annum from over last three years focus on strengthening ICIs competitive position, in terms of regional margin 2003 to 2007 expansion and market exposures, specific target customers and innovative technologies.
Over time, the objective is to strengthen ICIs leadership Improved Increase by an average of Increased by on average 1.8% return on 1% per annum, to around over the last three years positions in its chosen markets where it can sustain profitable growth capital 14% in 2007 and competitive advantage.
employed Related key performance indicators Cash flow Generate positive cash flow Positive cash flows every year before acquisitions and since 2004 Title Description Comments divestments on a sustainable basis from 2005 onwards Strengthen Establish or strengthen #1 Developing strong market positions with target or #2 positions in attractive good competitive advantage will help Source: Oxford Economics, December 2006 market market niches that can secure profitable growth in the long term positions sustain profitable growth Capitalise on Grow ICIs business in target Strong sales growth for ICIs growth high growth developing markets at an businesses in target developing markets developing average three times the rate is closely aligned to establishing a markets of growth of global GDP competitively advantaged, more profitable business in these attractive markets Use Sustain at least a 25% Commercialising new products which innovation contribution to annual sales address key customer needs for innovation to drive from products developed in and value will contribute to profitable profitable the last three years growth and improved trading margins growth 1990 1993 1994 ICI launches SHE Challenge 1995, its first ICI fide-merges its pharmaceutical and ICI opens its first Paints plant in five-year safety, health and environmental agrochemicals division to form Zeneca the Peoples Republic of China, improvement programme.
after re-entering the market in 1990 following a 34-year absence.
com ICI Group strategy and progress At the same time, ICI will sustain its programme of restructuring to Functional strategies improve operational effectiveness across the Group.
The initiatives, Alongside these broad strategic objectives for ICI, the Group has a started in 2006, bring a new focus on shared services and pan-ICI number of individual functional strategies led by the senior management functional efficiencies.
This includes transforming ICIs IT infrastructure, boards.
The functional strategies for Technology Research and Finance and Human Resource activities.
Together with strong Development and Sustainability are central to ICIs vision for commercial management this should enable ICI to sustain good leadership in formulation science.
The Technology function will margins relative to appropriate industry peers.
contribute to accelerating profitable growth by creating customerfocused, business-led innovations: developing leadership in Related key performance indicators formulation science in part by leveraging shared science platforms, Title Description Comments notably in coatings and adhesion: building our technical capability Top quartile ICIs trading margins should Against industry benchmarks, deliver in developing markets: and using a focused organisation which has profitability be top quartile against a performance which positions ICI as one of advanced tools for knowledge management.
range of industry peers the best in class.
Against an average of industry peers ICI should expect to sustain Through our Sustainability Challenge 2010 programme, ICI aims upper quartile performance to meet the expectations of customers, consumers and other Improved Improve ROCE by on average Since 2003 ICI has made significant stakeholders in a sustainable way that is responsible, enhances quality return on 1.0% over the next four years improvements in ROCE 1.8% per annum of life and makes money.
Summary information about Sustainability is capital to 2010, adjusting for the on average.
With an increased focus on impact of acquisitions and transforming the performance of ICI through set out on page 8.
More detail on ICI strategies for Technology and divestments investing in the growth opportunities and Sustainability can be found in the ICI Annual Report 2007 and on the capabilities of the business, ROCE growth corporate website: www.
As a result, our new goal will be to improve returns by on Procurement purchases in excess of 3bn of raw materials, average 1.0% per annum consumables and services each year.
Our procurement strategy looks to reduce the cost of bought in materials and services whilst Underpinning these initiatives, ICI will develop a culture of maximising the security and sustainability of supply.
In 2006 the sustainable improvement, investing where necessary to support procurement team completed over 25 key commodity or raw material the accelerated profitable growth objectives and its commitment strategies and put in place five major supplier strategies.
ICIs people and culture are reflected in a major the procurement function will be implementing additional commodity initiative within the Group to embed a series of values and principles and supplier strategies and undertaking a functional capability review collectively known as The ICI Way.
This process is expected to take in several key areas of operation.
a number of years and should help align ICIs people around the transformation strategy.
In addition, the Groups long standing fiveFinance and Human Resources are implementing organisational year Challenge programmes which contain numerous targets for models that leverage centres of excellence for example in taxation, improvement in ICIs operations, health & safety, environmental treasury, recruitment and reward, utilise shared service infrastructures performance, supply chain and other external relationships, underpin for routine activities and provide focused resources for business the commitment to sustainability, which remains at the heart of ICIs partnering to help improve the quality of commercial and strategic approach to doing business.
Related key performance indicators Within Information Technology, ICI is improving its infrastructure and undertaking a major programme of enterprise resource planning Title Description Comments development ERP, initially within the Paints, Adhesives and Safe working Achieve the 2010 milestone The Group remains focused on continual Electronic Materials businesses.
As a result of this long-term initiative, environment total reportable case TRC improvement initiatives which should sustain rate of 0.56 the progress to date and help achieve the the Group should benefit from improved management information 2010 milestone and greater process efficiencies and controls, as well as higher levels Environmental Reduce greenhouse gas Greenhouse gas emissions including CO of customer service.
2 impact emissions per tonne of is one of many environmental measures production by 5% by 2010 adopted by the Group and reflects a critical area of long-term importance to the environment.
ICIs absolute emissions are already 95% below the levels of 1990, with over half of this reduction achieved through performance improvement during three Challenge periods.
A further 5% reduction per tonne of production by 2010 would reflect additional good progress 1997 1998 1999-2000 2002 The Company begins to transform ICI Paints opens a second plant in ICI essentially completes its 834m rights issue restores ICIs its portfolio, buying Unilevers China, built to produce 35 million bulk chemical divestments after financial stability and sustains Speciality Chemicals Division.
litres of water-borne paint annually.
more than 50 transactions, credit ratings.
com ICI Annual Review 2006 07 ICI Group strategy and progress
