Board of Directors and Executive Management Team 1 3 5 7 9 11 2 4 6 8 10 12 1.
Peter B Ellwood, CBE In 1974 he joined Unilever as a In 1994 he moved to Unilever Food & 5.
Charles F Knott Chairman management trainee and held a variety Beverages, Europe, as Senior Vice Director Appointed Deputy Chairman on 27 June of managerial positions within Birds Eye President, Finance and Information Appointed a Director on 1 September 2003 and Chairman with effect from Foods before joining the Board of Technology.
He is Chairman and Chief Executive 1 January 2004.
Unilevers flavours and fragrance business, Executive Chairman, Unilever Taiwan and of Quest International and has regional PPF International, as Technical Director.
then, in 2001, assumed the role of oversight responsibilities for Group Peter Ellwood joined Barclays Bank in In 1987, he joined the Board of Quest Executive Chairman, Unilever China and, activities in Europe, the Middle East and 1961 where he held a number of senior International as Senior Vice President in more recently, of Unilever Hong Kong as Africa.
Charles Knott also has Board roles including Chief Executive of charge of Manufacturing, Logistics and well.
Alan Brown has had a distinguished responsibility for Sustainability throughout Barclaycard from 1985 to 1989.
Procurement before returning to Birds career as a senior finance professional and the Group.
In 1989 he joined TSB Bank as Chief Eye Walls, where he assumed Board general manager within Unilever and Charles Knott graduated from Newcastle Executive, Retail Banking, was appointed responsibility for Manufacturing, Research possesses a considerable breadth of University in 1976 with an honours degree a Director of TSB Group in 1990 and and Development.
commercial and international experience, in Mathematics and Statistics.
He joined became Group Chief Executive in 1992. having worked extensively in Asia and In 1993 he was appointed Chairman of National Starch and Chemical Company Following the merger with Lloyds Bank Continental Europe.
Unichema International and, following in 1984 as Commercial Director of Laingin 1995, he became Deputy Group Chief ICIs acquisition of the Unilever Speciality National in Manchester and subsequently Executive of Lloyds TSB Group plc, 4.
David C M Hamill Chemical businesses in 1997, became served in Germany and the Netherlands subsequently becoming Group Chief Director Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of before returning to the UK in 1990 as Executive in 1997 until his retirement Appointed a Director on 8 December Quest and a member of the ICI Executive Managing Director of National Starchs in 2003.
He is Chairman and Chief Executive Management Team.
In January 1998 he UK Adhesives operations.
International from 1994 to 1999. of ICI Paints.
was appointed Chairman and Chief Charles Knott was appointed Divisional Peter Ellwood was made a Commander of Executive of ICI Paints and the following David Hamill joined the Company from Vice President, Performance Adhesives, the Order of the British Empire for services year he was elected to the Board of ICI Royal Philips Electronics where he was in the USA and in 1994 became Senior to banking in 2001 and is a Fellow of the with additional responsibility for Research, a member of the Group Management Divisional Vice President and General Chartered Institute of Bankers.
He has Development and Technology and ICIs Committee.
A graduate in Production Manager for the US Adhesives business.
received Honorary Doctorates from both activities in Asia.
Engineering and Management from Leicester University and the University of Strathclyde University, David Hamill In 1995 he relocated to Singapore to lead John McAdam is a business leader with Central England.
He is Chairman of the UK worked for Honeywell and General National Starchs Asia-Pacific operations a strong focus on results and extensive Royal Parks Advisory Board, The Royal Instruments before joining Philips as Corporate Vice President.
He was knowledge of ICIs operations around the Parks Charitable Foundation and The Semiconductors as product manager appointed National Starch Chief Operating world.
The Board believes that the Work Foundation of Great Britain.
He held a number of senior Officer in January 2001.
In March 2003 he combination of knowledge, drive and positions within Philips Power became Chairman and Chief Executive of He is also a Director of the Royal leadership he is bringing to bear on the Semiconductors and Lighting businesses, Quest International, and Executive Vice Philharmonic Orchestra and a Nonissues facing ICI is serving both the becoming President of Philips Lighting President and member of the Executive Executive Director of First Data Company and its shareholders well.
Asia Pacific in 1996 and Executive Vice Management Team of ICI.
In his business career He is Senior Independent Director of President of Philips Lighting and Chief Peter Ellwood has been a leader in driving In April 2006, Charles Knott was J Sainsbury plc and is a member of the Executive Officer of the Lamps business strategic and structural change and appointed a Non-Executive Director of University of Cambridge Chemistry group two years later.
efficiency improvement and he brings to Imperial Tobacco Group PLC.
Aged 58. his role as Chairman extensive business In May 2001 he became President and experience, energy and determination.
Chief Executive Officer of Philips Lighting.
Non-Executive Director Chief Financial Officer David Hamill has held senior management Appointed a Non-Executive Director on Appointed a Director and Chief Financial roles in Europe and Asia where he has 2.
He has a Masters degree in Officer on 14 November 2005. gained considerable production, Chief Executive Physics from the University of Amsterdam commercial, marketing and finance Appointed a Director on 1 March 1999 Alan Brown read law at Liverpool University and joined Philips as a project manager experience.
Whilst his experience with and Chief Executive on 9 April 2003.
He and was called to the Bar in 1981.
He is in 1969. large retail customers has specific joined the Company in 1997 following the also a member of the Chartered Institute relevance for ICI Paints, his broader He has held a series of senior positions acquisition of the Speciality Chemicals of Management Accountants.
business expertise, and in particular his with Philips in Europe and North America.
He joined Unilever in 1980 and during the understanding of Asian markets, is of From 1984 to 1986 he was Vice Chairman John McAdam graduated from first seven years of his career worked in value to the Group as a whole.
of Philips Industrial Electronics in Manchester University with a first class Birds Eye Walls in the UK.
After four years Eindhoven and two years later was Until December 2005, David Hamill was honours degree in Chemical Physics and, in Mergers & Acquisitions, Treasury and appointed Executive Vice President, a Non-Executive Director of BPB plc.
after completing his doctorate, was Investor Relations at Unilever Head Office, North American Philips.
He was Managing Aged 49. awarded a research fellowship.
Alan Brown returned to Birds Eye Walls as Director of Philips Business Electronics Finance and Commercial Director in 1991. from 1993 to 1996 and Chief Executive Officer and a Member of the Group Management Committee from 1996 to 1998.
In 1998 he was appointed Executive Vice President, Royal Philips Electronics and Member of the Management Board, a position which he held until 2001.
36 ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
com Board of Directors, governance and remuneration In addition, he was formerly the Chairman He became Secretary of TRW in 1970 and 10.
Baroness Noakes, DBE Officers of the Company of Integrated Production and Test Vice President in 1972.
He served as Vice Non-Executive Director The persons listed above together with Engineering NV, and a Director of President and General Counsel from 1976 Appointed a Non-Executive Director on David J Gee, Executive Vice President, Medquist, NPM Capital, PSA Corporation to 1980 when he was elected Executive 1 March 2004.
A law graduate of Bristol Regional and Industrial businesses, are Limited Port of Singapore Authority, Vice President and given responsibility for University, Baroness Noakes has extensive regarded as the Officers of the Company Hesse-Noord Natie, Port of Antwerp, ASM the Industrial & Energy business unit.
In experience both in the City, as a senior for the purposes of the Annual Report and International NV and PSA Europe Limited.
1985 he was appointed President and partner of KPMG, from which she retired Accounts.
Leonard J Berlik was an Officer Chief Operating Officer of the Company in 2000, and as an adviser to the until the completion of the divestment of He is currently the Chairman of Wolters and three years later became Chairman UK Government.
Kluwer NV, the Chairman of Hagemeyer and Chief Executive Officer.
NV, a Director of OCE NV, a Non-Executive She joined Peat Marwick Mitchell & Co Key management personnel Director of International Power plc, A past Chairman of the US-Japan now KPMG in 1970 and was made a For the purposes of disclosure under Chairman of the Trust Office of KAS BANK Business Council, he received Japans partner in 1983.
Her experience was a IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures as in NV, and Chairman of the Supervisory 1994 Prime Ministers Trade Award for his combination of corporate and public note 2 relating to the Group accounts on Board of AFM the Authority for Financial contribution to promoting improved USsector work and she led KPMGs page 71, key management personnel are Markets in the Netherlands.
He is also on Japan trade relations.
He has served on international government practice.
considered to comprise the Directors and the Board of the University of Amsterdam the Boards of the US-China Business From 1979 to 1981 she was seconded to Officers of the Company.
and the Amsterdam Medical Centre and Council and the Prince of Wales Business HM Treasury.
In a further secondment in is Vice Chairman of Koninklijke Volker Leaders Forum and was a member of 1988, she joined the Department of Health Wessels Stevin NV.
Adri Baan is a Dutch the Presidents Export Council.
He is a as Director of Finance and Corporate national.
Aged 64. trustee of the Centre for Strategic and New Directors appointed between Information on the NHS Management International Studies and also serves Annual General Meetings to fill casual Executive, the Board chaired by the NHS 7.
Lord Butler of Brockwell, the Council on Competitiveness as a vacancies, or as additional Directors, Chief Executive.
She was a Director of the KG, GCB, CVO co-industry vice chair and member of retire at the Annual General Meeting Bank of England from 1994 to 2001, Senior Independent Director the executive committee.
following their appointment and are becoming the Senior Non-Executive Appointed a Non-Executive Director on eligible for election.
At each Annual Joseph Gorman is a Director of Alcoa, Director in 1998.
Since 1 January 2002 he has General Meeting one third of the other Inc.
The Procter & Gamble Company, Director of John Laing plc from 2002 to been the Boards Senior Independent Directors, or if their number is not three National City Corporation and TMG 2004 and has also served as President of Director.
or a multiple of three, the nearest to International AB.
Joseph Gorman is a the Institute of Chartered Accountants in one third being those longest in office After graduating with a double first in US citizen.
since their last election or re-election, Mods and Greats Literae Humaniores Baroness Noakes is currently the Senior also retire and are eligible for from University College, Oxford, Lord 9.
Richard N Haythornthwaite Independent Director at both Carpetright re-election.
In addition, any Director Butler joined the Treasury in 1961 where Non-Executive Director plc and SThree plc.
She is also a who has been in office for three years he held a succession of posts before Appointed a Non-Executive Director on Non-Executive Director of Hanson plc or more since his or her last re-election becoming Private Secretary to the 20 February 2001.
He is Chairman of the and the English National Opera and is shall retire at the Annual General Financial Secretary in 1964 and Secretary ICI Remuneration Committee.
also a trustee of the Reuters Founders Meeting.
of the Budget Committee from 1965 to A graduate of The Queens College, Share Company.
He was seconded to the Bank of William H Powell stepped down from Oxford with a degree in Geology and a England in 1969 and subsequently acted the Board in April 2006 and retired from Sloan Fellow of the Massachusetts Institute Executive Management Team as Private Secretary to three Prime the Group at the end of October 2006. of Technology, Richard Haythornthwaite The Executive Management Team Ministers Rt.
Edward Heath 1972- has over 25 years of international industry comprises the Executive Directors and Adri Baan, David Hamill and Baroness 74, Rt.
Harold Wilson 1974-75 and experience covering a broad mix of the following: Noakes retire under Article 96 of the Rt.
Margaret Thatcher 1982-85. strategic and operational roles.
In 1985 Lord Butler became second 11.
Rolf Deusinger All three Directors are recommended He has extensive experience in Permanent Secretary, Public Expenditure, Appointed a member of the Executive for re-election.
organisational and cultural change HM Treasury, and in 1988 he was Management Team on 1 July 2002. leadership, cost reduction programmes, In addition, Lord Butler retires in appointed as Secretary of the Cabinet and He is Executive Vice President Human results-driven performance initiatives and accordance with the policy set out Head of the Home Civil Service.
He joined the Company in negotiating and executing acquisitions on page 38.
He is recommended for from the Civil Service in 1998.
October 1999 as Senior Vice President and divestments worldwide.
Human Resources for ICI Paints.
He is currently Master of University Richard Haythornthwaites career began Previously he was Head of International All Executive Directors are employed on College, Oxford, and a Non-Executive with BP plc where he held a variety of Human Resources for Messer Griesheim rolling contracts, subject to not more Director of HSBC Holdings plc.
In 1999 positions in its European and American GmbH based in Germany.
He has more than one years notice.
he served on the Royal Commission on operations from 1978 to 1995, including than 20 years of international experience Reform of the House of Lords and in 2004 No Director or Officer has a family General Manager of the Magnus Oilfield in the field of Human Resources, chaired the UK Review of Intelligence on relationship with any other Director and President of BP Venezuela.
predominantly in consumer businesses, Weapons of Mass Destruction.
including PepsiCo, covering the Americas, trustee of the Rhodes Trust, a Visitor of the In 1995 he joined the Board of Premier Oil, Europe and Central Asia.
Rolf Deusinger Ashmolean Museum and a member of the where he was responsible for corporate is a German national.
Marsh & McLennan International Advisory and commercial affairs, and two years Board.
In addition, he is a member of The later joined Blue Circle Industries plc as 12.
Andy M Ransom Foundation of the College of St George, Chief Executive of Heavy Building Appointed a member of the Executive Windsor Castle, the Mitsubishi Oxford Materials in Europe and Asia.
He was Management Team on 1 July 2005.
He is Foundation and a Council member of appointed Group Chief Executive of Blue General Counsel, Executive Vice President The Ditchley Foundation.
Following its acquisition Mergers and Acquisitions and Company of Blue Circle in 2001, he became a Secretary.
A graduate of the University of 8.
Joseph T Gorman Non-Executive Director of Lafarge S. A. Southampton, Andy Ransom qualified as Non-Executive Director standing down from that Board in July a solicitor in 1987 and joined ICI in the Appointed a Non-Executive Director on 2003.
From 1999 to 2003 he was a same year, specialising as a senior 20 September 2000.
He is Chairman of Non-Executive Director of Cookson mergers and acquisitions lawyer in the the ICI Audit Committee.
In addition, from 2001 until Corporate Centre.
He was seconded to 2005, Richard Haythornthwaite was Group A graduate of Kent State University and ICI Explosives in Toronto, Canada in 1996 Chief Executive Officer of Invensys plc.
holding a doctorate from Yale Law School, and became Vice President and General Joseph Gorman practised law for five He is currently Managing Director of Star Counsel for ICI in the Americas, based in years before, in 1962, joining the legal Capital Partners, Non-Executive Chairman New Jersey, USA, two years later.
In 2000 department of TRW Inc. a multi-national, of Mastercard, Inc. Chairman of the he was appointed Group Vice President diversified company specialising in space, Better Regulation Commission, Chairman Mergers and Acquisitions, before being defence and automotive systems.
of the Almeida Theatre Company Limited appointed to his current role.
Aged 43. and a Board Member of the British Council, The National Museum of Science & Industry and a Director of Otus Associates Limited.
com ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2006 37 Board of Directors, governance and remuneration
