Adoption and disclosure of corporate governance guidelines Overall responsibility for ensuring that there is effective communication US companies listed on the NYSE are required to adopt and disclose with investors and that the Board understands the views of major corporate governance guidelines.
The Listing Rules of the UK shareholders on matters such as governance and strategy rests with Financial Services Authority require each listed company incorporated the Chairman, who makes himself available to meet shareholders for in the United Kingdom to include in its Annual Report and Accounts this purpose.
On a day-to-day basis the Boards primary contact with a narrative statement of how it has applied the principles of the major shareholders is via the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer, Combined Code and a statement as to whether or not it has who have regular dialogue with individual institutional shareholders and complied with the provisions of the Combined Code throughout the deliver presentations to analysts after the quarterly results.
The Senior accounting period covered by the Annual Report and Accounts.
Independent Director and other members of the Board, however, are also available to meet major investors on request.
The Senior As stated on page 38, ICI has applied the principles contained Independent Director has a specific responsibility to be available to in Section I of the Combined Code and has complied throughout shareholders who have concerns, for whom contact with the Chairman, 2006, and to the date of this Annual Report and Accounts, with Chief Executive or Chief Financial Officer has either failed to resolve the provisions set out therein as they apply to the Company.
The their concerns, or for whom such contact is inappropriate.
Combined Code does not require ICI to disclose the full range of corporate governance guidelines with which it complies.
The Board commissions an independent survey of investor views covering both the UK and USA on a biennial basis which provides In compliance with the governance rules of the NYSE and Rule 10A-3 valuable feedback from investors.
The survey includes a specific of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has determined opportunity for investors to comment on the quality of the that each member of the ICI Audit Committee satisfies the SEC communication they receive in their contact with the Chief Executive independence requirements.
As part of this determination the and Chief Financial Officer.
Company confirms that no compensation from the ICI Group has been received by any child or stepchild sharing a home with an Audit Individual shareholders have the opportunity at the Annual General Committee member.
The Company has filed with the NYSE a written Meeting to question the Chairman and, through him, the Chairmen affirmation that the Audit Committee complies with Section 303A of of the Remuneration and Audit Committees.
As an alternative, the NYSEs Listed Company Manual.
shareholders can leave written questions for response by the Company.
After the Annual General Meeting, shareholders can meet informally Principles of business conduct with the Directors.
To ensure transparency, and in accordance with As a leading international company, ICIs reputation for high ethical the principle that every share should be entitled to a vote, all votes at standards is central to its business success.
ICIs Code of Conduct, shareholder meetings, other than on procedural issues, are taken by the Code was updated in 2006 and provides guidance in this way of a poll.
It applies to all ICI employees, including Directors and Officers.
A confidential, independently operated, whistleblowing service is also Annual General Meeting provided to enable staff to report any suspected non-compliance.
The Notice convening the Annual General Meeting, to be held on The Code is published on ICIs corporate website www.
com and Wednesday 23 May 2007, is contained in a separate letter from the is available in paper form from the Company Secretariat on request.
Chairman accompanying this Annual Report and Accounts.
In line with Combined Code recommended best practice, at least 20 In 2006 the Board adopted a new updated Group Antitrust Compliance working days notice of the AGM is provided by the Company.
This Policy sits within the framework of the Companys Code of Business Conduct and is a key element of effective corporate The following Directors will seek re-election at the AGM: Lord Butler, governance.
The Policy states the Companys zero tolerance Mr Baan, Mr Hamill and Baroness Noakes.
approach to breaches of antitrust law.
The Company is also updating Further details on the business to be transacted at the Annual and strengthening its existing antitrust training programmes to General Meeting are contained in the Notice.
support the objectives of the Policy.
Companies Act 2006 Shareholder communications The Companies Act 2006 was enacted on 8 November 2006 and Communications with shareholders are given a high priority.
The will replace the major part of the Companies Acts 1985 and 1989 Companys financial reports are available to shareholders in paper and much of the Companies Audit, Investigations and Community and electronic form.
The Company is developing plans to ensure financial and other information about ICI and contains an archive of that it will comply with the requirements of the new legislation as and past announcements and Annual Reports.
Shareholders have the opportunity to receive documents such as Corporate Governance Rating the Notice of Meeting, form of proxy, the Annual Report and Annual In a report issued in July 2006 Governance Metrics International, a Review in electronic form via the Internet rather than in paper form global corporate governance ratings agency, ICI was ranked among through the post.
Shareholders choosing this option will receive the top UK companies, with an overall global corporate governance a notification by e-mail each time the Company publishes such rating of 8.5 out of a possible 10. documentation on its website.
Shareholders may also appoint proxies electronically.
com ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2006 43 Board of Directors, governance and remuneration
