Board of Directors and Executive Management Team 1 3 5 7 9 11 2 4 6 8 10 12 1.
Charles F Knott Joseph Gorman is a trustee of the Centre 12.
Andy M Ransom Chairman Director for Strategic and International Studies Appointed a member of the Executive Appointed a Non-Executive Director and Appointed a Director on 1 September and also serves the Council on Management Team in 2005.
He is General Deputy Chairman on 27 June 2003 and 2004.
He is Chairman and Chief Executive Competitiveness as a co-industry vice Counsel, Executive Vice President Chairman with effect from 1 January 2004. of Quest International and has regional chair and member of the executive Mergers and Acquisitions and Company oversight responsibilities for Group committee.
He was formerly Chairman and Secretary.
Andy Ransom joined ICI in 1987 Peter Ellwood was Group Chief Executive activities in Europe, the Middle East and Chief Executive Officer of TRW Inc.
He is and held a number of senior legal and of Lloyds TSB Group plc from 1997 until Africa.
He also has Board responsibility currently a Director of Alcoa, Inc.
The M&A positions in the UK, Canada and his retirement in 2003.
He is Chairman of for Sustainability.
Procter & Gamble Company, National City USA.
Aged 43. the UK Royal Parks Advisory Board and Corporation and TMG International AB.
The Work Foundation of Great Britain.
He Charles Knott joined National Starch and Aged 69.
Officers of the Company is also a Director of the Royal Philharmonic Chemical in 1984 and held a variety of The persons listed above together with Orchestra and a Non-Executive Director of positions in Europe, the USA and Asia 9.
Richard N Haythornthwaite David J Gee, Executive Vice President, First Data Corporation, Inc.
In April 2006, he was appointed Non-Executive Director Regional and Industrial Businesses, are a Non-Executive Director of Imperial Appointed a Non-Executive Director on regarded as the Officers of the Company 2.
John D G McAdam Tobacco Group PLC.
He is Chairman of the for the purposes of the Annual Report Chief Executive ICI Remuneration Committee.
Adri Baan and Chief Executive on 9 April 2003.
Non-Executive Director Richard Haythornthwaite has over 25 Appointed a Non-Executive Director on years of international industry experience, John McAdam joined the Company in New Directors appointed between 25 June 2001. holding senior positions in a wide range of 1997 following the acquisition of the Annual General Meetings to fill casual organisations including BP and Premier Unilever Speciality Chemicals businesses.
Adri Baan was an Executive Vice President vacancies, or as additional Directors, Oil.
More recently he was Chief Executive He is a business leader with a strong of Royal Philips Electronics and President retire at the Annual General Meeting of Blue Circle Industries plc and of focus on results and extensive knowledge and Chief Executive Officer of their following their appointment and are Invensys Plc.
of ICIs operations around the world.
He is eligible for election.
At each Annual He is the Senior Independent Director currently a Non-Executive Director of He is a Managing Director of Star Capital General Meeting of the Companys of J Sainsbury plc and a member of the International Power plc, Chairman of the Partners, Non-Executive Chairman of shareholders one-third of the other University of Cambridge Chemistry Trust Office of KAS BANK NV, and Mastercard, Inc, and the Almeida Theatre Directors, or if their number is not three Advisory Board.
Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Company Limited and a Board Member or a multiple of three, the nearest to AFM the Authority for Financial Markets of the British Council and the National one-third being those longest in office 3.
Alan Brown in the Netherlands.
He is Chairman of the Museum of Science & Industry.
Aged 50. since their last election or re-election Chief Financial Officer Supervisory Board of Hagemeyer NV and also retire and are eligible for re-election.
Appointed a Director and Chief Financial of Wolters Kluwer NV and a member of 10.
Baroness Noakes, DBE In addition, any Director who has been Officer on 14 November 2005. the Oc NV Supervisory Board.
He is also Non-Executive Director in office for three years or more since on the Board of the Amsterdam Medical Appointed a Non-Executive Director on his or her last re-election shall retire at Alan Brown joined Unilever in 1980 Centre, and is Vice Chairman of 1 March 2004.
Baroness Noakes has the Annual General Meeting.
and held a variety of senior roles in the Koninklijke Volker Wessels Stevin NV.
extensive experience both in the City, as Company, culminating in his appointment William Powell stepped down from the Aged 64. a senior partner of KPMG, from which she in 2001 as Executive Chairman, Unilever Board in April 2006 and retired from retired in 2000, and as an adviser to the China and, more recently, of Unilever the Group at the end of October 2006.
Lord Butler of Brockwell, UK Government.
KG, GCB, CVO Adri Baan, David Hamill and Baroness She is currently the Senior Independent Senior Independent Director Noakes retire under Article 96 of the 4.
David C M Hamill Director at both Carpetright plc and Appointed a Non-Executive Director Companys Articles of Association.
She is also a Non-Executive on 1 July 1998.
Since 1 January 2002 All three Directors are recommended Appointed a Director on 8 December Director of Hanson plc and the English he has been the Boards Senior for re-election.
He is Chairman and Chief Executive National Opera and is a Trustee of the Independent Director.
of ICI Paints with regional oversight Reuters Founders Share Company.
In addition, Lord Butler retires in responsibility for Asia.
Lord Butler is currently Master of University Aged 57. accordance with the policy set out College, Oxford and a Non-Executive on page 14.
He is recommended for David Hamill joined ICI in 2003.
Previously, Director of HSBC Holdings plc.
He is also The Executive Management Team re-election.
he held senior management roles in a trustee of the Globe Trust, a trustee of comprises the Executive Directors Europe and Asia with Royal Philips All Executive Directors are employed the Rhodes Trust and Chairman of the and the following: Electronics, gaining considerable on rolling contracts, subject to no more Churchill Museum UK Appeal Committee.
Rolf Deusinger than one years notice.
He is also a member of The Foundation finance experience.
Until December 2005 Appointed a member of the Executive of the College of St George, Windsor No Director or Officer has a family he was a Non-Executive Director of Management Team in 2002.
He is Castle, the Mitsubishi Oxford Foundation relationship with any other Director BPB plc.
Executive Vice President Human and a Council member of The Ditchley or Officer.
He joined the Company in Foundation.
October 1999 having worked previously for Messer Griesheim GmbH and PepsiCo.
Non-Executive Director Appointed a Non-Executive Director on 20 September 2000.
He is Chairman of the ICI Audit Committee.
com ICI Annual Review 2006 13 Board of Directors and Executive Management Team
