Business review strategy continued TO TRANSFORMATION Overall, comparable sales growth for continuing businesses which There were several major strategic moves made during the year ICI intends to grow aggressively was over 10% in 2006.
Capital that will have a significant impact on ICI going forward.
In September expenditure for these operations was in excess of depreciation as the 2006, ICI completed the sale of Uniqema, its oleochemicals and businesses made further investments in growth opportunities.
Paints derivatives business, to Croda International Plc for 410m.
In and National Starch commissioned a joint facility in Shanghai to November, ICI announced the proposed sale of Quest to Givaudan manufacture a range of specialty resins and polymers for adhesive SA for 1.2bn.
In addition, ICI began construction of a new Developing ICIs strategy for 2007 onwards technology centre in Shanghai and ICI Paints invested in new As a result of these two major divestments, together with the manufacturing projects in China and Vietnam.
Product innovation was improved financial performance of the remaining businesses, ICI is once again a strong driver of new business and the Group maintained now well positioned to focus on transforming the performance of its its investments in research and development R&D, as well as core businesses rather than just securing a turnaround.
As a result, applications engineering, to support growth.
ICIs future development will focus on three major areas of activity: Both ICI Paints and National Starch made good progress in the key accelerating profitable growth: developing economies of Asia with full year comparable growth of 16% for the Decorative Paint business and 13% for National Starch.
continuing to make substantial improvements to operational As a result, together with the impact of divestments, reported sales in effectiveness: and Asia were 27% 2005 24% of the Group total.
creating a culture of sustainable improvement.
At the same time as investing in grow businesses ICI sustained its Against each of these the Group has set out a number of targeted focus on restructuring, principally benefiting its maintain activities.
key performance indicators that align the delivery of change and Cumulative savings from the programme launched in 2003 reached performance within the organisation with the strategic objectives.
In May, the Group launched a major new programme that These are explained in more detail below.
will take the Group through to 2011, expected to deliver gross cost savings of some 170m per annum from a net cash investment of ICI will focus on accelerating profitable growth through a around 340m.
combination of organic and acquisition growth.
The Group has been successful in leveraging its strong technologies and consumer 2006 key performance indicators insight to develop products needed by its customers in their end Title Description Performance to date markets.
Going forward, there will be greater focus on aligning R&D and product development across the Group, leveraging ICIs vision Sales Average sales revenue Average sales growth over plan Growth growth at, or better than, the period to the end of 2006 is 6%, of leadership in formulation science with investments in an enhanced growth in real GDP over the above the estimated rate of growth technology organisation.
In addition, improved organic growth is four-year period 2004 to 2007 in real GDP of 3.8% expected to be supplemented by acquisitions in the core coatings, Group Increase by an average Increased by on average 0.5% adhesives, starch and synthetic polymer businesses.
These will trading of 0.5% per annum from over last three years margin 2003 to 2007 focus on strengthening ICIs competitive position, in terms of regional expansion and market exposures, specific target customers and innovative technologies.
Over time, the objective is to strengthen ICIs leadership Improved Increase by an average of Increased by on average 1.8% return on 1% per annum, to around over the last three years positions in its chosen markets where it can sustain profitable growth capital 14% in 2007 and competitive advantage.
employed Cash flow Generate positive cash flow Positive cash flows every year Related key performance indicators before acquisitions and since 2004 Title Description Comments divestments on a sustainable basis from 2005 onwards Strengthen Establish or strengthen #1 Developing strong market positions with target or #2 positions in attractive good competitive advantage will help Source: Oxford Economics December 2006. market market niches that can secure profitable growth in the long term positions sustain profitable growth Capitalise on Grow ICIs business in target Strong sales growth for ICIs growth high growth developing markets at an businesses in target developing markets developing average three times the rate is closely aligned to establishing a markets of growth of global GDP competitively advantaged, more profitable business in these attractive markets Use Sustain at least a 25% Commercialising new products which innovation contribution to annual sales address key customer needs for innovation to drive from products developed in and value will contribute to profitable profitable the last three years growth and improved trading margins growth 10 ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
