Business review ICI Group and its businesses Revenue by market sector Revenue by customer location 90% Decorative & Architectural 36% Europe 10% Food & Beverage 38% North America 9% Latin America 17% Asia Paints 2006 Paints 2006 Group Organisation Continuing businesses ICI is organised around three continuing operating businesses: ICI Paints ICI Paints on pages 12 and 13, National Starch on pages 14 and 15 Background and Regional and Industrial on page 15.
The two discontinued ICI Paints is a leading international paint business and accounted businesses are Quest on page 16 and Uniqema on page 16. for 50% of the Groups continuing sales in 2006.
It concentrates The businesses are supported by Group functions that provide primarily on decorative paint 90% of ICI Paints sales in 2006 and expertise in information technology, procurement, human resources, packaging coatings for food and beverage cans.
finance, sustainability, safety, security, health and the environment ICI Paints global business headquarters is located in Slough, UK.
SSHE, and applied technology, where value can be created for Major manufacturing facilities are located in the USA, UK, Brazil, ICIs customers through the application of advanced technology Argentina, Germany, the Netherlands, France, China, India and across the Group.
Additional manufacturing facilities are in 14 other countries.
A number of senior management functional boards leverage the ICI Paints maintains its own sales distribution network in over 30 combined skills and experiences across ICI.
The business also sells through agents and distributors.
are responsible for establishing functional strategies and ensuring Strategy Group-wide implementation of best practice.
The strategy of ICI Paints is to develop its leading market positions in In addition, the Business Development Board aims to accelerate the the global paints and coatings industry, particularly where it benefits commercial exploitation of technology opportunities within ICI, and from strong retail brands.
ICI Paints expects to develop its strategy reflects the desire to develop continuously and strengthen the links further by: between market needs and technology capability.
differentiated resource allocation channelling scarce resources revenue expenditure, capital and people to those areas which will generate the highest rewards: innovation driving for new major differentiated products and services, linking marketing insights with world-leading technical skills: cost and capital effectiveness implementing key restructuring plans and improving planning operating processes to reduce costs and inventory while improving customer delivery reliability: and people and organisation capability development.
Key competencies, which ICI Paints employs across its businesses, include: marketing identifying areas of significant potential through market understanding and exploiting these through highly professional category and brand management skills: research and development supporting the increased emphasis on innovation in products, packaging and services, and targeting high impact cost reductions through leading edge colour, polymer and formulating science: operations implementing process improvements and improved delivery reliability by sharing expertise and best practice across its businesses: and procurement optimising the mix of central contracts using ICIs total purchasing power and local contracts, bringing the advantages of tailored solutions and flexibility.
12 ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
