At the same time, ICI will sustain its programme of restructuring to Functional strategies improve operational effectiveness across the Group.
The initiatives, Alongside these broad strategic objectives for ICI, the Group has started in 2006, bring a new focus on shared services and pan-ICI a number of individual functional strategies.
These are led by the functional efficiencies.
This includes transforming ICIs IT infrastructure, senior management boards as outlined in the Group Organisation Finance and Human Resource activities.
Together with strong section of this Annual Report on page 12.
The functional strategies commercial management this should enable ICI to sustain good for Technology Research and Development and Sustainability are margins relative to appropriate industry peers.
explained in more detail from pages 17 to 19.
Related key performance indicators Procurement purchases in excess of 3bn of raw materials, consumables and services each year.
Our procurement strategy Title Description Comments looks to reduce the cost of bought-in materials and services whilst Top quartile ICIs trading margins should Against industry benchmarks, deliver maximising the security and sustainability of supply.
In 2006 the profitability be top quartile against a performance which positions ICI as one of range of industry peers the best in class.
Against an average of procurement team completed over 25 key commodity or raw material industry peers ICI should expect to sustain strategies and put in place five major supplier strategies.
During 2007, upper quartile performance the procurement function will be implementing additional commodity Improved Improve ROCE by on average Since 2003 ICI has made significant and supplier strategies and undertaking a functional capability review return on 1.0% over the next four years improvements in ROCE 1.8% per annum in several key areas of operation.
capital to 2010, adjusting for the on average.
With an increased focus on impact of acquisitions and transforming the performance of ICI through Finance and Human Resources are implementing organisational divestments investing in the growth opportunities and capabilities of the business.
ROCE growth models that leverage centres of excellence for example, in taxation, is expected to slow.
As a result, our new treasury, recruitment and reward, utilise shared service infrastructures goal will be to improve returns by on for routine activities and provide focused resources for business average 1.0% per annum partnering to help improve the quality of commercial and strategic decision making.
Underpinning these initiatives, ICI will develop a culture of sustainable improvement, investing where necessary to support Within Information Technology, ICI is improving its infrastructure the accelerated profitable growth objectives and its commitment and undertaking a major programme of enterprise resource planning to sustainability.
ICIs people and culture are reflected in a major development ERP, initially within the Paints, Adhesives and initiative within the Group to embed a series of values and principles Electronic Materials businesses.
As a result of this long-term initiative, collectively known as The ICI Way.
This process is expected to take the Group should benefit from improved management information a number of years and should help align ICIs people around the and greater process efficiencies and controls, as well as higher levels transformation strategy.
In addition, the Groups long standing of customer service.
five-year Challenge programmes which contain numerous targets for improvement in ICIs operations, health and safety, environmental performance, supply chain and other external relationships, underpin the commitment to sustainability, which remains at the heart of ICIs approach to doing business.
Related key performance indicators Title Description Comments Safe working Achieve the 2010 milestone The Group remains focused on continual environment total reportable case TRC improvement initiatives which should sustain rate of 0.56 the progress to date and help achieve the 2010 milestone Environmental Reduce greenhouse gas Greenhouse gas emissions including CO 2 impact emissions per tonne of is one of many environmental measures production by 5% by 2010 adopted by the Group and reflects a critical area of long-term importance to the environment.
ICIs absolute emissions are already 95% below the levels of 1990, with over half of this reduction achieved through performance improvement during three Challenge periods.
A further 5% reduction per tonne of production by 2010 would reflect additional good progress www.
com ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2006 11 Business review
