Group revenue by business 2006 continuing operations 50% Paints 22% Adhesives 10% Specialty Starches 5% Specialty Polymers 4% Electronic Materials 9% Regional and Industrial ICIs core coatings, adhesives, starch and synthetic polymer National Starch businesses comprise ICI Paints and the adhesives, specialty starches, National Starch markets an extensive product range to sectors as specialty polymers and electronic materials operations of National diverse as food, healthcare and construction.
These businesses serve diverse consumer and industrial grouped around adhesives, specialty starches, specialty polymers markets through some 40 strategic business units, with an array of and electronic materials.
Headquartered in the USA, with market leadership positions around the world.
In addition, a number manufacturing and customer service centres in 39 countries.
of Regional and Industrial businesses remain in ICIs portfolio.
Regional and Industrial During the year, the Group has changed its reporting segments.
The ICI has a number of Regional and Industrial businesses that are National Starch business, previously reported as one segment, is now essentially local in scope.
Principal operations are in Pakistan and reported as four segments: adhesives, specialty starches, specialty Argentina and include the manufacture of pure terephthalic acid, polymers and electronic materials.
This change reflects a move to polyester, sulphur-related chemicals, wine chemicals and soda ash.
Current and prior year segment Discontinued businesses information has been updated for the change.
Quest The businesses are supported by Group functions that provide Quest creates and markets flavours and fragrances for the expertise in the disciplines of information technology, procurement, fast-moving consumer goods industries.
In November 2006, human resources, operations, finance, sustainability, safety, security, ICI reached an agreement to sell Quest to Givaudan SA, with health and the environment SSHE, and applied technology.
completion of the deal expected in the first quarter of 2007.
Continuing businesses Uniqema ICI Paints ICI completed the sale of its Uniqema business to Croda International With some of the worlds leading paint and decorative product Plc on 1 September 2006.
Uniqema provides products which deliver brands, ICI Paints aims to inspire consumers to transform their specific effects that influence how customers products feel or surroundings with performance products and colour.
The formulation of personal care ingredients, natural and products to prepare and care for many building materials, and synthetic lubricants and polymers are areas of particular expertise.
also provides coatings for cans and packaging.
Headquartered in the UK, with operations in 25 countries.
Paints National Starch Regional and Industrial Revenue by customer location 2006 Revenue by customer location 2006 Revenue by customer location 2006 36% Europe 28% Europe 3% Europe 38% North America 37% North America 1% North America 9% Latin America 6% Latin America 13% Latin America 17% Asia 25% Asia 83% Asia 4% Other www.
com ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07 ICI Group summary
