Operating and Financial Review Operating and Financial Review Board of Directors 36 1.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2006 Operating and Financial Review 1.
Pierre Jungels FCA, Aged 63 BSC, PHD, Aged 53 CBE HON, C. ENG, PHD, Aged 62 Chairman Corporate Affairs Director Non-Executive Director and a Member Appointed Non-Executive Chairman on our Appointed to the Board in June 2003, having of the Remuneration Committee and London Stock Exchange Listing in 1996. joined Imperial Tobacco in 1977, Frank has the Audit Committee Derek has a wide range of managerial and held a number of senior management positions Appointed to the Board in August 2002.
Pierre financial experience gained as a former including Managing Director of Cigar and is Chairman of Oxford Catalyst Inc and a Director Executive Chairman of The Energy Group PLC, Roll Your Own Tobacco.
Appointed Business of Baker Hughes Inc.
He has held numerous a former Non-Executive Chairman of Cadbury Development Director in 2000, he was senior international positions within the oil Schweppes plc, Marconi plc, CamAxys Group instrumental in negotiations for the acquisition industry with Shell International, Petrona SA plc and Songbird Estates plc and a former of Reemtsma.
He became CEO of 37 Deputy Chairman of Hanson PLC, having Enterprise Oil in 1996, leading the business previously held a number of senior management 7.
Iain Napier to substantial geographic and financial growth and financial positions.
He is also a former FCMA, Aged 57 until his retirement in November 2001.
He is Non-Executive Director of TXU Corp USA.
Joint Vice Chairman, Senior Independent Non-Executive Chairman of Offshore Director, Chairman of the Remuneration Hydrocarbon Mapping plc and Rockhopper 2.
Gareth Davis Committee and a Member of the Exploration PLC and a Non-Executive Director BA, Aged 56 Audit Committee of Woodside Petroleum Ltd. Chief Executive Appointed a Non-Executive Director in 2000.
Appointed Chief Executive in 1996 Gareth led Iain is currently Group Chief Executive of Taylor 12.
Charles Knott the successful demerger of the Company from Woodrow plc.
As a former main board Director FCMA, Aged 51 Hanson PLC and its listings on the London of Bass PLC, he was Chief Executive of Non-Executive Director and a Member and New York Stock Exchanges.
With wide Bass Leisure and then Chief Executive of of the Remuneration Committee and experience across all aspects of Imperial Bass Brewers and Bass International Brewers.
the Audit Committee Tobaccos business gained from over 30 years Following the sale of the Bass beer business in Charles was appointed to the Board in April with the Company, he has played a key role in 2000, he became Vice President UK and Ireland 2006.
He is a Director of ICI plc and Chairman the development of both general strategy and for Interbrew SA until August 2001.
He is also a and Chief Executive of Quest International, the ongoing expansion programme.
In 2003 he former Non-Executive Director of BOC Group plc.
ICIs avours and fragrances business based was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in the Netherlands.
He was appointed to ICIs of Wolseley plc.
Charles was previously a longFCA, Aged 68 term executive at National Starch, owned by 3.
Robert Dyrbus Joint Vice Chairman Unilever until 1997, where he fullled a variety BSC, FCA, Aged 53 Appointed Vice Chairman on demerger.
Finance Director also serves as a Non-Executive Director of Appointed Finance Director of Imperial Tobacco Platinum Investment Trust plc.
Susan Murray Limited in 1989 Robert was one of the three-man Executive Director of Hanson PLC and as Aged 49 Hanson team involved in the strategic Chief Operating officer he had responsibility Non-Executive Director, Member of reorganisation of the Group.
He became Finance for all their UK operating companies.
the Remuneration Committee and Director of the Group on demerger in 1996 and the Audit Committee has since played an integral part in shaping 9.
Ken Burnett Appointed a Non-Executive Director in December the strategic direction of the Group.
Previously MA, MBA, PHD, Aged 54 2004.
Susan was a member of the Board of he was financial controller with Hanson PLC, Non-Executive Director Littlewoods Limited from October 1998 until responsible for Imperial Tobacco and Ever Ready.
Appointed to the Board in April 2006, Ken was January 2004, latterly as Chief Executive of President, Asia Pacic of Allied Domecq from Littlewoods Stores Limited.
Graham Blashill 1996 until its acquisition by Pernod Ricard in Littlewoods she was worldwide President BSC, Aged 59 2005.
Prior to joining Allied Domecq, he held and Chief Executive of The Pierre Smirnoff Group Sales and Marketing Director a number of senior management positions in Company, part of Diageo plc.
She is a fellow Appointed to the Board in October 2005, the Asia Pacic region with Seagram, Interbrew of the Royal Society of Arts, a council member Graham is responsible for the Groups entire and International Distillers & Vintners Ltd of the Advertising Standards Authority and a global sales and marketing activities across now part of Diageo plc.
Non-Executive Director of Enterprise Inns Plc, Europe, Asia Pacic, Africa and the Middle East, SSL International PLC and Wm Morrison and Australia and New Zealand.
She has also served as for Imperial Tobacco for 38 years and during MBA, FCCA, Aged 51 a Non-Executive Director of Aberdeen Asset that time has held a number of senior sales and Non-Executive Director, Chairman of the Management PLC.
marketing positions, including Managing Director Audit Committee UK and Regional Director for Western Europe.
Appointed a Non-Executive Director in July 2005.
Matthew Phillips Colin is Group Finance Director of Reckitt LLB, Aged 36 5.
David Cresswell Benckiser plc, having been appointed to its Company Secretary C ENG, MIEE, Aged 61 Board in September 2000.
Prior to joining Reckitt Appointed Company Secretary in October 2004, Manufacturing Director Benckiser he was Group Finance Director of Matthew joined Imperial Tobaccos legal Joined Imperial Tobacco in 1961 and was Aegis Group plc and previously held a number department in 2000 having previously worked appointed to the Board in June 2003.
An of senior finance positions with ABB Group plc for the law rms Linklaters and Burges Salmon.
electrical engineer by background, David has and fide La Rue Group plc.
He is a Non-Executive He was closely involved in negotiations for undertaken a number of senior management Director of WPP Group PLC and a former Imperial Tobaccos acquisitions of Tobaccor roles and has previously held the position of Non-Executive Director of easyjet PLC.
Managing Director for each of Imperial Tobaccos major operating divisions namely Cigarette, Rolling Paper and Roll Your Own Tobacco.
