Operating and Financial Review Operating and Financial Review Manufacturing Manufacturing 27 The drive for excellence across our manufacturing base continues.
In 2006, we delivered significant cost savings further optimising our cost base and simplifying and standardising our business.
1 Overall productivity was up by 6%.
We simplied our product portfolio by reducing blends by 8% and ingredients by 10%.
We have increased our ISO14001 accreditation to 19 locations.
Our Performance particularly in Volgograd and Kiev.
In We reduced our unit costs across the addition, a significant machinery upgrade Group, including a further reduction in programme is in progress across our African cigarette unit costs of 6 per cent.
We factories, utilising surplus machinery.
This increased our overall productivity by 6 per will deliver further improvements in efficiency cent, excluding our Lahr factory in Germany and quality.
which was impacted by the cessation of We have delivered further operational Singles production.
We continued our efficiencies through the use of standard focus on simplication across our product systems and processes, which are portfolio, reducing our blends, ingredients reected in our manufacturing and stock keeping units.
As part of our ongoing review to improve We continued our programme of operational efficiencies we announced a ISO14001 accreditation with four locations number of restructurings during the year.
A total of This included announcing the closure of 59 per cent of our factories are our factories in Liverpool in the UK and now ISO14001 accredited.
Lahr in Germany, the latter as a direct result Across our supply chain, we have of the change in tax status of Singles and focused on the competitiveness of our unltered eco-cigarillos in Germany.
Both distribution network and the development facilities are due to be closed by March of our planning process.
We completed the restructuring of been reviewed and rationalised, providing part of our European cigarette operations, greater exibility and support, as well as with our Central European cigarette delivering cost savings.
production relocated from Germany to Poland and the closure in the UK of our Outlook Treforest papers factory as announced Our objectives are focused on manufacturing last year.
A number of activities within quality products, on reducing complexity central manufacturing support have and on optimising our cost base.
continuous process of review, should We have continued our capital ensure our manufacturing footprint remains investment programme.
This concentrates exible and responsive in line with changing on harmonising cigarette pack formats in market requirements, delivering further Europe and increasing capacity in line with efficiency improvements across all our growing sales volumes in Eastern Europe, manufacturing activities.
Excluding our Lahr factory in Germany, which was impacted by the cessation of Singles production.
