Operating and Financial Review Operating and Financial Review Strategic Overview Delivering 7 shareholder value Our Strategy Our strategy is to create sustainable shareholder value by growing both organically and through acquisitions.
Our Strategic Objectives We actively pursue three primary objectives which underpin our strategy: Sales development Cost optimisation and efficiency improvements Effective cash management www.
com Operating and Financial Review Operating and Financial Review Strategic Overview Building 8 sales grow Our Five Key Brands Brands Trade Marketing Our broad brand and product portfolio As regulation increases and conventional includes international cigarette brands direct communication between such as Davidoff and West and strong manufacturers and consumersis regional brands such as JPS, Lambert progressively withdrawn, effectiveness & Butler, Richmond and Horizon.
at the point of sale is vital.
Our trade Complementing our cigarette portfolio is marketing objective is to ensure that our world leadership in ne cut tobacco, our brands are available, have impact papers and tubes with brands such as and are appealing to our consumers.
Golden Virginia, Drum and Rizla.
Our brand strategy takes a portfolio approach responsive to individual market dynamics and price segmentation.
We believe there is considerable potential to leverage and build our brand equity.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2006 Operating and Financial Review Graham Blashill Group Sales and Marketing Director 9 Sales and marketing excellence are essential to achieving profit growth.
We continue to build our sales and trade marketing skills and share best practice to ensure our comprehensive portfolio of brands are available, th have impact and are appealing to consumers globally.
Market Opportunities With sales in over 130 countries, we have a strong international prole.
Our position in mature European markets is balanced by developing markets such as those in Asia and Eastern Europe.
We see opportunities, both organic and acquisition led, to enhance and extend our existing operations in our Rest of Western Europe and Rest of the World regions, with the UK and Germany continuing to be key contributors to the overall results.
com Operating and Financial Review Operating and Financial Review Strategic Overview Driving 10 productiv & cost efficiencies efficiency Improvements Simplication and Standardisation A continual focus on reducing costs Our focus on simplication and and improving efficiency supports standardisation continues to deliver our sales development.
We aim to optimise our manufacturing Cost Optimisation operations whilst maintaining sufficient Throughout every aspect of Imperial exibility to adapt to changing demand.
Tobacco, our culture is focused on cost optimisation and value creation.
This frees up funds for us to invest in top-line development.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2006 Operating and Financial Review David Cresswell Manufacturing Director 11 We are focused on manufacturing high quality products and simplifying and standardising ity our manufacturing operations, ensuring a fast and exible response and delivering cost savings.
Throughout every aspect of Imperial Tobacco, our culture is focused on cost optimisation and value creation.
Cigarette Other Tobacco Products Paper Tubes www.
com Operating and Financial Review Operating and Financial Review Strategic Overview Effective 12 cash management 10 Years of Acquisitions 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 Imperial Rizla Douwe Egbert Australasia Mayfair Vending EFKA Group Tobaccor Reemtsma Tobacco Imperial Tobacco Van Nelle Acquisition Imperial The EFKA Group, Imperial Tobacco Imperial Tobacco Listed on the acquired Rizla, The acquisition We acquired Tobaccos a German-based acquired a acquired a 90.01 London Stock the worlds of Douwe Egbert a portfolio of vending manufacturer of 75 per cent per cent interest Exchange as number one Van Nelle cigarettes, ne subsidiary, Sinclair rolling papers and interest in in Reemtsma a FTSE 100 manufacturer extended our cut tobacco and Collis, acquired tubes became Tobaccor, the Cigarettenfabriken company.
ne cut tobacco rolling papers Mayfair Vending, part of Imperial second largest GmbH, the brand portfolio in Australasia, a UK cigarette Tobacco.
cigarette German-based with Drum and together with vending machine manufacturer and international Baelen Group Van Nelle.
The The Baelen New Zealand.
remainder was Group, a Belgian The balance was acquired in 2004. manufacturer of acquired by ne cut tobacco, October 2004. was acquired.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2006 Operating and Financial Review Operating and Financial Review Robert Dyrbus Finance Director 13 We look to ensure that the cash we generate is used efficiently, through acquisitions, organic investment and returning funds to our shareholders, adding to our value creation.
10 Year EPS and Dividend Record 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 EPS Dividend 2004 2005 2006 Value Creating Acquisitions Dividends CTC Tube Skruf Davidoff Since 1996, we have invested 5.2 Our policy is progressive, growing Company of Imperial Tobacco Imperial Tobacco billion in acquisitions which have dividends broadly in line with Canada invested in Skruf, acquired the delivered significant shareholder adjusted earnings per share with Imperial Tobacco a Swedish worldwide value.
We are committed to around a fty per cent pay out ratio.
acquired the manufacturer Davidoff cigarette continuing to expand our business business and of snus.
assets of tubes through both acquisitions and Effective Cash Conversion Gunnar manufacturer organic investment opportunities.
We continue to be highly cash Stenberg AS CTC Tube In order to maintain balance sheet generative with an ongoing annual A Norwegian Company of efficiency while we assess such cash conversion rate of around 100 distributor of Canada.
tobacco products opportunities, we have an ongoing per cent.
Our focus is on managing and accessories, share buyback programme.
capital expenditure, working capital, is acquired by tax efficiency and interest costs.
Our Share Buyback Programme Our objective is then to ensure the In order to ensure an effective use of disciplined allocation of that cash our cash we have our rolling share to generate shareholder value.
buyback programme, at an annual rate of around 600 million.
