Operating and Financial Review Rest of the World 24 The Rest of the World is a diverse region, with over 100 countries with different dynamics, opportunities and challenges.
Performance Highlights 2006 2005 Revenue less duty 1,106m 1,049m Adjusted profit from operations 252m 209m Imperial Tobacco cigarette volumes 122.7bn 112.7bn Imperial Tobacco ne cut tobacco volumes 1,900t 1,800t Regional Dynamics We believe there are opportunities to continue to expand in this region in terms of brand portfolio and market presence.
In Asia, we have a strong premium position in Taiwan, complemented by a growing presence in Vietnam and Laos.
Our Australasia region contains the profitable developed markets of Australia and New Zealand where we have cigarette shares of over 17 per cent and a strong position in ne cut tobacco.
We are growing market shares in Central Europe with our comprehensive brand portfolio and coverage.
Our major markets in Eastern Europe are Russia and the Ukraine, complemented by a growing business in the Caucasus and Turkey.
In Africa, we have a well established presence in the sub Saharan region with brands such as Excellence, and in the Middle East we have growing market shares with Davidoff.
Imperial Tobacco Performance Cigarette Cigarette 1 1 Market Share 2006 Market Share 2005 Taiwan 11.1% 11.4% Australia 17.8% 17.7% Poland 16.1% 15.5% Russia 5.5% 5.3% Ukraine 19.0% 18.9% 1.
Operating and Financial Review Operating and Financial Review Rest of the World Key Brands 25 Davidoff is our premium cigarette brand and we grew volumes in the region by 6% to 11 billion cigarettes.
Davidoff continues to grow rapidly in the Middle East, with volumes up over 30%, and it was launched into a number of African markets.
We have extended the brand further with Davidoff Neon in Taiwan.
In our Rest of the World region, we have a number of important regional and local brands.
We are growing volumes in Eastern Europe with Classic and Maxim.
In Africa Excellence is performing well.
Poland is a key market for our Paramount cigarette brand.
Horizon is our main cigarette brand in Australia.
In 2006, we delivered volume and Our Performance cigarette share gains in many markets In Taiwan we launched the first king size in the Rest of the World region.
Davidoff cigarette, Davidoff Neon, in December 2005, which has captured 0.5 per cent market share.
Our volumes Revenue less duty was up 5 per cent to 1,106 million and adjusted profit benefited as a result of a Boss packaging from operations was up 21 per cent to improvement and the Davidoff Neon launch, however our overall market share was down 252 million.
These results reect strong slightly to 11.1 per cent 2005: 11.4 per cigarette volume growth supported by continued investment in the region partially cent.
In Vietnam, Bastos held market share at 10.3 per cent 2005: 10.2 per cent while offset by the ongoing competitive in Laos we delivered strong volume growth challenges in Central Europe.
Asia Australasia Overview Overview With rising GDP and increasing population, The mature markets of Australia and Asia is the worlds fastest growing economic New Zealand are among the most highly region and represents 50 per cent of global regulated in the world, with pictorial cigarette consumption.
The regulatory health warnings in Australia and extensive environment is mixed with some markets restrictions on display and smoking in public in the process of adopting the places.
However, we have demonstrated recommendations of the Framework our ability to continue to grow our profit.
Key brands include Horizon and Peter We have a strong premium position Stuyvesant in cigarettes and Drum and in Taiwan and a growing presence in Champion in ne cut tobacco.
In China, we benefit from our positive collaboration with the State Our Performance Tobacco Monopoly Administration and the In Australia, our cigarette share was up Yuxi Hongta Group.
Our key brands in the slightly at 17.8 per cent 2005: 17.7 per region include Davidoff, Boss, Bastos and Davidoff Neon cent with a good performance from Peter the A brand family.
Davidoff Neon was launched in Taiwan Stuyvesant and Brandon.
Our ne cut in December 2005. tobacco share was down to 62.0 per cent 2005: 63.4 per cent, due to increased www.
com Operating and Financial Review Operating and Financial Review Rest of the World continued competitor activity.
John Brandon also To increase our retail coverage and improve great potential for the Group.
We currently 26 performed well in New Zealand, growing efficiencies we formed a joint merchandising sell and distribute papers and tubes in the our market share to 17.6 per cent force with Altadis in February 2006.
In the US and have a basic infrastructure in place.
We recently applied for membership of Ukraine our market share was stable at 19.0 per cent 2005: 18.9 per cent and the Master Settlement Agreement, which is Central Europe a pre-requisite for our market entrance.
Our we continue to invest in our market leading Overview entry into this profitable market with tobacco brand Prima.
In Turkey our market share In Central Europe the trading environment products would be organically and without grew to 1.4 per cent 2005: 0.4 per cent continues to be challenging.
Duty increases any historic liabilities.
with a good performance from Klasik.
have taken place across the region, as countries move further towards EU minimum Outlook Africa and the Middle East The Rest of the World is a diverse region with excise rates, impacting volumes.
We are Overview over 100 countries with different dynamics, well represented across the region with We have an established presence with opportunities and challenges.
This years key markets including Poland, Hungary brands such as Excellence in the sub performance has demonstrated our ability Slovenia, Slovakia and the Czech Republic.
Saharan region of Africa, Good Look in to deliver organic growth in the region.
We Our regional brands include Route 66, Madagascar and Davidoff in the Middle will continue to invest in our key markets, Golden Gate, Moon and Paramount.
Regulation is increasing with differing core brands and route to market to capitalise In Scandinavia, our acquisition of the levels of restrictions in place or evolving on our results to date.
We see many Norwegian distributor of tobacco products, in all markets.
As the trading environment opportunities to continue to develop our Gunnar Stenberg, in February 2006, may be subject to political instability, the footprint in terms of brand portfolio and and our investment in the Swedish snus effective regional management of our market presence.
company, Skruf, have provided a base operations is important to ensure continued from which to develop our business.
Our Performance Our Performance Across the region we have increased We delivered market share improvements our cigarette market shares: Poland to with the continued growth of Excellence 16.1 per cent 2005: 15.5 per cent, in Cte dIvoire and Good Look in Hungary to 14.5 per cent 2005: Madagascar.
Following the decision to end 12.6 per cent and the Czech Republic the licensed manufacturing and distribution to 9.6 per cent 2005: 7.2 per cent, with arrangements with British American Tobacco growth driven by the performance of our in West Africa, we have benefited from value brands.
We launched Davidoff, increased volumes and market shares.
West and Paramount in both Sweden With the cessation of our manufacturing and Norway during the year.
agreement with Phillip Morris, we are restructuring our operations in Senegal.
We Eastern Europe have recently launched Davidoff in Senegal, Overview Gabon, Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire and Our Eastern Europe region is experiencing there are positive signs of development in strong economic development and, while all markets.
Davidoff continued to grow some restrictions are in place, our ability to strongly in the Middle East region with communicate with consumers is signicantly volumes up 31 per cent, notably in greater than in the EU.
Our established Saudi Arabia with Davidoff One.
positions in Russia and the Ukraine are complemented by a growing business in the United States Caucasus and in Turkey.
Our key brands in Overview the region include Davidoff, West, Maxim, We have been monitoring developments in Classic and Prima.
the United States for a considerable period of time and have been encouraged by the Our Performance recent positive developments in the litigation We grew volumes by 14 per cent across landscape.
As the second largest market in the region.
In Russia, our market share was the world, representing 7 per cent of world up to 5.5 per cent, 2005: 5.3 per cent cigarette volumes and a signicantly higher percentage of world profit, the US offers with a strong performance from Maxim.
