Statutory Reports Report of the Directors The Directors submit their report together with the audited consolidated financial statements of the Group and the accounts of the Company for the year to 30 September 2006. Business Review The Group remains focused on its core business: the manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco and tobacco-related products.
A review of the Groups activities and future developments, which fulfils the requirements of the Business Review, including the financial 39 performance during the year, key performance indicators and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, is included in the Operating and Financial Review section on pages 2 to 38.
The purpose of the Annual Report is to provide information to the members of the Company.
The Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the operations, performance and financial condition of the Group.
By their nature, these statements involve uncertainties since future events and circumstances can cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated.
The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
The principal operating subsidiaries within the Group are shown on pages 125 and 126.
Financial results and dividends The profit attributable to equity holders of the Company for the financial year was 851 million as shown in the consolidated income statement set out on page 68.
Note 1 to the financial statements gives an analysis of revenue, duty, profit from operations and net assets.
The Directors have declared dividends as follows: In s million 2006 2005 Ordinary shares Interim paid, 18.5p per share 2005: 16.5p 127 120 Proposed final, 43.5p per share 2005: 39.5p 295 279 Total ordinary dividends, 62.0p 2005: 56.0p 422 399 The final dividend, if approved, will be paid on 16 February 2007 to shareholders whose names are on the Register of Members at the close of business on 19 January 2007.
The associated ex dividend date is 17 January 2007.
The interim dividend was paid on 4 August 2006 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 7 July 2006.
Share capital Details of the Companys share capital are shown in note 20 to the financial statements.
During the year the Company continued its share buyback programme purchasing 32,489,000 ordinary shares of 10 pence each in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC for a total cost of 556 million inclusive of expenses.
The shares, representing 4.46 per cent of issued share capital and having an aggregate nominal value of 3,248,900, have not been cancelled but are held in a treasury shares reserve within the profit and loss account reserve and represent a deduction from equity shareholders funds.
Subsequent to the year end, as at 27 October 2006 the Company has purchased a further 1,665,000 ordinary shares of 10 pence each in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC for a cost of 30 million inclusive of expenses.
These shares represent 0.2 per cent of issued share capital and have a nominal value of 166,500.
These shares also have not been cancelled and are being held in the treasury share reserve.
At 27 October 2006 the Company had been notified that the following persons had interests in 3 per cent or more of the Companys issued share capital.
Number of Percentage of ordinary issued shares millions share capital Franklin Resources, Inc 22 3.00 Legal & General Investment Management Limited 29 4.03 The Company has not received notification that any other person holds 3 per cent or more of the Companys issued share capital.
The share interests of the Directors, their families and any connected persons are shown on page 57.
Board of Directors Mr G L Blashill joined the Board as Sales and Marketing Director on 28 October 2005 and Mr C F Knott and Dr K M Burnett joined the Board on 19 April 2006 as Non-Executive Directors.
The Directors of the Company for the year to 30 September 2006 are shown on pages 36 and 37.
Messrs A G L Alexander, I J G Napier, D Cresswell and Dr F A Rogerson retire at the Annual General Meeting and being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Mr C F Knott, and Dr K M Burnett, having been appointed during the year, retire at the Annual General Meeting and offer themselves for election.
Messrs S P Duffy and S Huismans retired from the Board following the Annual General Meeting on 31 January 2006 and Mr D W Thursfield resigned from the Board on 28 October 2005. www.
com Statutory Reports Report of the Directors continued Employees The Groups employment policies are designed to attract, retain, train and motivate the very best people, recognising that this can be achieved only through offering equal opportunities regardless of gender, race, religion, age or disability.
To ensure employees can share in our success, the Group offers competitive pay and benefit packages and, wherever possible, links rewards to individual and team performance.
Employees are encouraged to build a stake in the Company through ownership of Imperial 40 Tobacco Group PLC shares.
A further opportunity to join the Sharesave Scheme was offered during the year and 77 per cent of eligible UK employees now participate.
International employees were also offered a further opportunity to join the International Sharesave Plan and 32 per cent of eligible international employees now participate.
The Group is committed to providing an environment that encourages the continuous development of all its employees through skills enhancement and training programmes.
Using their own consultative and communication methods each of the Groups businesses is encouraged to keep their employees informed on Group and individual business developments and to make its employees aware of the financial and economic factors affecting the performance of their employing company.
To progress this aim further employee representatives are briefed on panEuropean issues through a European Employee Forum.
Information concerning employees and their remuneration is given in note 4 to the accounts and in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Charitable and political donations During the year the Group made charitable donations of 1.0m of which 0.7m was in respect of the UK 2005: 1.0m of which 0.3m was in respect of the UK, much of which was distributed through the Charities Aid Foundation in accordance with the Groups charities policy.
No political donations or expenditure were made or incurred by the Company or its subsidiaries during the year 2005: Nil.
Creditor payment policy The Companys current policy concerning the payment of the majority of its trade creditors is to follow the CBIs Prompt Payers Code copies are available from the CBI, Centre Point, 103 New Oxford Street, London.
For other suppliers, the Companys policy is to: a agree the terms of payment with those suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction: b ensure that those suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment by inclusion of the relevant terms in contracts: and c pay in accordance with its contractual and other legal obligations.
The payment policy applies to all payments to creditors for revenue and capital supplies of goods and services without exception.
Wherever possible UK subsidiaries follow the same policy and international subsidiaries are encouraged to adopt similar policies, by applying local best practices.
The number of days purchases outstanding as at 30 September 2006 for Imperial Tobacco Group PLC was 30 days.
Research and development The Group recognises the importance of investing in research and development, which brings innovative improvements to the Group, both in the products supplied to the consumer and in production and marketing techniques.
Auditors and disclosure of information to auditors Each of the Directors in office as of the date of approval of this report confirms that: so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information that is, information needed by the Companys Auditors in connection with preparing their report of which the Companys Auditors are unaware: and they have each taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
A resolution to reappoint  LLP as Auditors to the Company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting Full details of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 30 January 2007, together with explanations of the resolutions to be proposed at the meeting, appear in the notice of meeting enclosed with this report.
By order of the Board Matthew R Phillips Company Secretary 31 October 2006 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2006
