Operating and Financial Review Operating and Financial Review World Tobacco Market Context World Tobacco Market Context 6 1 In 2005 an estimated 3.5 trillion cigarettes 2004: 3.6 trillion cigarettes were sold globally, excluding China.
Against this background of relatively stable global cigarette consumption, the four largest international tobacco companies, Philip Morris, British American Tobacco, Japan Tobacco and Imperial Tobacco, have a share of around 64 per cent.
Whilst there are local variations, with volumes of international premium cigarettes are manufactured using two brands remaining relatively stable whilst principal tobacco blends, Virginia blend those in the mid and value price and American blend, each accounting segments may continue to grow.
for approximately half of the world Duty Increases market.
Virginia blend products are In the EU, tax-driven price increases are predominant in the UK, Africa and most stimulating growth in value cigarette Asian markets, including China and brands and ne cut tobacco products India.
American blend products are as consumers downtrade.
Governments predominant in continental, Central continue to drive excise increases and Eastern Europe, the United States globally as a key instrument to reduce and Latin America.
Fine cut tobacco is tobacco consumption.
manufactured using blends of light and dark tobacco.
Duty increases are generally passed on to the consumer.
However, in some Alternatives to cigarettes and ne cut markets such as in the EU accession tobacco products include smokeless countries, which have derogation periods tobaccos, cigars and pipe tobacco.
within which they must reach the EU Consumption minimum tax level, duty increases have Some developed markets, including been partly or wholly absorbed by those within the EU, have experienced tobacco manufacturers, which has the reduced duty-paid cigarette sales effect of reducing market profitability.
volumes due to significant excise-driven Regulation price increases, resulting in increased Tobacco legislation and regulation cross-border inow and some reduced continue to increase in speed, scope, consumption.
On the other hand, some scale and sophistication.
For example, developing markets such as those in restrictions on smoking in public places Asia, Central and Eastern Europe are and pictorial health warnings have been experiencing increases in cigarette adopted in a number of markets.
consumption as a result of rising Gross Domestic Product.
The Framework Convention on Tobacco Control took effect on 27 February 2005 In recent years, there has been a and by the end of September 2006 had consumer trend towards international been ratied by 140 countries, as well branded cigarettes at the expense of as the EU.
This is likely to continue 1.
Most recent year for which worldwide information is available.
