Operating and Financial Review Rest of Western Europe 22 Our strategy in the Rest of Western Europe is to continue to grow our cigarette market shares and build on our regional leadership in ne cut tobacco, while ensuring our key brands are available to travelling consumers.
Performance Highlights 2006 2005 Revenue less duty 637m 644m Adjusted profit from operations 324m 326m Imperial Tobacco cigarette volumes 20.1bn 17.7bn Imperial Tobacco ne cut tobacco volumes 15,100t 15,600t Regional Dynamics The mature markets in the Rest of Western Europe region are becoming more regulated.
With increasing levels of duty, there is downtrading in the region in both cigarette and ne cut tobacco.
Restated as AC Nielsen bases changed.
Operating and Financial Review Operating and Financial Review Rest of Western Europe Key Brands In the Rest of Western Europe our 23 cigarette shares have continued to grow in the majority of markets, complementing our leading position in fine cut tobacco.
Regional Dynamics We estimate that the annual regional cigarette market was down by 3 per cent Our cigarette brands Davidoff, West and JPS performed strongly across with the annual regional ne cut tobacco the Rest of Western Europe in the premium, mid and value segments.
The value Davidoff volumes up 15% segments in both cigarette and ne West volumes up 32% cut tobacco have grown as a result of JPS volumes up 82% consumer downtrading and an increasingly In the Netherlands, the largest market for ne cut tobacco in the region, our competitive pricing environment.
value brands Zilver and Evergreen performed well, reecting the regional Restrictions on smoking in public downtrading trends.
places were introduced in Spain and We grew our Rizla volumes across the region.
Belgium in January 2006, and debate on this issue continues in other markets overall estimated cigarette market decline of Outlook across the region.
Our cigarette share is We expect that further regulatory changes in Our Performance slightly down at 1.5 per cent 2005: 1.6 per the region will continue to cause moderate cent, with minimum pricing, introduced by reductions in market sizes.
France is likely to Our regional cigarette volumes have grown the Italian Government in August 2005, implement restrictions on smoking in public by 14 per cent with improvements in our market shares more than offsetting the reducing our ability to develop our portfolio.
places next year and pictorial health market volume decline.
Despite our good In Ireland, with the overall cigarette warnings are planned to be introduced in market size up slightly to an estimated Belgium early next year.
We also expect the cigarette volume performance, adjusted 5.7 billion 2005: 5.6 billion, our cigarette competitive and pricing environment to profit from operations was broadly stable market share was unchanged at at 324 million, reecting declines in remain challenging in the near term.
26.2 per cent with a strong performance We will focus on further improving our travel retail, particularly in Spain, and from Superkings.
cigarette market shares and addressing the an increasingly competitive ne cut We grew our cigarette share in France tobacco market.
pressures on our ne cut tobacco business.
to 3.6 per cent 2005: 3.3 per cent due We believe the breadth of our product In the Netherlands, our cigarette market to the success of the JPS family.
We portfolio continues to provide us with future share grew to 8.9 per cent 2005: 4.9 per maintained our position in the ne cut cent, driven by the strong growth of West opportunities for growth.
tobacco sector with a robust performance and JPS.
In January 2006, we entered into from the market leader Interval at a distribution agreement with Altadis.
cut tobacco market share remained stable Our overall ne cut tobacco share declined at 51.1 per cent with Zilver and Evergreen to 28.0 per cent 2005: 29.0 per cent.
benefiting from the downtrading dynamic.
In Spain, we made significant domestic In Belgium, our domestic cigarette progress with JPS growing our cigarette share progressed to 10.2 per cent 2005: market share to 6.4 per cent 2005: 9.5 per cent, driven by the growth of 5.1 per cent.
However, trading conditions Route 66, and supported by the remain challenging following excise tax stabilisation of Bastos.
increases in February 2006 which were Following the introduction of restrictions mainly absorbed by tobacco manufacturers, on smoking in public places in Italy last year, reducing the estimated protablilty of the the market decline is now slowing with an market by more than 30 per cent.
In Greece, our cigarette market share progressed to 8.4 per cent 2005: JPS 7.0 per cent due to another strong JPS is our key brand in the low price performance from Davidoff in the premium branded cigarette segment.
segment, now up to 3.3 per cent 2005: 2.7 per cent, supported by West.
