18 Inchcape plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Operating and financial review continued Performance management Gold Standard performance Economic profit Allocation of capital Investment criteria management Our measures ultimately consolidate We have made a number of A key element of our strategic agenda to one overall performance measure important, strategic investments in is to deliver customer centric operational and that is the generation of economic 2006.
All investment opportunities are excellence and achieve like for like profit EP.
We define EP as recurring always first evaluated from a strategic profit growth.
To facilitate this we operating profit after tax less a charge point of view sector, location, scale have implemented a number of new for the cost of capital employed in the and brand partner.
initiatives to measure, target and business.
We have set internal targets If an opportunity makes strategic improve performance, which are for the rate of growth and the absolute sense then the financial aspects of the summarised below.
level of EP we want to achieve over our investment opportunity are assessed In January 2007 we introduced strategic planning horizon.
In this one using three criteria.
First and foremost a new internal reporting system.
measure we combine operating returns Internal Rate of Return IRR.
The IRR This produces Management accounts and asset utilisation.
must exceed our cost of capital and for each of our 293 businesses, analysed Like all businesses this overall meet or exceed our target hurdle rates.
by value driver vehicle, service, parts.
measure is no good unless it is Secondly, we look at the This means for each Retail centre and understood and embedded into the economic profit generated annually Distribution business we have profitability, businesses.
Therefore we have done over the life of the project.
This gives productivity, asset utilisation and a bottom up as well as top down an absolute amount against which we return information.
approach to this EP target setting monitor the acquisition or investment This is the first time we have and each business unit has its own from completion.
Thirdly, we look analysed the business this way and it target EP.
at cash payback as a basic risk stems from the planned evolution of the assessment measure.
Information technology business from being predominantly a In reviewing investment These days the backbone to any large Distribution business to one where Retail opportunities, we expect better returns international business that wants to is an increasing proportion of the total from emerging than developed markets remain efficient, fleet of foot and Group and the consequent need for in line with the associated country risk.
responsive to the market is a modern, retail metrics to enable us to deliver the efficient back ofce and world class front best returns for shareholders.
We have a plan to implement Like for like sales and margin exactly that over the next five years.
performance are examples of the By introducing a single blueprint metrics we are now using.
to operate the business processes in Target setting for each metric is Retail we can set up efficiently a single important to expand profits.
In a business support infrastructure for our businesses.
which performs similar operations across This gives us cost savings whilst at many sites around the world an easy the same time allowing the individual way to do this is the use of best in class businesses to focus on customer performance as a benchmark.
We call it contact and other front office activities.
Thus we look at the best Thus more time is available to ensure performers in the Group at the detailed we provide world class customer service.
metric level and use those ratios to set As well as improved efficiency we Gold Standard targets for each site.
also get more timely information which is These are monitored on a very important in retail in terms of monthly basis.
They cover key aspects identifying changes in the marketplace.
of the profit and loss account, balance This also enables us, as we roll out and sheet, cash flow, market share and enhance the system, to transfer best productivity so we ensure we maximise practices across the Group.
the return on resources invested in the individual operations.
19 Inchcape plc Annual report and accounts 2006
