Inchcape plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Our vision and strategy We are leading the way in customer service.
Vision Strategy Second is performance management: We have developed a simple and To deliver our vision we have a clear we are setting best in class gold compelling vision: to be the worlds most strategy.
We will strengthen our existing standards across the Group and customer-centric automotive retail group.
businesses through a focus on customer have established key metrics on We believe the retail brand experience, service and delivering operational all value-drivers.
based on the quality of service customers excellence on all our key value-drivers.
Thirdly we are developing our receive, is a strong differentiator in our We will expand our business in technology and systems infrastructure, industry.
Outstanding customer service, developed and emerging markets.
not only to deliver cost savings but delivered consistently, generates higher There are four crucial elements to importantly to free up time for our people returns as we achieve higher conversion support our strategy.
to spend with our customers.
First is our people: we are investing And finally, we are pursuing our Inchcape is leading the way in the development of our people as growth opportunities following a highly in customer service.
With over 208 Retail well as in the recruitment of new talent.
outlets and 85 Distribution sites around We believe that people make the the world, we have many examples difference and we have an energising of excellence and best practice that Human Resources agenda.
we share and transfer around the Group.
Inchcape plc Annual report and accounts 2006 One vision To be the worlds most customer-centric automotive Retail group Two strategic priorities Strengthen existing core businesses Expand in developed and emerging markets Four enablers Recognise that it is our people who make the difference Gold standard performance management Use technology to free up time Disciplined allocation of capital Inchcape plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Inchcape is a scale automotive retail group operating in developed and emerging countries.
Our six core markets are Australia, Belgium, Greece, Hong Kong, Singapore and the UK.
Our core brand partners are Audi, BMW, Honda, Mazda, Mercedes-Benz, Premier Automotive Group PAG, Toyota Lexus, Subaru and Volkswagen.
Inchcape plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Inchcape plc Inchcape plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Annual report and accounts 2006 Contents 01 Financial highlights 02 Chairmans statement 04 Group Chief Executives review 08 Operating and financial review 08 Key performance indicators 09 Regional analysis 14 Financial review 18 Performance management 20 Corporate social responsibility 24 Board of Directors 26 Directors report 28 Corporate governance report 33 Board report on remuneration 41 Report of the Auditors 42 Group financial statements 42 Consolidated income statement 43 Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 44 Consolidated balance sheet 45 Consolidated cash flow statement 46 Accounting policies 52 Notes to the accounts 88 Five year record 89 Report of the Auditors 90 Company financial statements 90 Company balance sheet 91 Accounting policies 92 Notes to the accounts 97 Company details
