Chief Executives and Managing Directors Review: Business Streams Publishing Unique, proprietary information for academic and business specialists.
Subscription based and increasingly electronically delivered, our publishing products deliver high value content to expert audiences.
Left: Informa value: Innovation Photograph by: Guy Morris, Senior Administrator, Informa Healthcare Guy says: Walking to the Sky celebrates human potential for discovering who we are and reminds me of our ability at Informa to reinvent who we are and where we need to go: not just thinking blue sky but actively pursuing it.
Right: The Atlas of Medieval Europe.
Published by Routledge 9 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 I II III Publishing IV Above: Publishing constituted 39% of revenue, 409.0m, in 2006.
The Chinese Lexicon: A Comprehensive Survey.
proforma basis revenue was up 8% with subscription sales growing Published by Routledge V by 7%, copy sales by 11% and advertising revenues by 3%.
Primary Science for Teaching Assistants.
Subscription revenues made up almost 60% of publishing turnover Published by David Fulton Publishers and continue to produce high operating profit margins, fuelled by III.
market leading positions, strong repeat revenues, brand roll-outs Published by Informa Healthcare and increased yield and opportunity from electronic delivery.
Published by Routledge V. Exchange Rate Economics: Theories and Sales to corporates in the commercial, professional and pharmaceutical Evidence.
Published by Routledge markets produced approximately 60% of the subscription revenues.
In Professional, where legal revenues as a whole grew by 6% and Right: adjusted operating profits by 15%, subscriptions contributed 45% I.
Dealing with DNA Evidence: A Legal Guide.
The two main drivers of this growth Published by Routledge-Cavendish were bundling formats which created additional value for customers II.
Q&A Family Law 2007-2008. and encouraged take-up of on-line services and sales of multi-user Published by Routledge-Cavendish corporate licences with key client firms taking advantage of a III.
Je, Tu, Nous: Towards a Culture of Difference.
greater range of digital services.
The launch of Informa Laws on-line Published by Routledge service www.
com was pivotal to these results.
Launched in November 2005, i-law brings together the core law report archives and in-depth analysis for the niche markets of shipping, insurance, arbitration, construction and intellectual property law.
2007 will see even greater content depth and functionality, moving it from a research tool to a daily work aid.
Similarly in insurance, in 2006 Informa launched the new on-line service, www.
This leverages the leading Insurance Day brand and has created the opportunity to build subscription revenues from multi-user corporate licences.
It also reduces the 10 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 Chief Executives and Managing Directors Review: Business Streams historical reliance in this sector on hard copy advertising revenues marketing teams to run and monitor intelligent promotions on-line whilst opening a new opportunity to grow on-line advertising and has consolidated a rather fragmented web presence into a revenues in 2007. strong, unified brand.
On-line sales revenue since launch has increased by 26% compared with prior year.
In the financial sector Informas strategy to be the market leader in each of its niche sectors and to produce expert proprietary content Increasingly imprints such as Routledge and Garland are adding and then distribute it through multiple delivery vehicles, can be digital and web support to their academic textbooks.
The bestselling seen in action across the various businesses.
The Media Students Book, used at undergraduate, A Level and FE level was released in March 2006 with a supporting website which Informa Investment Solutions, the financial and data software included course mapping to individual markets, student production provider, successfully completed the integration of the M Solutions film work, student essays and links to other websites.
In its first eight business acquired in February 2006.
Its PSN investment manager months, the new fourth edition sold five times the number of units database business and offering is now the market leader, driving sold in the same initial period in its previous edition, reflecting both increased subscription revenues and key customer usage.
its loyal customer following and the added attractiveness of full colour illustrations and user-friendly digital support.
Informa Research Services, the US based financial services research business, benefited from the need for quality content by the growth This multi-media trend will continue in 2007 with new launches of electronic delivery vehicles.
It increased revenues by leveraging such as Introduction to Global Politics, a textbook which has a the strength of its premium content to re-sell it to on-line portals.
supporting website with lecturers materials, datasets and updates: Psychology of Physical Activity, supported by a website containing In March 2006, iMoneyNet, the publishers of the Money Fund Report, lecturer PowerPoints: and Quantitative Data Analysis in Education, released Money Fund Analyser, a browser-based analytical tool also accompanied by a web site that contains educational designed to help US-based mutual fund companies, banks and information materials to download.
insurance companies meet their business goals.
It provides 24-hour access to iMoneyNets entire US money market fund database Technological advances in printing mean that Informa can now which includes more than 20 years of historical information on print high quality books on demand at comparable costs to bulk hundreds of data points.
By the end of 2006, all but a handful of printing.
This Print on Demand POD capability reduced costs, subscribers had upgraded from the desktop software database increased revenue and helped the environment in 2006. application to this new product resulting in a 32% sales increase in this area.
Holding virtual stock rejuvenated back lists, keeping out of print books on sale.
Informa was able to produce even more niche, Academic publishing continues to benefit from electronic capabilities specialist publications and reduce the incidence of stock write-offs both improving revenues and saving costs.
by avoiding the need for large print runs.
Further savings were made by preparing the texts for POD in India and then using local Over 90% of subscriptions to our 1,200 academic journals are now print suppliers in the UK and US to avoid shipping costs.
Informa launched 60 new journal titles in 2006 and enjoyed revenue increases of circa 8% reflecting content POD also reduces Informas carbon footprint and paper usage.
growth and frequency increases in a number of journals, particularly The number of books being printed on demand increased in 2006 in the humanities and social sciences HSS area.
This represents more than 20% of all titles and is being added to at a rate of approximately 300 a month so Informa The rise in digital delivery means that new research no longer has will enjoy even greater benefits from POD in 2007. to wait for a fixed issue date.
On-line updates can be made on a continuous basis adding even greater value and consequently Note: additional information on Publishing results can be found in resilience, to the subscriber base and cementing each journals each of the three divisional reports: A&S, Professional and Commercial.
Informas 200 years worth of premium journal content is a treasure trove of authoritative research.
In 2006 Informa identified the core subject areas with the greatest archive strength and digitised them.
The first four of these electronic archives were on Education: I Business Management and Economics: Chemistry: and Physics.
They have already produced their first million dollars in incremental revenue in 2006, all with limited associated costs, and 2007 sales are going well.
Additional sets will be launched in 2007 focused on Mathematics and History of Science: Geography, Urban Planning, II Environment and Sport: Behavioural Sciences and Social Work: and Engineering.
Academic books focus on e-commerce continued in 2006 with the launch of www.
Market facing brands such as Routledge, have their own direct domains but use the same applications.
All orders are consolidated through one server, dramatically improving the businesss ability to promote and track sales.
The system is updated daily with automatic new content feeds.
It is designed so that products and services from bolt-on acquisitions can be added easily.
The new functionality in the site III has transformed the customer buying experience.
It allows the 11 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006
