Chief Executives and Managing Directors Statement Above and Right: 2006 was our first full year as the new Informa: combining legacy Informa Chief Executive Peter Rigby which grew out of IBC and Lloyds of London Press, Taylor & Francis the and Managing Director Scientific & Academic publishers and IIR the Events and Performance David Gilbertson Improvement PI experts.
We had a very ambitious growth target.
Our headline revenue has grown by over 40% and our adjusted operating profits have grown by almost 50%.
More telling, in terms of confidence for the future, our proforma revenue increase was 13% and our proforma adjusted operating profit increase was 22%.
We believe this is the best measure for the like for like growth achieved in 2006.
This growth shows the strength of our core business and the success of our M&A activity.
We are not just bigger because of the corporate development we have undertaken: we are stronger, at once more resilient and more dynamic.
Informas broad geographical reach creates a natural resilience, allowing us to pursue growth aggressively in strong markets such as Dubai where we have seen excellent operating profit in 2006, with a 74% increase on prior year: and South Africa which in a turnaround situation grew by over 500%, whilst being more cautious in weaker markets such as Denmark and Poland which were flat on prior year.
Our local office structure means that we typically match costs to revenues across geographies mitigating foreign exchange exposure.
The impact of currency movement on Informas 2006 results was minimal, despite the volatility of the dollar.
Informas extended geographical footprint has also enabled us to grow faster as we leverage our winning brands by rolling them out globally.
We have taken our top Large Scale Events the must attendevent in a market, which attracts both high delegate numbers and large sponsorship and exhibition revenues and held regional versions in new territories, particularly in Asian markets.
6 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 Chief Executives and Managing Directors Statement We carried out an extensive review of the international opportunities for our market-leading PI businesses and are in the process of significantly expanding their international reach.
Royalty revenues from PI franchises grew by 25% in 2006, demonstrating strong international demand for their intellectual property.
This success reflects the PI companies proven ability to improve the We set performance of client business within specific operational disciplines such as communications, customer experience, leadership, project and programme management and sales.
ourselves an Our strategy is to provide specialist information to niche, targeted communities of interest across multiple media formats.
At the heart of all of our businesses and revenue streams is high value, ambitious growth proprietary content.
In 2006, our customers paid to receive premium content in books, journals, magazines, newspapers, events, training courses, exhibitions, PI engagements, data feeds, target for 2006. web sites and increasingly through a full range of electronic media.
Informas publishing revenues are resilient.
Our subscription We beat it.
revenues of which 90% now flow from digitally delivered content, renew each year at 90 % and enjoy considerable visibility as Peter Rigby subscribers pay up to one year in advance.
We are not a B2B publisher dependent upon advertising income, indeed just 3% and of our revenues in 2006 came from advertising.
David Gilbertson Our events businesses have benefited from a shift away from traditional advertising spend.
As advertisers demand more targeted marketing and more measurable response they are increasingly attracted to sponsoring and exhibiting at events.
Consequently, our proforma sponsorship and exhibition revenue grew by 41% in 2006.
All our markets saw good growth in 2006.
Notably, Telecoms clinical trials, a leading database of drugs under development & Media adjusted operating profit grew by 34% and Maritime, and the Map of Medicine, a product which enables practicing Trade & Transports by 35%.
Our newly integrated Life Sciences clinicians to identify disease treatment paths.
events businesses grew operating profit by 74%, again Through our Routledge imprint we are also one of the worlds demonstrating the benefits of the acquisition synergies.
leading publishers of humanities and social science journals and Across Informa, managers and their teams have seized the books, commissioning and bringing to wider appreciation work opportunities presented by our increased scale and format from leading authors in fields such as ethnicity, environmental expertise: implementing best practice from around the world: science and ecology, social work and urban studies.
partnering with sister companies to expand their product ranges and customer base: and reducing costs through shared back offices.
We are proud of the sort of group Informa is highly entrepreneurial, profit focused, fast and individual yet strong, robust and responsible.
Its a combination that we work hard to nurture because we know it sets us apart from our peers.
We are committed to being a responsible employer and to contributing positively to society in all the countries in which we operate.
This commitment reflects in various corporate actions ranging from charitable giving to environmental awareness: from the careful use of resources, to the recycling of our materials and to the purchase of fair-trade products in our offices.
Through our conference output we encourage discussion and promote understanding of a range of environmental and social responsibility issues through a host of topic focused events on both national and international scale.
These extend from subjects such as climate change, recycling and resource husbandry through crop protection to ethanol and biofuels.
Our publications include a particular focus on the promotion of primary research in science and medicine as publishers of academic journals and reference content.
Our electronic information services include the worlds largest database of 7 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006
