Chief Executives and Managing Directors Review: Business Streams Performance Improvement PI Rigorous, research-based, intellectual property in distinct operational disciplines.
Our seven PI businesses drive efficiency and growth by turning proven best practice into workplace habit.
Their hands-on application translates into measurable client results.
Left: Informa value: Non-Bureaucratic Photograph by: Holly Rowland, Marketing Manager, Forum Holly says:This waterfall photo represents the fact that we strive to be fast moving and nimble.
Water carves its own path.
Right: An AchieveGlobal customer engagement in action 13 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 I II III V IV Performance VI Improvement Above: PI generated 22% of revenue, 225.8m, in 2006.
Forum revenue growth of 11% and adjusted proforma operating profit II.
AchieveGlobal The PI businesses, working with corporate and government clients V. Omega to solve business issues in different operational disciplines, continue VI.
Huthwaite to experience strong global demand for their products and services.
Robbins-Gioia Their ability to drive better results for their clients using tailored intellectual property based learning programmes, coaching and measurement is generating strong repeat business.
Each of the seven brands is performing well.
The focus on expanding the US-led PI businesses globally continues to produce promising results with 34m, 15% of PI revenues, generated from non-US based operations.
The wholly owned nonUS businesses grew revenue on a proforma basis by 16% in 2006 outstripping the US growth of 10%.
Equally encouraging for further international growth, royalty revenues from franchises grew by 25%.
AchieveGlobal Achieve, one of the larger PI businesses, with 40% of its revenue from outside the US, has more global revenue than any of the other PI businesses.
In 2006 Achieve continued to build its international position with the purchase of its Taiwan and Greater China franchise operation.
14 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 Chief Executives and Managing Directors Review: Business Streams Achieves world-wide reach means that it can deliver solutions in a variety of methods and languages.
Among the many organisations Achieve has worked with internationally is global printer RR Donnelley whose Achieve solution set was delivered to 1,500 new Revenue by Sector employees through on-line and classroom programmes in Spanish, Cantonese, Mandarin and English.
Achieve also launched new programmes in its Professional Sales portfolio to great success.
Over 5,000 individuals world-wide have already been through the new programmes.
This significant investment in new intellectual property was recouped within nine months.
ESI International ESI, the Project Management specialists and another of the larger PI businesses, also saw good global growth with proforma operating profit from its non US business increasing 28%.
Throughout the year, ESI launched projects aimed at driving additional revenue from its multi-national client base, improving levels of customer service and creating greater collaboration and cooperation within the global account teams.
This has resulted in the win of a substantial EMEA account.
This leading manufacturer of advanced technology systems for the semi-conductor industry is potentially ESIs largest ever EMEA client and will begin to trade in 2007.
Similar team work is driving new opportunities in the Finance 16% Middle East.
Government 41% Sales, marketing and system integration projects were launched in Professional Services 6% July 2006 designed to boost the newly acquired Asia business units.
Pharmaceutical & Healthcare 5% These have enabled ESI to secure new revenues for this region and create operational efficiencies resulting in above plan operating Manufacturing & Industrial 7% profit for the operations in China, Singapore and Hong Kong.
Hospitality, Leisure, Retail 3% IT & Telecoms 13% Omega, one of the smaller PI brands, specialising in financial service clients, also produced noteworthy results delivering a 60% increase Energy, Utilities & Transportation 5% in proforma operating profit on a 16% jump in global revenue and Other incl.
not-for-profit, media, education, consumer 4% a nearly 70% increase in average yield per client.
Omega clients include the National Australia Bank NAB, with Below: whom it has had a relationship for 18 years.
NAB is rolling out a I. ESI project management engagement comprehensive Omega PI solution comprised of sales, sales I II.
AchieveGlobal Malaysia engagement management and coaching components to more than 1,000 III.
ESI delivers project management expertise bank managers in an effort to increase its share of the retail banking market through improved branch and regional management practices.
Another key Omega client is Standard Chartered Bank, with whom Omega has worked for more than a decade.
Standard Chartered, a global leader in emerging markets, employs Omegas credit skills assessment, training and coaching solutions in over 50 countries across Asia, Africa and Latin America.
Each year, more than a 1,000 Standard Chartered Bank employees graduate from Omega programmes.
Initially focused on wholesale bank credit applications, the relationship has expanded to encompass the Small and Medium Enterprise sector a driving force for Standard Chartereds international growth.
Similarly, Barclays, who initially targeted 400 staff members for its II Credit Skills Development programme, have to date had more than 1,200 participants in Omegas credit and risk management solutions.
Note: additional information on PI results can be found in the Professional divisional report.
III 15 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006
