Chief Executives and Managing Directors Review: Trading Outlook Trading Outlook 2006 was an excellent year.
We are confident that we will achieve our targets for another successful year.
Left: Informa value: About Quality Photograph by: Alex Spargo, Events Organiser, Informa Telecoms & Media Alex says: The couple emanates excellence and superior dancing skills, captured in a single pose where they are both totally focused on being the best, even though they are dancing in one of the poorest neighbourhoods of Sao Paulo.
Right: The Media Students Book.
Published by Routledge 33 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 I II III Trading IV Outlook Above: 2006 was an excellent year.
PALM Expo 2006, the All three of our business streams have started the year strongly and 15th Chinese International are trading ahead of last year both in real and constant currency Exhibition on pro audio, V light, music & technology terms.
Publishing is performing well and ahead of expectations.
Our Performance Improvement PI and Events businesses continue to II.
Leaders in Dubai, CEO debate enjoy the double digit revenue growth which they achieved in 2006.
Arab Health 2007 V. The War For Childrens Minds.
Publishing Published by Routledge Publishing deferred income balances, which reflect subscription revenue received yet to be released to the revenue account, are 7% ahead of those at the same period last year in constant currency terms.
This is an important indicator of publishing trading strength.
Electronic revenues continue to build as we leverage still more of our premium content on-line.
Sales of the new academic electronic archives are progressing well with some $4m of bookings already this year compared with $1m in 2006.
Digital developments in our Professional and Commercial divisions also show good promise.
Events Events have had a good start to the year.
The Large Scale Events LSEs already held have outperformed prior year and budget expectations.
For example, SuperReturn 2007, the largest private equity conference in the world, celebrated its 10th anniversary in February with the largest event yet, attracting some 1,500 attendees from around the world.
34 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 Chief Executives and Managing Directors Review: Trading Outlook Our Dubai business has also carried its excellent 2006 momentum forward into 2007.
Its largest event, the healthcare exhibition Arab Health, has just closed significantly ahead of prior year and budget.
The regional roll-outs of its second largest event Cityscape to Singapore, China, Abu Dhabi and India were all planned in 2006 and are on course to achieve significant profits in 2007.
The 3GSM World Congress in Barcelona in February grew again.
Under a new arrangement with the association GSMA, our We believe that attributable profit will be similar to last year although bookable revenues will be lower.
successfully creating Performance Improvement Total PI revenues in the first two months of this year are 11% ahead organic revenue of last year with particularly strong starts from Huthwaite, the sales force effectiveness specialists, which has seen top line growth of 22% and Robbins-Gioia, the programme management experts, synergies is one of our which is 18% ahead.
International revenues continue to show encouraging expansion.
Sales from non-US based operations are 23% higher than this time last year.
Acquisitions and Disposals Peter Rigby and David Gilbertson Our late 2006 acquisitions Lawrence Erlbaum, the behavioural science publishing business: Citeline, the clinical trails database: and Junction, a specialist event organiser in the field of IPTV, have all begun the year in line with expectations and have already been integrated into the Group.
In addition to our encouraging trading momentum, the Group will also benefit from the 38.9m cash proceeds, generating a non-trading profit of 33.4m, from the disposal of our investment Below: in Blackwell Publishing following its recent sale to John Wiley.
Guy Hands at SuperReturn 2007 VII.
Asia Bride: Brand roll-out of IIR Dubais Bride exhibition, successfully taken to Singapore VI Summary VIII.
Motexha, the Middle Easts largest garments, We believe that successfully creating organic revenue synergies textiles, leather & fashion accessories trade exhibition is a particular strength of Informa.
We work very hard at moving successful products around the world, cross marketing across our divisions and encouraging our Publishing, PI and Events businesses to work together.
Our broad product portfolio gives us many VII opportunities to generate incremental revenues.
Our attitude is that all synergistic efforts are important even if we only generate an incremental pound of profit from the initiative.
Such synergies, our expertise at leveraging premium content electronically, the inherent quality of the business and the energy, commitment and enthusiasm of our employees underpins the on-going success of Informa.
The strength of our underlying trading means that we are confident that we will counter the current weakness of the dollar and achieve our targets for another successful year in 2007.
Peter Rigby and David Gilbertson 14 March 2007 VIII 35 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006
