Chief Executives and Managing Directors Review: Divisions Academic & Scientific Providing leading-edge peer reviewed research and specialist content to disciplines from architecture to zoology: spanning science, technology and medicine to social sciences and the humanities.
Our commitment to the highest quality standards keeps us at the forefront of academic study and scientific learning.
Left: Informa value: Open Photograph by: Philip McIntyre, Statistics Editor, Europa Publications - Taylor & Francis Philip says: Looks closed but then you realise that the way is open - free of obstacles and very clearly defined.
Right: The Animal Pharm Awards 2006 21 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 I II IV III V Academic & Scientific VI Above: Revenues increased by 13% to 295.2m in 2006, driven by an I, II & III.
Informa Life Sciences organic increase of 6% and by contributions from acquisitions Partnerships in Clinical Trials including a full year from IIR.
Adjusted operating profit was 18% LSE and official magazine higher at 77.6m, which included organic growth of 10%.
Conflict and Peace Building in Divided proforma basis adjusted operating profits were up 15%.
In 2006 Societies: Responses to Ethnic Violence.
IIR contributed 18.9m 2005 from date of acquisition: 5.9m to Published by Routledge revenue and 3.2m 2005 from date of acquisition: 0.4m to V. Agrow magazine adjusted operating profit.
On a proforma basis IIR for 2005 recorded VI.
Pharmaprojects turnover of 14.2m and adjusted operating profit of 2.4m.
The adjusted operating margin rose to 26.3% from 25.1%, benefiting from the 7% organic increase in books sales as well as the impact of cost savings and efficiencies associated with the integration of the IIR businesses.
The Scientific & Medical business grew organic revenue by 4%.
Within it, Informa Healthcare, which targets the medical, bioscience and pharmaceutical sectors, with a full mix of delivery formats including books, journals, magazines and awards, had a particularly strong year, achieving organic revenue growth of 12% and operating profit growth of 8%.
The teams ability to leverage brands and provide high quality content across multiple delivery platforms can be seen by its 2006 re-launch of Agrow, the flagship publication providing opinions and analysis for the plant sciences industry.
Agrow was re-launched as a comprehensive news service comprising online, magazine, and traditional newsletter formats positioned to complement each other.
This new package was designed to meet the diverse requirements of Agrows readership by developing the newsletters 22 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 Chief Executives and Managing Directors Review: Divisions widely acknowledged high quality editorial across an extended market share.
The renewal rate at over 97% is outperforming the portfolio of offerings.
This initiative provided a platform for Agrow overall journals rate.
to protect its leading market position and drive significant revenue The new electronic sales model, offering access to additional titles and profit growth with a 48% increase in advertising revenue, 28% within a discipline for a two year period, has increased customer increase in subscription yields and 38% increase in adjusted yield and is being well received by the academic community.
We have always had a strong presence in HSS journals in Europe.
Using digital capabilities to support and transform high value content The purchase of Lawrence Erlbaum towards the end of the year, has been a theme throughout Informa in 2006.
Informa Healthcare with an impressive portfolio of 100 titles particularly in behavioural transformed its written courses from a paper-based product into a sciences and education, has given us a firm platform for further fully interactive service.
Customer feedback has been positive and expansion into North America in 2007. the division has already seen a four fold return on its initial investment.
It has now transferred these events to the newly strengthened Informa Life Sciences events business so that they can be seamlessly co-marketed with the rest of the events portfolio.
Academic & Scientific The Life Sciences events businesses in both the UK and the US had a strong 2006.
Revenue increased on a proforma basis by 12% and operating profit by 74% reflecting the benefits of a successful integration.
The IBC and IIR Life Science conference teams in the UK were merged to form a single team Informa Life Sciencesin February.
The operational changes and new initiatives implemented since the initial merger saved costs, improved productivity and strengthened the businesss market position considerably.
By comparing working practices across research, marketing, sales and logistics, Informa Life Sciences was able to implement processes that drew from the best practices of each of the teams.
The benefits of this exercise have included product specialisation, roll-out of new marketing initiatives, particularly in e-marketing, optimised lead times, increased use of telesales and successful key account sales.
The combined effect of this has led to an increase in average delegate numbers of 16% along with 8% more events.
Building on this success, Informa Life Sciences has gone on to Revenue Type % of total revenue expand its portfolio by launching new events for markets that have not traditionally been catered for by either of the Life Science Events 10% events divisions but where Informa already had a strong presence Copy sales 41% through its publications such as Scrip.
These new areas such as Advertising 3% veterinary medicines and medical devices provide an exciting blueprint for future brand extensions based on connecting Subscriptions 46% events and publications market presence and expertise.
The division also saw excellent revenue growth in Humanities & Social Sciences HSS which increased 13% on a proforma basis and 10% organically.
"Books benefited from an increasing focus on two core aspects of the academic market - ""teaching and learning"" Academic & Scientific 2006 2005 Increase Organic Proforma books for students, and high-level international research publishing mm%% % for purchase by university libraries."
The top subjects by revenue size Revenue were Psychology & Behavioural Science, Education, Politics & STM 178.7 157.0 14 4 8 International Relations and Media & Communication.
In total more than 2,000 new books were published in the year.
HSS 116.5 103.5 13 10 13 Significant new launches new titles and new editions of text 295.2 260.5 13 6 10 books for students included: Constitutional and Administrative Law: The English Legal System:The Media Students Book:Town and Country Planning in the UK: Handbook of Child and Adolescent Adjusted Operating Profit Clinical Psychology:Theatre Histories: An Introduction: Learning to STM 50.6 41.5 22 10 16 Teach in the Primary School: Sport, Culture and Society.
HSS 27.0 24.0 12 9 12 HSS journals continued to benefit in 2006 from strong content 77.6 65.5 18 10 15 growth.
Research investment in the newer disciplines, such as strategic studies, terrorism studies, music, media, sports sciences, Adjusted Operating Margin 26.3 25.1 environmental studies and diversity, continues to grow enabling us to produce larger and more frequent journals and to win more 23 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006
