Corporate and Risk Information The Directors present their annual report on the affairs of the Group, together with the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006.
This report includes the information set out from page 6 to page 60 of this document.
Notices concerning the limitations on the liability of the Directors and concerning forward looking statements are set out on page 128.
Principal Activities Informa plc and its subsidiary undertakings provide specialist information to the academic & scientific, professional and commercial communities globally through publishing, events and performance improvement PI.
The subsidiary and associated undertakings principally affecting the profits or net assets of the Group in the year are listed in notes 21 and 22 to the financial statements.
Information about the development and performance of the business of the Company during the financial year that fulfils the requirements of S234ZZB of the Companies Act 1985 is included in the Chief Executives and Managing Directors Statement and Review and the Financial Review all of which form part of this report for the purposes of the Companies Act 1985.
This report as a whole provides information about the Groups businesses, its financial performance during the year and likely future developments.
Other than as described in this report, there have not been any significant changes to the Groups principal activities during the year under review and the Directors are not aware, at the date of this report, of any likely major changes in the Groups activities in the new financial year.
Details of significant events since the balance sheet date are contained in note 41 to the financial statements.
Business Review The results for the year are summarised in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 63 and the related Notes.
A review of the Groups business and future prospects is set out in the Chief Executives and Managing Directors Statement and Review on pages 6 to 35.
In relation to the use of financial instruments by the Group a review is included within note 27 to the financial statements.
Dividends The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 8.9p per ordinary share be paid on 30 May 2007 to ordinary shareholders registered as at the close of business on 27 April 2007 which, together with the interim dividend of 3.3p per ordinary share paid on 6 November 2006, makes a total for the year of 12.2p per ordinary share.
Directors The Directors, who served throughout the year, are set out on pages 40 to 41, which includes brief biographical details.
The remuneration and interests in the share capital of the Company of the Directors who held office as at 31 December 2006 are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 53 to 60.
All the Directors, except for Mr Hooper who proposes to retire permanently from the Board, offer themselves for re-election by the shareholders at the next AGM.
Details of the contracts of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors with the Company can be found on page 56.
No Director was materially interested in any contract of significance.
Registration The Companys registered office is at Mortimer House, 37-41 Mortimer Street, London W1T 3JH.
The Company is registered in England and Wales under number 3099067.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held on 15 May 2007 and the notice will be despatched separately.
Charitable and Political Contributions The Group made charitable donations during the year of 151,000, principally to local charities serving some of the communities in which the Group operates.
No political donations were made.
44 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 Corporate and Risk Information continued Supplier Payment Policy The Companys policy, which is also applied by the Group, is to settle terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction, to ensure that suppliers are aware of the terms of payment and to abide by the agreed terms, provided that the supplier has provided the goods or services in accordance with the relevant terms and conditions.
Trade payables of the Group at 31 December 2006 were equivalent to 47 days 2005 46 days purchases, based on the average daily amount invoiced by suppliers during the year.
Substantial Shareholdings As at 12 March 2007 the Company had been notified, in accordance with Sections 198 to 208 of the Companies Act 1985 or, from January 2007, in conformity with the new Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority, of the following interests of 3% or more of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: Number of shares % held Date Company notified FMR Corp and Fidelity International Limited 28,663,649 6.78 10 Nov 2006 HBOS plc and its subsidiaries 16,072,191 3.80 11 July 2006 Legal & General Investment Management 36,484,756 8.61 26 Feb 2007 Britannic Investment Managers Limited 13,268,584 3.14 4 Jan 2006 Marathon Asset Management 14,510,626 3.43 22 Feb 2007 Standard Life Investments 22,304,218 5.29 4 Aug 2005 As at 12 March 2007, the Companys issued share capital comprised 423,336,287 ordinary shares with a nominal value of 10p each, all of which have voting rights.
At the end of the year, the Directors had authority, under a shareholders resolution passed on 16 May 2006, to purchase through the market up to 42,177,123 of the Companys ordinary shares.
The minimum price which may be paid for each ordinary share is 10p: the maximum which may be paid for each share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share of the Company as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the date on which such share is contracted to be purchased exclusive of associated expenses payable by the Company.
This authority expires on 15 August 2007, or if earlier, at the conclusion of the AGM of the Company to be held in 2007.
Going Concern Basis After making enquiries, the Directors have formed a judgement, at the time of approving the financial statements, that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Employee Consultation The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its employees and continues to keep them informed on matters affecting them as employees and on the various factors affecting the performance of the Group.
This is achieved principally through formal and informal meetings, email updates and via the Companys recently relaunched updated global intranet site, which is to be regularly updated and also includes a facility enabling employees anonymously to ask questions of executive management to which answers are also published.
Employee representatives are consulted regularly on a wide range of matters affecting their current and future interests.
Mr Rigby Chief Executive and Mr Gilbertson Managing Director recently co-presented the Informa Strategy Webinar.
All employees worldwide were invited to attend, take part in live on-line polls, and ask Mr Rigby and Mr Gilbertson questions about the business and its future.
The Webinar, including the results of the polls, was then posted on the Informa intranet so that those employees who were unable to attend could watch it.
It is planned that the format will be repeated in order to provide further updating to staff on results and an opportunity for live feedback and question and answer sessions.
All UK employees are eligible to participate in the Companys Share Incentive Plan SIP, an Inland Revenue Approved All Employee Share Incentive Plan offering UK employees the opportunity to purchase annually up to 1,500 of shares in the Company out of pre-tax salary.
Disabled Employees Full consideration is given to applications for employment from, and the continuing employment, training, promotion, career development and promotion of, disabled persons.
45 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 Corporate and Risk Information continued Risks and Uncertainties The Directors are required as part of recent changes to the Companies Act 1985 to provide a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
A number of factors risk factors affect the Group's operating results and financial condition.
In common with other information providers, the Groups profitability depends in part on the prevailing economic environment and the strength of the academic, professional and business communities to which it sells.
In addition, the Group's profitability is dependent on maintaining a strong and highly motivated management team, maintaining brand reputation, quality of information and its ability to use and protect the security of its marketing databases.
Risk factors include economic conditions, appetite for the Group's products, government policy and the need to have effective operational systems and processes as follows: The Group's publishing business could be adversely affected by general economic downturns or declines or disruptions in industries to which it provides information The publishing industry is sensitive to both general economic and business conditions and can be affected by the condition of specific industries and interest groups such as the professional, financial services, life sciences, technology, pharmaceuticals, telecommunications and maritime industries.
Some of these industries have in the past been sensitive to various potential disruptions such as government regulation, war, terrorism, disease, natural disasters and other significant adverse events.
A general decline in economic conditions or disruptions in specific industries characterised by falls in spending on published materials could cause a material decline in revenue.
The Group's events business could be adversely affected by general economic downturns, catastrophic events or declines or disruptions in industries that heavily utilise events The events market is sensitive to both general economic and business conditions and to specific adverse circumstances, such as acts of terrorism or other catastrophic events.
In addition, the events market can be affected by the condition of industries such as professional, financial services, life sciences, technology, pharmaceuticals, telecommunications and maritime industries.
Some of these industries tend to be sensitive to various potential disruptions such as government regulation, war, terrorism, disease, natural disasters and other significant adverse circumstances.
A general decline in economic conditions or disruptions in specific industries characterised by falls in spending on events as spending on events is considered discretionary by some customers could cause a material decline in revenues, particularly those derived from stage 1 smaller events and training courses.
The PI industry could be adversely affected by general economic downturns or declines or disruptions in industries The PI market is sensitive to both general economic and business conditions.
In addition, PI spending can be affected by the condition of industries such as travel, financial services, education, telecommunications, retail and entertainment industries.
Some of these industries tend to be sensitive to various potential disruptions such as government regulation, war, terrorism, disease, natural disasters and other significant adverse events.
A general decline in economic conditions or disruptions in specific industries characterised by falls in spending on PI expenditure as this spending may be considered discretionary by customers could cause a decline in the Groups revenue.
The Group could be impacted if changes in the business model were widely adopted in the academic publishing market An alternative business model called 'open access' has been put forward that would allow libraries to access all publications freely rather than the current system of acquiring journals from publishers.
If this model were to be widely adopted, there could be a material impact on this part of the Group's business.
The Group continues to monitor the situation and position itself to respond to changes in the academic market's information requirements.
Low barriers to entry in the events market The stage one events and training course markets have relatively low barriers to entry that can lead to rival operators establishing competing events in the Group's core markets.
There are several competitors who can establish rival events at relatively low-cost.
The Group is subject to high sensitivity in relation to average delegate attendance Average delegate numbers at events could fall as a reaction to the economic or political environment.
In addition to the general economic, social and political environment, the Group could also see reduced delegate numbers due to changes in the quality of events, a failure to market events successfully, reductions in the appeal of certain events and a decline in the general appetite amongst corporate clients to pay for and send delegates to events.
If there is a material decline in average attendance then profitability would be materially reduced due to the operationally geared nature of this business.
Competitive pressures may adversely affect the financial performance of the Groups PI businesses The Groups PI businesses are subject to significant competitive pressures from large consulting firms on the one hand and small competitors on the other in relation to certain parts of these businesses where the barriers to entry may be low.
These businesses also place substantial reliance upon high quality sales people that can be difficult to attract and retain.
Robbins-Gioia Proxy Board Arrangements may limit the control exercisable over the business The Robbins-Gioia business operates under a Proxy Board Arrangement under the US Exxon-Florio Act which limits the amount of control that the Group can exert over this business.
In addition, the ability of the Group to grow the Robbins-Gioia business outside of the United States could be restricted.
PI market is partially reliant on evolving workplace practices and good economic conditions A significant number of the PI division's products could become out-dated or be overtaken by a competitor's products.
The PI business model includes a training component.
These businesses also may experience impaired financial performance during tougher economic conditions where businesses may decide not to invest in their people.
46 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 Corporate and Risk Information continued The Group's results may be impacted by exchange rate fluctuations The Group operates in over 70 countries and is therefore exposed to foreign currency rate fluctuations.
The Group receives over 50% of its revenues in US Dollars and incurs approximately 40% of its costs in US Dollars.
A strong sterling as against the US Dollar will reduce the sterling reported results of the US Dollar businesses.
Conversely, a weaker sterling against the US Dollar will increase the reported results of the US Dollar business.
The Group receives approximately 20% of its revenues in Euros and incurs approximately 20% of its costs in Euros.
A strong sterling against the Euro will reduce sterling reported results of the Euro businesses.
Conversely, a weaker sterling as against the Euro will increase the reported results of the Euro businesses.
Comparability of the Group's business between financial targets can be significantly affected by fluctuations in the sterling against other currencies, particularly against the US Dollar and the Euro.
The Group operates in a competitive environment The markets for the Group's products and services are competitive and this may have adverse consequences.
In its academic, specialist and professional publications business, this could lead to pricing pressure and, in turn, reduced profit margins.
In its events business, this may lead to a reduction in the number of delegates and or the volume of events and the availability of sponsorship.
The Group could fail to attract or retain senior management or other key employees The failure to attract or retain key employees could seriously impede the financial plans, growth and other objectives of the Group.
The success of the Group depends to a substantial extent not only on the ability and experience of its senior management but also on the individuals and teams that service its customers and maintain its client relationships.
The Directors believe that the Group's future success will depend, to a large degree, on its ability to attract and retain additional highly skilled and qualified personnel and to expand, train, manage and motivate its employees.
Damage to reputation and or brand could lead to an adverse impact on the Group The Group's businesses are in part dependent on the success of their branded publications and events.
These brands are important in attracting high quality contributors, advertising revenues, speakers, delegates and sponsorship.
If the reputation, customer experience or quality of any of the Group's major publications, PI businesses or larger events was to be damaged then there could be an adverse impact on the Group.
The Group's intellectual property rights could be challenged and enforcement of those rights could be costly A substantial element of the Group's products and services comprise intellectual property content delivered through a variety of media, including journals, books, printed training materials and the internet.
Whilst the Group relies on trademark, copyright, patent and other intellectual property laws to establish and protect its proprietary rights in these products and services, it cannot be certain that its proprietary rights will not be challenged, limited, invalidated or circumvented.
Despite trademark and copyright protection and similar intellectual property protection laws, third parties may be able to copy, infringe or otherwise profit from its proprietary rights without the Company's authorisation.
Similarly, whilst the Group endeavours through a variety of means to ensure that product offerings do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, such products often include content compiled from outside sources, and claims by third parties that such products infringe on their proprietary rights could adversely affect individual product lines.
As regards online content, whilst there is certain internet-specific copyright legislation in the United States and in the European Union, there remains significant uncertainty as to its scope and enforceability.
In the United States, copyright laws are increasingly coming under legal challenge.
Data protection and security of databases could be compromised The Group has valuable databases.
If these were damaged or accessed by a competitor then the ability of the Group to operate and access these databases could be adversely impacted.
This could have a material adverse impact on the Group's revenue and profits.
In addition, access to these databases could enable one of the Company's competitors to compete more effectively.
Internet and electronic delivery platforms, networks or distribution systems The Group's businesses are increasingly dependent on electronic platforms and distribution systems, primarily the internet, for delivery of their products and services.
The Group's ability to use the internet may be impaired due to infrastructure failures, service outages at third party internet providers or increased government regulation.
If disruptions, failures, or slowdowns of the Group's electronic delivery systems or the internet occur, its ability to distribute its products and services effectively and to serve its customers may be adversely affected.
Auditors Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of the approval of this annual report confirms that: so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditors are unaware: and the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of the information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
Deloitte & Touche LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board John Burton Company Secretary 14 March 2007 47 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006
