Officers and Advisers Officers and Advisers Below, left to right: John Davis John Burton Dr Pamela Kirby Peter Rigby Anthony Foye Derek Mapp Richard Hooper David Gilbertson 39 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 I II III VI Officers and Advisers IV Above: Richard Hooper CBE 23 I. Richard Hooper Non-Executive Chairman 67 V II.
Peter Rigby Richard Hooper was appointed a Non-Executive Director of Lloyds III.
Anthony Foye of London Press later renamed LLP in 1997 and became the Senior V. Derek Mapp Non-Executive Director on the Informa Group plc board following VI.
Sean Watson the merger of LLP and IBC in 1998.
Mr Hooper is a Non-Executive VII.
Dr Pamela Kirby Director of both Yell Group plc and i-mate plc.
John Davis been the Deputy Chairman of the Office of Communications IX.
John Burton Ofcom, the Chairman of the Radio Authority and a Non-Executive Director of Superscape plc and of MAI United News and Media plc.
Upon the merger of Informa Group plc and Taylor & Francis Group plc in May 2004, Mr Hooper was designated the Companys Senior Non-Executive Director and he was appointed its Chairman on 10 March 2005.
He also chairs the Nomination Committee.
Mr Hooper will retire from the Board at the Companys AGM on 15 May 2007.
Peter Rigby Chief Executive 51 After qualifying as an accountant, Peter Rigby joined Metal Box.
In 1981 he moved into the media industry joining Book Club Associates, a joint venture between WH Smith and Doubleday.
In 1983 he joined Stonehart Publications which was acquired by International Business Communications later renamed IBC in 1986.
After two years as Finance Director of IBC, Mr Rigby was appointed Deputy Chief Executive and later its Chief Executive, leading IBCs expansion into North America, Asia and Australia.
He became Chairman of Informa Group plc at the Companys inception upon 40 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 Officers and Advisers the merger of LLP and IBC in 1998.
Mr Rigby was appointed Chief Quintiles, Dr Kirby held various senior positions in the Executive upon the merger of Informa with Taylor & Francis in pharmaceutical industry at Astra AB now AstraZeneca plc, British May 2004.
He is also Non-Executive Chairman of Electric Word plc.
Biotech plc now Vernalis plc and F. Hoffman-La Roche Limited.
Mr Rigby will become Chairman of the Company at the Companys She has a PhD in Clinical Pharmacology from the University of 2007 AGM.
Dr Kirby was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in September 2004 and chairs the Remuneration Committee.
David Gilbertson John Davis Managing Director 50 13 Non-Executive Director 44 David Gilbertson has some 28 years experience in the information industry having held editorial and management positions with John Davis has been Chief Financial Officer of Yell Group plc since Metal Bulletin, Reuters and Reed Elsevier.
He previously held senior positions within Pearson Plc, where Editor of Lloyds List, joining the LLP board in 1992.
Mr Gilbertson he was latterly Group Finance Director of the FT Group, and Emap was a member of the management buy-out team which bought plc, which he joined in 1989, where he was Director of Corporate LLP from Lloyds of London in 1995, becoming its Chief Executive Finance and Treasury between 1995 and 1997.
He took LLP to flotation on the London Stock Exchange in Chartered Accountant, having qualified at Price Waterhouse and early 1998 and became Chief Executive of Informa Group plc upon has a Masters in Management from the Stanford Graduate School its formation from the merger of LLP and IBC in December 1998. of Business.
He was appointed as a Non-Executive Director with Mr Gilbertson was appointed Managing Director upon the merger effect from 1 October 2005. of Informa and Taylor & Francis in May 2004.
He is also Non-Executive Chairman of John Brown Holdings Limited.
Mr Gilbertson will John Burton become Chief Executive of the Company at the Companys 2007 AGM.
Company Secretary 42 John Burton is a solicitor and was formerly a partner at CMS Anthony Foye Cameron McKenna.
In that role, he advised the Group in relation Finance Director 44 to the LLP and IBC merger in 1998, the acquisition of PJB Anthony Foye joined the Taylor & Francis Group in 1987 as Group Publications in 2003, the Informa and Taylor & Francis merger in Chief Accountant and Company Secretary after qualifying as a 2004 and the combined IIR acquisition and rights issue in 2005.
In 1994 he was appointed Finance Director He joined the Group as Group General Counsel and Company of Taylor & Francis Group plc and was instrumental in the companys Secretary in June 2006. flotation on the London Stock Exchange in May 1998.
Mr Foye was appointed Finance Director upon the merger of Informa and Taylor 1 Member of Audit Committee & Francis in May 2004.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of 2 Member of Remuneration Committee YouGov plc.
3 Member of Nomination Committee Derek Mapp 123 VII Senior Non-Executive Director 56 Derek Mapp joined the board of Taylor & Francis Group plc as a Non-Executive Director in 1998.
He is currently Non-Executive Chairman of Staffline Recruitment Group plc, Executive Chairman of Imagesound plc and Chairman of Sport England, as well as having a number of other private business interests.
Mr Mapp was appointed VIII as a Non-Executive Director upon the merger of Informa and Taylor & Francis in May 2004 and was designated the Senior Independent Director on 10 March 2005.
He is also Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Sean Watson 123 Non-Executive Director 58 A solicitor and Senior Corporate Finance Partner at CMS Cameron McKenna, Sean Watson has extensive experience in all areas of corporate law.
In 2000 he was appointed as a Non-Executive Director.
Dr Pamela Kirby 23 Non-Executive Director 53 IX Pamela Kirby is currently Chairman of Scynexis Inc. a privately held chemistry-focused drug discovery and development company based in the US.
She is also a Non-Executive Director of Smith & Nephew plc and Curalogic AS.
She was previously the Non-Executive Chairman of Oxford Immunotec Limited and was the CEO of US-based Quintiles Transnational Corporation.
Prior to joining 41 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 Officers and Advisers Auditors Deloitte & Touche LLP Abbots House Abbey Street Reading Berkshire RG1 3BD Registrars Lloyds TSB Registrars The Causeway Worthing West Sussex BN99 6DA Financial Advisers Greenhill & Co. International LLP Lansdowne House 57 Berkeley Square London W1J 6ER Stockbrokers Hoare Govett Limited Merrill Lynch International 250 Bishopsgate Merrill Lynch Financial Centre London EC2M 4AA 2 King Edward Street London EC1A 1HQ Public Relations Maitland Orion House 5 Upper St Martins Lane London WC2H 9EA Principal Lawyers CMS Cameron McKenna Ashurst Mitre House Broadwalk House 160 Aldersgate Street 5 Appold Street London EC1A 4DD London EC2A 2HA Left: Arvind Chudasama, Editor, International Sugar Journal Sugar Cane International, Agra Informa Ltd Arvind says:The pellucid beauty of this image well expresses the subtle visual appeal of each cane and their total impact together.
Informa in our entirety is stronger because of the richness of the particular.
Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 43
