Chief Executives and Managing Directors Review: Business Streams Events Timely, responsive and market focused.
From large industry leading events to specialists forums on detailed topics, we devise the products to meet the information and networking needs of more than 200 industry sectors across six continents.
Left: Informa value: For Profit Photograph by: Marcelo Toledo, Communications Adviser, IBC Brazil Marcelo says: We are here to make money, adding value to the world.
Right: Colette Leong-Son, Divisional Manager of ICBI, Informas Large Scale Event specialists, and Peter Rigby, CEO, at the Private Equity Large Scale Event, SuperReturn 17 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 I II III IV Events V Above: Events generated 39% of revenue in 2006 and saw excellent I. IIR Dubais Arab Health exhibition proforma growth of 19%.
Australias Attorney General The successful integration of IIR: a continued focus on developing Philip Ruddock being interviewed Large Scale Events LSEs, the must attendconferences in each by the media at IIRs 2007 National sector which combine strong delegate revenues with high margin Security Conference in Sydney sponsorship and exhibition income: and leveraging Informas global III.
Australias IIR and Informa offices footprint, have all contributed to the strong performance.
on the way to integration, meeting in the middle of Sydney Harbour For example, combining the Informa and IIR events businesses in Bridge on a charity walk Australia to create one national business with two market facing IV & V. Cityscape: the worlds brands, drove a 13% increase in proforma revenues and a 21% largest international property increase in proforma adjusted operating profit.
Average delegates investment and development attending IIR branded events in Australia rose by almost 8% as the event produced by IIR Dubai business took advantage of access to the combined customer and prospect base.
Average yield per delegate for the Informa branded events in the country rose by over 9% as they capitalised on the pricing strategy from the IIR model.
The accelerated growth opportunities combined with integration synergies to raise margins above 20% in 2006.
Much of the margin improvement was achieved through the increased purchasing power of the integrated business and the merger of the back office.
Across Informa, a focus on LSEs and a small number of major exhibitions has improved the quality of earnings of the events portfolio.
These events have particular resilience through the cycle as they become the prime meeting place for a specific industry or sector.
They attract the best speakers: delegates attend and return to them annually because they provide an opportunity to meet the full marketplace and they are a magnet for sponsors and exhibitors, 18 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 Chief Executives and Managing Directors Review: Business Streams who recognise a focused opportunity to engage proven purchasers and wish to demonstrate commitment to the sector.
Event Topic Our largest 200 events contribute more than 40% of our total events turnover.
Advantages of scale mean that they enjoy significantly Sector Distribution by higher margins than our average.
They contribute approximately Number of Events 70% of our events-derived adjusted operating profit.
The remainder of the events portfolio while contributing at lower margin, helps ensure we maximise profitable revenue from our structures and cleans and builds our prime asset our 20 million-strong database.
They also allow us to explore and develop the topics that will become tomorrows leading events.
Dubais Cityscape, which is now the worlds largest international property investment & development event, is a notable example of just that process.
Started five years ago as a standard conference, in 2006 the show welcomed 35,000 participants from 90 countries and over 500 exhibitors from 55 countries, more than doubling its exhibitor base.
Dubais whole exhibition portfolio performed well.
PALME, the Middle East's professional sound, light, music, audio visual and systems integration exhibition, grew exhibitors by almost 50%.
Middle East Electricity, the largest power and electricity event in the Middle East, grew its exhibitor base from 764 to 969, a 27% increase.
Bride, the wedding show, increased visitor numbers from 11,000 in 2005 to 25,000 in 2006.
Sector % of events Consumer Products and Services 0.3% Ambiente, the gift & homeware exhibition for the new bride and her first home, which is co-located at the Bride Show, demonstrates Energy & Utilities 6% the success of leveraging existing brands to drive further market Finance 11.8% penetration.
Ambiente grew exhibitor numbers by 52% and visitor Health 11.4% numbers by over 100% from 2005 to 2006.
Human Resources 11.3% IIR USA posted strong results as its focus on LSEs, which have Industrial 8% an average gross profit almost eight times that of a standard Leisure 0.2% conference, continued to pay off.
In total, proforma adjusted operating profit grew by over 47% and the operating profit margin Management 20.9% grew by 7%.
Flagship million dollar plus events included: GAIM, Marketing 3.5% the hedge fund industry event: the brand extension GAIM Fund New Topic Sectors 0.5% of Funds: CROs, the multi-million dollar clinical development Other 2.1% outsourcing conference: NMHCC, the National Managed Health Care Congress:The Market Research event: and Front End of Innovation, Public Sector 3.9% the only truly comprehensive event focused on all aspects of front Real Estate Property Construction 1.6% end strategy and process.
Tax Law Accounting 5.8% Front End of Innovation is another example of how Informa is Technology & Telecoms 12.7% building on existing brands.
It began as a small, niche conference with just 20 delegates.
In 2006 it produced over $1m in revenue.
Informas expanded international footprint has allowed the business ICBI is also illustrative of another successful 2006 strategy.
In addition to leverage these LSE brands globally.
In 2006 IIR USA launched a to the focus on growing LSEs, Informa built revenue synergies regional version of its GAIM event in the Cayman Islands, producing between sister companies.
The International Payments Systems over $1m in revenue in its first year.
Already in 2007 Front End of event is a case in point.
A legacy Informa event it was moved to ICBI, Innovation launched successfully in Germany, joining Euro Market in order to grow it from an annual event to a LSE.
Applying the best Research in the portfolio of strong US brands being profitably practice blueprint, delegate revenue rose by 49% and sponsorship replicated overseas.
Informas Professional publishing team also produced a highly profitable event supplement, the ICBI, the specialists in financial LSEs launched an Asian version of distance learning team launched a new programme and two SuperReturn, the largest private equity event in the world which of the Performance Improvement businesses exhibited and won attracts around 1,000 delegates each year in Europe.
rigorous local research, they wrote a programme which attracted over 200 paying delegates.
By leveraging existing relationships and Note: additional information on Events can be found in each of the quadrupling the Asian based investment in the event they delivered three divisional reports: A&S, Professional and Commercial.
significant sponsorship and exhibition revenues.
19 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006
