Business Review Government 1 During the year, we started to see increasing interest in BGAN from a range of government sectors, including military and civilian agencies.
For example, the first responder and emergency response agencies in a number of countries have purchased BGAN to support their emergency communication needs.
We have also seen a number of military agencies test various applications over BGAN as part of their integration of this new capability into their communications portfolio.
The introduction of vehicular BGAN terminals, also know as Comms on the Move COTM, has also been welcomed in the government user community as they require mobile use of BGAN on vehicles in addition to the core portable product offerings.
Leasing During 2006, revenues from leasing were US$60.3m, a decrease of US$0.6m, or 1.0%, compared with 2005.
Leasing revenues remain an important contribution to the overall company revenues.
With the higher capacity Inmarsat-4 satellites in place, we now see a larger capacity available for leasing growth.
Social Responsibility We continue to be the only provider of satellite communications services for the Global Mobile Distress and Safety System GMDSS.
This service ensures that those at sea can rely upon our services in times of emergency.
We have also continued our 2 commitment to support the education of maritime specialists through a funding grant to the World Maritime University, while also contributing to the International Maritime Organisations Search and Rescue fund.
We are also very proud that Inmarsat terminals will be used as part of the Indian Ocean Tsunami Warning System that warns authorities in 27 countries of an impending tsunami so that they can put their coastal community evacuation plans into action.
We are also delighted to continue our association with Tlcoms Sans Frontires TSF, a charity that provides the first communication links from disaster zones for other agencies and victims.
During 2006, they have been active in places such as Lebanon, the Philippines and Pakistan and have been some of the first users of our BGAN service.
Inmarsats support of TSF was recognised when it received the award for corporate social responsibility in Dubai acknowledging the activities undertaken to highlight the humanitarian efforts during the war in Lebanon.
We were also very pleased to contribute to the reconstruction of a school following an earthquake in Indonesia, especially as we now have direct ties to the country through our own operation in Batam.
1First responder, emergency services and military agencies have integrated BGAN into their communications portfolio.
2Inmarsat supports the work of Tlcoms Sans Frontires around the world, bringing communications support to relief agencies and disaster victims.
Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2006 10
