French Navy surveillance initiative Like the rest of the worlds most advanced In the Flottille 24F Falcons, Swift 64 armed forces, the French Navy is moving will add extra communications power with all speed to equip itself for networkto a mission suite that includes the centric warfare.
The Aronavale, Frances Thales Airborne Systems Oceanmaster naval air service, began developing its maritime surveillance radar and a requirements for la guerre en rseau in Thales Optronique Chlio forward-looking 2003 and earlier in 2006, selected an airinfra-red FLIR imaging system in a to-ground link based on Inmarsat Swift 64 mounting under the rear fuselage.
The Falcon 50M, dubbed Surmar by Two Falcon 50M units, Escadrille 57S and the French Navy, also features bulged Flottille 24F, are based at Landivisiau and observation windows and a rear-cabin Lann-Bihou in Brittany, and there are two drop hatch for the eight 30-passenger Atlantique squadrons, 21F at Nmesliferafts that can be carried.
The aircraft Garons and 23F at Lann-Bihou.
is crewed by a commander, pilot and three observer system operators, who An earlier successful Swift 64 installation are responsible respectively for the on the Atlantiques persuaded the Inmarsat terminal, the radar and FLIR, Aronavale planners that Swift 64 would and the rescue equipment.
suit their need for a long-range, highspeed datalink to transmit real-time The Oceanmaster radar is capable imagery from airborne sensors.
of tracking and classifying surface ships and submarines up to 200 of them During flight trials over the Mediterranean simultaneously and monitoring two bonded Swift 64 ISDN channels were territorial waters and economic exclusion used to send encrypted still pictures and zones.
The FLIR produces high-resolution video to the ground at 128kbps.
The infra-red imagery almost as good as MPDS packet data capability was visible-light video, which Swift 64 can used for email to and from the command make available, in real time, to senior centre, and the terminal also supported decision makers on the ground.
Once the Swift 64 now helping to shorten decision installation was fully proven, it was used cycles, the sharp-eyed Falcons can as part of a homeland security exercise be expected to make life even more conducted in Mediterranean airspace uncomfortable for smugglers, in conjunction with Germany and Spain.
Installation work on the Falcons was carried out by European aircraft completions provider Jet Aviation Basel 1The Atlantique maritime surveillance with the first Falcon equipped, entering aircraft uses the high-speed data links of service in September.
Swift 64 to send real-time imagery to the French Navys command centre.
