6 IHG Annual report and financial statements 2006 Operating and financial review This Operating and financial review OFR provides a commentary on the performance of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC the Group or IHG for the financial year ended 31 December 2006. Business overview US market data indicates a steady increase in hotel industry Market and competitive environment revenues, broadly in line with Gross Domestic Product, with growth IHG operates in the global hotel market which has an estimated of approximately 1-1.5% per annum in real terms since 1967, driven total room capacity of 18.8 million rooms.
Room capacity has been by a number of underlying trends: growing at approximately 3% per annum over the last five years.
change in demographics as the population ages and becomes The hotel market is geographically concentrated with 12 countries wealthier, increased leisure time and income encourages more accounting for two-thirds of worldwide hotel room supply.
The travel and hotel visits: Group has a leadership position top three by room numbers increase in travel volumes as low cost airlines grow rapidly: in more of these markets than any other major hotel company.
globalisation of trade and tourism: The hotel market is, however, a fragmented market with the four increase in affluence and freedom to travel within the Chinese largest companies controlling only 11% of the global hotel room middle class: and supply and the 10 largest controlling less than 21%.
The Group is the largest of these companies by room numbers with a 3% market increase in the preference for branded hotels amongst share.
The major competitors in this market include other large consumers.
global hotel companies, smaller hotel companies and independent Potential negative trends include increased terrorism, hotels.
environmental considerations and economic factors such as rising Within the global market, a relatively low proportion of hotel rooms oil prices.
Currently, however, there are no indications that demand are branded see figure 1, but there has been an increasing trend is being significantly affected by these factors.
For example, Mintel, a market research Supply growth in the industry is cyclical, averaging between zero company, estimates that the proportion of branded rooms in and 5% per annum historically.
The Groups profit is partly Europe has grown from 15% in 2000 to 25% in 2004.
Larger protected from supply pressure due to its model of third party branded companies are therefore gaining market share at the ownership of hotels under IHG management and franchise expense of smaller companies and independent hotels.
well positioned to benefit from this trend.
Hotel owners are increasingly recognising the benefits of working with a group such Strategy as IHG which can offer a portfolio of brands to suit the different IHG owns, operates and franchises hotels, with its brands being real estate opportunities an owner may have.
Furthermore, hotel represented in nearly 100 countries and territories around the ownership is increasingly being separated from hotel operations, world.
The strategy is to become the preferred hotel company for encouraging hotel owners to use third parties such as IHG to guests and owners by building the strongest operating system in manage or franchise their hotels.
the industry, focused on the largest markets and segments where scale really counts.
During 2006, IHG initiated a number of research projects, the results of which will strengthen the Groups strategy Figure 1 with respect to brand development, franchising operations and Percentage of branded hotel rooms by region 2004 growth opportunities.
North America 65% The Group has four stated strategic priorities: South America 20% Europe 25% brand performance to operate a portfolio of brands attractive Middle East 25% to both owners and guests that have clear market positions in relation to competitors: East Asia 25% excellent hotel returns to generate higher owner returns Source: Mintel latest data available.
through revenue delivery and improved operating efficiency: market scale and knowledge to accelerate profitable growth in the largest markets where the Group currently has scale: and aligned organisation to create a more efficient organisation with strong core capabilities.
Operating and financial review IHG Operating and financial review 7 Executing the four strategic priorities is designed to achieve: Figure 2 organic growth of at least 50,000 to 60,000 net rooms by the Global room count by ownership type end of 2008 starting from 537,000 in June 2005, with specific at 31 December 2006 growth targets for the InterContinental brand and the key Chinese market: and out-performance of total shareholder return against a competitor set.
Growth is planned to be attained predominantly from managing and franchising rather than owning hotels.
Nearly 550,000 rooms operating under Group brands are managed or franchised see figure 2.
The managed and franchised model is attractive because it enables the Group to achieve its goals with limited capital investment.
With a relatively fixed cost base, such growth yields high incremental margins for IHG, and is primarily how the Group Owned and leased Managed Franchised has grown recently.
For this reason, the Group has executed a disposal programme for most of its owned hotels, releasing capital and enabling returns of funds to shareholders.
Business relationships A key characteristic of the managed and franchised business model IHG maintains effective business relationships across all aspects of on which the Group has focused is that it generates more cash than its operations.
However, the Groups operations are not dependent is required for investment in the business, with a high return on upon any single customer, supplier or hotel owner due to the capital employed.
Currently, 92% of continuing earnings before extent of its brands, market segments and geographical coverage.
interest, tax and regional and central overheads is derived from For example, the largest hotel owner controls less than 4% of the managed and franchised operations.
The Group aims to deliver its growth targets through the strongest To promote effective owner relationships, the Groups management operating system in the industry which includes: meets with owners of IHG branded hotels on a regular basis.
In addition, IHG has an important relationship with the International a strong brand portfolio across the major markets, including Association of Holiday Inns IAHI.
The IAHI is an independent two leading brands: InterContinental and Holiday Inn: worldwide association for owners of the Crowne Plaza, Holiday Inn, market coverage a presence in nearly 100 countries and Holiday Inn Express, Hotel Indigo, Staybridge Suites and territories: Candlewood Suites brands.
IHG and the IAHI work together to scale 3,741 hotels, 556,246 rooms and 130 million guest support and facilitate the continued development of IHGs brands stays per annum: and systems.
IHG global reservation channels delivering $5.7bn of global Many jurisdictions and countries regulate the offering of franchise system room revenue in 2006, $2.0bn from the internet: agreements and recent trends indicate an increase in the number a loyalty programme, Priority Club Rewards, contributing of countries adopting franchise legislation.
As a significant $4.4bn of global system room revenue: and percentage of the Groups revenues is derived from franchise a strong web presence holidayinn.
com is the industrys most fees, the Groups continued compliance with franchise legislation visited site, with around 75 million total site visits per annum.
is important to the successful deployment of the Groups strategy.
With a clear target for rooms growth and a number of brands with market premiums offering excellent returns for owners, the Group is well placed to execute its strategy and achieve its goals.
