22 IHG Annual report and financial statements 2006 The Board of Directors David Webster David Kappler # Non-Executive Chairman Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director Appointed a Director and Senior Independent Director in of InterContinental Hotels Group on the separation of June 2004.
He is Non-Executive Chairman of Premier Foods plc Six Continents PLC in April 2003.
Appointed Non-Executive and a Non-Executive Director of Shire plc.
A qualified accountant Chairman on 1 January 2004.
He is also Non-Executive Chairman and formerly Chief Financial Officer of Cadbury Schweppes plc until of Makinson Cowell Limited, a capital markets advisory firm.
April 2004, he also served as a Non-Executive Director of Camelot He was formerly Chairman of Safeway plc and a Non-Executive Group plc.
Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Director of Reed Elsevier PLC.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Ralph Kugler Non-Executive Director Andrew Cosslett Appointed a Director in April 2003, he is President, Unilever Home Chief Executive and Personal Care, and joined the Boards of Unilever plc and Appointed Chief Executive in February 2005.
He joined the Group Unilever NV in May 2005.
He has held a variety of senior positions from Cadbury Schweppes plc where he was most recently globally for Unilever and has experience of regional management President, Europe, Middle East & Africa.
During his career in Asia, Latin America and Europe, with over 25 years experience at Cadbury Schweppes he held a variety of senior regional of general management and brand marketing.
Age 50. management and marketing roles in the UK and Asia Pacific.
He also has over 11 years experience in brand marketing Jennifer Laing with Unilever.
He is Non-Executive Chairman of Non-Executive Director Duchy Originals Limited.
Appointed a Director in August 2005, she is Associate Dean, External Relations at London Business School.
A fellow of the Richard Solomons Marketing Society and of the Institute of Practitioners in Advertising, Finance Director she has over 30 years experience in advertising including 16 years Qualified as a chartered accountant in 1985, followed by seven years with Saatchi & Saatchi, to whom she sold her own agency.
She also in investment banking, based in London and New York.
He joined the serves as a Non-Executive Director of Hudson Highland Group Inc. Group in 1992 and held a variety of senior finance and operational a US human resources company.
Appointed Finance Director of the Hotels business in October 2002 in anticipation of the separation of Six Continents PLC Robert C Larson in April 2003.
Responsible for corporate and regional finance, Non-Executive Director Group financial control, asset management, strategy and corporate Appointed a Director in April 2003, he is a Managing Director of development, investor relations, tax and treasury.
Lazard Alternative Investments LLC and Chairman of Lazard Real Estate Partners, LLC.
He is also Chairman of Larson Realty Group Richard Hartman and Non-Executive Chairman of United Dominion Realty Trust Inc. President, EMEA and Commonwealth Atlantic Properties Inc.
He served as a Has over 40 years experience in the hotel industry including Non-Executive Director of Six Continents PLC formerly Bass PLC 30 years with Sheraton.
He joined the Group in 1999 as Managing from 1996 until April 2003.
Subsequently, as Managing Director, Europe, Middle East and Africa, he was appointed an Executive Director Jonathan Linen in April 2003.
Responsible for the business development and Non-Executive Director performance of all the Hotel brands and properties in the EMEA Appointed a Director in December 2005, he was formerly region.
He will retire from the Group in September 2007.
Vice Chairman of the American Express Company, having held a Australian citizen.
Age 61. range of senior positions including in New Product Development, Marketing and Sales and Travel Services throughout his career of Stevan Porter over 35 years with American Express.
A management development President, The Americas graduate of Harvard Business School, he also serves on the Board Previously 13 years with Hilton Corporation in a variety of and Executive Committees of a number of US companies and senior management positions.
He joined the Group in 2001 as Councils.
Chief Operating Officer, The Americas.
Subsequently, as President, The Americas, he was appointed an Executive Director in April 2003.
Sir David Prosser Responsible for the business development and performance of all # Non-Executive Director the Hotel brands and properties in The Americas region.
Additionally, Qualified actuary with over 40 years experience in financial he has responsibility for the development and deployment of best services.
Appointed a Director in April 2003, he was formerly Group practice in franchising, globally.
Chief Executive of Legal & General Group Plc.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Investec plc and of Investec Limited, a Director of the Royal Automobile Club Limited and of Epsom Downs Racecourse Limited.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Board of Directors and Other members of the Executive Committee IHG The Board, senior management and their responsibilities 23 Other members of the Executive Committee Richard Winter Executive Vice President, Corporate Services, The Board of Directors and other General Counsel and Company Secretary members of the Executive Committee Solicitor, qualified in 1973 with over 20 years commercial law together comprise the IHG experience in private practice.
He joined the Group in 1994 as Senior Leadership Team.
Director of Group Legal and was appointed Company Secretary in While the Directors have certain 2000.
Now responsible for corporate governance, corporate social specific legal and regulatory duties responsibility, risk management, insurance, internal audit, data and responsibilities, they work with privacy, company secretariat and Group legal matters.
Age 57. and rely on the detailed knowledge and experience of all the Executive Tom Conophy Committee members to secure the Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer effective running of the business.
Has over 26 years experience in the IT industry, including management and development of new technology solutions within the travel and hospitality business.
He joined the Group in February 2006 from Starwood Hotels & Resorts International where he held the position of Executive Vice President & Chief Technology Officer.
Responsible for global technology, including IT systems and information management throughout the Group.
Peter Gowers Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer A Non-Executive Director and a member of the Nomination Committee Has previous international experience in management consultancy, based in London and Singapore.
He joined the Group in 1999 and A member of the Executive Committee was appointed Executive Vice President, Global Brand Services in # An independent Non-Executive Director January 2003.
Appointed Chief Marketing Officer in 2005, he now and a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees has responsibility for worldwide brand management, reservations, e-commerce, global sales, relationship and distribution marketing An independent Non-Executive Director and a member of the Audit and Nomination and loyalty programmes.
Committees An independent Non-Executive Director Patrick Imbardelli and a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees President, Asia Pacific Has over 25 years experience in the hotel industry including Not a main Board Director 12 years with Southern Pacific Hotels Corporation.
He joined the Group in 2000 and was appointed Managing Director, Asia Pacific in January 2003.
Responsible for the business development and performance of all the Hotel brands and properties in the Asia Pacific region.
Tracy Robbins Executive Vice President, Global Human Resources Has over 21 years experience in line and HR roles in service industries.
She joined the Group in December 2005 from Compass Group PLC, a world leading food service company, where she was Group Human Resources Leadership & Development Director.
Previously Group HR Director for Forte Hotels Group.
Responsible for global talent management and leadership development, reward strategy and implementation.
