48 IHG Annual report and financial statements 2006 Corporate information and accounting policies Corporate information Derivative financial instruments and hedging Interest arising from currency swap agreements is taken to The consolidated financial statements of InterContinental Hotels financial income or expense on a gross basis over the term of Group PLC the Group or IHG for the year ended 31 December 2006 the relevant agreements.
Interest arising from other currency were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the derivatives and interest rate swaps is taken to financial income Directors on 19 February 2007.
InterContinental Hotels Group PLC or expense on a net basis over the term of the agreement.
the Company is incorporated in Great Britain and registered in England and Wales.
Foreign exchange gains and losses on currency instruments are recognised in financial income and expense unless they form part of effective hedge relationships.
Summary of significant accounting policies Derivatives designated as hedging instruments are accounted for Basis of preparation in line with the nature of the hedging arrangement.
The Groups The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling detailed accounting policies with respect to hedging instruments and all values are rounded to the nearest million m except where are set out in note 21.
Documentation outlining the measurement otherwise indicated.
and effectiveness of the hedging arrangement is maintained throughout the life of the hedge relationship.
Any ineffective Statement of compliance element of a hedge arrangement is recognised in financial income The consolidated financial statements of IHG have been prepared or expense.
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards The fair value of derivatives is calculated by discounting the IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and as applied in expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
New accounting standards and interpretations issued by the Property, plant and equipment International Accounting Standards Board IASB and the Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less depreciation International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC, and any impairment.
becoming effective during the year, have not had a material impact Borrowing costs are not capitalised.
Repairs and maintenance on the Groups financial statements.
costs are expensed as incurred.
The principal accounting policies of the Group are set out below.
All other property, plant and equipment are depreciated to a residual value over their estimated useful lives, Basis of consolidation namely: The Group financial statements comprise the financial statements Buildings lesser of 50 years and unexpired term of lease: of the parent company and entities controlled by the Company.
All inter-company balances and transactions have been eliminated.
Fixtures, fittings and equipment 3 to 25 years: and Plant and machinery 4 to 20 years.
The results of those businesses acquired or disposed of are consolidated for the period during which they were under the All depreciation is charged on a straight line basis.
Property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when Foreign currencies events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the functional value may not be recoverable.
Assets that do not generate currency at the exchange rates ruling on the dates of the independent cash flows are combined into cash-generating units.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in If carrying values exceed estimated recoverable amount, the assets foreign currencies are retranslated to the functional currency at or cash-generating units are written down to their recoverable the relevant rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Recoverable amount is the greater of fair value less cost foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised to sell and value in use.
Value in use is assessed based on in the income statement except on foreign currency borrowings that estimated future cash flows discounted to their present value using provide a hedge against a net investment in a foreign operation.
a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments These are taken directly to the currency translation reserve until of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
the disposal of the net investment, at which time they are recycled against the gain or loss on disposal.
Goodwill The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill, are Goodwill arises on consolidation and is recorded at cost, being translated into sterling at the relevant rates of exchange ruling at the the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value at the date balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations of acquisition of the Groups share of identifiable assets, liabilities are translated into sterling at weighted average rates of exchange and contingent liabilities.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is for the period.
The exchange differences arising on the retranslation measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
are taken directly to the currency translation reserve.
On disposal Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually by comparing of a foreign operation, the cumulative amount recognised in the carrying values of cash-generating units with their recoverable currency translation reserve relating to that particular foreign amounts.
operation is recycled against the gain or loss on disposal.
Corporate information and accounting policies IHG Group financial statements and accounting policies 49 Intangible assets Inventories Software Acquired software licences and software developed inInventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
house are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software.
Costs are amortised over Trade receivables estimated useful lives of three to seven years on a straight line basis.
Trade receivables are recorded at their original amount less an allowance for any doubtful amounts.
An allowance is made when Management contracts When assets are sold and a purchaser collection of the full amount is no longer considered probable.
enters into a management or franchise contract with the Group, the Group capitalises as part of the gain or loss on disposal an Cash and cash equivalents estimate of the fair value of the contract entered into.
The value of Cash comprises cash in hand and demand deposits.
management contracts is amortised over the life of the contract which ranges from six to 50 years on a straight line basis.
Cash equivalents are short-term highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less that are readily convertible Other intangible assets Amounts paid to hotel owners to secure to known amounts of cash and subject to insignificant risk of management contracts and franchise agreements are capitalised changes in value.
and amortised over the shorter of the contracted period and 10 years on a straight line basis.
In the cash flow statement cash and cash equivalents are shown net of short-term overdrafts which are repayable on demand and form Internally generated development costs are expensed unless forecast an integral part of the Groups cash management.
revenues exceed attributable forecast development costs, at which time they are capitalised and amortised over the life of the asset.
Assets held for sale Intangible assets are reviewed for impairment when events or Non-current assets and associated liabilities are classified as held changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may for sale when their carrying amount will be recovered principally not be recoverable.
through a sale transaction rather than continuing use and a sale is highly probable.
Associates Assets designated as held for sale are held at the lower of carrying An associate is an entity over which the Group has the ability to amount at designation and sales value less cost to sell.
exercise significant influence, but not control, through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the entity.
Depreciation is not charged against property, plant and equipment classified as held for sale.
Associates are accounted for using the equity method unless the associate is classified as held for sale.
Under the equity method, Trade payables the Groups investment is recorded at cost adjusted by the Groups Trade payables are non interest bearing and are stated at their share of post acquisition profits and losses.
When the Groups nominal value.
share of losses exceeds its interest in an associate, the Groups carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition of further losses Loyalty programme is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred The hotel loyalty programme, Priority Club Rewards, enables legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of members to earn points, funded through hotel assessments, during an associate.
each stay at an IHG hotel and redeem the points at a later date for free accommodation or other benefits.
The future redemption Financial assets liability is included in trade and other payables and is estimated Under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and using actuarial methods to give eventual redemption rates and Measurement current and non-current financial assets are points values.
classified as loans and receivables: held-to-maturity investments: or as available-for-sale.
The Group determines the classification of The Group pays interest to the loyalty programme on the its financial assets at initial recognition and they are subsequently accumulated cash received in advance of redemption of the held at fair value or amortised cost.
Changes in fair values of points awarded.
available-for-sale financial assets are recorded directly in the unrealised gains and losses reserve.
Self insurance The Group is self insured for various levels of general liability, Financial assets are tested for impairment at each balance sheet workers compensation and employee medical and dental coverage.
If impaired, the difference between carrying value and fair Insurance reserves include projected settlements for known and value is transferred from equity to the income statement to the incurred but not reported claims.
Projected settlements are extent that there is sufficient surplus in equity: any excess goes estimated based on historical trends and actuarial data.
directly to the income statement.
Provisions Financial liabilities Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the as a result of a past event, it is probable that a payment will be liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
made and a reliable estimate of the amount payable can be made.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, the provision is discounted.
50 IHG Annual report and financial statements 2006 Corporate information and accounting policies Bank and other borrowings Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply Bank and other borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value in the periods in which the asset or liability will be settled, based on of the consideration received less directly attributable transaction rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
They are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Finance charges, including issue costs, are charged to the income Revenue recognition statement using an effective interest rate method.
Revenue is derived from the following sources: owned and leased properties: management fees: franchise fees: sale of soft drinks Borrowings are classified as non-current when the repayment date and other revenues which are ancillary to the Groups operations.
is more than 12 months from the balance sheet date or where they are drawn on a facility with more than 12 months to expiry.
Generally, revenue represents sales excluding VAT and similar taxes of goods and services, net of discounts, provided in the Employee benefits normal course of business and recognised when services have Defined contribution plans Payments to defined contribution been rendered.
The following is a description of the composition schemes are charged to the income statement as they fall due.
Defined benefit plans Plan assets are measured at fair value Owned and leased primarily derived from hotel operations, and plan liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis, using the including the rental of rooms and food and beverage sales from projected unit credit method and discounting at an interest rate owned and leased hotels operated under the Groups brand names.
equivalent to the current rate of return on a high quality corporate Revenue is recognised when rooms are occupied and food and bond of equivalent currency and term to the plan liabilities.
The service cost of providing pension benefits to employees for Management fees earned from hotels managed by the Group, the year is charged to the income statement.
The cost of making usually under long-term contracts with the hotel owner.
improvements to pensions is recognised in the income statement Management fees include a base fee, which is generally a on a straight line basis over the period during which any increase percentage of hotel revenue, and an incentive fee, which is in benefits vests.
To the extent that improvements in benefits vest generally based on the hotels profitability or cash flows.
Revenue immediately, the cost is recognised immediately as an expense.
is recognised when earned and realised or realisable under the terms of the contract.
Actuarial gains and losses may result from: differences between the expected return and the actual return on plan assets: Franchise fees received in connection with the license of the differences between the actuarial assumptions underlying the plan Groups brand names, usually under long-term contracts with liabilities and actual experience during the year: or changes in the the hotel owner.
The Group charges franchise royalty fees as a actuarial assumptions used in the valuation of the plan liabilities.
Revenue is recognised when earned Actuarial gains and losses, and taxation thereon, are recognised in and realised or realisable under the terms of the agreement.
the Group statement of recognised income and expense.
Share-based payments Actuarial valuations are normally carried out every three years and The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured are updated for material transactions and other material changes by reference to fair value at the date at which the shares are in circumstances including changes in market prices and interest granted.
Fair value is determined by an external valuer using option rates up to the balance sheet date.
Taxes The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with Current tax Current income tax assets and liabilities for the a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which any current and prior periods are measured at the amount expected to performance conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date on which the be recovered from or paid to the tax authorities.
The tax rates and relevant employees become fully entitled to the award vesting date.
tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted The income statement charge for a period represents the or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
movement in cumulative expense recognised at the beginning and Deferred tax Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised end of that period.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not in respect of temporary differences between the tax base and ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon carrying value of assets and liabilities, including accelerated capital a market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of allowances, unrelieved tax losses, unremitted profits from overseas whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all where the Group does not control remittance, gains rolled over into other performance conditions are satisfied.
replacement assets, gains on previously revalued properties and The Group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of other short-term temporary differences.
IFRS 2 Share-based Payments in respect of equity-settled awards Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded and has applied IFRS 2 only to equity-settled awards granted after as probable that the deductible temporary differences can be 7 November 2002 that had not vested before 1 January 2005. realised.
The recoverability of all deferred tax assets is reassessed at each balance sheet date.
Corporate information and accounting policies IHG Group financial statements and accounting policies 51 Leases The estimates and assumptions that have the most significant Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement on effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are: a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
Impairment the Group determines whether goodwill is impaired on an annual basis or more frequently if there are Assets held under finance leases, which transfer to the Group indicators of impairment.
Other non-current assets, including substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of property, plant and equipment, are tested for impairment if the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease, with there are indicators of impairment.
Impairment testing requires a corresponding liability being recognised for the fair value of the an estimate of future cash flows and the choice of a suitable leased asset or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease discount rate and, in the case of hotels, an assessment of payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the reduction recoverable amount based on comparable market transactions.
of the lease liability and finance charges in the income statement so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining Pension and other post-employment benefits the cost of balance of the liability.
Assets held under finance leases are defined benefit pension plans and other post-employment depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the benefits is determined using actuarial valuations.
The actuarial asset and the lease term.
valuation involves making assumptions about discount rates, expected rates of return on assets, future salary increases, Disposal of non-current assets mortality rates and future pension increases.
The Group recognises the sales proceeds and related gain or loss Tax provisions for tax accruals require judgements on the on disposal on completion of the sales process.
In determining interpretation of tax legislation, developments in tax case law whether revenue and gain or loss should be recorded, the Group and the potential outcomes of tax audits and appeals.
In considers whether it: addition, deferred tax assets are recognised for unused tax has a continuing managerial involvement to the degree attributes to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will associated with asset ownership: be available against which they can be utilised.
Judgement is required as to the amount that can be recognised based on the has transferred the significant risks and rewards associated likely amount and timing of future taxable profits, taking into with asset ownership: and account expected tax planning.
can reliably measure and will actually receive the proceeds.
Loyalty programme the future redemption liability included in trade and other payables is estimated using actuarial methods Discontinued operations based on statistical formulae that project the timing of future Discontinued operations are those relating to hotels sold or those point redemptions based on historical levels to give eventual classified as held for sale when the results relate to a separate line redemption rates and points values.
of business, geographical area of operations, or where there is a co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate line of business or Trade receivables an allowance for doubtful amounts of trade geographical area of operations.
receivables is made on the basis of historical experience and other factors considered relevant by management.
Special items Other the Group also makes estimates and judgements in the The Group discloses certain financial information both including valuation of management and franchise agreements acquired and excluding special items.
The presentation of information on asset disposals, the valuation of financial assets classified excluding special items allows a better understanding of the as available-for-sale, the outcome of legal proceedings and underlying trading performance of the Group and provides claims and in the valuation of share-based payment costs.
consistency with the Groups internal management reporting.
Special items, which include other operating income and expenses, New standards and interpretations are identified by virtue of either their size or incidence so as to The IASB and IFRIC issued the following standards and facilitate comparison with prior periods and to assess underlying interpretations with an effective date after the date of these trends in financial performance.
Special items can include, but financial statements.
They have not been adopted early by the are not restricted to, gains and losses on the disposal of assets, Group and the Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these impairment charges and reversals, restructuring costs and the standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the release of tax provisions.
Groups reported income or net assets in the period of adoption.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Use of accounting estimates and judgements Effective from 1 January 2007 The preparation of financial statements requires management to IFRS 8 Operating Segments make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts Effective from 1 January 2009 of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported Effective from 1 November 2006 amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results may differ from these estimates under different IFRIC 11 Group and Treasury Share Transactions assumptions and conditions.
Effective from 1 March 2007 Note: the effective dates are in respect of accounting periods beginning on or after the date.
52 IHG Annual report and financial statements 2006
