6707-01 IPreport2006 AW tp 3 23 07 11:23 Page 46 Senior management team Peter Barlow Sean Neely Peter is the head of corporate finance for International Power and is Sean heads up mergers and acquisitions at International Power.
He is a responsible for funding and bank relationships.
He is also primarily chartered accountant with 15 years experience in the power sector.
He responsible for the relationship with Mitsui, our partner in IPM Eagle, joined us in October 1998, and has a background in project finance and which owns the international asset portfolio we acquired from EME investment banking.
Peter joined us in 1998 and has been especially involved in Ken Oakley corporate finance, project finance and treasury activities since that time.
Ken joined the Group as head of tax in October 2000 and has Penny Chalmers responsibility for managing the Groups tax affairs.
After qualifying as Penny is head of global resources.
She is responsible for Group human a chartered accountant and chartered taxation adviser, he now has resources, information technology and corporate communications.
13 years experience in the commercial tax sector.
Penny has nearly 20 years experience in the energy sector and has Stephen Ramsay been with us since 1997.
Stephen is our Company Secretary and General Counsel.
He joined the Gareth Griffiths Company in 1996, after 10 years as a solicitor in private practice, first Gareth manages global trading, with responsibility for our trading working at National Wind Power and then in the international legal operations in the UK, US and Australia.
He has 14 years experience in group before becoming Company Secretary in October 2000. the industry and was previously Vice President, Marketing and Trading Ranald Spiers for our North American business.
Ranald is head of our Middle East region.
He has been with us for Vince Harris OBE 14 years, having previously worked for the BP Group for 12 years across Vince is the head of our Asia region and was previously head of one a wide spectrum of industries, including petrochemicals, detergents, of the UKs first cogeneration businesses prior to becoming CEO of oil refining, downstream gas, advanced materials and aerospace.
He is a chartered engineer and has 38 years experience in the power generation industry.
Vince was awarded his OBE in 2007 for services to British industry in Pakistan.
Ed Metcalfe Ed heads up operations and engineering and has 33 years experience in the industry.
Prior to his appointment in July 2006 he was executive managing director of Arabian Power Company and was previously responsible for our operations in South Australia, specifically Pelican Point, Synergen and SEA Gas.
