6707-01 IPreport2006 AW tp 3 21 07 11:53 Page 44 Board of Directors Tony Concannon 43 Executive Director, Australia Chairman Tony joined the industry in 1982 and has worked in a number of business Sir Neville Simms 62 areas including: power station operations, trading and international business Sir Neville became a Non-Executive Director of National Power in development based in Asia until 1999.
He left his role managing two August 1998 and was appointed Chairman of International Power in power plants in the UK to manage International Powers Australia business October 2000.
He is currently a member of the Presidents Committee in August 2003 and was appointed to the Board in January 2004. of the CBI, a Governor of Ashridge Management College, Chairman of the BRE Trust and Chairman of the Governments Sustainable Non-Executive Directors Procurement Task Force.
Sir Neville was a Non-Executive Director Adri Baan 64 Non-Executive Director of the Bank of England from 1995 to 2002.
Adri became a Non-Executive Director of the Company in June 2002.
He is the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
He was previously CEO of Executive Directors Philips Consumer Electronics, and Member of the Board of Management of Philip Cox 55 Chief Executive Officer Royal Philips Electronics.
He is currently on the Boards of KVWS, ICI PLC Philip joined the Company on 1 May 2000 from Invensys plc as and OC.
He is Chairman of Hagemeyer and Wolters Kluwer.
Philip was appointed Chief Executive Officer of Antony Tony Isaac 65 Non-Executive Director International Power in December 2003.
He has responsibility for the Tony became a Non-Executive Director of the Company in October overall management of the business and the delivery of its strategy.
He is the Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit He is a Non-Executive Director of Wincanton plc.
He was previously the Chief Executive of The BOC Group Mark Williamson 49 Chief Financial Officer plc and is a Non-Executive Director of Schlumberger Limited and Hogg Mark was appointed Chief Financial Officer of International Power Robinson Group plc.
His responsibilities include financial control and Struan Robertson 57 Non-Executive Director reporting, tax and risk management.
Mark joined the Company in Struan became a Non-Executive Director of the Company on 1 October September 2000 from the Simon Group plc as the Group Financial 2004.
He was Group Chief Executive of Wates Group Ltd until January Controller with responsibility for the Companys financial reporting.
Before that he had a 25-year international career with BP plc, Bruce Levy 51 Executive Director, North America during which time he held a number of senior roles, including Chief Bruce runs International Power America, formerly American National Executive Officer of BP Oil Trading International and Executive Chairman Power ANP.
He joined the Company on 1 December 2004 having of BP Asia Pacific.
He is currently a Non-Executive Director at Forth previously worked for US power company GPU, where he was senior Ports plc, Henderson TR Pacific Investment Trust plc and Tomkins plc Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Bruce was appointed to the and is the Senior Independent Director of Salamander Energy plc.
Previously he was the Senior Independent Director at WS Atkins plc.
Steve Riley 45 Executive Director, Europe John Roberts 61 Non-Executive Director Steve joined the business in 1985, holding senior positions in two UK John became a Non-Executive Director of the Company on 18 May power stations.
He was appointed International Powers Managing 2006.
He was previously Chief Executive of United Utilities, a position Director, Australia in January 2000.
In August 2003 he took up his he held for over six years.
Before that, he was Chief Executive of Hyder current position as Executive Director, Europe.
Steve was appointed to Utilities and of Manweb.
He is a Fellow of the Royal Academy of the Board in January 2004.
He has been appointed a Non-Executive Engineering, the Institution of Engineering and Technology and the Director of Shanks Group plc with effect from 29 March 2007.
Association of Chartered Certified Accountants.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Royal Bank of Canada Europe Limited.
Philip Cox Chief Executive Officer 3.
Mark Williamson Chief Financial Officer 4.
Bruce Levy Executive Director, North America 5.
Steve Riley Executive Director, Europe 6.
Tony Concannon Executive Director, Australia 7.
John Roberts Non-Executive Director Annual Report 2006 45
