Directors report Business review The directors of Interserve Plc and into ongoing facilities In Project Services we have Acquisitions in related fields present their report and the management FM.
Our proven abilities in delivering provide additional audited financial statements understanding of clients complex projects consistently opportunities to grow the and notes for the year ended objectives and practices, on time and to budget, often Group alongside organic 31 December 2006. combined with the breadth of in live environments, and in growth.
The purchase of skills and resources at our advising our customers on MacLellan in 2006 is an Principal activities disposal across the asset life construction and development example of the successful Interserve is a services, cycle, enable us to tailor the matters as their businesses implementation of this maintenance and building services we offer to meet advance.
One outcome of this strategy.
We create buildings and individual client needs.
approach is the creation of an change in our development, other structures for our clients enviable level of revenue giving us the opportunity to in the public and private We believe that our existing stability and visibility our expand our outsourcing sectors: we maintain many markets offer significant future workload extends business significantly by crossdifferent types of buildings, opportunities through the long forward several years through selling more services to wider the operational systems that term and that our position in a series of framework markets.
This strategic support them and a range of them, built on the model agreements with major clients rationale was underpinned by plant and equipment in above, is strong.
The main in both the public and private MacLellans strong market specialist fields: and we cothrust of our strategy is sectors.
The same skills are position and its specialist ordinate a host of background therefore to develop each of equally important security activities, enabling us services for our clients to keep our businesses organically, internationally, where our to enhance our position as one their operations running based on the cultivation of success is based on offering of the UKs leading support smoothly and efficiently, long-term and mutually certainty of delivery on services companies, with a allowing them to concentrate beneficial relationships with projects requiring balanced and very high quality on their core business.
The breadth of our sophisticated logistical client base.
Describing these buildings and services capability means that management.
other environments we can extend and develop In concert with the acquisition collectively as assets defines many of these relationships, Equipment Services design, we also enacted another our role as supporting our offering enhanced value for engineering and logistics skills element of the strategy, which clients by providing a range of money through removing are important differentiating was to integrate our Industrial services across the asset life unnecessary interfaces and factors.
The main sources of Services business into the cycle.
There is more detail on generating mutual stability.
growth in this business will be Facilities Services division pages 2 and 3, and the a continued focus on our alongside MacLellan.
In doing principal companies of the Each of our businesses has major markets, investment in so we have made it possible to Group, together with details of developed a range of skills developing new products and rationalise the back office and their individual activities and which we deploy in helping our on taking our equipment fleet to increase the co-ordination locations, may be found on clients achieve their goals.
In some and cross-selling of our FM pages 103 to 107. aim both to augment these cases we can do this by using services through a single skills, enabling us to offer more of our existing product reorganised structure.
Strategy more services to our existing range in markets where we are We can deliver the best value clients, and to take our already present, while in We continue to assess the to our clients when combining expertise to new markets.
For others we shall consider opportunities for selective several services.
This may be example, in Facilities Services geographical expansion.
We acquisitions to enhance our during one phase in the the MacLellan acquisition has have recently opened up an service offering or give us lifetime of an asset, such as given us a top-three position operation in Oman, where our access to new market where we supply a suite of in the FM retail sector and Project Services associate segments.
support services in live we shall be seeking to offer company is well established, operational facilities, or across our comprehensive range of and will be developing our several phases from early services to more clients in presence in South Africa design through construction this exciting market.
