Our profile Principal activities Overall revenue split by Divisional revenue split by market sector see left for key market sector Interserve is a services, Increasingly our customers wish 2% 6% 7% 9% 10% maintenance and building to buy more services from 11% 14% group.
We provide services fewer suppliers.
With our 19% 7% across the whole life of many breadth of skills and services, 38% types of buildings and we are able to respond to that 8% infrastructure such as hospitals, customer need and to deliver a 15% 27% 8% schools, offices, industrial one-stop-shop, integrated plant, bridges, waterworks or service.
We offer our services at Initiative PFI projects are an Facilities Management 13% each stage of the asset excellent example of where the lifecycle: we build, we help customer wants to work with Activities Health others build by hiring them an organisation that can design, Provision of outsourced support Defence equipment, we maintain, we build, operate, maintain, services to publicand privateIndustry support operations and we replace and finance their asset.
Around 80 per cent of Our ability to tailor our services Central and local government our services are delivered into to meet individual client needs The Facilities Management FM Infrastructure the built environment and 20 by harnessing expertise from division concentrates on Commerce per cent to plant and across the Group differentiates opportunities where it can Education infrastructure.
us and means that we can deliver benefits through achieve growth with existing integrating the management Custodial police A common theme throughout clients by delivering additional and delivery of several services our services is that we manage services.
For example, in a for one customer.
complex environments to number of cases we are enable our clients businesses developing facilities Typical services to run more effectively.
The management FM services from mechanical and electrical core competencies that enable our existing construction maintenance us to deliver the services our framework agreements and are communications customers need are: winning construction contracts building fabric maintenance with FM clients.
Service integration energy monitoring estates management Interserves value chain shows Direct delivery and supply reception how our services support the chain management creation and management of helpdesk Productivity improvement assets throughout their lives security and how we add value at each Development of long-term cleaning stage.
Our strategy is to build working relationships catering long-term relationships, and porterage Driving and managing change these can relate to any of the waste management links in the value chain, industrial access although our longest contracts are for operational and industrial cleaning maintenance services.
application of protective coatings and insulation power transmission Value chain pipework fabrication Lifecycle Design New Build Refurbish Operate stage Key sectors health Specify Project manage Manage Complex HR issues Interface Key Architecture Procure Hard FM education Engineer Deliver Deliver Interserve fabric services Soft FM roles commerce occupancy support Lifecycle management defence industry central and local government custodial police retail Geographical scope United Kingdom, Ireland, Cyprus, South Atlantic 2 Interserve Plc Annual report 2006 Split of investment commitment 3% 5% 2% 2% 8% 5% 9% 11% 11% 13% 7% 2% 6% 3% 21% 36% 5% 38% 2% 52% 34% 18% 57% 17% 31% 2% Specialist Services Project Services Equipment Services PFI Investments Activities Activities Trading name Activities Provision of a set of specialised Design, construction and RMD Kwikform Limited Transaction structuring and services.
These can be maintenance of buildings and management of Interserves PFI delivered either individually or infrastructure.
as part of bundled service Design, hire and sale of packages through the FM Focusing on framework formwork, falsework and The division co-ordinates division.
agreements, PFI projects and associated access equipment in Interserves identification of long-term maintenance infrastructure and building suitable target projects, Typical services contracts, Project Services has projects.
selection of bid partners and a progressive approach, bid management process.
It manned guarding working in true partnership and The divisions design and manages the Groups PFI equity security stewards forming long-term relationships logistics expertise help its investments and provides mechanical and electrical with its customers and its customers maximise the value management services to various installation and supply chain.
of their projects by reducing special purpose companies.
At maintenance time and cost, and position 31 December 2006 Interserve heating, ventilation and air Typical services Interserve as an integral part of was involved in 24 PFI PPP conditioning servicing their supply chain.
public private partnership building design, asbestos surveying and contracts with five more at construction and remediation Typical services preferred bidder stage.
The maintenance specialist window and total investment commitment hire and sale of formwork, road design and faade cleaning for these projects was falsework and associated construction safety systems for working approximately 71.4 million.
access equipment bridge maintenance and at height consultancy in its repair Key sectors application design, construction and Key sectors health project planning commissioning of water and commerce education sewage treatment plants technical support finance defence custom design retail Key sectors central and local sport government health Key sectors central and local custodial police education infrastructure government commerce transport Geographical scope infrastructure defence buildings United Kingdom industry industry utilities central and local waterways Geographical scope government commerce United Kingdom infrastructure industry custodial police central and local government Geographical scope United Kingdom, Middle East Geographical scope Europe, Middle East, Australasia, Far East, North & South America Interserve Plc Annual report 2006 3
