Directors report - Business review Operational review Case studies Whole-life learning project.
The early recruitment and in-depth involvement of Dr The Hadley Learning Community, Telford, Shropshire Gill Eatough as the future schools Principal was also fundamental, Groundbreaking whole-life education facility and the project benefited greatly from her dedication, drive and commitment even at the most testing of times.
One-stop-shop Interserve solution Integrated team and community involvement Key Facts Primary school pupils 420 The Hadley Learning Community HLC is the UKs first allSecondary school pupils 1,200 through school.
Built in less than two years, it is an exciting Pupils with severe and profound learning difficulties 150 development and represents a template for future schools a possible solution both to the problems of depressed inner Sports, leisure and arts centre, including 150-seat theatre cities and the troubles of rural areas faced with families Total number of rooms 740 complex needs.
Value of Interserve services 105 million The HLC is in fact a unique fusion of several schools in one, Interserve investment 3.8 million extending into family and adult education for the community.
This is a ground-breaking concept which aims to share facilities Interserves Senior Project Manager, Gareth Edwards, and his and an educational ethos across all age groups and to address team established an excellent relationship with Gill and her the problem of regression as children pass from one phase of teaching staff, which proved to be a critical part of the build education to the next.
This is a well recognised issue where the process.
They all soon became mindful of the staffs specific changes in surroundings, classmates and teaching style combine needs and were able to accommodate these at an early stage to unsettle many children and cause their academic performance with regular meetings being held to fine-tune the design and to slip backwards, sometimes by as much as a year.
The HLC the equipment proposed.
Particular consideration was given to offers a solution by bringing together nursery, primary and the needs of the Bridge Special School and the team developed secondary facilities under a single roof and, importantly, under a thorough understanding of how this facility would operate as a single Principal.
This eases the transition between educational the building progressed.
stages, promotes staff collaboration and means that childrens confidence remains high as they enter their new school.
Community and environmental concerns were recognised and managed proactively, for example through daily road cleaning With a challenging timetable - the contract was signed in March and by establishing access roads for the large plant and 2005 and the secondary school had to be handed over in machinery in order to minimise disruption to the area.
A 3D September 2006 followed by the remainder of the school in model of the school was displayed at local events so that January 2007 - the relationship between Interserve and Telford residents could see the detail of the school and how it and Wrekin Borough Council was crucial to the success of the affected where they lived.
18 Interserve Plc Annual report 2006 The state-of-the-art installation includes an automated You create a mental image of something ventilation system, under-floor heating, a woodchip boiler, a and all the way through this youve been night cooling system, photovoltaic panels and natural sedum thinking, What will it feel like when the roofs to control the drainage process and recycle as much water children are here and theyre sitting as possible on site.
working and eating in this place weve designed?
and its happening, and they The encircling corridors and central external forum area are love it, apparently, they really love it.
fundamental to the design of the building.
They give a sense of shared space and reduce any feeling of segregation between the Whats amazing is that theres been schools, drawing everybody into common areas.
Informal virtually no glitch in the building.
Youd interaction is encouraged and staff usually relax in the main think that, with all these children in, restaurant rather than a staff room.
thered be something major that might not work, but the buildings worked The delivery dates in the tight timetable were achieved and perfectly and beautifully and the where possible the team completed additional areas ahead of children have been fantastic.
schedule, which meant that the complex mobilisation could be made more manageable.
Dr Gill Eatough, Principal, on the first day of operation The facilities management services in the school, including of the secondary school.
catering, cleaning, security, estates management, mechanical and electrical maintenance and the reception and helpdesk areas, are integral to the PFI project.
Early involvement of the FM team enabled us to embed the FM processes in the project timetable, with the result that the transition from construction to operation went smoothly and we were able to support the teaching staff in their huge task of getting a major school up and running from a standing start.
With the HLC now fully open, expectations have been exceeded.
The children have a great learning environment with a fresh and inspiring atmosphere: the community has access to an excellent range of facilities and can feel more involved in the education of the children: and everyone, including Telford and Wrekin Council, Gill Eatough and Interserve, has a school to be proud of.
Directors report - Business review Operational review Case studies continued Innovation in retail services project was to have a standardised method of managing PRUPIM activity at the shopping centres which was capable of comparison and measurement across the whole portfolio.
Unique partnership CentreMonitor permits continuous tracking of compliance with Investment in award-winning management system the highest standards of responsible property management at each level of the performance chain.
Environmental focus Among the strengths that Interserve acquired with MacLellan Essentially CentreMonitor enables owners and managers to was its expertise in the retail sector.
This is well demonstrated integrate best-practice operational systems more simply and in the contract won in 2006 with Prudential Property Investment rapidly than ever before.
It manages all tasks such as issuing Managers PRUPIM, where we are making innovations on a actions and tracking status in real time via the web and allows number of fronts with this dynamic client.
the production and analysis of business-critical information at any time, anywhere, on any device with internet access.
The In a pioneering new partnership with PRUPIM, we have created cutting-edge system was presented with the E-Business Award in a Convergence Team to provide a completely integrated the 2006 PFM Awards.
facilities management solution for PRUPIMs entire retail portfolio of 14 schemes, covering six million square feet of In the environmental field, meanwhile, we are supporting retail space.
PRUPIM in its commitment to reduce carbon emissions through efficiencies in transport, energy and waste management.
At The During an intensive, phased mobilisation period, the team Mall, Cribbs Causeway, alone, we have achieved a reduction in delivered 29 tailored presentations on TUPE Transfer of CO emissions in the region of 300 tonnes per year, generating 2 Undertakings Protection of Employment to 670 transferring annual savings of 30,000 on energy bills.
We have also employees from over 40 contractors.
Over 400 hours of on-site implemented recycling programmes and are recycling 320 training ensured that all employees were reassured during this tonnes of waste annually.
process, kept well informed and prepared for their duties within the new culture.
With the firm foundation of these and other innovations for example, we were the first service provider, and The Mall the To improve efficiency and speed of response we have first shopping centre, to be chosen to partner the Home Office implemented a new shopping centre management system - in the new Community Officer programme where individual CentreMonitor.
net - developed by Intelligent Property Group in security personnel are trained by the police and given the partnership with Interserve and PRUPIM.
Mark Boor, PRUPIMs authority to issue fixed penalties and detain suspects Director of Retail Asset Management, explains the purpose of we shall continue to seek new ways of enhancing our service the software: One of the key drivers for the convergence to PRUPIM.
20 Interserve Plc Annual report 2006 My role is to welcome people to Services Locations the centre, to help them find their Operational management The Mall, Cribbs Causeway, Bristol way around and give other Environmental management West Orchards, Coventry assistance if they need it.
I started as a cleaner and moved into this Fabric maintenance and position a few months ago, and it's decoration Brunswick Centre, Scarborough great to be part of such a positive Mechanical and electrical team.
I'm actually past normal maintenance The Grafton Centre, Cambridge retirement age, so the reason I do Energy management Borough Parade, Chippenham the job is really for the pleasure I Customer care training Mander Centre, Wolverhampton get out of helping everyone.
Security staffing, CCTV and control room operation Maylord Centre, Hereford George Beardmore, Meeter and Fire safety liaison Arndale Centre, Manchester Greeter, Manchester Arndale.
Cleaning, including internal and external windows Rams Walk, Petersfield Grounds maintenance The Galleries, Washington Delivery dock management Cwmbran Shopping, South Wales Shop refit management The Swan Centre, Eastleigh Concierge services Culver Square, Colchester Gift cheque management Waterside Centre, Lincoln Waste management Tenant liaison Car park and traffic management In-centre promotions
