Board of Directors Vanni Treves 66 2,3, 6 Chairman Appointed to the Board in January 2001, he became Chairman in April 2001.
He is a corporate solicitor and was a Partner of major London law rm Macfarlanes for 30 years.
He has been Chairman of three listed companies, Channel Four Television and London Business School and is currently Chairman of Equitable Life Assurance Society, Korn Ferry International UK Limited and the National College for School Leadership.
He is also a Governor of Sadlers Wells, and a Trustee of the J Paul Getty Charitable Trust.
Richard Nelson 64 Non-Executive Deputy Chairman Appointed Non-Executive Deputy Chairman in April 2005 after retiring as Chief Executive Of cer of the Group a position he had held since the acquisition from lnchcape plc in 1996.
Prior to that he was President and Chief Executive Of cer of lnchcape Testing Services Ltd from 1987 and before then, Chief Executive Of cer of Transcontinental Services Ltd which was bought by lnchcape plc in 1985.
A Chartered Accountant, he is also Chairman of Wogen plc.
Wolfhart Hauser 57 Chief Executive Of cer Appointed to the Board as Chief Executive Of cer in March 2005 after serving as a Non-Executive Director since November 2002.
He was previously Chief Executive Of cer of TV Product Services for ten years and Chief Executive Of cer of TV Sddeutschland AG from 1998 to 2002.
Starting his career as a scientist in pharmacology and ergonomics, he established and led a broad range of successful international service industry businesses over 25 years.
He is also currently a Non-Executive Director of LogicaCMG plc.
Bill Spencer 47 Chief Financial Of cer Appointed to the Board as a Director in 1996, he has been Chief Financial Of cer of the Group since its acquisition from Inchcape plc in 1996.
Previously, he was Finance Director of lnchcape Testing Services Ltd, Chief Financial Of cer of Caleb Brett for EMEA and has held financial positions at Olivetti UK Ltd, Rexam PLC and Centrica plc.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants and a member of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report 18 1 Audit and Risk Committee Chairman 2 Audit and Risk Committee member 3 Nomination Committee Chairman 4 Nomination Committee member 5 Remuneration Committee Chairman 6 Remuneration Committee member Appointed to the Board of Intertek Testing Services Ltd which was the previous parent company prior to the Group reorganisation and appointed to the Board of Intertek Group plc in April May 2002.
David Allvey 61 1,4, 5 Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in May 2001.
With a career that started in civil engineering, as a Chartered Accountant, he has held positions in major international businesses including Group Finance Director for BAT Industries and Barclays Bank plc and Chief Operating Of cer for Zurich Financial Services.
He is currently a NonExecutive Director of Resolution Plc, Costain Group plc, William Hill plc, MyTravel Group Plc and Chairman of Arena Coventry Ltd and is a former board member of the UK Accounting Standards Board.
Debra Rade 53 Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in January 2006.
Between 1989 and 2002, she was an of cer of Underwriters Laboratories Inc. a global provider of product safety testing and certi cation and held various positions there, including Chief Legal Of cer, Senior Vice President of External Affairs and Chief Administrative Of cer.
She is currently a partner in Katten Muchin Rosenman LLP, a major national US law rm.
Raymond Kong 59 Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board in May 2004 and a Non-Executive Director since 1 July 2006 following his retirement.
Previously he was a member of Interteks Executive Management Board and Executive Vice President of China and Asia and Chief Executive of the Consumer Goods division.
Based in Hong Kong, he also serves on a number of advisory committees for the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region.
Christopher Knight 60 2,4, 6 Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board on 30 March 2006, he was an investment banker for nearly thirty years with Morgan Grenfell and Deutsche Bank, of which he was a managing director until 2001.
His UK and international corporate finance experience includes work in the USA and the Far East.
A Chartered Accountant, he is Chairman of Brooks Macdonald Group plc and Nelson Bakewell Group Limited and a Non-Executive Director of Lloyds Register Holdings.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report 19
