Directors report The Directors of Intertek Group plc have pleasure in presenting their R Kong entered into a contract with Intertek Testing Services Paci c Annual Report and the audited financial statements for the year Limited effective 1 July 2006 for the provision of consultancy services ended 31 December 2006. and RC Nelson may occasionally undertake special project work for the Group.
Details of these service arrangements are disclosed in the Business review Remuneration Report on page 27 and in note 28 to the financial The Performance Review and Business Review by division on pages 10 statements.
With these exceptions, other than employment contracts, to 17 reports on the Groups activities during the financial year with none of the Directors of the Company had a personal interest in any information on the Groups overall performance, and discusses likely business transactions of the Company or its subsidiaries.
The terms of future developments.
the Directors service contracts and the Directors interests in the shares and options of the Company are disclosed in the Remuneration Principal activities Report on pages 22 to 30.
The Groups principal activities continued to be the provision of quality and safety services to a wide range of global and local industries.
Directors indemnities The Company does not provide and has not during the year under Dividends and reserves review provided, any qualifying third party indemnity, to any Director Note 19 to the financial statements sets out details of dividends and of the Company or any of its associated companies as fide ned by movements on reserves during the year.
The Directors recommend Section 309A Companies Act 1985. a final dividend of 10.2p per share 2005: 8.1p making a full year dividend of 14.8p per share 2005: 12.0p which will, if approved at Employment the Annual General Meeting AGM, be paid on 15 June 2007 to Information on the Groups employment practices is contained within shareholders on the register at close of business on 1 June 2007. the Corporate Responsibility statement on pages 35 to 37.
Share capital Policy and practice on payment of suppliers The authorised and issued share capital of the Company, together The Group does not follow a single standard on payment practice with details of the movements in the Companys issued share capital but has a variety of payment terms with its suppliers.
Payment terms during the year, are shown in note 18 to the financial statements.
are agreed at the commencement of business with each supplier and it is the policy of the Group that payment is made accordingly, Purchase of own shares subject to the terms and conditions being met.
The Company has At the AGM held in 2006, shareholders generally and unconditionally no trade payables.
authorised the Company to buy back up to 15,540,660 of its own ordinary shares by market purchase until the conclusion of the AGM Substantial shareholdings to be held in 2007.
No such purchases have been made to date As at 1 March 2007 the Company has received the following pursuant to this authority.
The Directors will seek to renew this noti cations of disclosable interests in the Companys voting rights authority for up to 10% of the Companys issued share capital at in issued ordinary share capital pursuant to the Disclosure and the forthcoming AGM.
Transparency Rules of the UKLA: Percentage of voting Directors Number of rights The Directors of the Company who served during the year are set out Major shareholder shares noti ed below.
F & C Asset Management plc 8,733,901 5.58 Prudential Plc 7,826,686 5.00 five Treves Chairman Legal & General Group plc 5,984,582 3.82 RC Nelson Non-Executive Deputy Chairman WG Hauser Chief Executive Of cer W Spencer Chief Financial Of cer Save for the above, at the date of this report no other person DP Allvey Senior Independent Non-Executive Director has reported an interest noti able under the Disclosure and CJ Knight Non-Executive Director Transparency Rules.
appointed 30 March 2006 R Kong Non-Executive Director The following noti cations in accordance with sections 198 to 210 D Rade Non-Executive Director of the Companies Act 1985 have been received, and not rescinded appointed 1 January 2006 following the introduction of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, that the following were interested in 3% or more of the Companys R Kong, previously Executive Vice President of China and Asia and issued ordinary share capital.
Chief Executive of the Consumer Goods division, became a NonPercentage Number of interest Executive Director on 1 July 2006.
Major shareholder shares noti ed W Spencer and DP Allvey retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer Eminence Capital, LLC 7,665,000 4.90 themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
HBOS plc 6,224,744 3.99 AXA S. A. and its subsidiaries 5,446,519 3.49 Short biographies of all the Directors are set out on pages 18 and 19.
20 Intertek Group plc Annual Report Financial instruments and risk The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records An indication of the Companys financial risk management objectives that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial and policies in respect of the use of financial instruments, and its position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its exposure to credit risk, liquidity risk and cash ow risk is set out in financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have the Performance Review on pages 8 to 14 and in note 26 to the general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to financial statements.
them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Charitable and political donations The Group made charitable donations of 67,000 in 2006 The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 2005: 133,000.
The Group did not make any political donations the corporate and financial information included on the Companys in 2006 2005: nil.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation Disclosure of information to auditors in other jurisdictions.
The Directors who held of ce at the date of approval of this Directors Report con rm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant Annual General Meeting audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware and The Notice of the AGM to be held on Friday 11 May 2007 is sent to each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have shareholders with this Annual Report and Accounts.
The Notice details taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant the business to be conducted at the meeting.
audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
By order of the Board Auditors F Evans The auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, have indicated their willingness to Group Company Secretary continue in of ce and a resolution that they be reappointed will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM in accordance with Section 384 5 March 2007 of the Companies Act 1985.
Registered Of ce 25 Savile Row Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the London Annual Report and the financial statements W1S 2ES The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and Parent Company financial statements, in accordance with Registered Number: 4267576 applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRS as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and performance of the Group: the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The Parent Company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Parent Company.
In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: for the Parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent Company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company will continue in business.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report 21
