Process Systems Process Systems produced a strong performance in the year.
Revenue by sector f a Oil & gas upstream 33% e a b General industries 19% c Utilities & power 15% d d Petrochemicals 14% c e Oil & gas downstream 7% b f Other 12% Revenue by geography destination a f e b a United Kingdom 4% b Rest of Europe 28% d c North America 38% d South America 6% c e Asia Pacific 16% f Africa & Middle East 8% Michael Caliel Markets President, 2006 2005 % Change % Total Process Systems operates mainly in the oil and gas, at CER change Process Systems utilities and power, petrochemicals and general Orders m 798 675 14% 18% industries markets.
The oil and gas, both upstream Revenue m 725 655 7% 11% and downstream, and petrochemicals markets are buoyed by high crude oil prices and have seen Operating profit m 81 43 85% 88% significant growth due to the need of customers to Operating margin % 11.2 6.6 increase capacity to meet rising global demand and Operating cashflow m 79 51 55% to increase the efficiency of existing refinery plants, particularly in Western Europe and North America, Employees numbers 6,853 6,669 3% where greenfield construction is limited by planning and environmental constraints.
Developments The utilities and power generation markets are also During the two years ended 31 March 2006, Process growing due to the expansion of capacity, particularly Systems underwent significant restructuring across all in Asia, and the need for customers to increase aspects of its business, in particular the strengthening output from existing plants elsewhere.
of its leadership team, the reorganisation of the way it interfaces with its major customers, the enhancement of its technology portfolio and the reduction in the complexity of its overhead structure.
These actions have restored its position as a leader in the global market for process automation.
Since 31 March 2006, it has improved its technology offering by the launch Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2006 15 Process Systems continued of InFusion, a new enterprise control system that Performance combines capabilities from across Invensys with Process Systems produced a strong performance advanced enterprise information and integration in the year ended 31 March 2006 with significant technologies from both Microsoft and SAP to increases in orders, revenue and operating profit, significantly reduce integration costs.
InFusion is demonstrating the strength of many of its markets planned to become a high-growth product offering.
and the benefits of its restructuring over the past two years.
With the completion of the restructuring, Process Systems is now embarking upon achieving an increase Order intake was up 14% at CER at 798 million for in market share through growth in orders and the year ended 31 March 2006, with momentum revenue.
In particular, it has already achieved building as the year progressed with a 20% increase at significant success in increasing the amount of CER in the final quarter.
Orders from its seven global business that it does with its seven global key key accounts, which accounted for 19% of total accounts, whose endorsement of its technology Process Systems orders, rose by 27% in the year ended provides confidence that Process Systems has the 31 March 2006.
This improvement was wide-ranging capability to achieve this market share growth.
and occurred across all its major business sectors and geographies, with particular success in the oil and gas markets in the Middle East and North America and the power generation market in Asia Pacific.
Revenue improved by 7% at CER to 725 million for the year ended 31 March 2006 as the recent improvement in order intake began to be reflected in revenue.
Operating profit nearly doubled over the prior year largely due to the gearing effect of the increase in revenue.
Operating margin improved significantly to 11.2% for the year ended 31 March 2006 compared with 6.6% in the previous year.
The improved operating performance led to a 55% increase in operating cash flow to 79 million.
Process Systems expects its major markets, particularly the oil, gas and power generation sectors, to remain buoyant for the year ending 31 March 2007.
16 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2006 Process Systems InFusion The InFusion Enterprise Control System ECS unifies all plant floor systems with business information systems to help companies manage their industrial assets for maximum business value.
2 1 Building on our existing A new approach to Full and open operating excellence communication InFusion technologies Foxboros I A Series Process Systems is one of ECS offers full interoperability process control an elite group of automation on the plant floor through systems lie at the heart of and control businesses which a variety of low-cost software InFusion.
Wonderwares provide the engineering and interfaces with all proprietary integration technologies Asset Performance Management InFusion is automation infrastructure systems.
enable connectivity from based on the principles of Asset Performance that powers global the plant floor up to business Management.
This is a holistic approach manufacturing.
Over 100,000 Open communication is systems.
Leveraging Invensys combining a full understanding of plant plants in process industries ensured because InFusion position as Microsofts largest equipment and processes, and their actual value use our hardware and also supports all the latest customer in the industrial to the firm at any given time, with the objectives software.
open software standards automation market, our and strategies of the business.
This increases the and supplier standards such ArchestrA economic value of a plant by improving the architecture, in Typically, current production as SAPs NetWeaver and effect, builds an industrial return on production assets.
and manufacturing Microsofts BizTalk Server 2004. system with Microsoft at operations have islands the base.
Now, By incorporating these for the first time in 25 years, standards into InFusion, the Triconex gives the InFusion InFusion offers a step change cost and effort of driving ECS high reliability with topin the integration business solutions throughout to-bottom fault tolerance of plant and production any enterprise is minimised.
information with business Avantis provides the and management Enterprise Asset Management 2 information systems, systems.
And SimSci-Esscor including real-time financials.
gives InFusion dynamic simulation and modeling capabilities.
Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2006 17
