Board of directors DirectorPosition Board committees Martin Jay Chairman Chairman of Nominating Committee Ulf Henriksson Chief Executive Adrian Hennah Chief Financial Officer until 16 June 2006 Steve Hare Chief Financial Officer from 21 July 2006 Larry Farmer Non-executive director until AGM Member of Audit Committee, member of Remuneration Committee Bay Green Senior Independent Director Member of Audit Committee, member of Nominating Committee Jean-Claude Guez Non-executive director Chairman of Remuneration Committee, member of Nominating Committee Andrew Macfarlane Non-executive director until AGM Chairman of Audit Committee, member of Remuneration Committee Michael Parker Non-executive director from 24 May 2006 Member of Audit Committee, member of Remuneration Committee from AGM Martin Jay CBE, MA aged 66 Appointed a Larry Farmer BS, MS, PhD aged 66 Appointed a non-executive director in January 2003 and became Chairman non-executive director in March 2002.
Mr Jay was appointed non-executive Chairman is a director of Global Industries Limited, a company traded of EADS UK Limited in October 2005 and is also Chairman of on the NASDAQ, and a non-executive director of Energysys the Tall Ships Youth Trust.
Retired as Chairman of VT Group plc Limited and Digital Steps Limited.
Formerly Chief Executive of in July 2005 where he was also Chief Executive for 13 years.
Mr Farmer will step down Previously held a range of leadership positions at GEC and from the Board at the Annual General Meeting.
was a member of the GEC Management Board.
Mr Jays re-election as a non-executive director will be proposed to Bay Green FCA aged 62 Appointed a non-executive shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
director in January 2005 and became the Senior Independent Director at the Annual General Meeting in 2005.
Mr Green Ulf Henriksson BA Econ, MSc aged 43 Appointed Chief is a Vice Chairman of Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein, Executive in July 2005.
Mr Henriksson joined Invensys plc as a non-executive director of RPC Group plc and Axis-Shield plc, Chief Operating Officer in May 2004 and was appointed to and also a trustee of Help the Hospices.
Formerly Operating Vice President of the Hydraulics Division at Eaton Corporation.
Prior to Jean-Claude Guez MS aged 62 Appointed a non-executive joining Eaton Corporation in 2003, he held a number of director in January 2003.
Mr Guez is a non-executive director senior positions at Honeywell International Allied Signal Inc. of Eurostar Group Limited and Eurostar U. K. Limited.
before becoming President of Automated Controls Systems He is also an advisory partner with Rocket Ventures LLP, & Services.
Formerly a non-executive director of Exel plc and a management consulting partner at Accenture where he spent Adrian Hennah MA, FCA aged 48 Appointed Chief his entire career since 1966.
Mr Guezs re-election as a Financial Officer in January 2003.
Mr Hennah joined Invensys non-executive director will be proposed to shareholders at plc as Senior Vice President, Finance and was appointed to the Annual General Meeting.
He is also a non-executive director of The Gray Laboratory Cancer Research Trust.
Formerly held Andrew Macfarlane MA, MSI, FCA aged 49 Appointed a number of senior positions with GlaxoSmithKline Plc, a non-executive director in March 2003.
Mr Macfarlane is including Chief Financial Officer for Glaxo Wellcome Inc USA.
Chief Financial Officer of Rentokil Initial plc.
Formerly Group Mr Hennah will be leaving Invensys plc on 16 June 2006 to Finance Director of Land Securities Group plc.
Prior to this he join Smith & Nephew plc as Finance Director.
He is to be was Director of Corporate Finance and Planning of Bass plc, replaced by Steve Hare.
then Chief Financial Officer of the Hotels division of Bass plc subsequently InterContinental Hotels Group plc.
Steve Hare BA, ACA aged 45 Mr Hare will be joining the Mr Macfarlane will step down from the Board at the Annual Board of Invensys plc as Chief Financial Officer on 21 July General Meeting.
He is currently Group Finance Director of Spectris plc, the precision instrumentation and controls company.
Prior to Michael Parker aged 60 Mr Parker joined the Board on 24 joining Spectris in 2004, he was a founding partner of HBA May 2006 as a non-executive director to replace Mr Farmer.
Partners LLP, an operational turnaround and business support He will become a member of the Audit and Remuneration consultancy.
Between 1997 and 2003, he was with Marconi, Committees.
He has been Group Chief Executive of BNFL, the latterly as a director and Chief Financial Officer, where nuclear company, since 2003.
Previously he was President and he was involved in the companys financial restructuring.
Chief Executive Officer of The Dow Chemical Company in Previously, he spent eight years with GPT, the joint venture Midland, Michigan, USA from November 2000 to December between GEC and Siemens.
2002 and had been a member of the board of directors of Dow since 1995.
34 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2006
