Business review continued Capital employed Interest rate risk Capital employed reduced by 162 million in the The Groups policy is to set the proportion of fixed year ended 31 March 2006 from 326 million as at and floating rate debt taking into account several 31 March 2005 to 164 million as at 31 March 2006. factors including: Divested businesses accounted for a reduction in the profitability of the Group in relation to the capital employed of 184 million and working capital business cycle and the consequent level of was reduced by 50 million.
This was offset by a interest rates in relation to that business cycle: movement of around 70 million in the pension the absolute levels of interest rates: and liability relating to continuing operations.
the financial leverage of the Group.
Treasury policy In addition the Group has undertaken, under the The objective of the Groups treasury policy is to current Senior Credit Facilities, to ensure various ensure that: covenant ratios.
adequate financial resources are available for the development of the Groups businesses, To implement this policy the Group uses fixed-rate ensuring also long-term security in support of the borrowings, interest rate swaps, forward rate Groups products for the benefit of customers.
agreements and currency swaps to manage its This includes the provision of funding for interest rate exposure.
capital expenditure, working capital and the bonding requirements of the Groups contract As at 31 March 2006, 911 million was in fixed-rate businesses: and form, representing 120% of net debt and 75% of financial risk of currency, interest rate and gross debt 2005: 926 million, representing 115% counterparty exposure is minimised as far as of net debt and 64% of gross debt.
possible, as set out in the following sections, and Currency risk that no speculative transactions are undertaken.
Translation exposure In common with other companies operating with Group Treasury policy is to centralise its operations many international subsidiaries, a currency risk arises as far as possible except where key trading on the translation of the results of foreign arrangements specific to any individual business are subsidiaries into sterling.
It does, however, strongly influence key policies such as currency transaction exposure Similarly, a currency risk arises on the translation management.
It offers the following major services: of the balance sheets of foreign subsidiaries into cash management and funding of all worldwide sterling and the translation of non-sterling borrowings operations.
This is offered as far as possible in those Group companies with a sterling functional through automated cash management procedures: currency, including the Company.
foreign exchange risk protection products: inter company settlement mechanism: and Gains and losses resulting from the translation of the bonding instrument issuance.
net assets of foreign subsidiaries into sterling are recorded in reserves.
Gains and losses resulting from The Groups policy in respect of the major areas of the translation of non-sterling borrowings in those treasury management is set out below.
Group companies with a sterling functional currency are recorded in reserves to the extent that they match gains or losses on the translation of the net assets of foreign subsidiaries.
Other gains and losses are recorded in the income statement.
10 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2006 The Group does not target a level of liabilities, so Deposits that gains and losses are only recorded in reserves, Surplus funds are placed for short periods with but rather targets a level of net debt by currency highly-rated institutions in investments that are according to the level of cash generation by the readily realisable.
Group, together with some other measures.
The Funds placed in escrow arrangements are invested relevant measures include: in US dollars, euros or sterling in highly-rated money assets to liabilities: market funds pending their requirement to meet earnings to liabilities: legacy liabilities.
earnings to interest: liabilities by currency to total liabilities: and Derivatives interest by currency to total interest.
Derivatives are used only to manage the risks described above and never for speculative purposes.
The use of these measures helps to minimise the risk Further detail is provided in Note 22 to the Group of breach of any financial covenant by reason of the financial statements.
movement in interest rates or exchange rates alone.
Security The Group adjusts the level of currency liabilities Security over assets is given to lenders where this by using forward foreign exchange contracts.
creates a cost advantage to the Group.
The current Senior Credit Facilities and second lien credit Transaction exposure facilities enjoy security over real assets, plant and Currency transaction exposure arises where actual machinery, working capital, cash and share revenue and purchases are made by the Groups certificates of subsidiaries.
businesses in a currency other than their own functional currency.
The incidence of this risk Sources of funding varies across the different businesses of the Group Sources of funding are diversified as much as although the majority of revenue and purchases possible.
Indeed in the 2004 refinancing, several will usually be in the local markets and in functional different markets were tapped at the same time.
Where this is not the case, the Groups In reviewing all opportunities for future borrowing, businesses are required to hedge 100% of their many markets are reviewed reducing future known exposures.
The Group is also subject to risk refinancing risk by making the name of Invensys in bids where an exchange rate assumed in making familiar.
The Group is then able to tap those such a bid to a customer can lead to a change in markets: no markets were tapped in the year ended margin should a bid be successful and lead to a 31 March 2006. contract.
This risk is also required to be hedged for all but very small bids.
Length of funding To the extent that there is real choice available in In addition some of the Groups businesses have a terms of maturity of debt, as a general rule longer regular flow of business in a non-functional currency maturities are preferred to shorter maturities as long and hedge an agreed portion of that cash flow over as this does not result in an excessive cost premium a period of time, which is not usually longer than to shorter maturities.
Non-call periods are minimised one year.
as far as possible so that the Group has flexibility to refinance its debt at any time.
No change to The Group uses predominantly forward currency length of funding has occurred in the year ended contracts and occasionally currency options to 31 March 2006. manage transaction exposure.
Counterparty risk The Group monitors the identity of the counterparties with whom it deposits cash and transacts other financial instruments so as to control exposure to any territory or institution.
In many countries only the very highest rated local counterparties are used to deposit funds.
Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2006 11
