The Board has included a resolution at the of the Groups employees have received either online forthcoming AGM of the Company to carry out a tenor offline training.
We have set ourselves rigorous for-one share consolidation, with the intention of targets for employee safety and have achieved reducing the share price volatility and narrowing the significant reductions in accident rates.
We have trading spreads for the benefit of shareholders.
Please also reduced the impact of our activities on the refer to the notice of the AGM for further details.
environment through reduced CO emissions, waste 2 production and water usage.
The Board As mentioned in last years Annual report and Employees Summary financial statement, Rick Haythornthwaite I would like to thank all our employees for their hard stepped down as Chief Executive on 21 July 2005 and work and energy over the past year and hope that was succeeded by Ulf Henriksson.
they feel, as I do, that Invensys has achieved much during this period.
Adrian Hennah, Chief Financial Officer, will be leaving the Group and the Board on 16 June 2006 to take Outlook up an appointment as Finance Director of Smith The prospects for the Groups major markets remain & Nephew, the healthcare company.
Global demand for process automation the Board, I would like to thank Adrian for his is strong, driven by the need to optimise plant outstanding achievements during the past four years.
performance and by the construction of new capacity I welcome Stephen Hare, who is currently Group in the oil, gas and power generation sectors, in Finance Director of Spectris plc, the precision particular in the Middle East and Asia Pacific.
instrumentation and controls company, who will Spending on rail infrastructure is also expected to be joining the Board on 21 July 2006 as Chief remain strong with significant new investment being Financial Officer.
made in improving and expanding mainline and mass transit rail systems in many countries across the world.
Michael Parker has joined the Board with effect from Although the prospects for residential and commercial 24 May 2006 as a non-executive director and will construction vary across the world, demand in the become a member of the Audit and Remuneration markets in which the Controls business operates is Committees.
Michael has been Group Chief Executive likely to remain robust in the short term.
of BNFL, the nuclear fuel company, since 2003.
Previously he was President and Chief Executive Each of the Groups businesses is executing detailed Officer of The Dow Chemical Company in Midland, operational plans intended to improve their Michigan, USA from November 2000 to December performance.
Process Systems is building upon its 2002 and had been a member of the board of recent investment in technology and its performance directors of Dow since 1995. improvement programme in order to take advantage of the strength within its major markets.
Controls is Michael will replace Larry Farmer, who will be retiring continuing to take action to stabilise its business by from the Board as planned at the Groups Annual addressing the operational and market issues that General Meeting scheduled for 3 August 2006.
Andrew have affected its performance during the last two Macfarlane, who has been a non-executive director years.
Rail Systems is positioning itself to capture as since 2003, has informed the Board that, due to work much as possible of the significant increase in rail commitments at Rentokil Initial plc, where he is Chief infrastructure spending, particularly in the UK.
Financial Officer, he will not be seeking re-election APV is carrying out further restructuring to improve at the Annual General Meeting.
A search for his its financial performance and Eurotherm is also replacement as non-executive director and chairman restructuring to reduce its cost base and to capture of the Audit Committee is underway.
the growth in its Asian markets.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank Larry Against the background of this market assessment, and Andrew for their immense help over the past and having identified the actions to be undertaken three years, and we all wish them well in the future.
within each of our businesses to improve their performance, the Board is confident that the Group Corporate social responsibility will make further progress in the year ending Invensys remains strongly committed to its corporate 31 March 2007. responsibilities in relation to the communities within which it operates and to the environmental consequences of its activities.
We believe this commitment enhances our prospects of successfully achieving our business goals.
During the past year, we have focused upon the Group-wide implementation of a revised Code of Martin Jay Conduct, including training, and so far over 95% Chairman Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2006 3
