Rail Systems An improved order position is gradually being reflected in revenue for Rail Systems.
Revenue by sector e d a Mainline 39% b Mass transit 24% a c Product 20% c d Logistics 15% e Other 2% b Revenue by geography destination d a a United Kingdom 36% c b Rest of Europe 22% c North America 33% d Asia Pacific 9% b Nigel Smith Markets President, 2006 2005 % Change % Total The market for rail signalling and other systems, in at CER change Rail Systems which Rail Systems operates, is expected to show Orders m 504 454 9% 11% sustained growth as many countries are increasing Revenue m 438 412 5% 6% their investment in transport infrastructure, in particular mainline and mass transit railways.
Operating profit m 65 61 5% 7% Operating margin % 14.8 14.8 In the United Kingdom Network Rail, which owns and Operating cashflow m 92 57 61% operates most of the rail infrastructure, is significantly increasing its investment in improving the train Employees numbers 2,909 2,939 1 % network and has forecast that its spending on signalling renewals will increase from 272 million in the year ended 31 March 2006 to 568 million in the In export markets, Rail Systems is exploring new year ended 31 March 2009. opportunities in Eastern Europe, Latin America, the Far East and Scandinavia.
In North America, Rail Systems main market for rail crossings, federal funding has increased following the Developments signing of the US Transportation Bill.
In the UK mainline business, Rail Systems main customer, Network Rail, has continued its reorganisation designed to reduce the cost of signalling, implementing long-term supply contracts and transferring more project execution risk to suppliers.
As a result of this process, the level of order flow from Network Rail continued to be slower than normal in the first quarter of the year ended 31 March 2006, but has since returned to more normal levels.
18 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2006 Rail Systems has recently been awarded preferred Performance bidder status on three Category A large signalling The pace of order intake accelerated during the renewal framework contracts by Network Rail.
second half of 2006 as Network Rail progressed This preferred bidder success on three out of the six towards the end of its procurement changes and the available framework contracts confirms our continued slowdown of orders for rail crossings in the US was market leadership in the UK mainline market and reversed, offset in part by a reduction in orders in provides the opportunity for over 200 million of Iberia following a strong performance in the year revenue in the next five years.
Final agreement on the ended 31 March 2005.
Orders in the year ended framework contracts and the award of the first two 31 March 2006 were 504 million, an increase of projects under these contracts is expected shortly.
The 14-year 960 million Public Private Partnership The improved order position is gradually being PPP contracts to install new signalling and train reflected in revenue, which grew by 5% at CER in the control systems for approximately two thirds of the year ended 31 March 2006 to 438 million, with London Underground, which were awarded in 2003, increased levels of activity on the PPP contracts for are proceeding slightly slower than anticipated, but the London Underground and good performances the pace of work is expected to accelerate during the in North America.
second half of the year ending 31 March 2007.
Operating profit increased by 5% at CER to 65 million In Iberia, Rail Systems has continued its success in in the year ended 31 March 2006, producing an gaining orders for signalling in the new High Speed operating margin of 14.8%, the same as the previous Line network under construction, with its participation year.
Operating cash flow was up 61% at 92 million in in the winning consortium in April 2006 for the line the year ended 31 March 2006 due to improved cash between Madrid and Segovia.
management, particularly on long-term contracts.
In the US rail crossings market order levels in recent years have been reduced due to the delays in signing of the US Transportation Bill, which provides funding for rail crossing safety renewals.
However, following signing of the Bill in August 2005, the level of orders is showing signs of returning to more normal levels and should increase further as the additional federal funding reaches the business customers.
In addition, Rail Systems, building upon its success in the Chinese mass transit market, is targetting a number of attractive opportunities in the Far East and Latin America and is carrying out market studies in the new member states of the EU and in other emerging markets.
For example, it has recently won a series of contracts and agreements worth approximately 43 million with Marubeni of Japan.
These contracts will provide Marubeni with technical support services and technical consultancy on a major new railway signalling project in Taiwan.
Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2006 19 Rail Systems FUTUR 3000 Invensys Rail Systems continues to win contracts from the Spanish Government to provide railway FUTUR 3000 is our automatic train protection signalling technology, trackside route protection system for the future The European Rail Traffic Management System ERTMS is the EU technology and control centre enhancements on its high standard for increased safety, efficiency and interoperability across the European rail network.
Developed over the last four years as a collaboration between our research centres in Spain and the UK, the FUTUR system confirms our reputation for innovation and will provide a platform for continued growth in future years.
3 2 7 1 6 5 4 Interlocking This is a Onboard ERTMS computer Specific Transmission Balise 6 This track device 4 trackside computer system This is the main signalling Module This enables is a passive radio signal 1 2 that uses train location computer on the train.
an interface to non-ERTMS transmitter that is used to information to control the It executes the safety logic, trackside signalling equipment, calibrate the train location signal lights and the points, processing movement typically different in each and transmit track in order to ensure a safe authorities received by the country.
This module performs information to the trains route for the train.
train, and guarantees a backwards compatibility onboard BTM.
The short-range extremely high levels of function and enables trains to signal is read by a system Radio Block Centre safety.
It manages external run on parts of the network fitted to the underneath In ERTMS the RBC takes communications via radio equipped with older systems.
information from the signals and or balises.
interlocking and calculates a Driver Machine Interface Control centre 5 safe distance for the train to Train Interface Unit Balise The DMI is the touch 7 Controllers manage proceed known as a limit of Transmission Module screen by which the onboard routes to the timetable on 3 movement authority.
This The TIU manages computer communicates with the basis of real-time movement authority is then communications with the the driver.
It provides information on the position transferred to the trains train gathering information information regarding current and status of trains on the onboard ERTMS computer.
on speed and connecting to speed, current permissible railway.
Safety is however the brakes.
The BTM interfaces speed and distance until still managed by the trackside to the balises track devices braking and stopping are and train-borne equipment via an antenna system fitted required.
to eliminate the risk of underneath the train.
turns the analogue signals into digital information for the onboard computer.
20 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2006 APV Further action is now being taken to generate a more stable and profitable financial performance.
Revenue by sector f e d c a Food, beverage & dairy 74% b General industries 12% b c Utilities & power 7% d Oil & gas upstream 4% a e Pharmaceuticals 2% f Other 1% Revenue by geography destination a f a United Kingdom 3% e b b Rest of Europe 46% c North America 13% d d South America 5% c e Asia Pacific 24% f Africa & Middle East 9% Brian McCluskie Markets President, APV 2006 2005 % Change % Total The markets in which APV operates are generally at CER change expected to increase in line with the gross domestic Orders m 419 390 5% 7% products of the relevant economies.
Although APV is Revenue m 388 360 5% 8% experiencing good growth in the market for industrial heat exchangers, particularly for water desalination Operating profit m 5 100 % 100 % plants in the Middle East, the opportunities are Operating margin % 1.4 tempered by a shortage of titanium, an important raw Operating cashflow m 6 16 138% material for industrial heat exchangers.
Employees numbers 2,760 2,606 6% Developments APV has undergone a radical restructuring during the two years ended 31 March 2006 to address its Project orders declined as the business implemented financial and operational underperformance.
Although its revised procedures designed to reduce the risk on operations are now at break-even, further action is new projects.
now being taken to generate a more stable and profitable financial performance.
Revenue rose by 5% at CER to 388 million in the year ended 31 March 2006.
Project sales showed a In order to improve the poor financial performance small increase with a strong performance in Europe of its project business, the business has instituted new offset by weaker revenue in Asia and North America.
procedures to reduce the risk on projects that it PSS revenue increased, reflecting the growth in the undertakes: it is also increasing the use of standardised market for large industrial heat exchangers and the engineering solutions.
This has resulted in a lower efforts to increase the servicing and spares market level of project orders, and now steps are being taken within its installed base.
to reduce the level of overheads in the project business to reflect this change.
Sales and marketing Operating profit was at break-even in the year ended efforts have been refocused upon products, spares 31 March 2006 compared with a profit of 5 million and services, addressing APVs large installed base: in 2005.
This was due mainly to losses incurred in good progress has been made and PSS now the project business caused by a number of factors represents over half of APVs revenue.
including the slower than expected reduction in overheads, cost overruns on some current contracts Performance and warranty costs associated with some older, Order intake in the year ended 31 March 2006 rose completed contracts.
Operating cash inflow was 5% at CER to 419 million due mainly to a significant 6 million for the year ended 31 March 2006, increase in orders for large industrial heat exchangers.
compared with an outflow of 16 million in the previous year.
Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2006 21 TM APV LeanCreme APV continues to pioneer the development and commercial launch of new process technology in the dairy and food industries.
4 3 2 1 5 The LeanCreme process The cheese-making process Five orders for commercial The APV LeanCreme The illustration depicts systems have been received process is a complete solution a typical process line for and the first has been The LeanCreme process enables the for the manufacture of Gouda, Tilsit or Swiss cheese.
successfully commissioned dairy and food industries to convert 2 LeanCreme, a pure dairy Curd is made at before We expect the LeanCreme surplus cheese whey into a high-value ingredient based on whey being moved on to process to make a global protein agglomerate This raw material can from cheese production.
distribution and pre-pressing impact as reduced-fat be used to produce low-fat products that 3 The process consists of an at.
Cheese-making products are in higher look and taste like their higher-fat ultrafiltration system and a develops through the central demand than ever before.
The most exciting commercial 1 4 microparticulation system process areas at where application to date has been the production based on a plate heat there is further pressing.
The In addition to low-fat of low-fat cheeses with significantly exchanger and a special moulds are stored before the cheese, the LeanCreme enhanced colour and flavour compared to designed scraped surface heat finished cheese is produced.
process can be used for previous production techniques.
exchanger, the APV Shear production of fermented milk Agglomerator, which offers The entire system is products and desserts, protein excellent control of the controlled remotely from enriched milk drinks and 5 particle size distribution.
yoghurt, dressings, sauces and mayonnaise, ice cream, Use of LeanCreme products chocolate and confectionery, results in production of bakery products and added-value low-fat dairy nutraceuticals.
22 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2006
