Business group performance and developments Controls Controls will continue to focus on the stabilisation of its business.
Revenue by sector f e a Appliance 47% d b Residential property 17% a c Discrete manufacturing 13% c d Commercial property 9% e General industries 9% b f Utilities & power 5% Revenue by geography destination e f a d a United Kingdom 12% b b Rest of Europe 24% c North America 50% c d South America 6% e Asia Pacific 7% f Africa & Middle East 1% Chan Galbato Markets President, 2006 2005 % Change % Total Controls operates globally in the appliance and at CER change Controls climate markets.
Controls main appliance markets Orders m 797 797 3 % in Europe and North America have shown modest Revenue m 788 810 6 % 3 % overall growth in the year ended 31 March 2006 but its main customers, western appliance manufacturers, Operating profit m 64 85 28 % 25 % have been experiencing increasing competitive Operating margin % 8.1 10.5 pressures as Korean and other Asian manufacturers Operating cashflow m 48 69 30 % seek to increase their market share.
The global climate markets have also delivered modest growth buoyed Employees numbers 13,921 14,534 4 % by high levels of new residential construction across the world.
In manufacturing, some of Controls larger plants Developments have experienced poor product quality and delivery Controls has suffered significant market and performance, as evidenced by the two major gas valve operational issues that have adversely affected its recalls since August 2004, and by low levels of onfinancial performance since its creation through the time delivery to customers.
At the same time, it has merger of the Climate and Appliance businesses in a larger than optimal cost base compared with many October 2004.
In October 2005, Chan Galbato joined of its competitors as it has been slow to move as President from Home Depot: prior to Home Depot, production capacity to low-cost countries.
These he gained considerable experience in achieving quality and on-time delivery issues have also restricted turnarounds in industrial and manufacturing its ability to achieve price rises and recover increased operations.
Under his leadership, Controls is costs in several of its markets.
Its plans include investing implementing a broad range of actions to improve its in reorganising and improving the manufacturing cells manufacturing quality and efficiency and counter the within these larger plants, seeking cost efficiencies pricing pressures it is experiencing in some of its through its new supply chain management team and markets, particularly in the North American and addressing its inventory management to ensure the European appliance markets.
He is also strengthening availability of product to improve significantly its his leadership team through the recruitment of on-time delivery to customers.
While these quality several senior managers and engineers to increase and delivery issues are being addressed, the rate of execution capabilities.
transfer of manufacturing capacity to low-cost jurisdictions has been slowed down so that such transfers can take place from a stable foundation.
12 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2006 In the appliance market, many of Controls existing Operating profit fell to 64 million for the year ended customers are under pricing pressure as Korean and 31 March 2006 from 85 million in the prior year, a other Asian manufacturers work to build market decline of 28% at CER, and operating margin was 8.1% share.
This pricing pressure is being passed on to compared with 10.5% in the prior year.
As well as the Controls and other suppliers in the industry.
In gearing effect of the reduced revenue, operating addition, it is also experiencing growing competition profit was affected by the inability to pass on to at the lower end of its product range from customers, due to pricing pressures, some of the raw competitors in lower cost countries.
In the short term, material cost increases and the additional overhead Controls is negotiating volume increases to counter costs associated with the performance improvement the requested reductions in selling prices and is programme.
Operating cash flow for the year ended introducing new and more cost competitive products 31 March 2006 was reduced to 48 million, in line that help its customers address their cost issues.
In with the fall in operating profit.
the medium term, Controls intends to build market share with Asia-based manufacturers, particularly The business continues to expect that the costs of when they commence manufacture outside their the two product recalls announced in August 2004 home markets.
and August 2005 will be contained within the 30 million provision made in the year ended Performance 31 March 2005.
In the year ended 31 March 2006 orders were 797 million, down 3% at CER from the prior year During the year ending 31 March 2007, Controls will mainly due to the disposal of some smaller building continue to focus on the stabilisation of its business services businesses and the previously announced and on implementing further elements of its cessation of a major contract at IMServ.
main climate and appliance markets, the decline experienced in the first half of the year ended 31 March 2006, due mainly to pricing pressure in Europe and North America and volume declines within the Asian reversing valve business, stabilised as the year progressed and showed a slight increase at CER in the second half.
Revenue followed similar trends and was down 6% at CER to 788 million for the year ended 31 March 2006 but, as with order intake, the performance improved slightly as the year progressed.
Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2006 13 Controls Firex Monox Invensys Controls offers a full range of Firex smoke, fire and carbon monoxide alarms for every room in the home.
Our Monox carbon monoxide CO alarms now feature superior carbon monoxide sensing technology.
2 1 3 Providing the highest level A new build house would Retrofitting alarms to of assurance and warning feature a range of mains existing houses usually Only Monox offers triple protection In the US Invensys Controls has powered alarms Bedrooms involves battery powered and Canada, our Firex and Monox alarms, both 1 1 launched a new self-test would typically have an units For bedrooms and mains and battery powered, offer the highest level feature on its Firex and AC DC ionization smoke alarm living rooms there is the 4021 of self-diagnostics: sensor test, automatic self-test Monox carbon monoxide and living rooms an AC DC battery-operated dual sensor and true end-of-life replacement alert.
This provides greater ionization smoke carbon ionization photoelectric The True-Test sensor is offered on the assurance that the sensor monoxide alarm with Monox smoke alarm.
10000 series CO alarms and the 12000 series is working to detect the technology.
combination smoke and CO alarms.
Hallways, stairs and 3 Hallways, landings and fitted basements use the 12200 3 Our new alarms automatically out basements or cellars family of products batterytest themselves to verify that would use a similar alarm, operated ionization smoke 2 the sensor is working and also while kitchen areas would carbon monoxide alarms with provide a warning when the use an AC DC photoelectric Monox technology or the sensor is nearing the end of smoke or heat alarm.
This additional ionization smoke alarm with testing feature is important: Stairwells would normally a built-in light.
other carbon monoxide have a 12000 AC DC alarms on the market test ionization smoke carbon Battery-operated photoelectric the detector electronics, monoxide alarm or a smoke alarms can be fitted 2 not the sensor.
4618 5000 AC DC ionization near kitchens.
14 14 Invensys plc Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2006 Annual report & accounts 2006
