Eurotherm Eurotherm is undergoing a major restructuring to address its cost base and to enable it to capture growth.
Revenue by sector f e a General industries 42% d b Discrete manufacturing 24% a c Heat treatment 14% c d Pharmaceuticals 6% e Utilities & power 4% b f Other 10% Revenue by geography destination f a e a United Kingdom 12% d b Rest of Europe 43% b c North America 20% c d South America 2% e Asia Pacific 21% f Africa & Middle East 2% Peter Tompkins Markets President, 2006 2005 % Change % Total In Eurotherms traditional markets in Europe and at CER change Eurotherm North America, the level of construction of new Orders m 119 122 5 % 2 % manufacturing plants is not expected to experience Revenue m 118 122 5 % 3 % much, if any, growth due to the transfer of production to low-cost countries.
Certain industries such as Operating profit m 16 17 8 % 6 % plastics are being affected by high feedstock input Operating margin % 13.6 13.9 prices and are hence declining.
Growth in the Asian Operating cashflow m 15 17 12 % market and China in particular is expected to be significant for the foreseeable future.
Employees numbers 1,126 1,191 5 % Developments Eurotherm is undergoing a major restructuring to its former Drives business was terminated, which address its cost base in its mature markets in Europe is expected to result in a reduction in revenue of and North America and to enable it to capture growth approximately 10 million per annum.
being investigated to mitigate the loss of this contract.
The business is in consultations with employee Performance representatives within its manufacturing plants in Eurotherms performance was affected by weaknesses the UK, France and Italy on proposals to outsource in some of its markets, particularly in the US plastics significant amounts of its component manufacturing industry, which has been affected by high feedstock and to establish a large manufacturing base in Poland.
prices, and by the termination of the majority of the These proposals are expected to improve Eurotherms distribution agreement with its former Drives business.
competitive position by significantly reducing its As a result, orders and revenue in the year ended manufacturing costs.
31 March 2006 were both 5% lower at CER than the prior year, although there were some positive signs in In order to capture the strong growth in capacity the fourth quarter of the year ended 31 March 2006. within Asian markets, Eurotherm is constructing a facility in Shanghai, China.
This is due to begin Operating profit reduced by 8% at CER to 16 million production towards the end of the first half of the in the year ended 31 March 2006 due to the gearing year ending 31 March 2007. effect of the reduced revenue but, through control of overhead expenditure, operating margin held up Eurotherm is also refocusing its sales and marketing at 13.6%, similar to the prior year.
Operating cash flow efforts to concentrate efforts into growth market was 15 million for the year ended 31 March 2006 sectors including Asia, especially heat treatment, life compared with 17 million in the prior year.
In November 2005, the majority of Eurotherms distribution agreement with Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2006 23 Eurotherm Distributed Control Systems Eurotherm Distributed Control Systems are helping China to boost power station performance by replacing ageing control systems with modern control and automation technologies.
1 3 4 2 5 1 Performance requirement Central control room Completing the process China is currently operating This provides plant-wide Our systems continue with several hundred 125 and central processing, a the control of the delivery 200 MW thermoelectric monitoring and display area, of the exhaust steam to the 4 units, many of which need alarm report generation and cooling towers for updating.
automatic plant startup and condensation to water shutdown.
Operations and subsequent return At the heart of the system are the new T2550 The configuration of power include all safety monitoring to the boiler.
Programmable Automation Controllers plant control systems is and necessary interlocks for The T2550 PAC provides an extremely costcomplex, covering multiple processes throughout The process concludes effective distributed control environment offering parameters and process the plant.
with the control of the both I O input output and sequential control 5 cycles.
generators to deliver capability, with the option for redundancy.
Process control throughout the required electrical A typical system will include the power generation cycle output to transformers for a number of features such The process starts with step-up to transmission as a data adaptation system, weighing coal deliveries, voltage and routing to the a model control system, controlling the crushing distribution grid.
sequence control systems, operation 2, and the furnace safety security monitoring of coal delivery systems and emergency to the boiler 3.
temperature and performance are controlled and monitored, before steam is delivered to the turbine.
Turbine and generator operation is then controlled and monitored.
24 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2006
