"'%&& Power and Process 8dbedjcY VkZgV Z gdli] gViZh ckZhibZci VXXZhh WaZ id 6B:8 EdlZg EgdXZhh 7 dbVhh VcY 8 E && :aZXig X in igVchb hh dc & '%% ""'%&& Vh igVchb hh dc VcY hidgV Z - Vh Y hig Wji dc EgdXZhh '%%% Eg cX eVa VXi k i Zh :cZg n VcY EgdXZhh egd[ i & %% % Energy and Process profit Principal activities '%% gZkZcjZh &'%% % EdlZg VcY EgdXZhh J@ cYjhig Va -%% Cdgi] 6bZg XVc cYjhig Va %% '' CjXaZVg % '%% '%%, '%%- '%%."
'%&& 8dbedjcY VkZgV Z gdli] gViZh cXajY c d ci kZcijgZ VXi k i Zh c gVf 7 dbVhh VcY 8 E && :aZXig X in igVchb hh dc & Vh igVchb hh dc VcY hidgV Z - Vh Y hig Wji dc EgdXZhh million 2006 2005 Change UK Industrial Revenue 817.4 602.9 36% This business includes AMECs activities in high pressure gas import Eg cX eVa VXi k i Zh 30.4 36.7 -17% Adjusted profit terminals, storage and transmission: low pressure gas distribution: electricity '%% gZkZcjZh transmission networks: power generation and process industries refining, 3.7% 6.1% -2.4pts Margin J@ cYjhig Va chemicals, pharmaceutical and steel.
41.3 Net liabilities assets 19.9 -61.2m Cdgi] 6bZg XVc cYjhig Va The business is based in Darlington and has six operational locations across Order book 1.46bn 1.07bn 36% '' CjXaZVg the UK.
Services include engineering, project management, construction, Average number of employees 5,615 4,440 26% shutdown and maintenance.
It is the UK market leader in high pressure gas cXajY c d ci kZcijgZ VXi k i Zh c gVf transmission and storage and in shutdowns, and is a top three supplier to the Description of business low pressure gas distribution and electricity transmission sectors.
The business has major long-term framework contracts with National Grid for Divisional head refurbishment of gas and electricity networks.
Other key customers include Tim Watson Scottish and Southern Energy, Northern Ireland Electricity, major oil, gas and Principal activities chemical companies.
Power and Process includes AMECs activities in UK and North Markets American industrial and power The total market in AMECs chosen power and process sectors in the UK markets, and nuclear.
The business is large, being worth in excess of 1 billion per annum.
AMEC currently has designs, delivers, enhances and a low market share overall, but has leading market positions in certain maintains infrastructure for a broad energy markets, as referred to above.
Spending in the high pressure gas and range of clients in the public and electricity transmission sectors is expected to grow significantly over the next private sectors.
Margins across these businesses are varied, but typically five years, as investment is made in UK energy infrastructure.
Good growth is average 3-4 per cent through the cycle.
The majority of contracts are expected in all core market sectors over the next five years, as seen in the either framework cost plus or target price with gainshare and painshare chart below source: AMEC estimates.
conditions, though lump-sum EPC Engineer Procure Construct contracts are entered into in selected UK industrial markets where the balance Investment accessible to AMEC Investment accessible to AMEC Power&Process of risk and reward is acceptable.
2 20 00 06 6- -2 20 01 11 1 Principal locations: Darlington, Knutsford UK : Atlanta US : Vancouver, 2000 Toronto Canada.
% Energy and Process profit 1600 Clients include: National Grid, GlaxoSmithKline, Bruce Power, 1200 30% UKAEA, British Nuclear Group, British Energy, Bowater, Dow, Power and Process Ontario Power Generation, Southern Company.
800 Major contracts in 2006 included: Bruce Power, Canada: nuclear reactor 400 restarts.
National Grid, UK: replacement of gas mains along the M1 0 2006 2011 corridor between Sheffield and Leicester.
National Grid, UK: refurbishment of overhead power transmission lines and underground cables.
Compound average growth rates: Biomass and CHP 21% Electricity transmission 12% Gas transmission and storage 7% Gas distribution 4% Process 5% Principal activities 20 AMEC plc annual report 2006 Business and financial review www.
com Business and financial review AMEC plc annual report 2006 21 % 2006 revenues 45% UK Industrial 33% North American Industrial 4155 AMEC front 06 LH CS2.
indd 20 4 4 07 11:49:05 22% Nuclear Including joint venture activities in Iraq million b aa dc b aa dc Facilities: Significant levels of spending on public and private sector North American Industrial hospitals, research and development facilities and universities are This business designs, delivers, enhances and maintains plant for the power expected to continue.
sector and process industries such as pulp and paper, food, alternative fuels and cement.
Engineering services are also provided for public and private Infrastructure sector facilities including hospitals and universities together with defence, The market outlook is strong in both the US and Canada.
transportation, water and waste infrastructure.
The total available market to AMECs North American Industrial business in The business has major locations in Atlanta, Vancouver and Toronto and its chosen sectors is worth in excess of US$2 billion per annum.
Most of the operates from some 60 offices across North America.
businesss key markets are forecast to have capital expenditure growth in excess of 8 per cent per annum over the next three years source: AMEC.
Markets The business serves a range of power and process markets across North Nuclear America and internationally.
Principal markets include: AMEC is the UK and Canadas leading private sector supplier of project management and engineering services to the nuclear industry and also Power generation provides services in the Americas, South Africa, Eastern Europe and the former Spending is expected to remain high, being driven by high energy costs Soviet Union.
Services are provided throughout the life of nuclear assets, from and environmental legislation.
Over 200 new coal units have been programme management and project delivery, operations support for existing announced in the US and significant increases in spending on renewable assets to decommissioning and waste management.
Specialist design, energy are expected.
engineering, technical and consultancy services are also available.
Pulp and paper AMEC has a proprietary waste vitrification technology, Geomelt, which uses The North American market is mature, with growth in capital spending an electric current to vitrify nuclear waste into a solid, glass-like material.
being driven by Asia and to a lesser extent, South America and Geomelt could be used in the clean-up of nuclear facilities around the world.
In January 2006, AMEC formed an alliance with the United Kingdom Atomic Process industrials includes food, cement, alternative fuels, facilities Energy Authority UKAEA and CH2MHILL to target selected opportunities Food: The US market is expected to remain flat, with capex shifting from in the emerging nuclear decommissioning and clean-up market, which is Americas to Central and Eastern Europe.
expected to be worth approximately 2 billion a year.
In June 2006, AMEC and Cement: Old plants technology is being replaced due to high operating UKAEA signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the Korean Power costs and environmental legislation.
This, coupled with supply shortages Engineering Company to win work in the multi-billion pound South Korean is expected to result in good growth in this sector for the next three nuclear market, and in January 2007, AMEC signed a two-year, general to five years.
service agreement with Chinas Third Qinshan Nuclear Power Company, owner operator of two CANDU nuclear power stations.
Alternative fuels: Strong growth is expected to continue in the ethanol and bio-diesel markets.
Business and financial review AMEC plc annual report 2006 21 4155 AMEC front 06 LH CS2.
indd 21 4 4 07 11:49:07 Power and Process continued Markets Financial performance 2006 Over the next 30 years, of 400 civil reactors worldwide, a significant Revenue for the period increased by 36 per cent to 817.4 million 2005: number will be either decommissioned or receive life extensions, providing 602.9 million, with revenue from US Industrial doubling and a 26 per cent major opportunities for AMEC.
In the UK alone, the market for decommissioning increase in UK Industrial.
Power and Process also benefited from a full year is valued at some 70 billion Source: UK Department of Trade and Industry.
of sales from the nuclear engineering services business NNC, which was The Nuclear Decommissioning Authority NDA has published a competition acquired in July 2005. schedule for decommissioning which runs to 2012, subject to any changes Growth in these areas was offset by the expected reduction in revenues in government policy.
from joint venture activities in Iraq, which fell from 163.0 million in 2005, The focus of this business is to continue to invest and enable AMEC to win to 63.4 million.
All joint venture contracts were substantially complete a major share of contracts from across the expanding global nuclear sector.
AMECs programme management and technical expertise is already playing Adjusted profit for the period was 30.4 million 2005: 36.7 million and margin a key role in power generation, both in operating reactor support and in reactor 3.7 per cent 2005: 6.1 per cent.
The decline in margin principally reflected lower re-start programmes, while also positioning itself within the growing new margin on contracts secured during 2004 5, together with low profit take build programme across the world.
on the high volume of sales associated with early stages on industrial projects.
Performance also reflected the expected significant reduction of joint venture AMEC is supporting the NDA as it creates a competitive market in the multiearnings in Iraq during 2006, which fell from 13.6 million in 2005, to 7.0 million.
billion pound management and operation of UK nuclear sites, coupled with an ongoing decommissioning programme, in addition to undertaking major In the UK, gas and electricity markets remained buoyant.
During the year, decommissioning work in Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union.
AMEC worked on new facilities including gas storage and distribution, flue gas desulphurisation systems and refurbishment or replacement of gas mains and overhead power transmission lines.
In North America, the power generation, cement and alternative fuels markets were particularly strong.
In Nuclear, the NNC business, acquired in July 2005, performed ahead of expectations.
The major project to restart two reactors for Bruce Power in Canada completed its first year on schedule and on budget, with no lost time incidents, whilst the UK engineering services business had a good year.
Performance in the UK capital projects business was below expectation as a number of projects were deferred.
The 2006 order book in Power and Process increased by 36% 22 AMEC plc annual report 2006 Business and financial review www.
com Business and financial review AMEC plc annual report 2006 23 4155 AMEC front 06 LH CS2.
indd 22 4 4 07 11:49:08 Net liabilities at 31 December 2006 were 19.9 million 31 December 2005: net STEP Change assets of 41.3 million reflecting good cash performance in North America As a result of the STEP Change and Operational Excellence programmes, and reduced levels of capital employed associated with joint venture the Power and Process business is targeting a 2008 margin of 5-7 per cent.
Strategy The Power and Process order book grew strongly in 2006, increasing by 36 per The key challenge for the Power and Process businesses is to improve cent to 1.46 billion, reflecting strength in power and process markets on both margins.
As detailed above, the business is now operating in a stronger market sides of the Atlantic.
During the year major contracts were won in joint venture environment and is being more selective in new work taken on.
The STEP to fit flue-gas desulphurisation systems in the Kilroot power station, Northern Change programme is also expected to improve performance during 2007.
Ireland, and the Longannet power station, Scotland, together with contracts in Pending improvement in margin, stand alone acquisitions in this area will be the US for LNG and power generation facilities.
Since the year end, an AMEC a lower priority than for other core activities where margins are stronger.
joint venture signed a major framework contract with National Grid value to AMEC 237 million for the upgrade of overhead power lines and underground The UK Industrial business aims to maintain its position as a leading supplier to cables across the western half of England and all of Wales over the next five the gas and electricity sectors and to develop a strong position in the provision years.
In Nuclear, AMEC was awarded a two-year decommissioning contract of engineering services to the renewables sector and in emissions controls.
for redundant research facilities at the AWE site at Aldermaston, England and an initial contract was awarded by UKAEA for a new decommissioning facility In the Americas, the business aims to increase its share of the available in Dounreay, Scotland.
market and to expand the pulp and paper business into South America.
The Nuclear business aims to strengthen its position as the leading private Outlook 2007 sector supplier of project management and engineering services to the Power and Process end markets are strong.
nuclear industry in the UK and Canada.
With its alliance partners UKAEA and CH2MHILL, AMEC is well placed to compete in the emerging market The industrial businesses in UK and North America are expected to deliver in decommissioning and clean-up, where it expects to bid for selected NDA strong growth in 2007.
With the strong growth in order book during 2006, contracts over the next five years.
Longer term, AMEC intends to develop a the industrial business is now more selective in new projects and sets a leading position in the new-build market in the UK.
gross margin threshold of 8 per cent on new contracts.
This, coupled with higher profit take on contracts as they pass key milestones is expected to lead to improved margin performance in 2007.
Continued growth is expected in Nuclear, being driven by the refurbishment project at Bruce Power in Canada.
In the longer term, significant opportunities are emerging in the UK from which AMEC expects to benefit.
Overall performance in Power and Process will be tempered by the cessation of joint venture activities in Iraq in 2007. Business and financial review AMEC plc annual report 2006 23 4155 AMEC front 06 LH CS2.
