The directors have pleasure in presenting the annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2006.
Report of the directors Business review Information fulfilling the requirements of the business review is contained in the business and financial review on pages 12 to 51, which includes details of AMECs development and performance during the year, its position at the year end, and the outlook for the future, and is included in this report by references.
Key events On 22 May 2006, AMEC announced that it had entered into an agreement with PAI Partners for the sale of AMEC SPIE for a cash consideration of approximately 1 billion 684 million.
The disposal was approved by AMEC shareholders at an extraordinary general meeting held on 6 July 2006 and was completed on 27 July 2006, generating an exceptional gain of 311 million after tax.
AMEC SPIE is now treated as a discontinued operation and the income statement has been restated accordingly.
On 16 June 2006, AMEC announced pre-tax exceptional charges of 79 million.
These costs and provisions related to AMECs withdrawal from certain construction markets in the UK and US, oil and gas upstream lump-sum fabrication and other activities, and provision for future legal and other costs of disputes.
On 5 September 2006, AMEC disposed of US Pipeline Inc. to Dearborn Resources Inc. a company owned and managed by the previous president of US Pipeline Inc. for a cash consideration of 11 million.
During the year AMEC made a number of small acquisitions in the Earth and Environmental and Nuclear businesses, details of which are set out in the business and financial review.
On 13 December 2006, AMEC announced that it had completed a comprehensive review of the companys businesses including consideration of their market position, existing client relationships, profitability and growth potential.
The review also focused on the reasons for AMECs underperformance in recent years which had included a complex organisational structure, high overhead costs, a lack of business focus and ongoing litigation.
The review resulted in the decision to retain the following businesses as core, being Oil and Gas Services, Oil Sands Engineering and Infrastructure, Minerals and Metals Mining, Nuclear, Industrial, Earth and Environmental and Wind Energy.
Significant potential opportunities for investment have been identified to develop the core businesses.
The review also resulted in the decision to sell the Built Environment businesses, being Building and Civil Engineering, Building and Facilities Services, Property Developments and Project Investments, together with various specialist activities, as quickly as possible during 2007 consistent with optimising value.
AMEC also announced that a review of completed projects in businesses or activities which had been exited where it was involved in litigation and or where material final account settlements have been outstanding had been undertaken.
Following this review, and reflecting recent negative developments on three major North American disputes, additional pre-tax exceptional charges of 68 million were required.
These further provisions reflected the boards view that AMEC should seek to settle the disputes, but where settlement could not be secured on a realistic basis, AMEC would continue to defend its position.
54 AMEC plc annual report 2006 Report of the directors www.
com Report of the directors AMEC plc annual report 2006 55 4155 AMEC mid 06. indd 54 4 4 07 10:58:09 Finally, as more fully set out in the business and financial review, Substantial interests AMEC announced two further initiatives, being STEP Change, Pursuant to the FSA Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 5, a programme of change in AMECs structure and culture with a target notifications have been received by the company of shareholdings of of 112 million in annualised overheads savings, and an Operational 3 per cent or more of the voting rights of the company as at 14 March Excellence programme designed to strengthen process assurance 2007 and these are as follows: and risk management, improve business focus and provide better staff training.
Number Per cent Toscafund Limited 37,697,620 11.31 On 19 February 2007, AMEC reached an unconditional agreement ABN-AMRO Bank NV 27,662,914 8.22 to dispose of its 50 per cent interest in AMEC SPIE Rail Systems Limited ASRSL to Colas SA, with completion set for 2 April 2007.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC 15,585,362 5.53 Deutsche Bank AG 17,014,929 5.06 Dividends The directors have proposed a final ordinary dividend in respect Barclays PLC 14,410,295 4.29 of the year ended 31 December 2006 of 8.0 pence per share.
This Legal & General final dividend will be payable on 2 July 2007 to shareholders on Investment Management Ltd 11,576,550 3.44 the register at the close of business on 11 May 2007.
TIAA-CREF Investment Management, LLC Dividends paid during the year comprised an interim dividend and Teachers Advisors, Inc 10,956,536 3.26 of 4.0 pence per share and a final dividend of 7.5 pence per share Directors both in respect of the year ended 31 December 2005.
Details of the directors of the company as at the date of this report, Share capital together with membership of the principal board committees, The authorised and issued share capital of the company as at are set out on pages 52 and 53.
31 December 2006 and movements during the year are set out Mr J A Monville resigned from the board on 27 July 2006 to in note 25 on pages 94 and 95. concentrate on running AMEC SPIE under its new owners.
A resolution will be proposed at the annual general meeting to Non-executive director Mr J-P Jacamon resigned from the board extend authority to the directors to make market purchases of up on 31 August 2006. to 10 per cent of the companys shares within prescribed limits.
Sir Peter Mason stepped down as chief executive of AMEC plc On 13 December 2006 the directors announced their intention, on 30 September 2006 and retired from AMEC on 31 October 2006, pursuant to the authority granted at last years annual general having reached his normal retirement age.
meeting, to return up to 100 million via on-market share repurchases during 2007.
The directors consider that a share buy back is in the Mr S Y Brikho was appointed to the board on 1 October 2006 as chief best interests of shareholders generally and is expected to result in executive of AMEC plc.
Mr Brikho has an employment contract with an increase in earnings per share.
The share buy back programme is the company with a notice period which was initially set at two years not dependent upon receipt of the expected net proceeds from AMECs on the part of the company, reducing progressively by one month each strategic disposal programme referred to above.
Furthermore, the month during the first year of employment to one year after the first directors will retain sufficient financial flexibility to be able to progress year of employment.
On the part of Mr Brikho, the notice period was AMECs strategic growth plans in its core businesses.
Repurchased initially set at one year, reducing progressively to six months after the shares will be held in treasury.
On 11 January 2007, AMEC announced that it had purchased 350,000 In accordance with article 91 of the articles of association of the shares in the market to be held in treasury at a price of approximately company, Mr Brikho will retire from office at the forthcoming annual 420 pence per share.
No further purchases were made up to the date general meeting and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
Mr J M Green-Armytage, Ms M O Hesse, and Mr S J Siddall retire Authority was granted to the directors at the 2002 annual general in accordance with article 85 of the articles of association of the meeting to allot up to 49,790,640 of ordinary share capital, of which company and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Neither up to 7,204,249 could be allotted for cash other than by way of Mr Green-Armytage nor Ms Hesse has an employment contract with a rights issue.
This authority extends until 8 May 2007.
Mr Siddall has an employment contract with the will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting to further company terminable by one years notice by either party.
extend this authority through to May 2012.
The revised Section 80 Mr J A Dallas has declared his intention to stand down as a nonamount will be 55,938,640 and the revised Section 89 amount will executive director of the company at the conclusion of the annual be 8,390,796. general meeting on 16 May 2007.
The directors have no present intention of issuing any shares other than in respect of the exercise of share options.
No issue will be made which will effectively alter the control of the company without the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting.
Report of the directors AMEC plc annual report 2006 55 4155 AMEC mid 06. indd 55 4 4 07 10:58:09 priority.
In addition, recognising the importance for the future Report of the directors of bringing new people into the group, all businesses have well continued established programmes for recruiting and developing graduates and other trainees.
Respect for cultural diversity and equal opportunities are included among AMECs Guiding Principles which are incorporated into management policies and processes worldwide.
AMECs policy is to recruit from the widest labour market, determining the careers of all employees solely on merit and making judgements about employees free from the effects of bias and prejudice.
It is AMECs policy to consider for employment suitably qualified disabled people and to assist them in overcoming handicaps at work.
AMEC recognises that special arrangements are necessary, in view of the nature of its main activities, to ensure that disabled employees are properly trained for the tasks they perform.
AMEC endeavours to retrain any employee who develops a disability during employment, wherever practicable.
The beneficial interests in the share capital of the company of the directors holding office as at 31 December 2006 were as follows: Internal communication is a priority for AMEC, as employees carry forward AMECs knowledge, brand and reputation.
AMEC provides As at As at numerous direct or electronic opportunities for employees to raise 31 December 31 December issues and discuss matters of concern with management.
2006 2005 Number Number Employees share knowledge and are kept informed of developments J M Green-Armytage 10,000 10,000 within AMEC through various means, including a weekly letter from the chief executive, its intranet AMECnet, internal publications, best S Y Brikho 52,892 practice groups, news bulletins and announcements.
A global J D Early 53,347 53,347 conference of senior managers is normally held each year to discuss S J Siddall 30,628 26,144 developing issues.
E P Airey 18,120 18,120 The company operates an HM Revenue & Customs approved savings J A Dallas 2,000 2,000 related share option scheme which is open to eligible UK employees.
M O Hesse 16,414 16,414 The International Savings Related Share Option Scheme was P J Byrom introduced in 2005 and launched in North America and certain European countries during that year.
T W Faithfull 5,000 5,000 Annual general meeting Except for interests under share option schemes and the As special business, resolutions are being proposed at the annual Performance Share Plans, details of which are contained in the general meeting to authorise the company to make market purchases directors remuneration report on pages 60 to 65, no director as at of shares in the company within prescribed limits, to authorise the 31 December 2006 had any other interests, beneficial or otherwise, directors to allot shares in the company for a further period of five in the share capital of the company or any of its subsidiaries.
On 10 years and to allot a proportion of those shares for cash.
January 2007, Mr J D Early and Mr S J Siddall exercised options held under the SAYE scheme over 3,893 and 4,231 shares respectively at In addition, a resolution is being proposed to amend the articles of an option price of 218 pence.
The shares have been retained.
There association of the company to incorporate changes consequent upon were no other changes in the directors interests in the share capital the enactment of the Companies Act 2006. of the company between 31 December 2006 and 14 March 2007.
Further details of these proposals are outlined in the circular which No director was materially interested in any contract of significance accompanies this annual report and accounts.
Corporate governance As at the date of this report, individual indemnities have been provided The board is responsible to shareholders for the management of the to the directors, under which the company has agreed to indemnify company and for the protection of its assets.
As such, it is ultimately the directors to the extent permitted by law in respect of all liabilities responsible for implementing AMECs systems of internal control to third parties arising out of, or in connection with, the execution of and for reviewing their effectiveness.
These systems are designed to their powers, duties and responsibilities as directors of the company, manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business any of its associated companies or any other company that the objectives and consequently can provide reasonable, but not absolute, director serves as a director at the request of the company.
These assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
indemnities are Qualifying Third Party Indemnity Provisions as defined The board, through the committees described below and at its regular in Section 309A-B of the Companies Act 1985 and copies are available meetings, has a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and for inspection at the registered office of the company during business managing significant risks faced by AMEC, including strategy, major hours on any weekday except public holidays.
projects to be undertaken, significant acquisitions and disposals, Employees as well as entry to and exit from different markets.
Where appropriate, AMEC employed on average 21,479 people in continuing activities business decisions are reached following a structured and worldwide in 2006.
Details are given in note 6 on page 78.
On average documented review of potential opportunities and threats, taking 25,450 people were employed by discontinued operations.
steps designed to manage or mitigate any residual risk exposure.
Principal business risks are set out in the business and financial The development of employees, to ensure that AMEC has the review on pages 44 to 47. necessary skills and behaviours to deliver its strategic business objectives and to provide for management succession, is given high 56 AMEC plc annual report 2006 Report of the directors www.
com Report of the directors AMEC plc annual report 2006 57 4155 AMEC mid 06. indd 56 4 4 07 10:58:09 AMEC uses a risk management process which is incorporated into Dialogue with institutional shareholders the AMEC Management and Policy Framework described below.
Mr Green-Armytage, chairman, wrote to all major shareholders The process involves the identification of risks at the gross and current in April 2006 informing them that he and the senior independent level by each business and each corporate function.
The risks are director, Ms Airey, were available for meetings or telephone calls recorded in separate risk registers for each business unit and each with them if required.
The chairman attends preliminary and interim function to enable the net positions to be pro-actively managed.
Ms Airey is available to attend, if requested, highest risks, based on probability and impact, are then consolidated one-on-one meetings with major shareholders.
The chairman had into an overall risk register for AMEC plc, which is reviewed in detail a number of such meetings with major shareholders during 2006. by the board on an annual basis.
No meetings were requested with Ms Airey.
Since his appointment, Mr Brikho has met with a number of shareholders.
The risk management process is coordinated via the risk management forum, which consists of risk managers sponsors for the businesses An in-depth annual perception study of investors views, prepared and heads of corporate functions.
It reports to the risk review by an independent third party, is presented to all board members, committee of the board at least annually and also reviews progress who also receive unexpurgated feedback reports following made in embedding risk management throughout AMEC, shareholder meetings or events together with all material brokers dissemination of best practice and communication of lessons learned.
research notes on the company.
The risk management and internal control processes are The board complemented by an annual control risk self-assessment exercise The board currently comprises the non-executive chairman, three carried out by the principal businesses.
This covers major risks, executive directors and five independent non-executive directors.
particularly safety, health and environment, legal, commercial and The company does not combine the role of chairman and chief contractual, financial, information technology and human resources.
The chairman is responsible for the running of the board, The results are reviewed by the board, through both the audit with the chief executive being responsible for running the group committee and the executive directors, and as part of the ongoing and implementing board strategy and policy.
This ensures a clear internal audit process.
division of responsibilities at the head of the company, so that no In 2005, AMEC reported that certain established control processes individual has unfettered powers of decision.
The independent nonwere not being followed in the UK construction business.
The board executive directors review the relationship between the chairman reviewed the method by which risk management was embedded and chief executive each year to ensure that the relationship is within that business, which highlighted the fact that whilst processes working effectively.
were generally sound, there had been, in this case, a failure by The non-executive directors are all considered to be independent business management to apply the controls in a consistent manner.
They are not employed by the company in any capacity, Measures were taken to improve compliance in that business nor have they been in the past.
Ms Airey has acted as the boards including new management appointments, staff training, improved senior independent director since 21 January 2004. project selection processes and closer monitoring of higher risk The company secretary is responsible for ensuring that board contracts.
The new management team has reinforced controls procedures are followed and all directors have access to his advice to ensure increased compliance and, although improvements have and services.
been slow to take effect, the board considers that an appropriate control environment had been re-established within the business The board has a schedule of matters reserved for its approval, covering areas such as company strategy, the appointment of key by the year end.
executives, approval of accounts, approval of the business plan, Consequently, the risk management processes were in place budget and financial policies, review of operating results, risk throughout 2006, and up to the date of approval of the accounts, management strategy, ensuring the effectiveness of governance and satisfy the requirements of the Turnbull guidance.
practices, succession planning and significant capital expenditure.
As noted above, AMEC sold its French subsidiary, AMEC SPIE to The board is supplied in a timely manner with information which PAI Partners during the year, with completion taking place on 27 July enables it to discharge its duties.
AMEC SPIE continued to comply with AMECs policies and An internal review of the effectiveness of the board and its committees procedures and controls continued to be reviewed by Internal Audit was carried out during the year by the chairman, Mr Green-Armytage, up to that date.
by way of a review of questionnaires completed at his request by AMEC has interests in a number of joint ventures, associates and joint individual directors.
Findings were considered by the board as part of arrangements.
Controls within these entities may not be reviewed as its review of overall board performance.
Opportunities for improvement part of AMECs formal corporate governance process because of the in a number of areas were noted, each of which is being addressed.
joint management responsibilities but are reviewed by the joint The independent non-executive directors also met privately both venture boards and as part of AMECs normal internal audit process.
with and without the chairman present and also with both the Consequently, AMEC complied with the Combined Code on Corporate chairman and chief executive together to consider management Governance throughout 2006. performance and succession issues.
A formal process exists for the directors to take independent professional advice and receive Management and Policy Framework appropriate training in the course of their duties, at the companys AMECs businesses are managed on a decentralised basis.
Whilst expense, organised by the company secretary.
the board has retained reserve powers, the day-to-day management has been passed to the business leaders within defined authority Board committees limits.
The management philosophy is to empower the business Under AMECs Management and Policy Framework, the board leaders to take the actions necessary to deliver the companys has formally delegated specific responsibilities to various board operational business objectives within the AMEC Management committees, all of which have written terms of reference.
and Policy Framework, which establishes the standards AMEC employees and contracting staff are expected to meet.
Report of the directors AMEC plc annual report 2006 57 4155 AMEC mid 06. indd 57 4 4 07 10:58:09 All non-statutory audit or non-compliance tax services provided Report of the directors by the auditor are reported to the audit committee.
During 2006, continued the fees paid to the companys auditor, KPMG Audit Plc and its associates, for non-audit work were 1.1 million 2005: 1.2 million, which comprised 0.8 million relating to taxation and 0.3 million for other work 2005: 0.7 million and 0.5 million.
KPMG also received fees of 4.9 million which related to the sale of AMEC SPIE 3.3 million and to the potential separation of the group 1.6 million.
All additional KPMG fees were approved in accordance with AMECs policy covering non-audit services.
As a result of the application of this policy and additional discussions with the external auditors, the directors do not believe that KPMGs independence has been compromised as a result of their additional work on behalf of the company.
n N ominations committee Makes recommendations to the board The remit of each committee is set out below.
The quorum is three concerning the appointment or termination of a director or the directors, save for the audit and remuneration committees where company secretary and, in the case of a non-executive director the quorum is two directors.
Full details of the constitution and remit and the chairman, the extension of an existing appointment.
of the audit, nominations and remuneration committees can be found The committee also regularly reviews board succession planning, under corporate governance on www.
in conjunction with reports from the chief executive and group The committees chaired by non-executive directors are as follows: human resources director on senior management succession planning, so as to ensure that an appropriate balance of skills n A udit committee Reviews the integrity, including the material is maintained both within AMEC and on the board.
financial reporting judgements, of the companys accounts, including the annual and interim results, related report and During 2006, the committee, with the assistance of external search accounts and Stock Exchange announcements and any other consultants, conducted the recruitment process that led to the formal announcements in connection with the companys financial appointment of the new chief executive.
The outgoing chief executive performance, and recommends their approval to the board.
took no part in this process.
It also reviews the companys internal financial controls and, n R emuneration committee Sets, and reviews as necessary, in conjunction with the risk review committee, the internal control the overall contractual and remuneration framework for the and risk management systems.
chairman, the executive directors and the company secretary, including pension rights and annual bonus incentives.
The committee has unrestricted access to company documents and meets with the internal and external auditors, and any other It considers and determines such other matters relating to the member of staff, without the executive directors being present, engagement of the chief executive and other executive directors, as required.
The head of internal audit formally reports to the including matters relating to the enforcement of their service committee chairman.
contracts and payments on termination, as the chairman and chief executive respectively refer to the committee.
It reviews the head of internal audits regular reports and carries out an annual assessment of the internal audit functions It agrees the terms to be offered to a proposed new chairman effectiveness.
In 2006, this exercise was carried out on behalf or executive director.
of the committee by the head of internal audit.
This followed It reviews the salaries of executive directors annually and the an independent review of the function by  chairman biennially, or more frequently as is deemed necessary in 2005.
No material changes were identified as being necessary by the committee chairman.
It agrees the performance targets as a result of this exercise.
of executive directors and the levels of bonus to be paid to them The committee considers the appointment, re-appointment, under the annual bonus incentive scheme.
removal, remuneration and terms of engagement of the external It determines and agrees with the chief executive the remuneration auditor and makes recommendations to the board.
It discusses the policy and structure, including annual bonus, for corporate scope and planning of the external audit and reviews the outcome of functional executives and senior operational executives immediately the external audit and any formal communications from the external below board level.
auditors, including internal control reports.
It approves performance targets, participation and level of awards The committee also formally reviews and monitors the external for any executive share-based incentive scheme.
auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements and makes recommendations to the board.
During 2006 a review, co-ordinated on behalf of the committee by the head of internal audit, was carried out.
The audit committee has also monitored the implementation of the policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services.
This policy follows the guidelines set out by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and clearly defines what work can and cannot be performed by any group companys statutory auditor.
It also sets out the necessary approval process for those non-audit services that are acceptable.
58 AMEC plc annual report 2006 Report of the directors www.
com Report of the directors AMEC plc annual report 2006 59 4155 AMEC mid 06. indd 58 4 4 07 10:58:10 The following table is a record of the directors attendance at board Donations and principal board committee meetings during the year ended Donations to United Kingdom charities amounted to 186,000 for the 31 December 2006. year ended 31 December 2006 2005: 108,000.
AMEC plc Audit Nominations Remuneration Auditors board committee committee committee The directors who held office at the date of approval of this directors Number of meetings report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant J M Green-Armytage 13 4 audit information of which the companys auditors are unaware: and S Y Brikho each director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken from 1 October 3 2 as a director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware Sir Peter J Mason to 30 September 10 2 of that information.
J D Early 12 A resolution will be proposed at the annual general meeting for J A Monville the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the company.
to 27 July 5 By order of the board E P Airey 13 3 5 6 P J Holland J A Dallas 12 3 5 6 Secretary M O Hesse 10 3 4 6 14 March 2007 S J Siddall 13 Note J-P Jacamon On 20 March 2007, AMEC purchased a further 500,000 shares in to 31 August 8 2 1 3 the market at a price of 516 pence per share and on 22 March 2007, T W Faithfull 10 3 4 5 250,000 shares were purchased at a price of 515 pence per share.
P J Byrom 10 2 5 5 All the shares will be held in treasury.
n Charities committee Makes commitments and donations There were no other purchases of shares to be held in treasury in support of charitable, educational and cultural causes.
between 14 March 2007 and 23 March 2007, the latest practicable date prior to printing this document.
n Compliance and ethics committee Considers and approves the codes of business conduct and related compliance arrangements and takes responsibility for management of investigations of violations, as required.
n Share transaction committee Provides clearance or denies permission to relevant employees to deal in AMEC plc shares.
The committees chaired by executive directors are as follows: n Banking committee Reviews and approves facilities for borrowing, guarantees, bonds, indemnities and employee bridging loans and also interest rate and foreign exchange hedging strategies within authority limits set by the board.
n Corporate transactions committee Considers acquisitions and disposals of businesses and provides guidelines in respect of such transactions within authority limits set by the board.
n Pensions and retirement benefits committee Reviews proposals relating to new arrangements, amendments, discontinuance, funding or any other matters relating to pension and retirement benefits.
n Risk review committee Approves the AMEC plc risk register, the AMEC plc risk transfer policy and proposals to enter into contractual commitments that fall outside the delegated authority limits of the executive directors and other senior management.
Going concern The directors, having made enquiries, consider that the company and the group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and, therefore, it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Creditor payment policy Businesses are responsible for agreeing terms and conditions under which transactions with their suppliers are conducted.
It is group policy that payments to suppliers are generally made in accordance with these terms and conditions, provided that the supplier complies with all of its obligations in this regard.
The company had 31 days purchases outstanding as at 31 December 2006 2005: 30 days based on the average daily amount invoiced by suppliers during the year.
Report of the directors AMEC plc annual report 2006 59 4155 AMEC mid 06. indd 59 4 4 07 10:58:10
