iSOFT builds software applications for the healthcare market.
8 We are a leader in the provision of advanced application solutions in modern healthcare economies around the world.
We are creating solutions that set a new standard in supporting co-operation between all those involved in healthcare delivery.
iSOFT has delivered applications to more than 8,000 healthcare units in 27 countries, including 1,800 hospitals and more than 6,200 family doctor practices.
iSOFT is developing and starting to deliver LORENZO, its latest generation product, which we believe is one of the most advanced healthcare IT systems in the world.
LORENZO is based on a service oriented architecture SOA, which makes it highly flexible, scalable and with low costs of maintenance and operation.
LORENZO provides a low-risk, modular upgrade path for healthcare authorities.
LORENZO is a state of the art healthcare solution addressing fully the administrative and clinical information management requirements of citizens, patients and healthcare professionals.
It is designed to help promote clinical and corporate governance, quality, efficiency and consent in healthcare, enhancing the experience for all participants.
It provides growth potential and flexibility for the future.
LORENZO - One product, many solutions.
Profile 2006 Annual Report and Accounts History of iSOFT Strategic objectives The business initially operated as part of the KPMG iSOFT's aim is to become the global leader in the partnership under the trading name KPMG Health development and distribution of comprehensive and Systems.
The business was subsequently bought out modern software applications for the healthcare from KPMG in April 1998.
These applications are a core component of Group plc achieved a full listing on the London modern healthcare IT investment programmes.
The business has since continued to iSOFT was among the first to predict the nature and act as a consolidator in the healthcare applications scope of the healthcare reform now being seen in market, and the principal milestones of its many of the world's modern economies and the development are set out below.
important role that information technology has to 2005 Acquisition of Novasoft Sanidad S. A. play in supporting this reform agenda.
The demand 9 for modern information management systems is 2004 World-wide strategic alliance with Microsoft growing and the Group is well placed to participate as an international vendor.
Two principal contracts entered into to deliver software and services as part of the Business strategy National Programme for IT NPfIT A clearly defined business strategy accompanied iSOFT's listing on the London Stock Exchange in 2003 Merger with Torex plc 2000.
Consistent with this strategy, management 2002 Acquisition of Revive Group Limited has from the outset focused on exploiting the best technology available to develop software application Acquisition of Paramedical Pty Limited systems that address the administrative and clinical Acquisition of healthcare business of information management needs of healthcare Northgate Information Solutions plc provider organisations.
These needs include administrative tasks such as appointment booking, Microsoft global launch partner, and the only resource scheduling, clinical information European software partner for the Windows management and electronic patient record creation XP Tablet PC launch and exchange.
2001 Dedicated offshore development business As the demand for advanced healthcare applications established in Chennai, India has developed, both in the UK and internationally, Acquisition of ACT Medisys Limited iSOFT has established a reputation for anticipating and planning for the emerging requirements of Acquisition of Eclipsys Limited and modern healthcare provision.
Management's Eclipsys Pty Limited strategy for developing the Group's global capability 2000 Full listing on London Stock Exchange has been focussed on leveraging the extensive existing product portfolio by incorporating 1999 Only Microsoft SQL Server 7.0 launch partner international best practice into new strategic in UK health product offerings such as LORENZO.
The Group Acquisition of CSC's Australian healthcare seeks to combine this expertise with the latest systems business relevant and proven technologies to create the most competitive application offerings whilst minimising 1998 MBO by senior executives to create iSOFT technology risk.
1994 Healthcare information systems business founded within KPMG The following diagram illustrates the success achieved by iSOFT in building successive generations of software, by predicting and then targeting the evolving market requirements, whilst also harnessing the best available technology at the time.
Casemix Contract Patient Extended PAS Multi-campus and Administration, Health Economy Management Administration department clinical and System department 10 1987 1991 1994 1997 2000 2003 2005 CIS VM IBM370 CIS X UNIX PiMS 16-bit PiMS International PiMS International i. EPR SQL Server LORENZO.
NET 32-bit Windows SQL Server Source: Management iSOFT recognised that large-scale procurement Increasing regulation - As new and more rigorous needs would favour international vendors of clinical governance and mandatory reporting substance, often operating in consortia.
iSOFT has regulations are introduced, providers continue to therefore built business alliances and, where assess and upgrade IT systems to achieve compliance.
appropriate, made strategic acquisitions which equip These drivers are consistent throughout all modern the Group to accommodate local requirements, healthcare economies, thereby creating a significant whilst delivering solutions that reflect international global market for integrated IT applications, systems best practice.
Management will continue to forge and solutions.
Individual economies are re-engineering alliances and partnerships and to evaluate their domestic healthcare systems at different rates, opportunities by which entry into new geographic with the UK National Health Service leading the markets can be accelerated.
It is now widely accepted that addressing the Market drivers needs of individual healthcare units on a standalone Modern economies face a number of common basis will not suffice if meaningful improvements are challenges in healthcare provision.
More fundamental structural reform is required with care processes delivered by a variety The rising cost of healthcare - An ageing of healthcare organisations and professionals acting population, rising prescription drug costs, malpractice collaboratively and in increasingly formalised claims, government regulation and advances in relationships.
medicine and diagnostic techniques have increased costs associated with healthcare delivery.
Investment in a new generation of information management systems, which permit the scheduling Increasing patient-driven demand - A rise in of resources and the communication of healthcare consumerism, with patients demanding comprehensive patient information across traditional greater access to safe, timely, quality care and, organisational boundaries, is now recognised as where direct payment is required, competitive pricing.
critical to supporting the transformation of healthcare provision.
Reduced funding - Changes in funding models, typically resulting in a reduction in the level of funding available, are compelling drivers for increasing efficiency, particularly in clinical and administrative workflows.
Profile 2006 Annual Report and Accounts iSOFT's broad and technologically capable product offering and large number of reference sites creates a strong competitive position in the global healthcare IT market.
Market size 11 The international healthcare information technology market, including software, hardware and services, was estimated to be worth just over 10 billion in 2005.
Frost & Sullivan forecast that this figure will reach 17 billion by 2010, giving a compound annual growth rate CAGR of around 11%.
The size and growth rates for each major region are estimated as follows: m EMEA Americas APAC Total Market size 2005 1,996 6,882 1,322 10,201 % CAGR 10.6% 10.7% 12.1% 10.9% Est.
Market size 2010 3,303 11,443 2,340 17,086 Source: Frost & Sullivan - Global Market Sizing, Analysis of Healthcare IT Markets, March 2006 EMEA: Europe including Scandinavia, Middle East and Africa Company's significant installed international base, Americas: United States and Canada, Central and South America its market-leading LORENZO solution roadmap, APAC: Asia Pacific, including Australia and New Zealand.
participation in major market reform projects and The Group believes that healthcare information key early adopter reference sites.
software represents approximately 40% of the Barriers to market entry above market.
iSOFT software has already been deployed in a large International competition number of trusts and healthcare organisations.
To Given the historic fragmentation of the healthcare replace these installed systems with alternative systems market, the competitive landscape in each systems and applications would be expensive, geographic market tends to be dominated by small, time-consuming and would potentially lead to a loss country-specific vendors ahead of market reform of functionality.
In line with the market's The LORENZO roadmap will provide the most move towards more comprehensive integrated advanced and only fully integrated software solution solutions, sub-scale local vendors are increasingly capable of seamlessly meeting both the functional being squeezed out of the market in favour of a and strategic capabilities sought by the NPfIT in small number of international vendors with the England and other large-scale healthcare reputation and investment capacity to deliver procurement organisations.
Given the broad against integrated national requirements.
conservatism of the healthcare market, any major iSOFT's broad and technologically capable product new investment must support the phased migration offering and large number of reference sites creates of existing legacy systems, thereby reducing the risks a strong competitive position in the global and cost associated with new IT investments.
iSOFT's success in recent In summary, the structural growth market for high-profile procurements has confirmed the international healthcare IT, combined with iSOFT's strength of the Company's product and, in well established international position and particular, that of the LORENZO strategic application market-leading LORENZO solution, provides a basis roadmap.
iSOFT is today a leading supplier of for solid growth over the coming years.
technologically advanced healthcare software applications in the international market, due to the A Patients Journey Patient: Scott Waldron DOB: 09 06 1978 Symptoms: Tiredness, thirst, lethargy, blurred vision 12
