21 ITV plc Report and accounts 2006 Our strategy Content innovation is at the heart of our strategy for success.
The market environment within which we operate will Michael Grade is working with the commissioning team, continue to evolve rapidly.
2006 was, and 2007 will be, a year and seeking to return a greater sense of confidence to our of transition as we follow our strategy to address the market programmes.
A fear of failure should not stop new and challenges.
2006 revenue from continuing businesses was innovative material being made, but it should stop us carrying little changed on 2005, and our strategy seeks to slow the on with shows that no longer deliver the audiences that our decline in our ITV1 advertising revenue, whilst building our clients seek or are overly derivative in their nature: and revenues in other expanding markets.
Our priorities are to: CRR has acted as a block to new programme ideas on ITV1, develop the strength of our programming improve ITV1: with some old series continued beyond their time because of a fear of trying new material in case of failure or damage accelerate the growth of our successful family of to the channels SOCI performance.
This effect is now being digital channels: addressed, with a number of old series decommissioned and grow our content and exploitation businesses: many new titles in production.
In addition we are seeking a review of CRR.
develop our consumer new media businesses: and reduce the burden of regulation.
Accelerate the growth of our successful family of digital channels Alongside these priorities we continue to achieve efficiency savings, where we are currently implementing a plan Our digital channels have been a great success growing both to save 40 million a year by 2008 see below.
revenue and SOCI and are the UKs most successful commercial family of digital channels.
These channels are all aimed at specific Improve ITV1 programming audience segments where we can deliver demographic audiences that our advertisers are seeking.
Quality content, and our ability to produce, exploit, distribute and monetise this content, is the foundation of our success as a They benefit from cross promotion both from ITV1 and between business and at the heart of our strategy.
We currently invest the digital channels themselves.
Our family of digital channels approximately 1 billion each year in programming, with the vast comprises: majority being spent on original UK programming to be broadcast ITV2 ITV3 ITV4 Citv on all digital platforms on ITV1.
This investment demonstrates our commitment to Men & Motors ITV2 1 ITV3 1 Satellite and Cable only producing and broadcasting the highest quality and most attractive programming to our viewers.
We will raise our investment in these channels in both acquired Maintaining the health and success of our flagship channel ITV1 material and increasingly with some original material, with the is therefore a key strategic priority for the Company.
Successful aim of growing their viewing share.
We are also reviewing both channels and television brands have to continually re-invent the channel line-up and branding for additional opportunities themselves in order to maintain their popularity and relevance, to exploit.
as viewers become more sophisticated and demanding in their viewing habits.
Grow our content and exploitation businesses Our 2007 ITV plc programme investment will be maintained In the UK, ITV Productions makes programmes for other at approximately 1 billion: broadcasters as well as for ITV, and we are seeking to grow this business further.
Production for other broadcasters enables us to we have appointed a new team of commissioners under generate a significant revenue stream and achieve a critical mass Simon Shaps, recruiting some of the best and most highly that helps attract talent to us, both in front of and behind the regarded commissioners from across the UK broadcasting camera.
It also allows us to create programme rights that we can sector.
The lead time from commissioning to screen is nine exploit elsewhere.
to eighteen months or longer and material ordered by this team is now beginning to come to screen: 22 ITV plc Report and accounts 2006 Business Review Our strategy ITV Worldwide will also be developed to deliver a growing Other areas where ITV is keen to achieve modernisation of revenue stream: regulation or a level playing field with other broadcasters include: International production, currently in USA, Australia and PSB programming ITV1 is subject to overall output quotas, Germany, exploits formats created by us in the UK as well to licence requirements for particular PSB genres, and must as ideas developed in each home market.
Productions created meet a broader PSB remit.
ITV is maintaining a dialogue with internationally are also available for ITV channels and for Ofcom to ensure that in each case requirements on ITV1 remain Granada International to exploit worldwide, including US hits proportionate to the reducing benefits of ITVs PSB status: Nanny 911 and Hells Kitchen.
We will continue to expand this Advertising in line with the proposed revisions to the EU business as opportunities arise.
Television Without Frontiers directive, ITV is seeking measured Granada International and Granada Ventures exploit the rights deregulation of rules restricting advertising airtime, in particular merchandising, licensing, DVD, distribution, etc that we have for UK commercial PSB channels, and rapid progress towards built up through our UK and international production and also the introduction of product placement on UK commercial rights from third parties on whose behalf we sell.
television: and Regional programming uniquely in commercial television, Develop our consumer businesses ITV1 provides regional news and programme services across We are developing a number of business to consumer businesses the UK.
ITV is pursuing regional self help in the form of greater within ITV Consumer.
These are principally aimed at exploiting efficiency and commercial diversification.
However ITV believes our content through direct interaction with our viewers, through that sustaining such services in the digital era is likely to different platforms and content formats and increasingly at require targeted regulatory intervention and potentially times that ITV viewers want to access it.
Our major development is in broadband where we will be pushing Efficiency savings hard to develop three businesses.
com broadband portal and the ITV Local regional service will both be rolled out in the During 2006 we announced a programme of efficiency savings Spring of 2007 with greater functionality and content, and across the Company aimed at achieving a cost reduction of Friends Reunited which has been growing even more strongly, 40 million a year by 2008.
This programme is on track with stimulated by a TV advertising campaign in late 2006.
These savings to be delivered across a number of areas: businesses are discussed in more detail in the Operating review.
m In our transactional businesses we are developing the ITV Play Back office functions 14 formats and programming and will respond to any new Property 4 regulation that may arise in this area of participation TV.
Systems and technology 7 We are aiming to conclude a relationship with a new gaming Transmission and distribution 7 and betting partner that will allow greater variety of interactive Employee related inc defined benefit pension scheme 6 formats to be introduced under the ITV Play brand.
Procurement 2 Our platform business SDN operates one of the Freeview 40 multiplexes and, together with other Freeview spectrum that we use to broadcast our channels, and shareholding in the One of the major elements of this programme has been the Freeview consortium which promotes Digital Terrestrial Television, decision, following a rigorous internal review, to outsource our we are strongly involved in the development of the DTT platform.
transmission operations to Thomsons Technicolor Network We are also supportive of the principle of the development of a Services TNS in January 2007.
As a company specialising in free-to-air offering on the digital satelite platform Freesat.
transmission services, TNS is investing heavily in new technology and can achieve economies of scale that will enable ITV to We are making our channels available on mobile and will develop achieve a flexible modern transmission operation at significantly other material for mobile delivery, though the slower than reduced costs.
expected take up of 3G phones, currently at 4.6 million subscribers in the UK, is affecting the speed of development.
Meanwhile, work continues apace across a wide range of We are actively considering developments in alternative activities, including the build of a digital content store to enable technologies to 3G, particulary DMB and DVB-H. more efficient materials management, to facilitate catch up TV for itv.
com, and to ensure more effective exploitation of Reduce the burden of regulation the programme archive.
A root and branch review of our finance processes and systems will deliver improved service The extent of regulation of our industry, and especially of ITV1, to the business teams, and projects on procurement, production is explained in the section on Regulation on pages 19 to 20. efficiencies, improved technology systems, and property A priority for ITV is, and will be, to achieve some relaxation rationalisation, all remain on track to deliver the forecast benefits.
or change to the CRR mechanism.
We believe that CRR unduly impacts ITV1 and is also having a deflationary effect on the UK television advertising market overall.
We are pressing for a review of CRR to be started by the competition authorities as soon as possible to avoid further deflationary presssure on UK commercial television, which will otherwise reduce the ability to invest in programmes.
23 ITV plc Report and accounts 2006 We are developing new businesses within ITV Consumer which offer direct interaction with our viewers, offering content and services to them whenever, wherever and however they want to receive it.
