05 ITV plc Report and accounts 2006 06 ITV plc Report and accounts 2006 07 ITV plc Report and accounts 2006 Stories of passion.
ITV is about great programmes and high quality content.
We invest around 1 billion each year in programming, more than any other European commercial broadcaster, and support production centres around the UK.
Built on a heritage of 50 years of programme making, ITV Productions make programmes and content across a wide range of genres, from drama to arts, to factual, entertainment and sport, to daytime and lifestyle programming both for ITV and most other major UK broadcasters.
Billie Piper stars in Mansfield Park, part of ITVs Jane Austen season airing in Spring 2007.
08 ITV plc Report and accounts 2006 Stories of change.
ITV is now available on broadcast TV, online and on mobile, giving viewers access to ITVs quality content on every major platform.
In 2006 ITV1 became the first terrestrial TV channel to stream on 3G phones.
Online, we will be launching a new broadband portal, ITV.
Viewers will be able to watch ITVs channels online, get 30 day catch up TV, and access exclusive preview content and programmes from ITVs extensive archive.
Primeval is ITVs new family drama for Saturday nights, starring Douglas Henshall and Hannah Spearritt.
09 ITV plc Report and accounts 2006 10 ITV plc Report and accounts 2006 Stories of realism.
ITV News continues to set the agenda with award-winning journalism and world exclusive stories, at home and abroad, including special reports on climate change and a series of live transmissions presented by Mark Austin from Antarctica.
In 2006 ITV News enhanced its international coverage opening a news bureau in Beijing, and continued to invest in cutting-edge technology in UK local newsrooms to deliver outstanding regional news services.
In addition, Tonight with Trevor McDonald is the UKs most popular commercial current affairs series, providing popular, relevant and hard-hitting stories covering a wide range of issues across the year.
In March 2006, ITV News launched the highly acclaimed Three Degrees from Disaster series investigating the evidence of climate change around the world.
This was followed earlier this year with a week-long special anchored live from Antarctica by Mark Austin.
11 ITV plc Report and accounts 2006 12 ITV plc Report and accounts 2006 13 ITV plc Report and accounts 2006 Stories of success.
ITV has successful merchandising, licensing, DVD, distribution and international production businesses.
We have production centres in America, Germany and Australia.
We sell thousands of hours of programming to over 200 countries worldwide and licence more than 1,000 products across a wealth of major programme brands.
We successfully exploit programme brands beyond broadcast from both ITV Productions and major hits acquired from other leading producers including Pocoyo, Thunderbirds, Prime Suspect, Coronation Street, Dancing on Ice, Im A CelebrityGet Me Out of Here, Little Britain and The Catherine Tate Show.
Granada International sold the format of ITVs hit show Dancing on Ice around the world in 2006, with international versions in Russia, Australia, Germany, Spain, Belgium and the Netherlands.
