42 ITV plc Report and accounts 2006 Business Review Forward look This Business Review has set out the reasons why we believe that, Our estimates for net advertising revenue in the first quarter despite a challenging market environment, ITV has the strengths of 2007 are: and strategy to regain and grow market share beyond the ITV1 UK television market 0.5% channel.
ITV1 reflecting CRR effect -9.2% at 291.8 million The media industry changes at an ever swifter pace: ITV plc excluding ITV1 28.2% at 58.8 million New channels continue to be launched: Total ITV plc -4.5% at 350.6 million Digital switchover is approaching, starting in 2008: While it is difficult to predict how and where people will choose to New distribution platforms develop: broadband, mobile, watch or consume content in the long-term, as one of Europes portable devices: and leading commercial production companies we can be confident that we will find more outlets and channels for our content, both Interactivity increases and viewers expect their content to be in the UK and internationally.
We are also growing our consumer delivered when and where they want it, not simply within a businesses which will provide ITV with new and sustainable broadcast schedule.
revenue streams in the future.
Our new broadband portal, itv.
com, These changes offer ITV opportunities for our broadcasting, will launch in the Spring of 2007 and we believe will help drive the content and consumer teams.
We believe we have the right way consumers use broadband to access top quality content.
strategy, and the execution skills, to develop our business within these new areas.
In a world of fragmented viewing, the channels that are able to offer a shared viewing experience for viewers and a mass audience to advertisers become ever more valuable.
ITV1 remains the most-watched channel in peak-time and is still the most effective way for advertisers to build awareness and brands in a short space of time.
We also believe that ITVs regional presence, an intrinsic part of the Companys history and identity, will increasingly be a point of difference and a competitive advantage as other commercial players will be unable to match our local connection with viewers or our regional advertising opportunities.
