Report of the Directors The Directors present their report and audited financial statements for Deferred shares the 52 weeks to 25 March 2006.
The 320,050,073 deferred shares created on 19 July 2004 were redeemed and cancelled by the Company at the close of business on 13 May 2005 Principal activities and review of performance for a total consideration of one pence in accordance with the terms and The Companys principal activities are grocery and related retailing and conditions of the Return of Capital circular issued to shareholders in financial services.
A review of the performance of the Company and June 2004. its principal operating subsidiaries during the period is set out in the Financial Review on pages 29 to 34 of this Report.
Major interests in shares As at 16 May 2006, the Company had been advised of the following Dividends notifiable interests in its shares: The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 5.85 pence Judith Portrait is a trustee of various settlements, including charitable per share 2005: 5.65 pence, making a total dividend for the year of 8.00 trusts and the blind trust for Lord Sainsbury of Turville.
As at 16 May pence per share 2005: 7.80 pence.
Subject to shareholders approving 2006, notified holdings of these trusts amounted to 17 per cent of this recommendation at the Annual General Meeting AGM, the the Companys issued share capital.
dividend will be paid on 21 July 2006 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 26 May 2006.
As at 16 May 2006, the notifiable interests, held beneficially and as trustees of charitable and other trusts, of Lord Sainsbury of Preston Changes to the Board Candover KG and the Hon Simon Sainsbury were 3 per cent respectively.
Darren Shapland was appointed Chief Financial Officer on 1 August 2005 The above disclosures include duplication.
and Dr John McAdam was appointed Senior Independent Director on 1 September 2005.
Anna Ford joined the Board as a Non-Executive In addition as at 16 May 2006, the following interests had been notified Director on 2 May 2006.
Roger Matthews retired as Finance Director on to the Company: 24 June 2005 and June fide Moller retired from the Board on 1 September AXA S. A.
13% 2005 having served two three-year terms as a Non-Executive Director.
Brandes Investment Partners L. L. C. 11% Bridget Macaskill will step down from the Board following the AGM.
NWQ Investment Management L. L. C. 4% In accordance with the Articles of Association Darren Shapland, John Going concern McAdam and Anna Ford, who were appointed since the last AGM, will The Directors confirm that they are satisfied that the Company has retire and seek election.
Full biographical details of the current Directors sufficient resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Annual General Meeting The AGM will be held on Wednesday 12 July 2006 at The Queen Elizabeth Directors interests II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE at The beneficial interests of the Directors and their families in the shares of 11.00am.
The Chairmans letter and the Notice of Meeting accompany this the Company are shown on page 49.
During the year, no Director had any Report, together with notes explaining the business to be transacted at material interest in any contract of significance to the Groups business.
At the meeting, resolutions will be proposed to declare a final dividend, Directors indemnities receive the Report and Accounts and approve the Remuneration Report, The Directors are entitled to be indemnified by the Company to the extent to elect Directors and to re-appoint  LLP permitted by law and the Companys Articles of Association in respect of as Auditors.
In addition, shareholders will be asked to approve a new all losses arising out of or in connection with the execution of their Long-Term Incentive Plan and a new Deferred Annual Bonus Plan, renew powers, duties and responsibilities.
the general authority of the Directors to issue shares together with the authority to issue shares without applying the statutory pre-emption Market value of properties rights, and authorise the Company to make market purchases of its own The Directors believe that the aggregate open market value of Group shares.
No such purchase has been made during the last financial year.
properties exceeds the net book value of 5 billion by a considerable margin.
Other resolutions propose the renewal of the authority to make political donations as defined by The Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Employees, corporate responsibility and the environment Act 2000.
Sainsburys has a strong record in its commitment to corporate responsibility, which is an everyday part of how the Company does Share capital business.
Details of the Companys principal corporate responsibility Ordinary shares initiatives and activities are set out on page 24.
The Companys Corporate Details of the changes to the issued ordinary share capital are shown on Responsibility Report, which will be published on the internet in June page 72. www.
co. uk crreport, provides a comprehensive statement on corporate responsibility and describes the Companys policies and B Shares activities in respect of customers, colleagues, suppliers, investors, At the Extraordinary General Meeting held on 12 July 2004, shareholders the community and the environment.
approved a Return of Capital to shareholders by way of a B Share Scheme.
During the year 2005 06 shareholders holding 27,197,589 B Shares elected to redeem them, leaving a balance of 34,418,255 B Shares in issue.
Shareholders may choose to redeem their B Shares on 18 July 2006 and 18 January 2007.
To do so, shareholders must give notice to the Company by 30 June 2006 for redemption in July 2006 and by 2 January 2007 for redemption in January 2007.
The final redemption date for B Shares is 18 July 2007.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 35 Report of the Directors continued The Company has well developed policies for fair and equal treatment of all employees, employment of disabled persons and colleague participation.
The Companys quarterly, interim and annual results are presented to all senior management and are communicated to all colleagues.
Colleagues have always been encouraged to hold shares in the Company and over 48,000 colleagues are shareholders directly or through the Commitment Shares Plan Trust or the Sainsburys Share Purchase Plan Trust.
Policy on payment of creditors The policy of the Company and its principal operating companies is to agree terms of payment prior to commencing trade with a supplier and to abide by those terms on the timely submission of satisfactory invoices.
The Company is a holding company and therefore has no trade creditors.
Statements on the operating companies payment of suppliers are contained in their accounts.
Donations During the year, cash and in-kind donations to charitable organisations and other community projects totalled 5.6 million 2005: 6.8 million.
In addition, our Active Kids scheme donated 12.5 million at cost to schools and the Company made significant contributions to other community related initiatives.
Sainsburys colleagues, customers and suppliers raised 3.25 million 2005: 10.9 million including Comic Relief and the Asian Tsunami appeal for charities such as Home-Start and the Childrens Society, through events supported by the Company.
The Company does not make donations to political parties.
During the year, Sainsburys Bank seconded a member of its staff who would otherwise have been made redundant to Scotlands Futures Forum for a four-month period.
This is a think-tank that engages with the public on the future of Scotland in a non party political forum.
The salary of the seconded individual during this period amounted to around 24,600.
Because of the wide definition under the relevant legislation, this could be interpreted as a donation to an EU Political organisation requiring disclosure.
By order of the Board Tim Fallowfield Company Secretary 16 May 2006 Major interests in shares subsequent disclosure On 23 May 2006, the Company was advised that Judith Portraits notifiable interest in the Companys shares had decreased to 15 per cent of the Companys issued share capital.
36 J S J Sainsbury plc ainsbury plc Annual R Annual Repor eport t and Financial S and Financial St tat atement ements s 2 2006 006
