Directors report for the 53 weeks ended 30 July 2006 The directors present their report and audited accounts for the Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the 53 weeks ended 30 July 2006. annual report, the directors remuneration report and the financial statements Principal activities and business review The principal activities of the company are the development and The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the management of public houses.
Details of progress and future directors remuneration report and the financial statements in developments are given on pages 2 to 7. accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Results and dividends The profit on ordinary activities for the period, after taxation, The directors are responsible for preparing financial statements, for was 39,901,000. each financial year, which give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of affairs On 24 November 2006, the company proposes to pay a final of the company and of the profit or loss of the company for that dividend for the period ended 30 July 2006 of 3.1p pence per period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are share, to shareholders on the share register as at the close of required to: business on 27 October 2006.
Together with the interim dividend of 1.6p per share paid on 26 May 2006, this brings the total select suitable accounting policies and then dividend for the year to 4.7p per share.
make judgements and estimates which are Return of capital reasonable and prudent.
At the annual general meeting of the company, held on state whether the financial statements comply with 10 November 2005, the company was given authority to make IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
market purchases of up to 25,931,578 of its own shares.
During the prepare the financial statements on the going-concern basis, period to 30 July 2006, a total of 21,560,000 shares including unless inappropriate to presume that the company will continue 3,925,000 purchased before 2005 AGM have been purchased at in business.
an average cost of 365p per share.
As at 30 July 2006, the authority given to the company at the last annual general meeting The directors confirm that they have complied with the above remained outstanding in relation to 8,296,578 shares.
As a result of requirements in preparing the financial statements.
the share buyback programme, the company expects earnings per share to be enhanced, in both the current and future years.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose, with reasonable accuracy at any time, the financial Directors position of the company to ensure that the financial statements The directors listed on page 8 served throughout the financial year, and the directors remuneration report comply with the Companies with the exception of Ms van Gene, who was appointed during Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Mrs Baker resigned as a director of the company on responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence 20 December 2005: Mr Jervis resigned as a director of the for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of company on 10 November 2005.
Mr Martin and Mr Herring retire fraud and other irregularities.
by rotation and offer themselves for re-election.
In addition, Ms van Gene will also offer herself for re-election, in accordance The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of with the companys articles of association.
Details of the terms the corporate and financial information included on the companys under which the directors, who were in office during the year, serve Web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the and their remuneration, together with their interests in the shares of preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ the company, are given in the directors remuneration report on from that in other jurisdictions.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration No director has any material interest in any contractual agreement, of these matters: accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility subsisting during or at the end of the year, which is or may be for any changes which may have occurred to the financial significant to the company.
statements, since they were initially presented on the Web site.
It is stated clearly on the Web site that information published on the Insurance against the liabilities of directors and officers of the Internet is accessible in many countries and that legislation in the company was in place throughout the year, in respect of their United Kingdom, governing the preparation and dissemination of duties as directors and officers of the company.
financial information, may differ from that in other jurisdictions.
Companys shareholders Going concern Details of the companys shareholders, including those beneficial The directors have made enquiries into the adequacy of the interests notified to the company as accounting for over 3% of the companys financial resources, through a review of the company issued share capital, are given on page 46. budget and medium-term financial plan, including capital ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 9 Directors report expenditure plans and cash flow forecasts, and have satisfied Policy on payment of suppliers themselves that the company will continue in operational existence The company agrees on terms and conditions with all suppliers for the foreseeable future.
This is based on reviewing the detailed before business takes place and has a policy of paying agreed profit and cash flow plans for the relevant period.
For this reason, invoices in accordance with the terms of payment.
Trade creditors they continue to adopt the going-concern basis, in preparing the at the year end represented 46 2005: 45 days purchases.
Political and charitable contributions Auditors Contributions made by the company during the year, for charitable The companys auditors,  LLP, purposes, were 44,127 2005: 27,537.
No political contributions have indicated their willingness to continue in office, were made.
and a resolution that they be reappointed will be proposed at the annual general meeting.
Business at the annual general meeting On pages 47 and 48 is a notice convening the annual general Statement of disclosure of information to auditors meeting of the company for 8 November 2006, at which In accordance with Section 234A of the Companies Act 1985, the shareholders will be asked, as items of special business, to give directors report that, so far as they are aware, all relevant audit power to the directors to allot shares, to give power to the directors information has been disclosed to the companys auditors.
to disapply the pre-emption requirements of section 89 of the The directors have taken all of the steps which they ought to have Companies Act 1985 and to give power to the directors to make taken as directors, in order to establish that the companys auditors market purchases of ordinary shares in the capital of the company, are aware of that information.
The notice also sets out details of the ordinary business to be conducted at the annual general meeting.
Employment policies Only through the skill and commitment of the companys Approval of the directors remuneration report employees will its objectives be met.
All staff are encouraged to Resolution 2 in the notice of annual general meeting, which will be make a real commitment to the companys success and to progress proposed as an ordinary resolution, asks shareholders to approve to more senior roles as they, themselves, develop.
the directors remuneration report, set out on pages 12 to 16.
A heavy emphasis is placed on training programmes for all levels of Re-election of Mr Martin, Mr Herring and Ms van Gene staff: this highlights the importance placed by the company on as directors providing service to its customers.
The companys Articles of Association require one-third of the directors to retire from office at each annual general meeting.
In In selecting, training and promoting staff, the company has to take addition, any director who has, at the annual general meeting, been account of the physically demanding nature of much of its work.
in office for more than three years since his or her last appointment The company is committed to equality of opportunity and to the or re-appointment should also retire and may offer him or herself elimination of discrimination in employment.
The company aims to for re-election.
create and maintain a working environment, terms & conditions and of employment personnel & management practices which Brief biographical details of each of the directors standing for ensure that no individual receives less favourable treatment on the re-election may be found on page 8.
The re-election resolutions are grounds of his or her race, religion, nationality, ethnic origin, age, set out as resolutions 4 to 6 in the notice of disability, gender, sexual orientation or marital status.
who become disabled will be retained, where possible, and retrained, where necessary.
Re-appointment of  LLP as auditors The company has established a range of policies, covering issues Resolution 7, set out in the notice of annual general meeting, such as diversity, employees well-being and equal opportunities, proposes that  LLP should be reappointed aimed at ensuring that all employees are treated fairly and as the companys auditors and authorises the directors to consistently.
Internal communications seek to ensure that staff are well informed Authority to allot about the companys progress, through the use of regular The general authority previously given to the directors to allot newsletters, monthly videos and briefings at staff meetings, at relevant securities will expire at the end of the annual general which employees views are discussed and taken into account.
All staff participate in incentive bonus schemes related to profitability and or service standards.
10 J D WETHERSPOON PLC Directors report Accordingly, resolution 8, set out in the notice of annual general Repurchase of ordinary shares meeting, will be proposed as an ordinary resolution to authorise In common with many other listed companies, the company the directors pursuant to section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 proposes, once again, to seek an authority from shareholders to to allot ordinary shares in the capital of the company, up to a permit the company to purchase its own shares for cancellation.
maximum nominal amount of 1,015,000, being approximately Accordingly, resolution 10 will be proposed as a special resolution 33% of the nominal value of the ordinary shares currently in issue.
to authorise the company to make market purchases of up to just The company does not currently hold any shares in treasury.
The under 15% of the companys current issued ordinary share capital, authority unless previously varied, revoked or renewed will expire at prices not less than the nominal value of an ordinary share and on the earlier of 15 months from the date of the passing of the not exceeding 105% of the average of the middle-market resolution or the conclusion of the annual general meeting held to quotations for the five business days before each purchase approve the report and accounts for the year ending 29 July 2007. exclusive of expenses.
The authority will last until the earlier of 30 April 2007 or the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of The directors will exercise such authority to allot shares only when the company.
The directors envisage that purchases would be satisfied that it is in the interests of the company to do so.
They made only after considering the effects on earnings per share and have no present intention, however, of exercising the authority, the benefits for shareholders generally.
except in connection with the issue of shares under the companys share option schemes.
As at 8 September 2006, there were outstanding options over 2,829,940 ordinary shares, representing 1.8% of the companys Disapplication of pre-emption rights issued ordinary share capital.
If the authority under resolution The provisions of section 89 of the Companies Act 1985 which 10 were to be exercised in full, this percentage would increase confer on shareholders rights of pre-emption in respect of the to 2.2%.
allotment of equity securities which are, or are to be, paid up in cash, other than by way of allotment to employees under an employees share scheme apply to the authorised, but unissued, ordinary shares of the company to the extent that they are not By order of the board disapplied, pursuant to section 95 of the Companies Act 1985.
Jim Clarke The existing disapplication of these statutory pre-emption rights will Company Secretary expire at the end of the annual general meeting convened by the 8 September 2006 notice of annual general meeting.
Accordingly, resolution 9, as set out in the notice of annual general meeting, will be proposed as a special resolution to permit directors to allot shares without the application of these statutory pre-emption rights, first, in relation to rights issues and, secondly, in relation to the issue of ordinary shares in the capital of the company for cash up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 153,000 representing approximately 5% of the nominal value of the ordinary shares of the company currently in issue.
The authority unless previously varied, revoked or renewed will expire on the earlier of 15 months from the date of passing of the resolution or the conclusion of the annual general meeting held to approve the report and accounts for the year ending 29 July 2007.
