Directors, officers and advisers Tim Martin Chairman, aged 51 Registered Office Tim founded the business in 1979, having previously Wetherspoon House studied law at Nottingham University and qualified as a Central Park barrister.
Reeds Crescent Watford WD24 4QL John Hutson Chief Executive Officer, aged 41 John joined the company in 1991 and was appointed to the Company Number board in 1996.
He is a graduate of Exeter University and previously worked with Allied Domecq.
1709784 Jim Clarke Finance Director and Company Secretary, Registrars aged 46 Computershare Investor Services plc Jim joined the company and was appointed to the board PO Box 82 in 1998, having previously worked for David Lloyd Leisure The Pavilions a division of Whitbread plc and HP Bulmer Holdings plc.
Bridgwater Road He is a graduate of Stirling University and qualified as a Bristol chartered accountant in 1984.
BS99 7NH John Herring Senior Non-Executive Director, aged 48 Registered Auditors John was appointed to the board in 1997 and is chairman of  LLP the audit committee, the remuneration committee and the nomination committee.
He is a non-executive director of Kensington Group plc and EAT plc and is a former director of Solicitors Kleinwort Benson Securities Ltd. Macfarlanes Elizabeth McMeikan Non-Executive Director, aged 44 Bankers Liz was appointed to the board in 2005 and is a member of the audit committee, the remuneration committee and Bank of Ireland the nomination committee.
Liz is a graduate of Cambridge Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi University.
She is a non-executive director of Direct Wines Bayerische Landesbank Ltd, an independent member of the Insolvency Service BNP Paribas Steering Board of the DTI and a Civil Service Crdit Industriel et Commercial commissioner.
Liz previously worked for Tesco plc for Dresdner Bank AG 12 years, in a wide variety of commercial and Landesbank Baden-Wrttemberg operational roles, both in the UK and overseas.
Lloyds TSB Bank plc Mizuho Corporate Bank The Royal Bank of Scotland plc Debra van Gene Non-Executive Director, aged 51 Debra was appointed to the Board in March 2006 and is a Financial Advisers member of the remuneration and nomination committees.
After graduating from Oxford University, Debra spent the Dresdner Kleinwort first seventeen years of her career in client service and general management, in top-twenty companies in the advertising industry.
She was a board director of DMB&B Stockbrokers and deputy managing director of Butterfield Day Devito Hockney.
For the past eleven years, she has worked in the Dresdner Kleinwort executive search industry.
She was a partner at Heidrick & Struggles and now runs her own company, Debra van Gene Associates Ltd, of which she is managing director.
