JJB Sports plc Directors biographies Executive Directors Tom Knight Chief Executive Aged 53, Tom Knight joined JJB in October 2002 after a long and successful career at Blacks Leisure Group plc during which he held several positions culminating as Managing Director of their Sports and Fashion Division.
Prior to this he spent 7 years working for adidas before establishing his own successful chain of retail sports stores.
He was appointed Operations Director of JJB in October 2002 and was subsequently appointed Chief Executive in November 2002.
He was also a Non-executive Director of Ultimate Leisure plc until he resigned this position in March 2006.
David Whelan Executive Director Aged 69, David Whelan was formerly a professional footballer, principally with Blackburn Rovers.
On his retirement from professional football, he acquired a single grocery store and built up a chain of 6 supermarkets called Whelans Discount Stores which he sold to Wm Morrison Supermarkets plc in 1978.
He had earlier formed JJB Sports in 1971 to acquire the business of a single sports store in Wigan, which had been trading since the early 1900s.
From 1978 until 31 January 2001, David Whelan was Executive Chairman during which time he was involved in a wide range of Group operations and has been a major influence in the success of the Group.
On 1 February 2001 he was appointed as Chairman and his responsibilities changed to be responsible both for ensuring that the Board functions effectively and also for general strategic issues as opposed to day to day executive matters, a position that he held until 6 July 2005.
On that date, he resigned his position as Chairman and was appointed as an Executive Director.
In addition, David Whelan holds a controlling interest in Whelco Holdings Limited which operates the sports stadium in Wigan named the JJB Stadium, Wigan Athletic Football Club and Wigan Warriors Rugby League Club.
David Greenwood, FCA Finance Director and Company Secretary David Greenwood, aged 62, spent 5 years with  before spending a further 5 years as a financial controller in industry.
He joined Whelans Discount Stores as Financial Controller in 1976 and, after the sale of that company in 1978, he was appointed Finance Director of JJB.
David Greenwood has overall responsibility for all accounting, administrative and company secretarial functions.
Barry Dunn, MRICS Property Director Aged 49, Barry Dunn joined JJB Sports in 1986 as Estates Manager after 10 years in commercial and residential agency.
In 1992 he left to take up the position of Estates and Development Controller with Matalan plc, where he gained valuable experience in the development of out-of-town retailing.
Returning to JJB in 1995 as Property Director, Barry Dunn has full responsibility for the Groups existing properties and for identifying and negotiating the acquisition of new sites.
16 JJB Sports plc Directors biographies continued Non-executive Directors Roger Lane-Smith Chairman Roger Lane-Smith, aged 60, was appointed as a Non-executive Director in November 1998.
He was Senior Partner and Chairman of DLA Piper Rudnick Gray Cary UK LLP from 1998 to 2005 and was appointed a Senior Consultant to the practice in May 2005.
On 6 July 2005, he became Non-executive Chairman of JJB, responsible both for ensuring that the Board functions effectively and also for general strategic issues.
He is a Non-executive Director of MS International plc, Timpsons plc and a number of other non-quoted companies.
He is also a council member of the CBI.
Andrew Thomas, FCA Andrew Thomas is the senior Non-executive Director.
He is aged 63 and was appointed as a Nonexecutive Director in October 1994.
He was Executive Chairman of The Greenalls Group plc until his retirement in February 2000 and is a Non-executive Director of The Restaurant Group plc and a number of non-quoted companies.
He is also a Partner in Moors Andrew Thomas Private Clients Limited, Chartered Accountants.
David Beever David Beever, aged 65, was appointed as a Non-executive Director in March 2000.
He is Chairman of London & Continental Railways Limited and is also Chairman of KPMG Corporate Finance.
He is a NonExecutive Director of The Paragon Group of Companies plc and Volex Group plc.
He was previously a Vice Chairman of SG Warburg & Co Limited.
Roger Best Roger Best, aged 54, was appointed as a Non-executive Director in October 2005.
He was formerly Non-Executive Director and then Executive Chairman of The John David Group PLC from 2002 to 2004.
Prior to this he held a number of appointments at Reebok International Limited over a period of 10 years, including the last 4 years as Senior Vice President for Europe, Africa and the Middle East.
Prior to this, he held a number of appointments as Director at several PLCs.
Board Committees Board Committees Board Committees Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Andrew Thomas Committee Chairman Roger Lane-Smith Committee Chairman Roger Lane-Smith Committee Chairman David Beever Andrew Thomas Andrew Thomas Roger Best from 12 October 2005 David Beever David Beever Roger Lane-Smith until 6 July 2005 Roger Best from 12 October 2005 Roger Best from 12 October 2005 This committee consults with the external This committee reviews the remuneration This committee reviews the appointment auditors on the Groups financial statements, of the Groups Executive Directors.
of the Groups Directors accounting policies, internal controls and any other matters raised by the auditors.
