JJB Sports plc Directors report For the 52 weeks to 29 January 2006 The Directors of JJB Sports plc the Group present their Annual report on the affairs of the Group, together with Financial statements and the Auditors report, for the 52 weeks to 29 January 2006.
Principal activities and business review The principal activity of the Group continues to be the retailing of sportswear and sports equipment.
The Group also includes a separate Leisure Division, which operates health clubs and indoor soccer centres.
A review of operations for the accounting period is set out in the Chief Executives statement and the Financial review on pages 4 to 12 of this Annual report.
Subsidiaries The subsidiary undertakings principally affecting the profits or net assets of the Group in the accounting period are listed in note 17 in the Notes to the Financial statements on page 57.
Results and dividends The Group profit after taxation for the accounting period attributable to equity holders of the Company is 30,237,000 2005: 45,163,000.
Dividends paid during the 52 weeks to 29 January 2006 and deducted from the equity attributable to the equity holders of the Company comprises the final dividend for the previous accounting period of 7.0 pence net per ordinary share, amounting to 16,154,000 and the interim dividend for the 52 weeks to 29 January 2006 of 3.0 pence net per ordinary share amounting to 6,923,000.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 7.0 pence net per ordinary share 2005: 7.0 pence which when added to the interim dividend of 3.0 pence 2005: 3.0 pence gives a total dividend paid or proposed for the accounting period of 10.0 pence net per ordinary share 2005: 10.0 pence.
If approved at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 9 August 2006 to shareholders on the share register at the close of business on 26 May 2006. International Financial Reporting Financial statements for the 52 weeks to 29 January 2006 and all subsequent periods will be prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
In order that the comparative figures for the 53 weeks to 30 January 2005 could be prepared under IFRS, this has required an opening balance sheet at 25 January 2004 to be prepared.
These comparative figures were published at the time of the publication of the Groups Interim results for the 26 weeks to 31 July 2005.
Directors The current members of the Board of Directors are listed on page 18 of this Annual report.
All Directors served throughout the accounting period with the exception of Roger Best who was appointed on 12 October 2005.
The Articles of Association require one third of Directors to retire by rotation at every Annual General Meeting, in addition to the re-confirmation of Directors appointed during the year.
Roger Lane-Smith, David Whelan and Tom Knight are the Directors due to retire by rotation and resolutions will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting for their re-election.
A resolution will also be proposed for the election of Roger Best.
Full details of the cost of the service contracts, remuneration and incentive packages provided for the Directors and their interests in the share capital of the Company are given in the separate Directors remuneration report in this Annual report on pages 30 to 33.
Directors remuneration report The Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 require that the Directors remuneration report must be tabled for a shareholder vote, at each Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly, a resolution will be proposed for the approval by the shareholders of the Directors remuneration report.
Declarable interests As at 30 May 2006 the following notifications had been received from holders of material interests in 3 per cent or more of the Companys issued share capital: Number of 5p Percentage ordinary shares of share capital Harris Associates L. P. 20,885,600 9.1 Man Financial Limited 11,968,518 5.2 Fidelity International Limited 7,147,037 3.1 The Capital Group Companies Inc. 7,042,398 3.1 The total interests of the Directors, as detailed in the Directors remuneration report on page 33 of this Annual report, together with those of their immediate families and family trusts, amounted to 89,704,388 ordinary shares of 5 pence each, representing 38.9 per cent of the Companys share capital as at 30 May 2006.
19 JJB Sports plc Directors report continued Share buy-back authority At the 2005 Annual General Meeting AGM held on 6 July 2005, the Company was granted authority by its shareholders to make market purchases of up to 5 per cent of its ordinary shares.
No such market purchases have yet been made because the Board has made the decision to use the Groups net cash flow to finance the acquisition of its long term licence of the Slazenger golf brand and the continuing expansion of its combined health club superstores.
The authority will expire at the 2006 Annual General Meeting.
The Board will seek a renewal of the authority to purchase up to 5 per cent of JJBs issued share capital at the 2006 AGM, which will then be in place for the the following 12 months.
Close company status The Company is not a close company within the provisions of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
Charitable contributions, corporate responsibility and political contributions Charitable donations of 26,000 2005: 65,000 were made by the Group during the accounting period.
The Group again participated in the Macmillan Cancer Relief football badge campaign.
JJB is pleased to report that for the 52 weeks ended 29 January 2006, total donations of approximately 65,000 were raised from purchases of football badges by its customers and staff.
The total now raised through the Groups stores since the beginning of this campaign in January 1999 is approximately 1.2 million.
In October 2005 the Leisure Division nominated the British Heart Foundation as its chosen charity partner and to date 18,000 has been raised for various initiatives: in particular defibrillators in local communities.
During 2005, the Group was proud to be involved in Nikes Stand Up, Speak Up campaign, an initiative to create a fund which will look to support anti-racist projects and initiatives across Europe.
Approximately 1.24 million was raised by JJB, through the sale of wrist bands to its customers and staff.
The Group also continues to support the Variety Club Childrens Charity appeal with its annual charity golf day which in 2005 raised a total of 135,000 to enable a further 9 Sunshine coaches to be purchased by the charity.
Additionally, many employees with support from the Group, have taken part in various charitable fund-raising activities during the year.
No contributions were made to political parties.
Financial instruments The disclosures with regard to the risks over financial instruments are discussed in the Financial review on pages 10 and 11 of this Annual report and note 38 of the Financial statements.
Supplier payment policy The Groups policy for the payment of suppliers is to agree terms of payment with suppliers at the time that orders are placed.
Payment is then made in accordance with the agreed terms.
At 29 January 2006, the number of days purchases included in the amounts owing to trade creditors, in the Group and Company, was 23 days 2005: 23 days, based on the ratio of trade creditors at the end of the accounting period to the amounts paid during the accounting period to trade creditors.
Auditors Deloitte & Touche LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors to the Company and a resolution for their re-appointment as auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Employment issues The Group employs approximately 11,600 people throughout the United Kingdom and overseas and is proud of its record as a responsible and valued employer.
JJB Sports plc is an equal opportunities employer, and as such the following key values are respected throughout JJBs operations: All employees should be treated fairly and equally and the workplace should be free from discrimination, harassment and intimidation: Recruitment, retention and progression of employees is based solely on personal ability and competency for the work in question: and Disabled persons should enjoy equal opportunities within the workplace.
In the event of an employee becoming disabled during the course of their employment, the Group will make every effort to provide an opportunity for them to remain with the Group.
20 JJB Sports plc Directors report continued Employee training The Group believes in encouraging employees to maximise their potential and so provides training which ensures that they are able to perform their duties to the best of their abilities.
A number of retail employees annually undertake courses for National Vocational Qualifications NVQ in customer service through the Groups principal training providers, Performance through People.
During the 52 weeks to 29 January 2006, a significant proportion of employees on this course achieved qualifications at various levels.
In addition, staff working within the health clubs sign up to a Training Pathway Programme and undertake various NVQ qualifications, relevant to their position.
The Group hopes that these schemes, along with other in-house initiatives, will help to further improve customer service levels at its operating units.
Driver training is provided to fork lift truck drivers, in order to improve safety in the Distribution centre.
The Group financially supports those employees wishing to obtain relevant professional qualifications whilst in the employment of the Group.
Professional staff are also encouraged to attend training courses and seminars as and when necessary, in order that they keep up to date with developments relevant to their work and areas of expertise.
Career progression is available to employees across the Group.
Employee consultation The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its employees in matters affecting them as employees.
JJB has continued the practice of keeping employees informed on such matters and on the various factors affecting the performance of the Group.
This is achieved through regular meetings involving Directors, managers and supervisory staff to convey information about the business as well as via notice boards and the Groups own intranet.
The GMB Union are accepted by the Company to negotiate collective bargaining on behalf of hourly paid staff within the Distribution centre.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting AGM of shareholders will be held at 12 noon on Thursday 27 July 2006 at the JJB Stadium, Loire Drive, Wigan, Lancashire, WN5 0UH.
The Notice of the Meeting is included in a separate circular issued to shareholders with this Annual report and Financial statements.
Certain Special Business is to be proposed at the AGM, details of which are set out in the Notice of the Meeting.
Included in this Special Business is a resolution to renew the authority to enable the Company to purchase in the market, up to 5 per cent of its issued share capital: the Board intend that this authority will only be exercised if it is considered by the Directors to be in the best interests of the shareholders generally and if to do so would be likely to result in an increase in earnings per share.
Events after the Balance sheet date Since the Balance sheet date, the Board has proposed a final dividend of 7.0 pence per ordinary share and has entered into contracts with Rangers Football Club and acquired the whole of the share capital of Golf TV Limited.
Full details of these matters are contained within note 40 of these Notes to the Financial statements on page 69.
By order of the Board J. D. Greenwood Company Secretary Martland Park, Challenge Way Wigan, Lancashire WN5 0LD 13 June 2006 21
