JKX Sect3 AW:JKX-report 30 4 07 12:23 Page 26 26 DIRECTORS Bruce J Burrows Viscount Asquith Rt Hon Lord Fraser John R Mapplebeck Dr Paul Davies Robert N Dall of Carmyllie QC JKX Oil & Gas plc Report and Accounts 2006 JKX Sect3 AW:JKX-report 11 4 07 11:24 Page 27 27 Rt Hon Lord Fraser of Carmyllie QC Non-Executive Chairman 61 Lord Fraser was formerly Lord Advocate and Minister of State at the Department of Trade and Industry with responsibility for export trade promotion and overseas investment, with particular emphasis on the oil and gas industry.
He was then Minister of Energy until May 1997.
He is a Director of the London Metal Exchange and ICE Futures.
He is Chairman of the Statutory Committee of the Royal Pharmaceutical Society.
He is a member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Dr Paul Davies Chief Executive Officer 57 Dr Paul Davies joined the Board on 30 January 1998.
He has been active in the oil and gas industry since 1976 and was the co-founder of the JP Kenny Group of Companies which traded internationally in oil and gas engineering, oil and gas exploration and production, subsea survey and inspection, and shipping.
He has extensive experience of business in the former Soviet Union and was a founder of J P Kenny Exploration & Production Ltd, the forerunner of JKX Oil & Gas plc.
He holds an Honours degree in Civil Engineering and a PhD in structural mechanics from University College London.
Bruce J Burrows Finance Director 48 Bruce J Burrows was appointed Finance Director on 31 December 1997.
He joined JKX from Ernst & Young where he held positions in the Wellington New Zealand and London offices.
He holds a BSc Honours degree from Canterbury University New Zealand, a Diploma in Accounting from Victoria University New Zealand and is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of New Zealand.
Bruce also holds the position of Company Secretary.
Robert N Dall Technical Services Director 53 Robert Dall has over 30 years of varied petroleum engineering experience in the upstream oil and gas industry in the UK, Middle East, North Africa and the former Soviet Union.
Prior to joining JKX he worked for 11 years for Hamilton Oil Company Inc. now a wholly owned subsidiary of BHP Petroleum PTY.
He has held a variety of technical, supervisory and management positions encompassing reservoir engineering, well operations, production and commercial functions.
Prior to Hamilton Oil Company Inc. he worked for Deminex-Deutsche Erdolversorgungs GmbH and Schlumberger Limited.
He holds an Honours degree in Physics from Birmingham University and a Diploma in Company Direction awarded by the Institute of Directors.
Viscount Asquith Non-Executive Director 54 Viscount Asquith, considered by the Board to be the senior independent Non-executive director, joined the Foreign Office in 1980 and was the Counsellor at the British Embassy in Kiev from 1992 until his resignation in 1997 to pursue private business interests.
John R Mapplebeck Non-Executive Director 63 John Mapplebeck held a wide range of senior executive positions during a 39-year international banking career with the NatWest Group.
Originally in the banks energy and structured finance teams in London and New York John retired from NatWest in 2001.
At that time he was a Director of Lombard North Central Plc and a Board member of a number of NatWests European businesses.
John is an ACIB and is Chairman of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
