20 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Developing solutions Our key differentiation is our ability to add value Towering to our clients business and develop and deliver achievements... solutions.
Our long-term relationships with many clients Compliant piled towers CPT are seaenables us to understand their business and challenges.
bed based structures that are signi cantly more cost-effective when compared with We seek to promote technically excellent, safe, effective, conventional bottom-founded structures in similar conditions.
Chevrons Benguela-Belize timely solutions that are appropriate to each individual project, in Offshore Angola, designed by situation and client.
Mustang, is the first CPT to be built outside the Gulf of Mexico.
Just topping the Empire State Building, it is the worlds fifth tallest The case studies on this page highlight some of the structure, on land or in the water.
This CPT solutions we have been working on this year.
stands in 1,280 feet of water and consists of the largest piles designed and installed anywhere offshore, supporting more than 40,000 short tons of topside and 40 well slots.
Mustang won a design competition for this project, but that was just their first achievement: the aggressive schedules and requirements for delivery, quality and technical integrity were formidable.
The project was completed in a record 24 months, and was incident and injury free.
Work is now in progress on a second tower at Tombua Landana, offshore Angola.
Pictured right is Steve Will, Manager, Compliant Structures.
Our strategy in action Peaking performance facilities during 2007 and 2008.
The first, Client: American Electric Power which will include four GE Frame 7EA gas turbine generators with a total capacity of Division: Gas Turbine Services 340MW, is expected to be operational by June Location: US 2007.
As there is currently limited availability of industrial gas turbines with short delivery Facing a need for additional generating times, we used our knowledge of the industry capacity in the central south-western in the US and sourced most of the equipment United States, American Electric Power for AEP from existing power stations.
We awarded us contracts worth approximately leveraged our experience to reduce the capital $195 million for the installation of cost, shorten the overall schedule and provide approximately 680MW of peaking capacity both condition assurances and performance and the creation of three new peaking guarantees.
Energy Supporting Energy Group overview Operational review and Financial review and Financial statements CSR governance 21 Empire State Building, New York, USA 381 m 1,250 ft Eiffel Tower, Paris, France 324 m 1,063 ft Mausoleu A. Neto, Luanda, Angola 124m 407 ft Big Ben, London, UK 96m 316 ft 30 30 Vision Client: Various The 30 30, capable of reaching depths of over Division: Well Support 30,000 feet and withstanding up to 30,000 psi, Location: Gulf of Mexico was our response.
Features include industry proven tools that have been specially adapted As well-depths in the Gulf of Mexico for greater depths.
John-Paul Jones, President extend further, we saw a need to develop of Wood Group Logging Services said, We are a deep well electric wireline skid unit pleased to offer a unit to support work at some that would overcome the limits of current of the highest bottom-hole pressures and standard equipment.
Steve Will, Manager - Compliant Structures
