18 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Attracting and retaining the best Our success as a world class contractor depends on the people we employ.
Over the last 12 months we have added almost 4,000 people from around the world.
Attracting Born in Singapore, Natasha graduated from Newcastle University, the best people is just the beginning.
Investing time UK, with an MSc in Pipeline Engineering and money in developing their skills and careers makes and an Honours Degree in Chemical Engineering.
She has already shown us more attractive to work for and develops our collective promise on JPKs Young Guns expertise.
This, in turn, bene ts our business and our clients Programme in Houston and is working on engineering projects for Anadarko businesses.
and providing engineering support for Excelerate Energy.
We look to employ top talent and industry specialists.
We seek to create an environment for them to thrive in, and to develop and share best practice throughout the organisation.
Our people are our key differentation and help us achieve our growth ambitions.
Allister Langlands, Chief Executive, recently said: Our peoples knowledge, skills, commitment and enthusiasm drive our growth and success.
Our aim is to be the employer of choice in all parts of our business and to attract and retain the best talent available.
This will enable us to provide premier quality services to our customers and deliver superior growth for our shareholders.
Our strategy in action Our Vision for Excellence Our commitment is to treat all of our people fairly, responsibly and with dignity, 20,000 respecting their individual differences and employees worldwide helping them to achieve their full potential.
We will be successful when we have attained our goal of being the employer of choice in all our activities.
Sharon graduated with a Masters in Management and English Literature and has an HNC in Mechanical Engineering.
She then completed our first Business Services Graduate Programme, and was involved in its development for new graduate intakes.
Sharon is now a cost engineer with one of our North Sea projects.
Energy Supporting Energy Group overview Operational review and Financial review and Financial statements CSR governance 19 Dougs current role involves Since 1989 Boris has divided his time Derek has a lifetimes experience in responsibility for our Logging Services between the Former Soviet Union and the oil & gas, and in 1996 joined Wood activities in Pearland, Texas, including US.
He has been instrumental in growing Groups North Sea business.
He is now safety, employee relations and acting our ESP business with major oil companies Production Facilities Director for the as Site Radiological Of cer.
He leads in Russia, in bringing new technology to Americas.
Based in Houston, he is also a team performing all the logging, the market, and training Russian nationals a Fellow of the Institution of Mechanical perforating and mechanical services to work with us there.
Engineers and was recently awarded Wood Group offers in the eld.
the Order of the British Empire for services to commerce and British interests in the US.
Ayman gained a PhD at Rice University in Texas.
Following a number of years in the residential high-rise buildings business, he took his analytical abilities into oil and gas.
His expertise in advanced structural, geotechnical and foundation analysis and design is assisting the Pipeline and Advanced Engineering Groups of J P Kenny.
He holds a J P Kenny Safety Award.
A quali ed Chemical Engineer, Ed has had Nancy graduated from Memorial University, Transferring his skills from the a long and successful career in the oil, gas Newfoundland, Canada, with a BSc in automotive industry, Douglas started and power industries.
Based in Houston, Electrical Engineering Oil & Gas.
She is now as a trainee tter in one of our leading he is responsible for project execution on part of J P Kennys Anadarko Controls Team.
Douglas all engineering work within Alliance a Wood She helped start up JPKs Young Guns and quickly became a fully quali ed Group company.
Important recent work runs their lunch and learns, which provide an tter responsible for the repair and includes the Cusiana gas plant in Colombia informal opportunity for networking.
and the Beach eld gas plant in Trinidad.
