Group overview Operational review and Financial review and Financial statements CSR governance 31 Gas Turbine Services Gas Turbine Services is the world-leading independent provider of integrated maintenance solutions, and repair and overhaul services for industrial gas turbines and related accessories, used for power generation, compression and transmission in the oil & gas and power generation industries.
Gas Turbine Services Performance 2006 $m 2005 $m % change Revenues 713.7 607.8 17% EBITA 38.0 32.7 16% EBITA Margin 5.3% 5.4% The strong requirement for gas turbine maintenance, repair and overhaul in the oil & gas industry, combined with a recovery in the power market, led to an increase in revenue, with the start of some large Power Solutions contracts in the final quarter having a signi cant impact.
The strong margin in our oil & gas activities and recovery in our power aftermarket We expect to see further activities resulted in an improving underlying EBITA margin.
However, the reported margin revenue growth in 2007, has been held back by a lower EBITA margin from Power Solutions, re ecting, in part, lower margins being recognised in the early stages of projects.
driven by the ongoing recovery in the power market We expect to see further revenue growth in 2007, driven by the ongoing recovery in the and increased long-term power market feeding through to aftermarket providers, increased long-term contract contract activity.
activity, and the strong oil & gas market.
The EBITA margin should increase with the improvement in performance in our power activities, including a growing contribution from Mark Papworth, Group Director our long-term maintenance and power solutions contracts.
Gas Turbine Services Our headcount has increased by 10% to about 3,500 on the back of a signi cant increase in the scale of our power plant operations and maintenance business.
Our business is generally structured according to turbine type and size with the smaller turbines typically having a greater use in the oil & gas markets and the larger turbines greater use in the power markets.
32 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Gas Turbine Services continued Light Industrial Turbines LIT generally less than 10 MW Our LIT activities include the repair and overhaul of the Siemens and Solar light industrial turbines and related rotating equipment such as pumps and compressors, which are 16% focused primarily on oil & gas applications.
Our business in Aberdeen and Maracaibo addresses the global Siemens aftermarket and in the period strengthened its market position increase in EBITA and pro tability.
Our operations in Houston and Dubai have a greater focus on Solar turbines and in the period we extended our range of turbine parts and our range of capabilities which should provide opportunities for growth in 2007 and beyond.
Aero-derivative generally 10 to 50 MW Our three aero-derivative gas turbine businesses, which comprise three joint ventures, delivered a strong financial performance.
Rolls Wood Group our joint venture with Rolls-Royce, primarily serving customers in the oil & gas market.
Wood Group Pratt & Whitney our joint venture with Pratt & Whitney, serving customers in the oil & gas and power markets.
TransCanada Turbines our joint venture with TransCanada Pipelines, which is both GE LM and Rolls-Royce approved, serving customers in the oil & gas and power markets.
Rolls Wood Group bene ted from the strong oil & gas market and will see future bene ts from the increase in the installed base of units.
Wood Group Pratt & Whitney, following its expansion of scope to include the provision of turbine parts, and combined with the global improvements in the power market, had a particularly strong year, with contract wins in Libya, South Africa, and South America as well as the US market.
TransCanada Turbines made good progress in the larger LM6000 turbines focused on the power market, particularly in the Middle East and the Americas.
Heavy Industrial Turbines HIT generally more than 50 MW The Groups HIT activities focus primarily on industrial gas turbines used in power generation applications.
Our HIT activities started to bene t from the improving underlying power market, and were successful in increasing the portion of business under long term contract.
Our strategy in action Solutions for Suez Following our 2004 contract with Suez 665MW power plant.
As the Senior VP of Suez Client: Al-Rusail Power Company Energy International in Thailand with Energy Middle East, Mikls Almsy fide Zsadny Location: Sultanate of Oman GLOW, we are pleased to be working commented, This contract, along with those with Suez in the Sultanate of Oman, at the in place at GLOW, clearly shows that the Wood Duration: Sixteen year contract former Al-Rusail Power Company.
Groups solution-oriented approach can bring A sixteen-year contract has been signed for the signi cant value to plant owners and operators.
maintenance of eight General Electric Frame 9E gas turbines on the site.
The contract is worth approximately $92 million and includes an innovative, risk-sharing arrangement around the management of major maintenance for the Energy Supporting Energy Group overview Operational review and Financial review and Financial statements CSR governance 33 Left to right: Joe Moran Kevin Moran Stuart Newlands Important contract wins include the 16-year maintenance contract with Suez Energy Contribution to Group EBITA International for the maintenance of eight GE Frame 9E gas turbines, the major equipment at Gas Turbine Services the 665MW plant located at the former Al Rusail Power Company in the Sultanate of Oman.
Rest of Group The continuing focus on securing long-term contracts and enhancing ef ciency is expected to deliver further margin improvement going forward.
Support Services Our broad range of ancillary services provide value-added solutions to our clients as well as supporting our Aero-derivative, LIT and HIT offerings, and enables us to provide an integrated service.
Our power plant operations & maintenance activities made excellent progress in 2006 securing several new contracts in the year, including major long term contracts with LS 10 % Power in the Western US and Mitsui in Ontario, Canada covering advanced technology turbine equipment.
This business has almost trebled its facilities under contract in the last increase in employees two years and currently has more than 20 long term contracts operating in excess of 8,000 MW of power generation.
Our Power Solutions business had lower activity in the first half of the year but entered into a number of contracts in the final quarter.
These include three contracts with a combined value of approximately $195m for American Electric Power for peaking facilities providing 680MW of power.
Our accessories and components activities had a dif cult year, with a lower contribution from military customers somewhat offset by progress in oil & gas and power markets.
Our turbine control systems business grew its market share signi cantly in North America and is starting to expand internationally.
Key project bene ts to client Established relationships based on long term contracts with sister company Highly integrated level of support
