36 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Safety We remain committed to further improvement.... first What will we do?
maintain a healthy workplace prevent accidents minimise adverse Our goal is to achieve the highest practicable standards environmental impact of safety for our people, and for those affected by our activities, including contractors, customers and members of the public.
As safety underpins everything we do, only a reputation for excellence is suf cient.
We are committed to constant vigilance and improvement.
Our HSE Red Book sets out the Groups principles, longterm objectives, and guidance for meeting international safety standards.
Our Vision for Excellence in HSE includes standards for communicating and supporting all Wood Group companies and employees in creating a pro-active safety culture.
We also run a number of initiatives to encourage 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 improved HSE performance, rewarding excellence from TRCF Total recordable case individuals and companies, and encouraging best-practice frequency LWC RWC MTC per million manhours transfer.
We will be successful when no one is hurt and when others copy us.
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 LWCF Lost work case frequency per million manhours LWC Lost work case, RWC Restricted work case, MTC Medical treatment case Our strategy in action Split Speedhead offers For safetys sake, time-out from danger for all our sakes The SH3 Split Speedhead, pictured right, increases operator safety by saving time spent without the blow-out preventer BOP covering the hole.
This reduces the workers exposure to blow-outs or high pressures by up to 17 hours when compared to conventional wellhead installation, which also makes the Split Speedhead a more cost-effective alternative to conventional spool-type wellheads.
Energy Supporting Energy 1.8 6.2 2.2 7.1 1.8 5.8 1.5 4.6 1.2 4.2 Group overview Operational review and Financial review and Financial statements CSR governance 37 How will we do it?
How do we measure our success?
Leadership set high personal standards Support develop practices that when no-one is hurt Communication communicate openly promote peer support when others copy us and effectively Commitment demonstrate our Culture create a culture in which we all commitment with actions rather than care for each other words Understanding ensure everyone understands what is expected Safety milestones across the globe In Brunei, SKS Wood achieved five million man-hours without a single recordable incident.
In the US, our Logging Services business achieved five million man-hours without a Lost Time Incident.
And in Australia, J P Kenny Perth clocked two million man-hours without a single Lost Time Incident, which represents nearly nine years of safe operation.
These signi cant achievements in the last 12 months illustrate that our emphasis on challenging complacency and on implementing HSE initiatives to continually improve our safety culture is having a positive effect.
Doublersts for safety Laser-scanning a real in Colombia safety measure Two Wood Group companies received national recognition Mustang have adopted laser-scanning in Colombia for achieving excellent standards of HSE.
technology for dimensional measuring, Wood Group Colombia scored 99% in the Colombian mainly on modi cation projects.
Engineers National Safety Councils national audit, for its work no longer have to spend as much time on providing mechanical, electrical and instrumentation site in harsh or dangerous environments.
services to national oil company, Ecopetrol.
The company One recent Gulf Coast re nery project would was also recognised for its initiatives on road safety, job have previously required six to eight safety analysis and advance safety audits.
Wood Group designers being in the plant for six months.
managed joint venture, Equipo, which provides operations Laser scanning cut this to a few site visits.
and maintenance services to BP Ecopetrol in Colombia, won the top award from ARP Suratep, a professional risk management association, for completing 1,460,000 hours without any accidents.
