24 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Engineering & Production Facilities Engineering & Production Facilities provides a broad range of services to oil & gas companies worldwide.
Our services range from concept selection for new facilities, through to their engineering design, project construction management, and commissioning.
We also provide facilities modi cations, and operations and maintenance support to existing facilities.
E&PF Performance 2006 $m 2005 $m % change Revenues 1,972.7 1,472.3 34% EBITA 141.9 88.2 61% EBITA Margin 7.2% 6.0% Signi cant expenditure in new offshore and onshore developments, and increasing expenditure on integrity and production enhancement of existing producing assets led to excellent revenue growth in the year.
This was strongest in our engineering activities, with Trevor Noble, Group Director their share of division revenues returning to levels of around 40%.
Production Facilities saw Engineering good growth from international activities and in the North Sea.
The strong performance in our higher margin engineering activities contributed to the increase in our EBITA margin.
In Engineering, we saw a more favourable pricing environment for our premium services and bene ted from high utilisation.
The success in certain of Production Facilities relatively higher margin international activities also favourably impacted its EBITA margin.
We have successfully maintained our focus on being the employer of choice through training, career development and exible hiring initiatives.
We have made further investments in satellite of ces to support our main hubs which provides us access to additional skilled resources.
This year we increased our presence in several locations, including Abu Dhabi, California, Delhi, Denver, Glasgow and London.
Internationally we have been able to deploy our experienced international workforce on new market opportunities to meet growing client demand.
Les Thomas, Group Director Production Facilities Our strategy in action Growing Independence Client: Enterprise Products Partners LP The Independence Hub is a hub and reducing the weight of the topside.
The Group spoke host platform in the deepwater was also responsible for commissioning and Location: Gulf of Mexico Gulf of Mexico.
During the fabrication phase our subsea and offshore pipeline design in 2006, Alliance a Wood Group company business J P Kenny supported the 134- were asked to expand the hubs capacity.
mile Independence Trail, the worlds deepest They carried out the topsides conceptual pipeline.
New records were set for the worlds engineering, detailed design, procurement, deepest subsea production wells and the fabrication and commissioning support.
The picture on results saw planned production capacity rise the right shows the Independence Hub being from 850 million scf D standard cubic feet per towed from the fabrication yard to its location day to one billion scf D while also signi cantly in the Gulf of Mexico.
Energy Supporting Energy Group overview Operational review and Financial review and Financial statements CSR governance 25 Left to right: Chinedu Okorro Michele McNichol Steven Mans eld Engineering We have strengthened our We offer a broad range of engineering, project and construction management services in oil & construction management gas production, transportation and processing facilities.
We have market leading positions in: and process capabilities with the acquisition of Global Services Areas of Expertise Performance in Greenville, Upstream Deepwater and lightweight topsides, onshore processing facilities and South Carolina.
subsea engineering Trevor Noble, Group Director Midstream Offshore and onshore pipelines Engineering engineering, compression and LNG regasi cation and associated Engineering, technologies project management, Downstream construction management Clean fuel modi cations, re nery upgrades Process & Industrial Chemical, and other pr ocess and industrial plants Automation Automation services, including proprietary software We have been working on a wide range of deepwater upstream projects in the Gulf of Mexico, including the BP Deepwater programme, Blind Faith, Independence Hub, Perdido, Shenzi and Tahiti.
We have also been working on developments offshore Equatorial Guinea, Nigeria, Norway, UK and Venezuela: and onshore in India and the US.
We have signi cantly grown our business in subsea engineering developments with major Contribution to Group EBITA projects offshore in Angola, offshore Australia: tiebacks in the Gulf of Mexico: and a range Engineering & Production Facilities of other projects around the world.
J P Kenny, our leading subsea engineering company, Rest of Group was awarded the Subsea Company of the year award by the industry body, Subsea UK.
We have invested to increase our geographic footprint, in Abu Dhabi and Norway, as well as purchasing the remaining equity in our company in India.
In midstream engineering we are installing the first commercial scale application of our highly energy ef cient patented regasi cation process, the LNG Lique ed Natural Gas Smart Air Vaporisation Process, at Trunklines LNG receiving terminal in Lake Charles, Louisiana.
The terminal also includes a large Natural Gas Liquids NGL facility and is scheduled for completion in 2008.
Records Set Worlds deepest production platform 8,000 feet 2,438 meters Largest capacity gas production platform in the Gulf of Mexico 1 billion standard cubic feet day Incoming production from over 1 million acres 26 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Engineering & Production Facilities continued We have seen high demand for our downstream engineering services and have been active on a wide range of re nery upgrade, fide-bottlenecking and low sulphur diesel modi cation projects.
Our main focus is on the US and Latin American re nery market, where we have 61% recently entered into a long term contract to provide downstream engineering support services to a major clients facilities across the US.
Our activities supporting the North increase in EBITA American pipeline industry saw increased revenues in the year, for a broad range of clients, and we expect this sector to deliver strong growth over the next several years.
We have strengthened our construction management and process capabilities with the acquisition of Global Performance in Greenville, South Carolina.
We have also increased our engineering project construction management EPCM activity, with contracts in the US and Norway, together with an EPCM contract for automation services in Singapore.
Ionik, our specialist integrity and materials engineering consultancy, saw strong growth and is well positioned to expand its operations as our clients continue to focus on the integrity of their facilities.
We have extended our activities in Equatorial Guinea Production Facilities We offer a broad range of life-ofeld production facilities support services to our clients where we are now working around the world.
for a number of clients, including Amerada Hess, Development Production Enhanced Recovery Abandonment ExxonMobil and Marathon.
Pre-op support Les Thomas, Group Director Commissioning Production Facilities Start-up support Operations and maintenance Brown eld engineering Facility modi cations Integrity, process & production enhancement Life extension Decommissioning Our strategy in action Helping second largest gas exporter to Europe Algeria is the second largest gas exporter four wet gas elds in the Illizi Basin of South Client: BP, Statoil and Sonatrach to Europe after Russia, and its onshore Eastern Algeria.
It is expected to produce Location: Algeria In Amenas Project IAP represents the around nine billion cubic metres per year of wet countrys largest wet gas development.
gas and 50,000 barrels of liquids, sustained Duration: 18 - month extendable contract We were therefore delighted to win an 18- over the next 20 years.
month extendable contract with the In Amenas partners BP, Statoil and Sonatrach, for major engineering and construction modi cations work.
The IAP involves the development and production of natural gas and gas liquids from Energy Supporting Energy Group overview Operational review and Financial review and Financial statements CSR governance 27 Left to right: Trey Lambert Katy Gifford Keith Krenek We are the largest maintenance, modi cations and operations contractor in the North Sea, with a broad range of clients and are working on a number of tieback, integrity & process enhancement, upgrade and long term support projects.
We are maintaining all our key contracts, with additions including further work for Talisman and Hess.
We have also 22% extended our position as the leading onshore oil & gas terminal service contractor and now increase in employees work on nine sites throughout the UK.
We renewed our Shell Gas Plants contract and took on the CATS Central Area Transmission System and Wytch Farm contracts for BP.
We have continued to focus on extending our service offering and won our first UK Duty Holder role for the Chestnut development.
In addition, we have been successful in winning further pre operations and start up support projects.
In Colombia, Venezuela and Brazil, where we have been engaged in long-term support contracts for several years, we undertook some major shut down projects.
In Brunei, we extended the scope of our long term service contract and installed new facilities and subsea pipelines as part of a water injection project.
We are also focused on extending our range of services internationally and, in the Gulf of Mexico we carried out pre operations and start up support operations on Atlantis, Thunder Horse and Shenzi.
We are also supporting BP in the pre-operations phase of their LNG Project at Tangguh in Indonesia.
The acquisition of Somias in Algeria, along with major contract wins on the In Amenas and In Salah elds, has established a strong presence in the country.
In Trinidad, through a joint venture with local company Neal & Massy, we have begun work on a five-year integrated maintenance contract.
We have extended our activities in Equatorial Guinea where we are now working for a number of clients, including Amerada Hess, ExxonMobil and Marathon.
In Russia, we are carrying out projects for TNK-BP and in Kazakhstan we are working on a supply chain management contract.
Key project bene ts to client Technology transfer of North Sea experience and expertise to Algeria Investment in and training of Algerian workforce Strengthening of HSE standards based on Wood Group global practice
