14 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Our strategy for growth Our strategy has four strands Major contract win to achieve a balance between eld development and later in Trinidad cycle production support In 2003 we formed a strategic joint venture with Trinidadian company Neal & Massy Holdings to develop world leading activities based on differentiated Ltd and, in September 2006, we were awarded a five-year integrated maintenance contract by know-how and technology BP.
We are now working with our local partner to improve the safety and asset integrity of to achieve long term performance contracts in long term BPs upstream facilities in Trinidad.
We are also working to build up a signi cant local integrated relationships which add value to our clients business maintenance and modi cations capability.
to extend our services and broaden our international Pictured right is Alberto Rozo, Wood Group reach in areas where we can successfully develop our Contract Manager, who is responsible for the delivery of maintenance service for BPs market leading positions.
Our strategy in action New contracts provide contracts by them for the supply of wellhead assemblies and valves.
We are establishing a platform for growth in manufacturing facility in Saudi Arabia, in a joint Saudi Arabia venture with Al Hugayet Trading.
When operational the new facility will supply Saudi Aramcos onshore and offshore oil & gas Client: Saudi Aramco production well sites.
The investment will Division: Well Support enhance our responsiveness to potential uctuations in Saudi Aramcos needs and provide Location: Saudi Arabia training and career opportunities for Saudi Duration: Five years nationals.
These contracts mark a new level of in-country, operational commitment, said Scott We have been providing products and Bender, Wood Group Pressure Control President.
services to Saudi Aramco for 10 years and We look forward to performing a vital role in the in October 2006 we were awarded two continuing industrialisation of Saudi Arabia.
Energy Supporting Energy Group overview Operational review and Financial review and Financial statements CSR governance 15 Reaching into Rajasthan Client: Cairn Energy veri cation, and detailed engineering Division: Engineering & Production Facilities services.
Water treatment and injection, gas Location: India production, power generation, uid gathering and treatment as well as crude oil export Expected to deliver 150,000 barrels of oil are all planned for Mangala, and we will per day, Cairns new production facility provide ow assurance expertise.
in the Rajasthan Desert, will Engineering and Operations Director for Cairn, increase Indias internal oil producing said, Mustang and Wood Group have a long capacity.
We were delighted when, in history of delivering complex projects in remote January 2006, Cairn appointed Mustang locations around the world, and we are looking to provide front-end engineering design forward to a successful project in Rajasthan.
