38 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Human factors The way work is designed, organised and managed has Company initiative a major impact on health and safety.
Similarly, individual In 2005, our HSE department in Aberdeen set attitudes, competence and behaviour exert a signi cant out to develop a strategy for the integration of Human Factors HF principles within in uence.
The Human Factors approach is about the HSE Management System, alongside using an individuals behaviour to optimise HSE the focus on safety engineering.
To help us develop internal expertise, we appointed performance in the work environment.
the Keil Centre, Chartered Psychologists offering applied psychology to industry and government.
The resulting HF Programme, The HSE Behaviour Standard we have now implemented based on the HSE Behaviour Standard, has is a practical, research-based tool that fide fines expected captured the interest not only of our own client organisations, but of other industries behaviours from people at every level of our organisation.
in China, Australia and Switzerland.
The logos featured below represent some of the Training exempli es ways in which positive behaviours other companies who with our help have enhance HSE performance, and negative ones undermine adopted the HSE behaviour standard.
Robert Miles, HF Team Leader at the UK Health and good safety results.
The behaviours required to develop Safety Executives Offshore Safety Division and support a strong safety culture are linked through clearly endorsed our approach: An HSE Behaviour Standard is an effective four key themes: Standards, Communication, Risk way of helping to ensure the health and safety Management and Involvement.
message is heard loud and clear throughout the organisation top-down and bottom-up.
Pictured right are Jim Ewen, QHSE Manager and Zoila Medina, Human Factors Project Coordinator.
Our strategy in action Stop Work!
Valuing our Sometimes its the safest thing to do.
Chad Allo of Wood Group people and others Pressure Control, Belle Chasse, Lousiana, put his Stop Work Authority to good use when he realised a pipeline had not been adequately emptied prior to repairing a valve.
His decisive action prevented a potential environmental incident.
Our customer recognised Chad for his assistance in returning the pipeline safely to service and said they were impressed with our approach to safety.
Speaking up when the situation is tense takes undeniable resolve, but it is a critical factor in any reliable safety culture.
Energy Supporting Energy Group overview Operational review and Financial review and Financial statements CSR governance 39 Learning by doing Human behaviour and attitudes are vital They ventured onto broken bridges and they elements in promoting a safe working helped each other across.
At the Final Wall, environment.
To promote a sense of trust, the 34 participants had to scale all four metres responsibility, self-con dence and mutual without the bene t of ladders or climbing cooperation in multi-cultural multi-lingual equipment.
Learning by doing teams, staff at Pressure Controls Tianjin proved a valuable exercise in forging stronger facility in China took part in a series of teams, clearer communication, better Outward Bound courses in the countryside understanding between different departments around Beijing.
They let themselves fall from and therefore a stronger safety culture.
high platforms and they caught each other.
Jim Ewen, Zoila Medina, QHSE Manager Human Factors Project Coordinator
