28 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Well Support Well Support provides solutions, products and services to enhance production rates and ef ciency from oil & gas reservoirs.
Well Support Performance 2006 $m 2005 $m % change Revenues 739.1 645.7 14% EBITA 73.6 58.5 26% EBITA Margin 10.0% 9.1% Increased drilling activity and growing demand for arti cial lift using electric submersible pumps led to higher demand for our Well Support services.
If we adjust for the disposal of Protech, our permanent downhole monitoring business, in December 2005, Well Support delivered revenue and EBITA growth of 22% and 38% respectively.
We have successfully maintained our focus on training, career development and exible During the year, we won a hiring initiatives.
Important initiatives include management development programmes, eld signi cant, five year contract engineer and service technician training, and HSE training.
with Saudi Aramco, which Development Production Enhanced Recovery will involve establishing a Pressure Control local manufacturing facility.
Logging Services Wendell Brooks, Group Director Well Support Electric Submersible Pumps Electric Submersible Pumps We are a market leader in the sale, operation and service of electric submersible pumps ESPs used for production enhancement through arti cial lift.
The increasing long term demand for this service as oil elds mature and the reliability and ef ciency of ESPs improves is increasing the demand for our services and we are achieving good growth in both US domestic and international business.
Our US operations performed well with sales in the South West and the Mid Continent regions particularly strong.
Our main manufacturing facility in Oklahoma City is undergoing Our strategy in action Supporting Pan American Energy We have been active on the San Jorge collection, data base maintenance and Client: Pan American Energy Basin south of Buenos Aires, including application engineering support for the 500 units Location: Argentina Argentinas most productive oil eld, Cerro currently installed.
The new contract supports Dragon, for the last ten years.
In December Pan Americans development of a signi cant Duration: Six years 2005, we were awarded a $120 million, six-year secondary recovery project in its mature elds.
contract with Pan American Energy to supply As water injections and corresponding water electric submersible pumps ESP.
volumes increase, our equipment and services will be vital to the project.
In addition to ESP systems, we will supply eld services, electrical maintenance services, testing and repair of equipment, operational data Energy Supporting Energy Group overview Operational review and Financial review and Financial statements CSR governance 29 Left to right: Janet Smith Jim Dickson Luis Cortes Jr. a major re-organisation to support the recent and anticipated growth in product demand.
Additional investments were also made in enhancing our engineering research & development facilities to support proprietary product developments aimed at heavy oil and extended run life capability.
We also extended our operations in Canada and opened a new 26% ESP servicing facility.
increase in EBITA Internationally, our business in Chad performed well and we are optimistic about further growth.
We increased our Russian operations to support our growing sales, repair and service business.
In the Middle East we are expanding our operations in Oman, Yemen and Egypt, and have set up in Libya.
In Latin America, we delivered good growth from Argentina, where the Pan American contract, announced at the end of last year, provided increased Contribution to Group EBITA activity in the region.
Our activity in Venezuela reduced somewhat but we expanded our Well Support presence in other Latin American markets, especially Colombia, Ecuador and Brazil.
In the Rest of Group Asia Paci c region, a substantial contract award was achieved for offshore ESP applications in the Bohai Bay.
Pressure Control We are a market leader in the provision of surface wellheads and valves to control reservoir pressure.
In 2006, we delivered signi cant growth from both our US and international business.
We are seeing cost savings arising from our improved supply chain and are making further investments in 2007 in our lower cost manufacturing capacity.
In the US, we have a broad based capability and infrastructure in conventional and unconventional production and we are well represented in the very active Barnett Shale area.
In the Gulf Coast region, we are supporting drilling activity and have been carrying out decommissioning work for a number of customers whose equipment was damaged during the 2005 hurricanes.
We also expanded and added new facilities in the Rocky Mountain area to support a number of new customers.
In addition, our Canadian operations are showing good growth.
We opened a research & development and training facility in Houston which is being used to provide training to both customers and employees, as well as providing additional resources to identify improvements in our product offerings.
In Mexico, we have been increasing revenues over recent years, and are now setting up a new facility in Monterrey where we will carry out manufacturing to support the local market as well as our other North American operations.
Key project bene ts to client Improved run life Reduced operating expenses Established relationship following number of long term contracts Firm commitment to local community 30 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Well Support continued During the year, we won a signi cant, five year contract with Saudi Aramco, which will involve setting up a joint venture company in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and establishing a local manufacturing facility.
Elsewhere in the Middle East, we won new contracts in Egypt, 11 % Qatar, Abu Dhabi, Oman, and Yemen.
increase in employees In Australia, we extended our contract with Santos.
In the UK, we had a number of successes in both product sales and eld service operations.
Logging Services We are a market leader in the provision of electric wireline and slickline mechanical services in the Gulf of Mexico and Argentina, and, in 2006, Logging Services performed well in these areas.
High commodity prices ensured strong activity in the US Gulf Coast region.
Both the electric wireline and the slickline mechanical services had a good year and won a range of new contracts including several supporting deepwater elds.
Our electric wireline pipe recovery operations completed one of the deepest stuck drill pipe recovery operations ever recorded in the Gulf of Mexico at 30,650 feet.
We were also awarded work with Anadarko on several deepwater operations, with units now committed to ten drilling rigs.
Several locations were added to our US infrastructure including Alvarado in Texas, Oklahoma City, and Shreveport, Louisiana.
We also invested in new equipment for our Production Testing business and now have a number of active bases operating in Texas.
We introduced high temperature production logging instruments and memory tubing casing callipers.
We also added a third deepwater 30 30 unit, which is capable of working at well depths below 30,000 feet and includes downhole tools that will operate at 30,000 psi bottom hole pressures.
We had a busy year in Venezuela, and were active on Lake Maracaibo, Anaco, Punta fide Mata and San Tome.
Our operations in Argentina continue to perform well and strengthen their position in the market.
