Maintain strong relationships with our major customers, Strategy and Objectives suppliers, government bodies and other stakeholders by investing resources on joint projects to ensure the group Johnson Mattheys strategic intent is to achieve consistent is well positioned for future market development.
growth in earnings by concentrating on the development of high added value products and services in areas where our Continue to invest in Johnson Mattheys employees to expertise provides a competitive edge, particularly in catalysis, ensure they are well trained, motivated and encouraged precious metals, fine chemicals and materials technology.
to meet the challenges of the future.
The groups financial objectives are: In the near term our main focus will be to deliver the major organic growth opportunities we have been investing in To achieve consistent and above average growth in over the last few years.
These include emission controls for new earnings per share.
Over the last ten years Johnson Matthey heavy duty diesel HDD vehicles trucks and buses : further has increased its earnings per share before one-off items opportunities in light duty diesel vehicles including catalysed soot and goodwill amortisation at a compound annual growth filters CSFs : new catalyst technology for hydrogen production rate of 8.7% p. a. see pages 110 and 111. and gas to liquids GTL and new products for Pharmaceutical To grow dividends in line with earnings while maintaining Materials.
We believe the group is particularly well positioned dividend cover at about two and a half times to ensure for organic growth over the next few years.
In the longer term sufficient funds are retained to support organic growth.
fuel cell components remain an exciting market opportunity.
Over the last ten years Johnson Matthey has increased its Our funding policy is to maintain a strong balance sheet dividend at a compound annual growth rate of 7.7% p. a. with conservative gearing and use cash generated to invest in Dividend cover for 2005 06 was 2.42 times.
organic growth and bolt-on acquisitions.
Where cash generated exceeds our investment requirements we will return the To deliver a return on investment above the groups cost money to shareholders either in the form of share buy-backs of capital.
We estimate Johnson Mattheys post tax cost of or special dividends.
The groups post tax return on assets for 2005 06 was 4.0% above that at 12.0%.
We set a pre-tax target of 20% for return on assets ROA for all of our divisions with a minimum threshold Review of Results 2005 06 of being ahead of our cost of capital 11.3% on a pre-tax basis.
Precious Metal Products achieved a return in excess Johnson Matthey achieved good results in 2005 06.
Both Catalysts and Ceramics ROAs earnings per share were up 33%.
Underlying earnings per share were between the cost of capital and the 20% target.
before impairment, restructuring and disposal costs increased Pharmaceutical Materials return fell below the groups cost by 9%.
of capital in 2005 06 but is expected to recover in 2006 07.
Growth in the second half of the year was stronger than In 2005 06 the groups overall pre-tax return was 17.0% the first.
Operating profit for the year, before impairment and see page 20. restructuring costs, rose by 8%, with Catalysts, Precious Metal Products and Ceramics all achieving double digit growth.
The boards strategies to achieve these financial objectives are: Pharmaceutical Materials was down but sales and profits Focus the business on the groups core skills in catalysis, improved in the second half of the year.
precious metals and fine chemicals.
This is the first time Johnson Matthey has reported its full year results under International Financial Reporting Standards Position the group in growth markets where our core skills IFRS.
The impact of the transition from UK GAAP to IFRS are applicable.
Catalysis is a key technology in many was set out in our Report and Accounts for 2005, and is shown developing markets for the 21st century, particularly those on pages 102 to 108 of this report.
concerned with protecting the environment such as in Revenue rose by 3% to 4,756 million.
Catalysts Divisions emission control, cleaner fuel and the hydrogen economy.
sales were well ahead of 2004 05 but sales in Precious Metal Catalysis is also important in the manufacture of active Products Division were down, despite higher metal prices, pharmaceutical ingredients where Johnson Matthey has a reflecting the withdrawal from gold refining in the UK in strong niche position in the growing market of generic pain 2004 05 and lower trading activity in the first half of the year.
killers and other controlled drugs, as well as platinum Sales excluding the value of precious metals rose by 13% based anticancer compounds.
Johnson Mattheys expertise reflecting good underlying growth in Catalysts Division.
and international strength in precious metals, particularly Operating profit, before impairment and restructuring platinum group metals, was the starting point for many of costs, increased by 8% to 234.7 million.
The market for platinum has grown steadily was favourable, increasing profit by 4.0 million compared with for many decades and demand is expected to grow last year.
Interest rose by 1.7 million to 14.7 million reflecting significantly over the next ten years.
the impact of higher short term interest rates in the US.
Profit Differentiate ourselves by using our world class technology.
before tax, impairment and restructuring costs was up 8% at We will continue to invest significantly in research and 219.8 million.
development to develop new products and manufacturing processes.
Technology is the key driver for most of our businesses and Johnson Matthey has a strong science base with technical centres located in all our major markets.
