Board of Directors From left to right: L C Pentz BS ChE, MBA N A P Carson BSc Executive Director, Environmental Catalysts and Technologies, age 51: Chief Executive, age 49: joined Johnson Matthey in 1980: joined Johnson Matthey in 1984: appointed Division Director, appointed Division Director, Catalytic Systems in 1997 after having Process Catalysts and Technologies in 2001 after having held a held senior management positions in the Precious Metals Division series of senior management positions within Catalysts Division as well as Catalytic Systems in both the UK and the US.
Appointed Executive Director, Process Catalysts and Appointed to the board as Managing Director, Catalysts & Technologies in August 2003 and to his current position in July 2004.
Chemicals in August 1999 and additionally assumed board level responsibility for Precious Metals Division in August 2002.
M B Dearden MA Appointed Chief Executive in July 2004.
Currently Chairman, Age 63: appointed a non-executive director in April 1999. Business Taskforce on Sustainable Consumption and Production.
Currently Chairman of Minova International Limited and a nonPreviously a non-executive director of Avon Rubber plc.
executive director of The Weir Group Plc and Travis Perkins plc.
Previously Chief Executive of Castrol International and a main A M Thomson MA, CA board director of Burmah Castrol plc.
A, M, N Age 59: appointed a non-executive director in September 2002.
Currently Finance Director of Smiths Group plc.
He was previously C D Mackay MBA, MA Finance Director of the Rugby Group PLC and a non-executive Age 66: appointed a non-executive director in January 1999. director of Laporte PLC.
Prior to that he had held a succession Currently Chairman of TDG plc, Chairman of the Board of of senior financial positions with Courtaulds, Raychem Ltd. and Trustees of Historic Royal Palaces and a member of the board Rockwell International.
Previously Chairman of the Eurotunnel Group and Group Chief Executive and Deputy Chairman of Inchcape plc.
Sir John Banham Has also served on a number of boards including those of Chairman, age 65: joined Johnson Matthey as Chairman Designate in HSBC Holdings plc, British Airways plc, Gucci Group NV and January 2006: appointed Chairman on 1st April 2006.
A, M, N Chairman of Spacelabs Healthcare Inc. and the Senior Independent Director of Amvescap PLC and Cyclacel Pharmaceuticals Inc.
He was J N Sheldrick MA, MSc, FCMA, FCT previously a director at McKinsey & Company, the first Controller of Group Finance Director, age 56: joined Johnson Matthey as the Audit Commission and is a former Director General of the Executive Director, Finance in September 1990 and assumed Confederation of British Industry.
Previously a director of National current job title in September 1995.
Previously Group Treasurer Power and National Westminster Bank, and Chairman of Tarmac plc, of The BOC Group plc and a non-executive director of API Kingfisher plc, Geest plc, Whitbread PLC and Cyclacel Plc.
Currently a non-executive director of GKN plc.
D W Morgan MA, ACA Executive Director, Group Corporate Development, age 48: joined Johnson Matthey in 1988 as a Division Finance Director.
Appointed an executive director in August 1999.
Responsible for the groups corporate development activities and legal and secretarial affairs.
In addition, assumed board level responsibility for Colours & Coatings Division and the companys central research activities in August 2002.
Following the restructuring of Colours & Coatings Division is now responsible for Ceramics Division.
Currently a member of the International Advisory Board - Johnson Matthey of Conduit Ventures Limited.
