Operating and Financial Review Customer Market Dynamics global purchasing activities to obtain the best possible prices and uses hedging and other contractual means where appropriate to The group sells products to manufacturers who in turn use minimise this risk and to benefit where possible.
these products to serve a diverse range of end markets.
The groups performance is therefore impacted by the dynamics of Credit Risk its customers end markets and their performance within these markets.
A significant loss of market share at or by a major Within certain divisions, the group derives a significant proportion automotive customer could negatively impact the groups of its revenue from sales to major customers.
The group also has exposure to the wider automotive customers are frequently high if the value of precious metals is sector as a whole which is served by a number of the groups included in the price.
The failure of any such company to divisions.
While global car production levels have some effect honour its debts could materially impact the groups results.
on the sales of Johnson Mattheys products, other factors such Johnson Matthey derives significant benefit from trading as tightening emissions legislation and the increasing technical with its large customers and manages the risk at many levels.
demands from catalysts play a more significant role.
Each business and division has a credit committee that regularly Another key end market is for pharmaceutical products, monitors its exposure.
The Audit Committee receives a report with Pharmaceutical Materials providing materials used in the every six months that details all significant credit limits, amounts manufacture of controlled drugs and anticancer pharmaceuticals.
due and amounts significantly overdue within the group and the Johnson Mattheys performance is influenced both by growth in relevant actions being taken.
As at 31st March 2006, no single these markets and by the market share of its key customers.
outstanding balance exceeded 2% of the groups market Risks are mitigated by monitoring both industry capitalisation.
developments and market share at customers to prevent the group from becoming unduly dependent on any single customer.
Resources Competitor Risk The group operates in highly competitive markets.
Significant Johnson Matthey has significant resources to support its core product innovations, technical advances or the intensification of businesses.
These have been built up over many years and price competition could all adversely affect the groups results.
support the groups competitive position in the key markets Johnson Matthey invests significant resources in research and which the group serves.
Johnson Matthey continues to invest in development in order to ensure the introduction of both new all the areas listed below to maintain its leading market positions.
products and improved production processes to allow the group to be at the forefront of its chosen markets.
The group Employees also continually works to streamline its cost base to ensure it remains competitive.
Johnson Mattheys most important resource is its people.
We have a highly qualified workforce with many of our employees having trained in science and technology.
We employ a high Litigation and Investigations proportion of PhDs not only in our research centres but also in The group is subject to a broad range of laws, regulations and many different management positions throughout the company.
standards in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
Johnson Matthey has a low staff turnover see pages 31 and 32, Failure to comply properly with these laws, regulations and with many employees staying with the company for their whole standards could significantly damage the reputation and careers.
We place great emphasis on recruitment and training performance of Johnson Matthey.
and our policies in these areas are set out on page 31.
Regular internal reviews are undertaken to assess compliance with local and group policies, and provisions are made to rectify or Research & Development compensate for any breaches.
In the ordinary course of business, Johnson Matthey is subject to inspections and monitoring by One of the groups strategies is to differentiate ourselves by certain regulatory or enforcement bodies and by the quality using our world class technology.
We invest significantly in departments of some of its major customers.
If existing research and development to develop new products and provisions are inadequate to cover any liabilities arising from such manufacturing processes.
We have a group technology centre investigations this could materially impact the groups results.
located at Sonning Common in the UK which is focused on longer term research and has a worldwide reputation for excellence in catalysis and precious metals technology.
In Energy and Raw Materials addition we have major research centres at Royston, Billingham The groups products contain a broad array of raw materials and and Stockton-on-Tees in the UK located close to some of its operations require significant levels of energy, notably electricity our major businesses.
Worldwide we have technical centres in and natural gas.
Any increases or volatility in prices and any many countries including the US, Japan, Sweden, the Netherlands significant decrease in the availability of energy or raw materials and Italy.
could affect the groups results.
Johnson Matthey coordinates its Johnson Mattheys R&D activities are described in more detail on pages 15 to 17.
- Johnson Matthey 24 Patents and Know-how Market Position and Reputation Many of the inventions and intellectual property developed as a Johnson Matthey is generally ranked number one or two in the result of our investment in R&D are patented, and we maintain major markets in which it operates.
The group is a world leader a large number of families of patents to support our businesses.
in catalysis and precious metals which provides a strong basis Equally important is know-how where the group has an for future development.
The company started in 1817 and has extensive knowledge base, particularly in the areas of catalysis a worldwide reputation in the precious metals industry for and precious metals, which can be used to develop new technical expertise and integrity.
Our semi-annual publication products and services to meet customer needs.
Platinum is acknowledged to be the most comprehensive source of information on the platinum industry.
We also publish the Platinum Metals Review, a leading journal of scientific Commercial Relationships research on the platinum group metals.
Many of our businesses provide products and services to other companies and we have developed close working relationships with many of our customers and work in collaboration with them to develop new products.
We also have a long standing relationship with Anglo Platinum, the worlds largest platinum miner, which has lasted for many decades.
Through this relationship Johnson Matthey and Anglo Platinum have developed new markets for platinum group metals which have supported the expansion of the platinum industry over many years.
Manufacturing Technology Over the last decade the group has invested heavily in new manufacturing capacity and technology.
Capital expenditure has run at a high multiple of depreciation see page 20.
As a result of this investment the group has developed an infrastructure of modern facilities located close to our major markets around the world.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 - 25 Operating and Financial Review Above: Process catalysts used in the manufacture of hydrogen, methanol and ammonia.
Left: Fine precious metal chemicals.
Right: Ceramics Divisions new energy efficient facility at Vall dAlba, Spain.
