Board of Directors From left to right: R G Parry Non-Executive Chairman 53 Joined the Board in 1997.
H C M Johnston Non-Executive 60 Non-Executive Chairman of Future plc, Mobile Streams plc and Joined the Board in 1971.
Former Managing Director YouGov plc.
Chairman at Shakespeares Globe Trust.
Johnston Falkirk Ltd. rparry@johnstonpress.
co. uk F P M Johnston, CBE Non-Executive 71 S J Waugh Non-Executive 49 Joined the Board in 1959.
Former Managing Director and Joined the Board in 2003.
Chairman of Remuneration Chairman of the Group.
Former Non-Executive Director of the Committee.
Group Chief Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust plc and Lloyds TSB Scotland Executive of AWD plc.
Director of ISBA, Life Fellow of plc.
Former President of the Newspaper Society.
Marketing Society and Institute of Direct Marketing.
co. uk P R Cooper, ACA Company Secretary 50 P E B Cawdron Non-Executive 63 Appointed Company Secretary in 1996.
Former Joined the Board in 1998.
Finance Director of Yorkshire Weekly Newspaper Group Limited.
Member of Remuneration and rcooper@johnstonpress.
Former Group Strategy Development Director of Grand Metropolitan PLC.
Chairman of GCap Media Lord Gordon of Strathblane, CBE Non-Executive 70 plc and Punch Taverns plc.
Non-Executive Director of Capita Joined the Board in 1996.
Group plc and Prostrakan Group plc.
Former Chairman of Scottish Radio Holdings plc.
co. uk Executive Director of Active Capital Trust plc.
Former Chairman of the Scottish Tourist Board and a member of the Scottish Development Agency.
co. uk 34 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 L F Hinton Non-Executive 63 I S M Russell, CBE, Non-Executive 54 Joined the Board in 2005.
Executive Chairman of News Joined the Board in 2007.
Member of the Audit Committee.
Member of the News Corporation Executive Former Chief Executive and Finance Director of Scottish Power Committee.
Director of the Press Association in Britain and plc.
Director of JP Morgan Fleming Mercantile Trust plc and Chairman of the Newspaper and Magazine Publishing Industrys Business in the Community Ltd.
co. uk S R Paterson, MA, CA Chief Financial Officer 49 D Cammiade Chief Operating Officer 46 Joined the Board in 2001.
Former Finance Joined the Board in 2005.
Joined the Group in 1992 through Director of Aggreko plc.
Non-Executive Director of Devro plc and its acquisition of TR Beckett Ltd.
Appointed Managing Director of Mirago plc.
West Sussex County Times Ltd in 1994 and held various spaterson@johnstonpress.
co. uk Divisional Managing Director roles until appointed Director of Operations in 2001.
Chairman of the Newspaper Society M A King Non-Executive 46 Marketing Committee.
Member of the Remuneration and dcammiade@johnstonpress.
Former Managing Director, Country Operations Europe, at Yahoo!
UK Ltd. Non-Executive Director of T J Bowdler, CBE, BSc, MBA Chief Executive Officer 59 Capita Group plc, IMD plc and Princes Trust Trading Board.
Former Managing Director of Cape Chairman of Radio Advertising Bureau.
Architectural & Building Products Ltd, a division of Cape plc.
co. uk Non-Executive Director of The Miller Group Ltd and The Press Association Ltd. Chairman of the Press Standards Board of Finance.
co. uk Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 35
