B U S I N E S S R E v I E w K A Z AK HM YS PLC 09 ANNUAL REPORT 2 0 0 6 REpoR t BY thE IN DEpEN DENt DIREc toRS This report sets out the background to the call option CUrrenT PosiTion of The indePendenT that has been granted to the Company in respect of direCTors Mr Kims 25% shareholding in ENRC Kazakhstan In the course of the past year, ENRC has undergone Holding B. V. EKH, and the current position of the a significant restructuring as part of its own efforts to independent Directors in respect of the exercise of simplify its group structure, as ENRCs management this option.
considers options for the strategic direction of the business, including the possibility of an Initial Public baCKgroUnd To The ComPanys Call Offering.
Following this restructuring, certain minority oPTion in eKh interests have been eliminated with the result that EKH Early in 2006, the Company was given the opportunity has a 75.5% direct interest in ENRC, with the remaining to acquire a 25% shareholding in EKH, the holding shares held by the Government of Kazakhstan.
Taking company of the Eurasia Natural Resources groups account of the Governments shareholding in ENRC, metals and mining business ENRC, which operates in Mr Kims stake in EKH gives him an approximate 18.9% Kazakhstan producing, in particular, chrome, iron ore, economic interest in the underlying assets of ENRC.
With the consent and cooperation of EKH, production When this opportunity arose, ENRC was in the process and financial information in respect of ENRC has been of a significant restructuring, and the complexity of the made available to the Company.
The Companys group structure meant that adequate due diligence advisers are in the advanced stages of performing could not have been undertaken in the time available valuation work on ENRC using this information and for the Board to reach a decision on such an acquisition.
the results of an independent technical review.
The independent Directors of the Board therefore concluded that it would be not be appropriate for the The independent Directors have made good progress Company to acquire a stake in EKH at that stage as in considering the information which has been made further work was required to consider whether this available to the Company.
The independent Directors would be in the interests of all shareholders.
also have reviewed the results of valuation work being undertaken on the Companys behalf, and requested To avoid losing the opportunity of acquiring a that this be finalised as soon as practical.
meaningful stake in EKH, Mr Kim offered to acquire the interest on his own account but with the proviso When the independent Directors judge that it is that such an interest could be transferable to the appropriate and in the best interests of all shareholders Company at a future date.
The independent Directors to exercise the call option, the independent Directors of the Board gave permission to Mr Kim to acquire this will make a recommendation to shareholders in stake through his own company on the basis that the accordance with the related party rules relevant to the Company would be given the benefit of a call option Company.
A positive recommendation made by the in respect of his shareholding in EKH.
The terms of the independent Directors would require the approval call option are set out in note 34 c on page 119.
As of the independent shareholders at an extraordinary required by the Listing Rules, the exercise of the option general meeting.
An announcement setting out the will be dependent on the terms of the option being conclusions of the independent Directors will be determined by independent advisers to be fair and made in due course.
reasonable so far as the remaining shareholders of the Company are concerned.
PhiliP aiKen simon heale lord renwiCK James rUTland INDEpENDENt NoN-ExEcUtIvE DIREctoRS 10 K A Z AK HM YS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2 0 0 6 coMMIt tED to tR AININg AND fide vElopMENt B U S I N E S S R E v I E w K A Z AK HM YS PLC 11 ANNUAL REPORT 2 0 0 6 Training and development is a key priority in professional skills.
In 2006, training for achieving the Groups goals and in ensuring managers and supervisors in incident that all employees perform to their highest investigation and root cause analysis was potential.
To this end, we give our employees undertaken as part of a programme to develop the opportunity to participate in training and a culture in which all incidents of injury at work development in the fields of technology, are regarded as preventable.
mining, safety, further education and
