02 K A Z AK HM YS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2 0 0 6 Coal mining v ER tIc AllY INtEgR AtED We are a vertically integrated business from mining to refining.
We process all the ore we mine, produce substantially Power generaTing all the copper concentrate we process, and generate all the electricity we need mining 1 9 ConCenTraTing The Group owns a total of 19 copper producing mines, 14 underground and five open pit, producing 39,240 kt of ore KT 383 TransPorTaTion The Group produced 383 kt of copper concentrate from its nine concentrators smelTing and refining KT 4 05 The Group produced 405 kt of copper cathode excluding tolling from its smelting and refining facilities fabriCaTing KM 1, 100 The Group owns and maintains approximately 1,100 km of railways B U S I N E S S S U M M A R Y K A Z AK HM YS PLC 03 ANNUAL REPORT 2 0 0 6 Our two coal mines, located at Borly, produce enough In 2006, we produced 7.3 MT of coal, approximately coal to supply the heat and power plants at Karaganda, 90% of which was used by the Group.
Coal is Zhezkazgan and Balkhash as well as generating power transported to our power plants using our own for external customers.
In total, they have combined railway system.
Our principal power plant is located in the Karaganda In 2006, the Group produced 6,589 GWh of electricity, Region and runs on coal from the Borly mines.
the majority of which was used internally.
It supplies electricity to the Zhezkazgan and Balkhash The coal-fired power and heating plants at the Complexes through the national grid on a credit Zhezkazgan and Balkhash Complexes supplement system, enabling us to use our own power effectively the electricity provided by the main plant and also whilst paying only the cost of transmission.
produce hot water for local heating.
Our mining activities are focused on extracting copper, Our mines employ a variety of extraction methods with zinc, gold and silver being valuable by-products including: produced in the process.
We operate both underground and open pit mines, Trackless equipment using caving.
and the mineral reserves and resources of these mines Sublevel caving.
are sufficient to support projected production for at Room-and-pillar.
We have concentrators at most mining sites where we Copper concentrate is then pumped or sent by rail process the mined ore to produce copper concentrate.
to the smelters for further processing.
It is a two-stage process of crushing and grinding ore and then separating the copper containing minerals from barren rock by flotation.
Most of our raw materials and products are transported We own and maintain approximately 1,100 km of by Group owned and national rail lines.
railway infrastructure, which is linked to Kazakhstans main national rail trunk lines, and transports products Mined ore is transported by rail from the mines to the to China and Russia.
The Group owns over 100 concentrators and then to the smelters for the next locomotives and 1,500 wagons.
The smelting process refines the copper concentrate Gold and silver slimes and zinc concentrate are all using electric smelting furnaces and autogenous bath by-products of this stage of the process.
then refined using other Group facilities.
We operate an electro-refinery where anodes are Our smelters and copper refineries treat most of suspended in solution to produce copper cathode our copper concentrate as well as concentrate by electrolysis in the second stage of the process.
Our fabricating facilities at our operations in MKM sources its copper requirements from outside Kazakhstan and MKM, our German subsidiary, the Group.
These products are used for various applications, notably in the construction, automotive, aviation and general engineering industries.
