B U S I N E S S R E v I E w K A Z AK HM YS PLC 19 ANNUAL REPORT 2 0 0 6 sales volUmes and exChange raTes MK M ProdUCT mix A substantial proportion of Profitability of MKM is dependent operating costs of MKM are on the volume of sales which the denominated in euros, whilst the business can achieve, as well as the majority of its revenues and metal product mix of those sales.
Strong input within costs of sales are sales growth of higher margin linked to US dollar denominated Sales volumes and products benefits the absolute copper prices.
Expenses of MKM profitability of the business, as well may therefore increase or decrease product mix as giving rise to higher margins.
relative to its revenues as a result of fluctuations in exchange rates, Market competition marKeT ComPeTiTion thereby affecting the profitability Production costs and The market in which MKM of the business in US dollar terms.
operates is mature, with several efficiency large competitors.
Price pressure in key market segments impacts the Exchange rates price which MKM can negotiate with its customers, thereby impacting its margin.
ProdUCTion CosTs and effiCienCy Profitability of MKM is dependent on its ability to control its operating costs and improve the efficiency of its production processes.
By utilising unused production capacity and developing the proprietary technology of the ContiM process, it is planned that production costs per unit will reduce.
These reductions should improve the overall profitability of the business in absolute terms, as well as improving margins.
20 K A Z AK HM YS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2 0 0 6 focUSINg oN fUtURE gRow th YEVGENIY ARNOLBIK, ASSISTANT LOCOMOTIVE ENGINEER B U S I N E S S R E v I E w K A Z AK HM YS PLC 21 ANNUAL REPORT 2 0 0 6 Against a background of growing demand in identified.
Ore from the mine is sent to key markets, our actions have kept to a clear the Karagaily concentrator and the concentrate business plan for future growth.
In 2006, mining is then transported along part of our 1,100 km works commenced at the open pit Kosmurun railway network in custom-made locomotives mine, where ore reserves containing an and wagons to our smelters and refineries at estimated 624 kt of copper have been the Balkhash Complex.
