S TAT U TO R Y R E P O R T S K A Z AK HM YS PLC 57 ANNUAL REPORT 2 0 0 6 DiREc TORS REPOR T The Directors have pleasure in presenting their Annual Report, DiviDenD together with the audited Financial Statements, for the year The Board recommends the payment of a final dividend of ended 31 December 2006.
25.7 US cents per ordinary share 2005: 36.0 US cents.
If approved, the dividend will be paid on 14 May 2007 to shareholders on the A perspective of the Group is given on pages 1 to 5, and details register at the close of business on 13 April 2007.
An interim of the Companys subsidiary undertakings principally affecting dividend of 12.8 US cents per share was paid on 27 October the profits or net assets of the Group are indicated in note 46 2006.
Shareholders may elect to receive their dividends in UK on page 123.
Analyses of revenues, gross profit and financial pounds sterling by completing a currency election form available performance of the Group are shown in note 4 on pages 88 to from the Companys registrars.
These pages, together with the Chairmans Statement on pages 6 and 7 and the sections of the Annual Report referred share capital to below under Business Review and Other Information, form The Companys authorised share capital as at 31 December 2006 part of this Directors Report.
was 150 million comprising 750 million ordinary shares of 20 pence each.
The Companys issued share capital as at that date The Corporate Governance Report on pages 60 to 65 is was 467,474,200 ordinary shares of 20 pence, each credited as submitted by the Board, and the Directors Remuneration fully paid.
Further details of the Companys authorised and Report on pages 66 to 70 to shareholders by the Remuneration issued share capital are shown in note 25 on pages 108 and 109.
Committee on behalf of the Board.
A statement of the responsibilities of the Directors for the preparation of the The Company was authorised by shareholders at the 2006 annual financial statements is given on page 71. general meeting to purchase its own shares in the market up to a maximum of 10% of the issued share capital.
This authority will Business review expire at the 2007 Annual General Meeting and a resolution to The review of the Groups business, details of key performance renew it for a further year will be proposed.
No shares were indicators and the description of the principal risks and purchased during the year.
uncertainties facing the Group, prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985, comprises pages 1 to 5 and the suBstantial sharehOlDings Business Review of this Annual Report.
As at 11 March 2007, the Company had been notified of the following interests of 3% or more in its ordinary share capital: Other infOrmatiOn Percentage Other information relevant to the Directors Report may of total Number ordinary share be found in the following sections of this Annual Report of ordinary capital held and Accounts: shares of as at 20 pence 11 March Information Location in Annual Report and Accounts Name of holder each held 2007 Environmental matters Corporate Responsibility Report Cuprum Holding B. V. 135,944,325 29.08 Health and safety matters Corporate Responsibility Report Harper Finance Limited 101,470,900 21.71 Community issues Corporate Responsibility Report Perry Partners S. A.
21,503,813 4.60 Names of Directors Board of Directors section Mellow Fields Limited 21,056,314 4.50 Directors interests in shares Directors Remuneration Report 1 Combined Code compliance Vladimir Kim holds a 100% interest in Cuprum Holding B. V. and Perry Partners S. A. and a 50% interest in Harper Finance Limited.
statement Corporate Governance Report 2 Oleg Novachuk holds a 44.94% interest in Harper Finance Limited.
Statement of Directors 3 Yong Keu Cha holds a 100% interest in Mellow Fields Limited.
Responsibilities Page 71 No disclosures of major shareholdings have been made to the Company pursuant to the requirements of the Financial Services Authority Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5. relatiOnship agreement In September 2005, Cuprum Holding B. V. Perry Partners S. A. Harper Finance Limited, Vladimir Kim, Yong Keu Cha and Oleg Novachuk and the Company entered into a relationship agreement to regulate the ongoing relationship between them.
The principal purpose of the relationship agreement is to ensure that the Group is capable of carrying on its business for the benefit of the shareholders of the Company as a whole.
58 K A Z AK HM YS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2 0 0 6 DiREc TORS REPOR T continued annual general meeting The Company purchases and maintains liability insurance for its The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held at 12.15 pm Directors and officers as permitted by the Companies Act 1985. on Wednesday 9 May 2007 at Claridges the Ballroom entrance, Brook Street, Mayfair, London W1K 4HR.
Details of the meeting emplOyees venue and the resolutions to be proposed, together with The Group continues to develop and maintain policies for all explanatory notes, are set out in a separate Notice of Meeting aspects of employment, the overall objective being to optimise which accompanies this Annual Report and Accounts.
performance through recruitment and retention of effective, well motivated people in every sector of its business.
The Company will continue its policy of providing details of proxy voting at each annual general meeting.
These will be Each operating company has responsibility for designing human provided after the meeting on the Companys website resources policies appropriate to their country of origin which www.
attract, retain and motivate the highest quality of staff.
To this end, Kazakhmys LLC employees have individual employment DirectOrs agreements which cover, among other matters, base The Directors of the Company during the year were as shown remuneration.
Kazakhmys LLC also negotiates collective on pages 54 and 55, together with Yong Keu Cha who stood employment agreements, which primarily cover social benefits, down as a Director on 31 December 2006.
Details of Directors with representatives of its union that represents substantially interests in shares can be found in the Directors Remuneration all of the employees.
In Germany, employees are represented Report on page 70. by a works council and approximately 60% of employees are members of the IG Metall union.
The Group contributes to a Apart from Vladimir Kims interest in a call option given to the defined contribution pension scheme in Germany and the Company in March 2006 over a 25% stake in ENRC Kazakhstan Groups pension scheme in Kazakhstan is utilised by its Holding B. V. held by a company wholly owned by him see note employees to contribute the required amounts under 34 on page 119, during the year no Director had any interest in Kazakhstan law.
any shares or debentures of the Companys subsidiaries, or any material interests in any contract with the Company or a During the last four years, the Group has not experienced any subsidiary being a contract of significance in relation to the strike that has significantly affected its business activities.
Kazakhmys is committed to promoting diversity across the Philip Aiken and Simon Heale, who retire having been appointed Group, both in recognition of the inherent value of diversity since the last Annual General Meeting, together with David and to ensure Kazakhmys businesses reflect the diversity of Munro, who retires following his appointment as an executive the local population.
To this end, Kazakhmys is committed Director having previously been a non-executive Director, offer to providing equal opportunity in recruitment, promotion, themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General career development, training and reward to all employees Meeting.
As explained in the service agreement paragraph on without discrimination and continues to be supportive of the page 68, David Munro has a fixed term service agreement employment of disabled persons in accordance with their terminating on 1 October 2008.
Neither Philip Aiken nor Simon abilities and aptitudes, provided that they can be employed Heale have a service agreement.
DirectOrs inDemnity Further comment on employment issues is contained on As permitted by the Companies Act 1985 and the Companys page 52. articles of association, the Company has granted rolling indemnities to its Directors, uncapped in amount, in relation to creDitOr payment pOlicy certain losses and liabilities which may include incurred defence It is the Companys policy that payments to suppliers are made costs to third parties which they may incur in the course of in accordance with the terms and conditions agreed between acting as directors of the Company or any of its associated the Company and its suppliers, provided that all relevant trading companies.
In addition, the Company has agreed to provide terms and conditions have been complied with.
the Directors with funds to meet expenditure to be incurred in defending any criminal or civil proceedings but on the basis that The average creditor payment period for the year ended the funds will become repayable if the Director is convicted in 31 December 2006 for the Company was 6.4 days 2005: the proceedings or if judgment is given against the Director.
The Board also believes that the provision of appropriate pOst Balance sheet events indemnities and the funding of Directors defence costs On 7 March 2007, the Company entered into an agreement to as permitted by the Companies Act 1985 are reasonable acquire Dostan-Temir LLP, a Kazakhstan-based company, which protections for the Directors and are important to ensure holds the right to sign the contract to explore further for oil and that the Company continues to be able to attract and retain gas in the East Akzhar Exploration Block in Western Kazakhstan.
the highest calibre individuals as Directors.
The transaction represents the Groups first entry into the petroleum sector, in line with its stated strategy to seek growth The indemnity is categorised as a qualifying third-party opportunities across natural resources within Kazakhstan and indemnity for the purposes of the Companies Act 1985 the region.
and will continue in force for the benefit of Directors on an ongoing basis.
S TAT U TO R Y R E P O R T S K A Z AK HM YS PLC 59 ANNUAL REPORT 2 0 0 6 market value Of lanD anD BuilDings auDitOrs Land is carried in the balance sheet at deemed cost resulting Having reviewed the independence and effectiveness of the from a revaluation, which was undertaken as at 1 January 2002 auditors, the Audit Committee has recommended to the Board as part of the Groups transition to reporting under IFRS.
It is that the existing auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, be reappointed.
not practical to estimate the market value of land and mineral Ernst & Young LLP have indicated their willingness to continue reserves and resources at each balance sheet date.
in office and ordinary resolutions reappointing them as auditors and authorising the Directors to set their remuneration will be pOlitical anD charitaBle DOnatiOns proposed at the 2007 Annual General Meeting.
The Group did not give any money for political purposes in the United Kingdom nor did it make any donations to EU political By order of the Board organisations or incur any EU political expenditure during the year.
The Group made charitable donations of $4.4 million matthew hirD during the year 2005: $4 million.
Further details of payments cOmPAnY SEcRETARY for charitable purposes made during the year are given on 14 March 2007 page 53. pOlicy On Derivatives anD financial instruments The Groups objectives and policies on financial risk management, and information on the Groups exposures to foreign currency, credit, commodity, price, liquidity and interest rate risks can be found in note 32 on page 113. auDit infOrmatiOn The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and that each Director has taken all reasonable steps to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
