Directors report Business review Kate Avery and Ed Anderson were appointed as The directors present A review of the development and performance non executive directors on 1 June 2005.
Each their report for the year director continues to hold office at the date of of the business of the group, including the to 31 March 2006. this report.
Derek Roberts and Ken Jackson retired financial performance during the year, key performance indicators and a description of as non executive directors on 30 September the principal risks and uncertainties facing the 2005.
Biographical details of each director are Results and dividends set out on page 30 of this Annual Report.
group, are set out in the business review section The group commenced of this Annual Report on pages 6 to 16.
The In accordance with article 105 of the companys reporting under IFRS with effect purpose of the Annual Report is to provide articles of association, Christopher Fisher and information to the members of the company.
The profit Martin Towers will retire at the forthcoming The Annual Report contains certain forwardattributable to shareholders for annual general meeting and will offer looking statements with respect to the themselves for re-election.
The evaluation of the the year was 174.1m.
After operations, performance and financial condition board, as described on page 35, concluded that of the group.
By their nature, these statements dividends totalling 109.4m, each of the directors offering themselves for reinvolve uncertainty since future events and 64.7m was transferred to the election continue to demonstrate commitment circumstances can cause results to differ from to their particular roles, and perform effectively.
Nothing in this Annual Report Their re-election is recommended by the board.
should be construed as a profit forecast.
Details of the terms of Christopher Fishers The directors recommend a appointment, and of Martin Towers service Principal activities final dividend of 21.60p per agreement appear on page 39.
The principal activities of the group are the share to be paid on 25 August supply of clean water and the treatment and Details of the terms of all the directors service 2006 to those shareholders disposal of waste water.
Yorkshire Water Services agreements and letters of appointment appear in the remuneration report on page 39.
Additional Limited Yorkshire Water, the groups regulated on the register at the close utility business in the UK, is responsible for information relating to directors who served of business on 4 August 2006. both water and waste water services.
Aquarion during the year, including remuneration and An interim dividend of 8.75p Company, the groups US subsidiary, includes interests in the companys shares is contained on pages 40 to 42.
The details of directors interests per share was paid on the US regulated water supply businesses in the in the companys shares form part of this report.
states of Connecticut, New York, Massachusetts 6 January 2006. and New Hampshire and the non-regulated water and waste water contract operations Disclosure of information to the auditor The total dividend for the year business.
The groups other businesses are As at the date of this report, as far as each the UK non-regulated water and waste water director is aware there is no relevant audit will amount to 30.35p per services business and KeyLand Developments information of which the companys auditor share 2005: 29.00p.
Limited, a company which primarily develops is unaware and each director has taken such surplus property assets of Yorkshire Water.
steps as he or she should have taken as a director in order to make him or herself Acquisitions and disposals aware of any relevant audit information and On 24 February 2006 the company entered to establish that the companys auditor is aware of that information.
into a conditional agreement to sell Aquarion Company to Macquarie Bank Limited for $625m plus the assumption of external debt.
The sale Corporate social responsibility is conditional upon regulatory approvals which There are group policies for the environment, are expected to be given in late 2006.
The health and safety and human resources, as well sale does not include the small businesses of as a code of ethics.
Aquarion Services and Aquarion Operation The internal control processes described on Services, which comprises the contract operations page 37 take account of social, environmental business of Aquarion.
In addition, the board receives information as part of the normal reporting Directors process to identify and assess such significant The following directors held office throughout risks where they are relevant to the nature of the year: John Napier, chairman: Kevin Whiteman, the companys business.
Further details are chief executive: Martin Towers, group finance included in the following sections of this report director: Christopher Fisher, David Salkeld and and in the corporate social responsibility section Richard Schmidt, non executive directors.
Kelda Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 31 Directors report Employees and employment policies Yorkshire and Humberside Age Positive Employer ensures that health and safety issues are The group strives to create a positive working Award in 2006.
The groups commitment regularly discussed within each team in the to positive action towards applicants with water and waste water business units.
environment for all colleagues and places great disabilities has been recognised with the emphasis on open two way communications.
It By the nature of accidents, there can be no values involvement at all levels, recognising that double tick accreditation from the UK guarantee that they will never occur.
However, everyone in the business is a potential source employment service.
the measures taken by the company are of innovation and change.
Internal consultation The group provides a wide range of development intended to place emphasis on prevention and and communication processes provide the key opportunities, including in-house and accredited continuing vigilance.
Yorkshire Water has been to this involvement, and play a large part in programmes to help employees develop the awarded a National Safety Award from the achieving our vision to be a great place to work.
necessary skills, knowledge, values and experience British Safety Council and a Gold Award for to realise their performance potential.
Occupational Safety from the Royal Society for The company promotes freedom of association, principally through its diversity strategy and the Prevention of Accidents for its health and through collective bargaining arrangements Health and safety safety performance during 2005 06. with UNISON and GMB, the recognised trade The company is committed to achieving high unions.
In those parts of the group where union health and safety standards throughout its Environment and community representation is low, wider franchise is achieved businesses.
The management of health and The environmental policy of the company through involving workforce representatives safety issues operates in the context of the recognises that a sustainable water and waste on joint working parties or works council health and safety policy adopted by the board water business is dependent on environmentally type arrangements.
and the system of internal control.
It is, therefore, committed to integrating environmental best practice and The company communications strategy is The group has established a framework of continuous improvement in environmental based on a face to face first approach and policy procedural requirements by which all performance through the efficient, effective and all messages are delivered through two way subsidiaries must have in place appropriate proper conduct of its business.
channels, including regular talk back sessions health and safety policies and procedures and with senior management.
The company provide necessary information, instruction, Environmental performance is reported through magazine Connections is distributed throughout training and supervision.
In addition, the the companys web based environment and the business and aims to provide business news company provides occupational health, safety community report which is regularly updated through the eyes of the companys people.
and welfare advisory services for employees.
This can be viewed The magazine has won 17 Communicators in at www.
Specific health and safety goals are also set Business Awards since 1998. by individual businesses.
These goals differ The company contributes actively to the Regular employee satisfaction surveys are depending on the business and include a communities which it serves.
It encourages and undertaken across the group, using a variety of combination of reductions of accidents and supports colleagues in volunteering, charitable survey tools including telephone based, online working time lost as a result of accidents, giving and community involvement.
One in five and paper based surveys.
training delivery, internal safety audits and employees is active in a wide range of company health promotion and surveillance programmes.
These include A total reward approach is taken to salary and a Speakers Panel and support to local education benefits which are designed to be competitive.
Senior management awareness and active ranging from Right to Read in junior schools The groups sharesave scheme, which has a high involvement in health and safety is fundamental through to coaching at senior schools, and level of participation at all levels in the business, to company success.
A pilot scheme is being mentoring university students from diverse and pay for performance arrangements operated in Yorkshire Waters waste water ethnic backgrounds.
business unit to promote an enhanced health provide an opportunity for all employees to share in the success of the business.
and safety culture and improve awareness and Charitable and political contributions behaviour in relation to health and safety issues.
The groups equality and diversity, open to all, Charitable contributions totalling 0.5m policy covers gender, marital status, parental Consultation with all employees via area and 2005: 0.5m were made during the year.
status, sexual orientation, race, colour, ethnic or functional health and safety forum groups No political donations were made.
national origin, disability, age, religion or belief and safety committees is actively encouraged.
Having achieved Where possible, the intent is for local health and Research and development bronze standard in Race for Opportunitys safety issues to be discussed and resolved with During the year 4.0m 2005: 3.6m was annual benchmarking in 2004, Yorkshire Water line management.
In Yorkshire Water there are committed to research and development benchmarked again in 2005 and was awarded 84 appointed health and safety champions who including 3.1m 2005: 2.7m on fixed assets.
silver standard for its race and diversity work alongside the Trade Union safety Research and development activities were performance.
Yorkshire Water also received the representatives and line management.
This Kelda Group plc 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 primarily directed towards improving the Major shareholdings performance and efficiency of Yorkshire Waters As at 23 May 2006 the company had been assets and operations.
notified of the following interests amounting to 3% or more of the companys issued ordinary Purchase of own shares share capital: At the forthcoming annual general meeting, the Barclays Plc 5.13% company will be seeking to renew the authority Prudential Assurance Company Limited 4.76% to purchase up to 10% of its ordinary shares.
Legal & General Group Plc Companies 3.0% Authority was previously granted at the annual general meeting in 2005 in respect of 10% of Annual general meeting the companys issued ordinary share capital but The notice convening the companys 2006 expires at the close of the forthcoming annual annual general meeting to be held at the Leeds general meeting.
During 2005 06 the company Marriott Hotel on 25 July 2006 at 11am is set purchased for cancellation 9,290,000 ordinary out in a separate document issued to shares at a cost of 72.9m, amounting to shareholders.
approximately 2.5% of its ordinary shares.
At the end of the period under review, the By order of the board authority granted at the annual general meeting in 2005 remained valid in respect of Philip Hudson 28,276,039 ordinary shares.
It is the companys Group company secretary intention to complete the purchase of up to 24 May 2006 a further 2.5% of its ordinary shares in the coming year.
Registered office: Western House Auditor Halifax Road A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP Bradford BD6 2SZ as the companys auditor and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration will Registered in England be proposed at the forthcoming annual general No.
Details of the group policy designed to safeguard the independence and objectivity of the external auditor are included in the corporate governance section of this report on page 36.
Payment terms to suppliers The companys normal terms are to make payment in accordance with suppliers terms of trade or within 30 days from the receipt of services or invoices subject to satisfactory performance by the supplier.
Kelda Group plc is a holding company and, at 31 March 2006, had no trade creditors outstanding.
The payment terms of individual operating subsidiaries are disclosed in their accounts.
Kelda Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 33
