Corporate Social Responsibility How we go about our business Kelda Group plc was ranked 24th in this years Top 100 Companies that Count report produced by the independent charity, Business in the Community BitC.
Loop has now featured in the Sunday Times 100 This was a rise of 19 places on the previous Yorkshire Water has a record Best Companies to Work for in the UK for 3 year and clearly underlines our commitment consecutive years.
of engagement with the to corporate social responsibility and our desire to make continuous improvements communities and strategic We have used our position as a major regional to the way we conduct our business.
For employer to advocate responsible business practice organisations in Bradford that the last two years, we have been the best among our peers.
In October 2005, our Chief performing Yorkshire based company, reflects their commitment to be Executive, Kevin Whiteman gave one of 4 keynote and this year we achieved outstanding speeches to a group of MEPs and EC members performance in community, environmental a responsible corporate citizen.
from the Yorkshire and Humber Brussels office.
The scope of activities is The theme of the BitC event was selling Yorkshire as the best place to do ethical business.
This year Over the past 12 months we have further put into impressive, from involvement we have also sponsored a series of corporate social practice our principle that the interests of our in strategic partnerships to responsibility workshops, held in association with customers, the environment and society in general BitC, advising Yorkshire companies how they can are best served through the efficient and effective programmes such as Cool integrate CSR into their business.
Schools and employee Whilst we are pleased with the progress we have BitCs Corporate Responsibility Index is a robust and volunteering in schools and made so far and the third party recognition we comprehensive measure of a companys total are now achieving for our efforts, we recognise communities.
impact on society and we continue to use it as a that there is room for even further improvement tool to audit all aspects of our operations to ensure Elaine Appelbee Chief executive, in the future.
we remain at the forefront of best practice.
Bradford Vision For further details, see our full report online at We believe our participation in the index over the www.
com kel csr last three years played a major part in our principal subsidiary, Yorkshire Water, being named Utility of the Year for an unprecedented second year running at the 2005 Utility Industry Achievement Awards.
In 2004, the judges paid tribute to our quality of service and wider contribution we make to the communities we serve.
In 2005, the judges again commended our service, noting that we have achieved 95% customer satisfaction, as well as our best ever water quality.
Kelda Group plc 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2006
