Benchmarking our performance We use a wide range of measures to benchmark our performance on social, environmental and ethical issues.
Data verification FTSE4Good Indices Our CSR data is now independently verified by The FTSE4Good Indices are designed to measure Enviros Consulting Limited.
The full verification the performance of companies that meet globally statement can be viewed at: recognised corporate responsibility standards and 94.5% to facilitate investment in those companies.
com kel csr approach verification has been included in selected indices since their the score we achieved in the 2005 Corporate inception by the FTSE group in 2001.
Responsibility Index, achieving outstanding Business in the Communitys Corporate performance in the areas of community, Responsibility Index Guardian Giving List environmental and marketplace management.
Established in 2002, the Corporate Responsibility For the first time since it was established five years Index is a business management tool developed to ago, Kelda has been featured in this list of FTSE100 support companies in improving their impact on givers of money to charities or other forms of society and the environment.
It enables companies social investment.
The companies are ranked in to assess the extent to which their strategy is order of the percentage of pre-tax profit given.
translated into responsible practice throughout Whilst our community policy focuses more on the organisation in managing four key areas time-giving and gifts in kind, we have been ranked rd environment, community our role in society, at 73 in the list, giving 0.2% of our pre-tax profits.
6,176 workplace our people and marketplace our customers and service partners.
Companies use Awards the number of hours given this year through the Index as a tool to manage, measure and report This year, three Yorkshire Water colleagues won our in-house employee volunteering their performance in these key areas.
Volunteer of the Year Awards, one of whom, Diane programme.
Bindley of our Human Resources department, also Business in the Environments BiE Index won the Cares Volunteer of the Year Award at of Corporate Environmental Engagement BitCs Yorkshire and Humberside Awards for Now in its tenth year, the BiE Index remains the Excellence.
Diane, involved in our Newlands leading indicator of corporate environmental Business Bridge initiative, was nominated for engagement.
The annual index benchmarks her mentoring work with SNOOP Special Needs companies performance against their peers on the Objective Outreach Project, offering day and basis of their environmental management and holiday care for children and young adults with performance in key impact areas.
The index aims disabilities and complex needs, and advice and to drive continuous improvement, assist companies support for parents and carers.
Dave Perrins of in their gap analysis, help determine progress and our IT department was highly commended as raise awareness of the environment as a strategic, Cares Team Leader of the Year and the Newlands competitive issue at boardroom level.
Business Bridge Mentoring Team was highly commended as Cares Team of the Year.
For the past four years Kelda has qualified for Premier League status an accolade only awarded to companies that score above 95%.
Additional information about our environmental performance is available on pages 20 and 21 or by visiting our website at www.
com Kelda Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 19
