Board of directors John Napier 63 MA Econ Kevin Whiteman 49 BSc, CEng, MIME Martin Towers 53 FCA BA Econ Chairman B, D Chief executive D Group finance director Joined the board in June 1999.
Appointed Appointed to the board in September 2000 and Appointed to the board in March 2003.
Formerly Executive Chairman in April 2000, moving to appointed Chief Executive in September 2002.
Finance Director of Boots The Chemists, McCarthy & Stone plc, The Spring Ram Corporation plc, Chairman in September 2002.
Chairman of Joined Yorkshire Water Services Limited in 1997 Allied Textiles Group plc and Yorkshire Group plc.
Yorkshire Water Services Limited and Chairman as Business Director, Waste Water.
Formerly Chief He is currently a non executive director of of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc.
He Executive and Accounting Officer of the National has formerly held senior posts as Chairman of Rivers Authority and Regional Director of the Homestyle Group plc.
Booker plc, Group Managing Director of Hays plc Environment Agency.
Previously held senior and was formerly a non executive director of positions with British Coal.
He is a trustee of Waste Recycling Group plc.
He is also Chairman WaterAid.
of Yorkshire and Humber Rural Affairs Forum and a member of the Yorkshire Forward board.
Ed Anderson 55 BSc Econ, CPFA Kate Avery 46 ACIB, FCIM, MBA, FSI Christopher Fisher 52 BA Non executive director A, B Non executive director A, B, C Non executive director A, B, C Appointed to the board in June 2005.
Managing Appointed to the board in June 2005.
Group Joined the board in 2003 and became a non Director of Leeds Bradford International Airport.
Director Retail Distribution at Legal and General.
executive director of Yorkshire Water in October Currently a non executive director of Yorkshire Currently a member of the ABI Distribution and 2004.
Vice Chairman, corporate finance, at Building Society and St Gemmas Hospice and Regulation Committee.
Formerly held several KPMG, he is also a trustee of the Imperial War Chairman of Leeds Chamber of Commerce.
Museum, formerly a managing director of Lazard Formerly held several positions with Leeds City and a non executive director of Yates Group plc.
Council, West Yorkshire Metropolitan Council and Bradford Council.
David Salkeld 50 BSc Econ, Dip PM, FIGD Richard Schmidt 62 BSc, MSc, PhD, MBA Denotes Senior non executive director B, C Non executive director A Member of the audit committee Joined the board in October 2000.
Formerly Appointed to the board in September 2002.
B Member of the nomination committee Group Chief Executive of the Grampian Country Joined Aquarion Company in 1995.
Formerly C Member of the remuneration committee Food Group and Chief Executive of Arla Foods plc President and Chief Executive Officer of Aquarion D Member of the corporate social and held senior posts in Grand Metropolitan plc until September 2003, President and Chief responsibility committee and Northern Dairies.
Operating Officer of Mechanical Technology Inc, President and Chief Executive Officer of Gundle Environmental Systems and held senior positions in Ecodyn Corporation.
Kelda Group plc 30 Annual Report and Accounts 2006
