Business review Yorkshire Water How were performing Yorkshire Water has had an excellent year, once again out-performing many of its regulatory targets.
Kelda Group plc 08 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Yorkshire Water reservoir stocks remain at normal levels Yorkshire Water continues to encourage its customers to use water wisely all year round.
The companys Flower Power promotion toured major events in the region distributing thousands of water conservation devices for use in the home and garden.
Police water consumption Yorkshire Waters Business Services department has been working with West Yorkshire Police to help the force reduce its water consumption.
A range of water saving measures have been introduced.
As well as minimising the forces impact on the environment, substantial cost savings were also made.
The report confirmed that the Yorkshire Water company continues to achieve above average Regulated turnover increased by 8.4% to 693.8m performance in a number of areas, such as 2005: 640.1m and operating profit increased by reducing the number of properties suffering from 14.9% to 312.7m 2005: 272.1m.
This year on poor water pressure and cutting the number of year improved performance reflects tariff increases, interruptions to customers supplies.
the impact of IFRS adjustments and keen cost control.
Yorkshire Water made a good start in delivering efficiencies for PR04 by out-performing Good progress continues to be made to reduce the number of incidents of sewer flooding and this regulatory targets by 10m.
This level of efficiency remains one of the companys highest priorities.
will provide a useful buffer against significant Yorkshire Water was named Utility of the increases in electricity costs which will be incurred Year for an unprecedented second Yorkshire Waters ongoing improvements to its in 2006 07.
The increase in operating profits also successive year.
overall levels of service contributed towards the continues to fund the ongoing capital programme and taxation increases.
company again being named Utility of the Year at the Utility Industry Achievement Awards 2005.
This was the second consecutive year the company was Yorkshire Water is a major user of electricity.
awarded the top accolade, an unprecedented feat Electricity for 2006 07 has now been purchased for any UK utility.
at a cost significantly higher than that allowed in the determination.
Around 25% of 2007 08 electricity has also been purchased.
The company Two major initiatives were rolled out in 2005 06 is implementing initiatives to reduce the impact with far-reaching implications for the future of of the cost increase.
operational and customer service in the business and employees.
The Clear Water and Waste Water 2020 initiatives will deliver a step change in the Regulated capital investment for the year was levels of service provided by the business and are 330.6m 2005: 349.2m.
The investment continues to be directed at the upgrading of the designed to help the company achieve its goal of regions clean and waste water infrastructure.
being clearly the best water company in the UK.
Yorkshire Waters focus on developing industry Clear Water aims to eliminate the need to interrupt customers water supplies while carrying out leading partnerships has resulted in a strong start maintenance or repair work, while Waste Water to the delivery of AMP 4 targets for expenditure, 2020 will improve customer service, the way the outputs and efficiency.
company manages its assets and disposes of For the second consecutive year, Ofwat confirmed sewage sludge.
Good progress has been made on Yorkshire Water as the most efficient water and both initiatives, with significant operating cost reductions also being identified.
sewerage company in the UK.
The company was awarded three A ratings for the efficient way it Environmental performance runs its water and waste water operations.
During 2005, Business in the Community held up Customer service the company as a National Example of Excellence Yorkshire Water continued to improve levels of for its proactive approach to environmental operational and customer service and was ranked management and performance.
The Shields number one in Ofwats Overall Performance Environment Award was given for a range of Kelda Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 09 Bathing water quality To celebrate the significant improvements in bathing water quality resulting from Yorkshire Waters recent investment in its waste water treatment works, the company sponsored local lifeguards and purchased a new rescue boat for use along the countys east coast.
The campaign was launched by Leeds model Nell McAndrew.
environmental initiatives, including staff training During the year Yorkshire Water achieved its target Key performance indicators on environmental issues and the way the company of 25% of its people being involved in community works with its service partners and suppliers.
Our volunteers were involved in a TARGET CURRENT YEAR suppliers working with Yorkshire Water are now range of activities including Cares initiatives, Overall customer assessed using the companys own Environmental Right to Read and Numbers Partners.
In many satisfaction Vendor Evaluation System, which contributed instances our service partners were involved, further Overall customer 100% 96% towards the company achieving ISO14001 building relationships as well as contributing to satisfaction Prior year: 95% accreditation for every aspect of its operations.
The company staged a series of events in A significant milestone was reached by the Drinking water partnership with the Ramblers Association to companys Cool Schools campaign.
More than compliance celebrate the final stages of implementation of 1,000 coolers have now been donated free of Overall drinking 100% 99.97% water quality the Countryside and Rights of Way Act 2000. charge to local primary schools to increase the Prior year: 99.93% availability of fresh drinking water to pupils.
Good progress was also made towards improving Waste water treatment the condition of Sites of Special Scientific Interest Employees works WWTW SSSIs on Yorkshire Water land.
The first year of the new performance management compliance system introduced in 2004 05 has gone well.
WWTW compliance 100% 99.6% Waste water treatment works compliance The system, which was linked to a 5 year pay deal, with sanitary consents Prior year: 99.97% continues to be a concern with several works at risk involves quarterly performance reviews with the of failure, however a lot of work is being carried potential for additional payments based upon Accidents out to minimise this risk and improve performance.
Riddor reports Major & over 17 31 A proactive pollution prevention campaign saw the Yorkshire Water also has a focus on developing 3 days accidents Prior year: 26 number of Category 1 and 2 pollution incidents the leadership for every individual within the cut from 19 to 13 during the year.
organisation and sees a direct link between All 85 179 individual leadership and achievement of the accidents Prior year: 153 Social impact strategic goals of the company.
For more details on these measures see page 34 Yorkshire Water was ranked 24th in Business in the Communitys 100 Companies That Count report, The continuing high level of performance of the a rise of 19 places on the previous year.
The report company is directly attributable to the talent, benchmarks companies performance against a commitment and enthusiasm of our employees.
range of social, ethical and environmental issues.
The company, which achieved its highest ever points score, was said to have delivered outstanding performance in the areas of community, environmental and customer management.
Kelda Group plc 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2006
