Our strategy Our customers Service partners Our shareholders Environmental leadership Our people Society Our shareholders Environmental leadership Keldas strategy remains We are committed to creating enduring shareholder Kelda deals with environmental issues as diverse unchanged.
Our focus is on value by a focus on efficiency in everything we do.
as catchment management, sustainable water Our goal is to deliver consistently good financial management and river water and bathing water improving the efficiency and results by out-performing regulatory and other standards.
Our performance affects all customers financial targets and delivering efficiencies across and everyone who lives in the regions we serve.
performance of our core the group.
We will achieve this by sharing best Our aim is to achieve 100% compliance with legal businesses, using our expertise practice, employing world-class technology and and regulatory obligations and to go beyond growing our non-regulated activities.
compliance where the benefits exceed the cost.
in water and waste water services to develop long term, Our customers Society Our aim is to provide a quality of service which is Our aim is to make a difference to society, opening non-regulated income streams significantly better than any other utility and at a up land for public enjoyment and promoting the which add shareholder value.
price which represents good value for money.
To value of water and health in schools.
Over 30% of achieve this we will always consider the customers our people are involved in community volunteering point of view and exceed customers expectations and external leadership roles and in influencing wherever possible.
This will lead to improved matters relating to water.
financial and operational performance and an enjoyable customer experience.
Service partners Kelda works in close partnership with its service Our people providers.
Our aim is to achieve win-win-win, which Kelda employs over 3,600 people.
Our aim is means better customer service, lower costs and to create a great place to work, a good work-life healthy profits for all.
To make this happen, we are balance and the opportunity to make a real looking to set clear expectations and encourage difference.
We want to attract and retain the new ideas and innovation.
best people, with performance and contribution recognised and rewarded and success celebrated as part of our culture.
Kelda Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 03
