Our business 3 1 4 2 Kelda Group provides essential 2.
Aquarion high quality water and waste Turnover: 123.6m up 108.4% Turnover: 104.2m up 13.0% water services to customers Employees: 966 Employees: 568 in Yorkshire, Wales, Scotland, the Midlands, the south west of Kelda Water Services Aquarion is one of the ten largest investor owned Kelda Water Services Limited KWS manages the water companies in the US.
England and the United States.
groups non-regulated water and waste water contract operations in the UK.
It is now the second It serves 211,000 homes and businesses, the equivalent of approximately 677,000 people, biggest player in the UK contract operations market, 1.
Yorkshire Water with operations in England, Scotland and Wales.
in 52 communities in the states of Connecticut, New York, Massachusetts and New Hampshire.
Turnover: 693.8m up 8.4% KWS is now providing services under: Aquarion Services provides water and waste water a 25 year contract to run four waste water operation and maintenance services through a Employees: 2,129 treatment works in Aberdeenshire, Scotland number of contracts and partnerships with municipal authorities.
Yorkshire Water Services Limited Yorkshire Water is a 25 year contract to provide water and waste Keldas principal UK subsidiary, providing water and water services to more than 1,000 Ministry of In February 2006, Kelda announced the conditional waste water services to more than 4.7m people Defence sites in the Midlands, Wales and the sale of Aquarion, subject to regulatory approval in and 140,000 businesses.
Completion of the sale is expected to take place late in 2006.
Every day the company supplies more than 1.2bn a 15 year contract to provide waste water services litres of water to homes and businesses in Yorkshire.
in south Wales for Dwr Cymru Welsh Water.
Through the efficient operation of its extensive waste water network and treatment facilities, it also In May 2006, a consortium consisting of KWS, Earth ensures that the regions domestic and industrial Tech Engineering Limited and Northstone NI Limited 4.
KeyLand Developments waste is returned safely to the environment.
was awarded a 25 year contract to provide water services for the Northern Ireland Water Service.
Yorkshire Water currently tops the Office of Water Turnover: 8.0m Services Ofwat league table for overall operational Loop Employees: 6 and customer service.
Loop Customer Management Limited Loop specialises in cost effective customer relationship KeyLand Developments Limited KeyLand For the past two consecutive years, the company management.
The companys main contract is to Developments is responsible for managing, has also been voted the UKs Utility of the Year at provide customer service support to Yorkshire Water.
developing and disposing of the groups surplus the Utility Industry Achievement Awards.
property assets, either on its own or in partnership Safe-Move with outside organisations.
Safe-Move is a non-regulated business which provides search information to solicitors and conveyancers, including information covering drainage and water services.
Kelda Group plc 02 Annual Report and Accounts 2006
