Business review Aquarion KeyLand Developments Aquarion KeyLand Operating profit of 32.8m 2005: 25.6m Turnover including share of associates and was 7.2m 28% higher than the prior year.
joint ventures was below last year at 8.0m This resulted from the implementation of 2005: 14.6m.
KeyLand operating profit improved working practices and operational declined by 2m in the year to 3m 2005: efficiencies, a 5.4m exceptional item not 5m.
This was due to the timing of property repeated this year and a favourable exchange sales and planning applications and should rate.
Turnover at 104.2m 2005: 92.2m return to historic levels.
Net assets of was also higher than the previous year, KeyLand were 31.6m at the end of March largely due to more normal rainfall patterns.
2006 2005: 34.4m, after payment of an 8.0m interim dividend.
After allowing for interest incurred on borrowings made to fund the Aquarion acquisition, the impact The primary source of revenue continues to be of Aquarion on the group is broadly earnings neutral.
from the disposal or development of brownfield sites for housing and there continues to be a high On 24 February the company announced that it demand for prime development land throughout had entered into an agreement with Macquarie the region.
However, there are ongoing delays Bank Limited for the sale of the utility business of being encountered throughout the planning Aquarion.
The sale is conditional upon certain process which directly impacts on the timing regulatory approvals which are expected to be given of sales.
In particular, land at the Mid Point in late 2006.
The sale is for an enterprise value of development, expected to underpin the second approximately $860m.
The consideration for the half results, was affected by such delays.
The sale, which will be payable upon completion, will be second half results were achieved through the $625m, and Aquarion will retain its own net debt at continuing and steady disposal of group assets, completion, expected to be approximately $235m.
combined with supplementary receipts relating to earlier sales.
Over the last few years the company has focused on improving Aquarions operating performance, In addition to its primary activities, KeyLand has and has kept its options for Aquarion under review.
participated in selected joint venture developments.
The opportunity to sell the business to Macquarie These contributed turnover of 0.9m 2005: 4.6m allowed Kelda to exit the US and to enhance the and operating profit of 0.3m 2005: 0.9m to focus on core UK operations.
It also provided the results.
Aquarion with a committed long term owner with existing significant interests in US infrastructure assets.
The sale does not include Aquarions small nonregulated contract operations business.
Kelda continues to review its strategic options for this retained business.
Kelda Group plc 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2006
