Working Building openly confidence Repeat business accounts for a With fourteen successive years of high percentage of our revenue and growth behind us, we have built this could not be realised without a firm foundation on which to take the degree of openness and close the business further forward.
communication afforded to our With the right teams in place to clients and all those with whom continue our development and to we do business.
Knowledge and make the most of new opportunities information sharing, assisted by and markets, we are confident of investment in the latest technology, further growth and success in the is extended to our clients and year ahead.
Individually, our supply chain to ensure that best businesses are able to go forward practice is communicated as widely confidently as part of a financially as possible for maximum benefit.
2002 42% 2003 42% 2004 52% 2005 59% 2006 65% 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 Percentage of negotiated and two-stage tenders awarded within the Regional Construction division Playground and classroom at Downsell Primary School.
08 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Project: Downsell Primary School Downsell Primary School is a design & build project to provide a new two-storey primary school and replaces a variety of existing school buildings.
It is one of seven schools Kier Project Investment has provided for the London Borough of Waltham Forest via Academy Services, as part of the governments PFI.
Kier London, Kier Southern and Kier Eastern built the schools and Kier Managed Services provides facilities management.
09 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Working Building honestly relationships Key to building trust is honesty.
We value our long-standing client Kier companies open up clear lines portfolio and the importance of of communication with all parties securing repeat and negotiated from the outset, making for an open business.
Our strategic alliances and honest relationship.
It is this that bring together the best in retail, approach which not only makes health, education and custodial, for a trusted company, but also have led to long-term partnering for projects which are completed frameworks and we are proud of on time, and to everybodys the long-standing partnering and satisfaction, often exceeding our joint venture contracts of which clients expectations.
in being upfront and realistic with our clients a policy which we trust earns us respect and credibility from all with whom we do business.
10 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Project: Grand Central, Bellwinch Homes A Bellwinch Homes show apartment at Grand Central in Aylesbury which comprises a selection of one, two and three-bedroom apartments.
Kier Plant is providing temporary accommodation and craneage at the development.
11 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006
