Directors report The directors present their annual report and audited financial who can be employed in a safe working environment.
The statements for the year ended 30 June 2006.
Company operates a Sharesave scheme for all eligible employees and makes available a dealing service to enable employees to Principal activities and business review buy and sell its shares with a minimum of formality and on The Groups principal activities are construction, support services, attractive commission terms.
The Group also operates an AESOP residential and commercial development and infrastructure scheme for all employees.
Combined Code A review of the Groups business and progress is given within the A statement on corporate governance is set out on pages 36 to 38. operating and financial review, on pages 14 to 28.
Going concern basis Results and dividends After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable The Group profit for the year after taxation was 42.9m expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in 2005: 36.6m.
operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the An interim dividend of 8.2p per share 2005: 7.0p amounting to financial statements.
The directors propose a final dividend of 17.8p per share 2005: 15.2p per Donations share amounting to 6.3m 2005: 5.4m payable on Group cash donations to charity in the United Kingdom were 5 December 2006 to shareholders on the Register of Members 51,000 2005: 73,000.
In addition the Group spends at the close of business on 29 September 2006. considerable time and effort contributing to charitable events in the community.
No political donations were made 2005: nil.
Share capital Details of shares allotted by the Company during the year appear Policy on payment of creditors in note 22 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Group agrees payments with its suppliers and subcontractors on an individual contract basis rather than following a standard Directors code.
The policy is to abide by these agreed terms whenever it is The directors of the Company during the year are shown on satisfied that the suppliers or subcontractors have provided the pages 32 and 33.
Mr M P Sheffield and Mr I M Lawson were goods or services in accordance with the contract terms and appointed as directors on 1 October 2005.
The aggregate amount owed to trade creditors by the appointed a director on 1 July 2006.
Company at the end of the year was nil 2005: nil.
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting resolutions will Subsidiary trading companies within the Group, acting in be proposed for the re-election of Mr P F Berry, Mr S W Leathes accordance with the above policy, exhibit creditor days averaging and Mr P T Warry.
Mr P M White will be proposed for election 37 2005: 32 in respect of suppliers of invoiced goods and for the first time.
services and 20 2005: 20 in respect of certified amounts due to subcontractors.
These figures exclude amounts not currently due Details of directors interests are disclosed in the directors for payment but included within trade creditors.
Financial instruments The Articles of Association of the Company provide for the Details of the financial risk management objectives and policies indemnification of its directors out of the assets of the Company of the Group along with its exposure to material financial risks in the event that they suffer any loss or liability in the execution are set out in notes 1 and 26 to the consolidated financial of their duties as directors and the Company has entered into statements.
deeds of indemnity with its directors entitling them to be indemnified to the extent permitted by statute.
Auditors A resolution for the reappointment of the auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, The Company has insurance in favour of its directors and officers KPMG will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The in respect of certain losses or liabilities to which they may be directors who held office at the date of approval of this directors exposed due to their office.
report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware: and Substantial shareholdings each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken At 13 September 2006 the Company had been notified of the as a director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit following interests in the Ordinary Share Capital of the Company: information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Barclays PLC 4.95% Legal & General plc 3.29% Signed on behalf of the Board.
Employees M D Barton The companies in the Group are equal opportunity employers.
Secretary The Group provides relevant information on matters of concern to employees through newsletters and formal and informal 13 September 2006 meetings with local management.
The Group encourages and Tempsford Hall assists, whenever practicable, the recruitment, training and career Sandy development of disabled people and the retention of those who Bedfordshire become disabled during the course of their employment and SG19 2BD 35 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006
