Core to our continued success is our ability to identify and Operating effectively manage the risks to our business.
Accordingly the and financial Group has well defined, rigorous policies and processes designed to identify, mitigate and control risk.
Risks are specific review to each of our businesses and are controlled through the Groups Business risk management processes.
The primary risks that have the potential to adversely impact on our business over the next risks twelve months are considered to be as follows: Contract and build risk: We carry out several hundred contracts annually and the risks to which the Group is exposed are dependent upon the nature of the work, the duration of the contract and the legal form of the contract.
The Groups appetite for very long-term, large, competitively tendered construction contracts is limited, driven by the desire to manage risk.
Tenders for contracts are subject to approval by the Board, chief executive and finance director or divisional directors depending on the value and nature of the contract.
Contracts in progress are controlled and managed through the Groups operating structure and procedures including rigorous and regular review of forecast revenue and costs to complete: Land acquisition risk: The cost and quality of land is fundamental to the profitability of a housing development business.
Site evaluation is a key process and site appraisals are carried out in detail including external advice where appropriate.
Land acquisitions are subject to approval by the Board, chief executive and finance director or divisional directors depending on the value and nature of the development.
Sites under development are controlled and managed through the Groups operating structure and procedures including rigorous and regular review of forecast revenue and costs to complete: The housing market: Our ability to sell houses depends on the demand for housing which, in turn, is linked to consumer sentiment.
We manage the exposure by ensuring that we closely control levels of work in progress to match the level of demand.
Prices and incentives are reviewed regularly and adjusted as appropriate: Property development risk: Similar to housing land acquisition, acquiring the right property at the right price is fundamental to the profitability of the Property division.
The division controls its development risk by commencing construction generally when it has either pre-sold or pre-let the development.
Divisional and Group Board approvals are required depending upon the value and nature of the development: Investment risk: The Group is selective in the PFI projects for which it bids, primarily concentrating on the education, health, libraries, housing, custody centres and care homes sectors where we have established expertise: People are the key to this business and good people are a scarce resource.
It is important that we attract the best, look after them and retain them.
Health & safety is a key feature and we have rigorous health & safety policies aimed at minimising health & safety incidents that may affect any staff, subcontractors and members of the public coming into contact with our business activities: Pension scheme deficit: The pension scheme liabilities 1.
First Start is an award-winning training 1 and assets are subject to market movements and, although initiative introduced by Kier Islington a long-term issue, new regulations require us to respond to in conjunction with Islington Council.
Kier provides training for 14-18 year these long-term issues over the short-term.
Steps have been olds in construction-related trades taken to eradicate our calculated deficit over a timeframe and this year 28 trainees graduated.
agreed with the Scheme Trustees.
The scheme, now in its third year, has been so successful that it is being rolled out elsewhere within the Group.
Constructed on land sourced from 2 Kier Property, Kier Londons self-built new offices in Loughton.
28 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006
