26 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 Board of Directors Sir Francis Mackay Peter Jackson Gerry Murphy Duncan Tatton-Brown Ian Cheshire Chairman Chairman Designate Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Chief Executive, B&Q Sir Francis became Chairman Peter Jackson joined the Board Appointed Group Chief Appointed Group Finance Appointed Executive Director in of Kingfisher plc in December as a Non-Executive Director Executive and joined the Board Director and a Director of the June 2000 and Chief Executive, 2001 following his appointment with effect from 3 January in February 2003.
He was to the Board a month earlier.
2006 and will take on the role he was Chief Executive Officer was Finance Director of B&Q appointed Chief Executive He is, until July, Chairman of of Chairman on the retirement of media group Carlton plc from January 2001. International and Development Compass Group PLC, which of Sir Francis Mackay at the Communications plc, global Previously he was CFO at Virgin in September 2002, Chief he joined in 1986 as Finance AGM on 24 May.
He retired as logistics firm Exel plc and food Entertainment Group and has Executive of e-Kingfisher in May Director.
He became Chief Chief Executive of international manufacturer Greencore Group held various finance positions 2000 and was Group Director of Executive of Compass in 1991 food and retail group plc.
Earlier in his career, he at Burton Group plc.
He is also Strategy & Development.
Before and Executive Chairman in Associated British Foods plc held various senior positions a Non-Executive Director of joining Kingfisher he worked for July 1999.
He will leave ABF in April 2005, after six with food and drink group Rentokil Initial plc.
Boston Consulting Group, Kingfisher after the Companys years in that role.
He joined Grand Metropolitan plc now Guinness plc and a number of Annual General Meeting on the Board of ABF in 1992 Diageo plc in Ireland, the Was a member of the Finance retail businesses including 24 May 2006 and will be following its acquisition of UK and USA.
He is also a Committee, now a member of Sears plc where he was Group succeeded by Peter Jackson.
British Sugar plc, where he was Non-Executive Director of the Executive Committee.
He is also the Reckitt Benckiser plc.
Age 50. a Non-Executive Director of Senior Independent Director of Bradford & Bingley plc.
Chairman of the Nomination Smiths Group plc, the Member of the Nomination Committee and was a member international engineering Committee, Chairman of Was a member of the Finance of the Finance Committee.
Age 59. the Executive Committee and and Social Responsibility was a member of the Committees, now a member Member of the Finance and Social of the Executive Committee.
Senior management Philippe Tible Patrick Langlade George Adams Paul Worthington Terry Hartwell Ian Harding Chief Executive, Chief Executive, Chief Executive, Group Commercial Group Property Group Communications Castorama France Brico Dpt UK Trade Director Director Director Joined Castorama as Head of Brico Dpt George Adams is Chief Group Commercial Director Responsible for all Group Responsible for investor Chief Executive in since January 1995.
Executive of Kingfishers since September 2005 property matters and also relations, media relations February 2003.
He began He joined Castorama in UK Trade Division, which and has responsibility for a Director of B&Q and a and internal his career at the 1984 as a store manager, comprises Screwfix Kingfishers Strategic member of the Pension communications.
He has hypermarket group then became regional Direct and Trade Depot.
He has worked for Kingfisher for Euromarch before joining director in 1987.
He Previously he held several programme and private over 25 years experience nine years including Leroy Merlin where he started his commercial senior commercial roles label development.
He in commercial property senior financial roles at was Operations Director career in 1967 with including Group has worked for Kingfisher development.
Joined the operating company and for France and later Thomson CSF, then Commercial Director companies since 1998, at Group in 1981.
Group level before his Managing Director for joined Citron.
Age 58. and Commercial Director Woolworths, e-Kingfisher, current role.
Prior to eight years with Pacific Direcor of furniture previously a director of Kingfisher, he worked  group Conforama, part of Woolworths which he for Nationwide Building LLP before joining Pinault-Printemps joined in 1992.
Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 27 Michael Hepher John Nelson Phil Bentley Hartmut Krmer Margaret Salmon Appointed to the Board in Deputy Chairman and Senior Appointed to the Board in Appointed to the Board in Appointed to the Board in September 1997.
He is Independent Director October 2002.
He is also November 2002 having been September 1997.
She is Chair Non-Executive Chairman Appointed Non-Executive Managing Director, Europe CEO of the retail clothing group, of the Sector Skills Development of Cardpoint plc and is a Deputy Chairman in January and Group Finance Director of Peek & Cloppenburg, and Agency.
She is also a Non-Executive Director of 2002.
He is Chairman of UK Centrica plc and was formerly subsequently of Groupe Non-Executive Director of Catlin Group Ltd and Canada property group Hammerson Finance Director for GuinnessRedcats, the home shopping Alliance and Leicester plc.
Life U. K. Ltd. His former plc and a Non-Executive UDV and Group Treasurer, division of Pinault-PrintempsAge 58. roles include Chairman and Director of BT Group plc.
He is also a Chief Executive of retired as Chairman of Credit spent 15 years in international Non-Executive Director of Was Chairman of the Social Charterhouse plc, Group Suisse First Boston Europe in finance roles at BP plc.
Herlitz AG, Toupargel-Agrigel Responsibility Committee and Managing Director of BT plc 2002 and was formerly Vice Age 47.
S. A. and Alfesca Ltd. is a member of the Audit, and Non-Executive Director Chairman of Lazard Brothers Age 59.
Nomination and Remuneration of Diageo plc and Lloyds and Non-Executive Director of Chairman of the Audit Committees.
Committee and a member of Member of the Nomination the Nomination Committee.
Member of the Audit, Chairman of the Remuneration Nomination and Remuneration Committee and a member of Committees.
the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Non-Executive Director The Finance Committee and Social Responsibility Committee were disbanded on 28 January 2006 and their functions were assumed by the Executive Committee on 29 January 2006.
Tony Williams Helen Jones Steve Gilman Jean-Louis Falet David Wei Claude Acquart Group Human Resources Director of Governance Chief Executive, Chief Executive, President, Chief Executive, Director and Corporate Services B&Q Asia Castorama Italy B&Q China Castorama Poland Joined Kingfisher in June Responsible for company Steve Gilman is Chief Jean-Louis Falet is Chief David Wei has been the Claude Acquart has been 2005.
He spent his early secretarial, legal and Executive of B&Q Asia.
Executive of Castorama President of B&Q China head of Castorama Poland career in GEC and News legislative affairs, He is currently responsible Italy.
After 10 years in food since June 2002.
He since he established the International before joining corporate governance for B&Q China, B&Q retail in France, he joined joined B&Q China in 2000 business in 1994.
He W H Smith Retail as matters and Group Taiwan, B&Q Home South the Castorama Group in as Chief Financial Officer.
joined Castorama France Human Resources Director corporate social Korea and Koctas Turkey November 1976 where he Prior to this he was Head in 1978 and was store 5 5 in 1994.
She is also and is a Director of B&Q was successively store of Investment Banking at manager at Montpellier Kingfisher he was Group a member of the Pension UK.
Prior to his current role, manager and regional Orient Securities, and Lattes in France for 10 Human Resources Director Trustee Board.
She has he was International director.
He has been the worked for Coopers & years.
Age 57. of Carlton Communications spent 19 years at Director at B&Q UK.
He has Chief Executive of Lybrand in Shanghai plc.
27 years service with B&Q Castorama Italy since and London.
