8 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 Customers and stores Adapting to Customers Kingfisher is a mass market, international retailer serving six changing million customers each week in its stores and many more via the internet and telephone.
The diversity of Kingfishers businesses means that its customers vary by nationality, gender, age, wealth, aptitude and culture.
needs However, it is possible to identify three broad groups of customers based on their different product, pricing and service needs.
Kingfishers local businesses have adapted their stores to satisfy the particular requirements of these three groups in their markets.
Everyday DIY-er Project initiator For many busy customers, minimising shopping time This group of customers is growing in importance, is important as DIY home projects can only be particularly in developed countries where consumers undertaken during precious leisure time.
These customers are increasingly wealthy but time-constrained by busy lives.
need easy access to tools and materials for everyday home They spend more than average on major home improvement repair, maintenance and improvement projects.
projects but they shop less regularly.
Studies show that This means they want a one-stop shop that can stock a around 75% of home project initiators are women.
wide range of products under one roof.
They want to get a They expect to be able to browse in a comfortable store good price whenever they need to shop and not just when environment and find ideas and inspiration for room retailers run sales promotions.
They require help in understanding what could value help from experienced staff, in-store literature or be possible in their own home, and may want their project structured teaching demonstrations.
professionally completed for them Do-It-For-Me rather than Kingfisher provides for these customers: DIY.
Fashion, style, quality and service rank highly Larger stores capable of stocking everything a DIY-er needs alongside price.
for repairing, maintaining and improving a home Kingfisher provides for these customers: A wide range of functional products e. g. paints, adhesives, Attractive modern stores large enough to display fixings and the tools needed to complete the work complete room sets Products stocked on supermarket-style shelving to enable Ranges of home finishing products e. g. curtains and cushions customers to grab and go in minimal time Trained staff to help with project design and costing More experienced, often older, staff to offer advice Professional installation In-store how to leaflets and regular in-store DIY Home delivery demonstrations Credit payment facilities An Every Day Low Pricing policy Occasional price promotions to stimulate new projects Kingfishers larger stores are adapting their product ranges, merchandising techniques and in-store service to better meet the needs of all three customer groups.
Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 9 Trade professional For the trade professionals, time is money.
This Trade professionals can shop a dedicated area of the store group of customers is also growing in importance with easy access for loading commercial vehicles.
Where in developed countries as more affluent, time-constrained regulations permit, stores have extended opening hours for consumers look to professionals to carry out home the convenience of all their customers.
improvement projects on their behalf.
They need to be able Kingfisher operates these big box stores in the UK, to shop before or after work, and they want to get in and Ireland, France, Italy, Poland, Russia and China.
out of the store as quickly as possible.
They buy product Typical statistics: in large quantities and want to find enough stocked in-store 10,000 square metres of selling space to fulfil their needs.
They want competitive prices, volume 30,000 to 50,000 products stocked deals, branded products and tools, and may need credit.
Kingfisher provides for these customers: Medium box stores Extended opening hours These stores specialise in serving the everyday DIY-er and Smaller stores which are easier and quicker to navigate the trade professional.
Typically they offer the largest range Qualified staff able to help with more technical questions in their local market at the keenest prices.
Often located Smaller product ranges, but tailored to the needs of the closer to town centres, they are convenient for all trade professional e. g. aggregates, plumbing, electrical, day-to-day customer needs.
joinery tools and materials The smaller size of these stores is an advantage in those Product stocked in sufficient depth to satisfy large markets where availability of larger sites is limited by quantity orders congestion or planning restrictions.
More professional, quality branded products and tools Kingfisher operates these stores in the UK, Ireland, Pick-up points for vans or separate drive-through yards France, Italy, Poland, China, Taiwan and South Korea.
Tradesman credit accounts Typical statistics: Competitive pricing and volume deals 5,000 to 10,000 square metres of selling space 20,000 to 30,000 products stocked Stores Big box stores Small box stores These are Kingfishers largest stores, designed to serve These stores are either convenience stores for everyday all customers needs under one roof.
The everyday DIY-er DIY-ers, or specifically designed to satisfy the needs of the can find the largest assortment of repair, maintenance trade professional.
Their smaller size makes finding sites and improvement products in the market at the best price.
and obtaining planning permission easier and they require Specialist staff are available for advice and the stores significantly less capital investment.
typically have a large demonstration area for DIY master Kingfisher currently operates these stores in the UK, classes in the evenings and weekends.
The project initiator France, Spain and Taiwan, with plans to open in more can browse the many room sets displaying complete countries soon.
kitchens, bathrooms and bedrooms and plan a major Typical statistics: project with the help of dedicated design consultants.
Up to 5,000 square metres of selling space Many of the project finishing touches are also stocked.
Up to 15,000 products stocked Big box 2 10,000 m 30,000-50,000 products Medium box 2 5,000-10,000m 20,000-30,000 products Small box 2 Up to 5,000m Up to 15,000 products Kingfisher adapts its store size to best suit local customer needs and local planning regulations critical for expanding in 11 different countries across Europe and Asia.
