Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 5 Strategy The following 11 pages provide information on Kingfishers strategy, as well as its markets, customers and stores, people, relationships with suppliers and its social responsibility agenda.
Home improvement, an attractive retail sector Globally, demand for home improvement products and services is driven by: The continual need to repair and maintain homes Increasing consumer wealth, enabling people to have more fashionable and stylish homes Growing use of homes for working and entertaining These factors have fuelled demand for home improvement products and services and home improvement markets have generally been growing faster than all retail expenditure in recent years.
Over the longer-term, independent forecasters expect this to continue.
International expansion, a huge opportunity Kingfisher is currently expanding in 11 European and Asian home improvement markets estimated to be worth around 114 billion, four times the size of the UK market alone.
With A four point strategy Kingfishers sales in these markets totalling 8 billion there Kingfishers strategy to deliver these objectives is to: remains significant scope for future growth.
1 Consolidate the strong leadership positions of its more Importantly, markets outside the UK are expected to developed operations in the UK and France.
After years of grow faster, particularly China, Poland and Russia, where rapid store expansion to achieve market leadership, the wealth is increasing and, consequently, the demand for main priority for these businesses now is to drive profits and better homes is rising fast.
economic returns from their existing assets.
Operational International expansion also boosts Kingfishers overall focus is on increasing sales and margin productivity per buying scale, a key factor in home improvement retailing.
Many square metre of selling space and driving improved cost of Kingfishers products, such as power tools and paint, are productivity throughout each business.
manufactured by big international suppliers.
Expanding outside the UK has already doubled Kingfishers scale, enabling the 2 Drive its proven developing operations in the rest of Europe Group to work more as partners with these big suppliers to and Asia.
These businesses have achieved leadership get the best products, at the best prices, for its customers.
positions in their markets but still have significant scope to Importantly, Kingfishers size enables it to work together with expand their store network and grow market share.
suppliers on a shared social and environmental agenda.
Investment will also be needed in infrastructure to support International expansion brings another important benefit, this growth.
the ability of any one of Kingfishers businesses to tap into a vast international pool of ideas to accelerate its own 3 Expand rapidly its emerging operations in new markets as local development.
More and more Kingfisher companies the local retail concepts and economic models become are adapting their format, improving in-store displays and established and proven.
introducing new products and services in their local markets based on the best ideas and experiences from around 4 Harness its two key competitive advantages, buying power the Group.
and international diversity, to the advantage of all its stakeholders.
Objectives Against this background, Kingfisher aims to deliver a Managing risks balanced set of objectives to its stakeholders: Kingfisher manages business and development risks to Superior and sustainable long-term growth and returns minimise their likelihood or impact.
The principal risks include: for shareholders Consumer spending downturn in major markets Outstanding value, choice and service for customers Maintaining competitive pricing, ranging and service Rewarding careers and personal development for staff Retaining key staff and developing future talent Unrivalled growth opportunities for suppliers Balancing local product needs and Group-wide buying Responsible growth that is socially and environmentally programmes sustainable Political risk in developing markets 6 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 Markets Europe Kingfisher is the market leader in the UK and France, two of the largest retail markets in Europe.
Each has large, 84 relatively wealthy populations 60 million billion market each and levels of home ownership are high.
Compared with the whole European Union EU, a relatively higher proportion of consumer retail expenditure is on home improvement products and services.
The home improvement markets in these countries are well developed, large and have benefited from increasing consumer wealth and growth in the number of homes.
Compared with other markets in Europe and Asia they are relatively mature.
Consumers are served by large, well established national retailers.
In 2005, the UK market declined after many years of growth, reflecting weak consumer confidence and lower growth in disposable income.
Kingfisher also operates in Ireland which has a population of four million and is a market with similar consumption patterns to the UK but one which has grown faster than any other EU country in the last five years.
Kingfisher operates the leading home improvement brand in Italy and entered Spain three years ago.
Italy and Spain are the fourth and fifth largest retail markets in Europe respectively with large and relatively wealthy populations of 58 million and 41 million respectively.
Retail expenditure has grown faster than the EU average over the last five years.
Home ownership is high but the proportion of retail expenditure spent on home improvement is significantly Huge Sweden potential As at 28 January 2006 Kingfisher operated Ireland nearly 650 stores in 10 countries across Europe UK and Asia.
Shortly after the year end, Kingfishers Poland Netherlands first store opened in Russia.
In total, the home Germany improvement markets of these 11 countries are worth an estimated 114 billion.
Luxembourg Czech These 11 countries are geographically, Republic Slovakia economically and culturally diverse and their home improvement markets are Austria France Switzerland at different stages of development.
Italy Spain Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 7 Asia lower than the European average.
As a result the home Kingfisher is the market leader in China improvement markets are currently less well developed and and Taiwan and has recently opened its served by a fragmented group of national and regional first store in South Korea.
However, home improvement spending has shown initially entered the Asian market through billion market good growth over the last five years and has risen as a a joint venture in Taiwan in 1996 and proportion of all retail expenditure.
expanded into mainland China three Kingfisher is market leader in Poland and has just opened years later.
its first store in Russia.
Consumers in these countries are China is now the largest of Kingfishers Asian markets.
enjoying increasing disposable income and consumption China has a total population of 1.3 billion and a fast-growing growth is strong.
Retail spending in total, and the proportion urban middle-class estimated to number 130 million.
As a spent on home improvements in these countries, are lower result, China is fast becoming one of the most important than the EU average but are growing faster as consumers retail markets in the world.
In recent years many millions of become wealthier and look to improve their homes.
Poland Chinese have been migrating to major cities.
New homes has a large, mostly home-owning population of 38 million are being built in these cities at an unprecedented rate, with good DIY skills.
Russia is the largest European country typically sold as empty concrete shells.
The new owners are population 144 million and its urban residents often own a responsible for completing the internal fit-out and decoration themselves.
This has fuelled the rapid growth of second home in the country dacha as well.
In both markets, consumers have traditionally been served by fragmented the home improvement market, particularly design, small scale, local outlets and open markets.
Over the last five decorating and installation services.
Growth prospects are years some established retailers from western Europe have strong as expected sustained economic growth in China expanded into Russia.
should result in continued new home construction, growing Kingfisher has a 21% strategic holding in Hornbach, consumer wealth and greater home ownership.
The home the leading DIY warehouse retailer in Germany, the largest improvement market has historically been served by a highly market in Europe population 82 million and a home fragmented base of very small local outlets.
Larger retailers improvement market of 50 billion.
Hornbach also operates with more product choice as well as decorative and in seven other European countries.
Kingfisher also operates a joint venture in Turkey Taiwan and South Korea are more developed economies population 72 million, a less developed market with strong where consumers are improving and renovating existing future growth prospects.
Like China, they are served by a fragmented base of small local outlets.
Russia China South Korea Kingfisher Europe Turkey Taiwan Kingfisher Asia Hornbach
