12 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 Suppliers and Kingfisher Working together Successful partnerships Graham & Brown is B&Qs longest-standing supplier of wallcoverings with a relationship going back 25 years.
The company supplies B&Qs main Super Fresco and Contour brands as well as the Laurence Llewelyn-Bowen, Linda Barker and Wayne Hemingway ranges.
Graham & Brown has invested in an automated manufacturing facility in Blackburn and was named B&Qs Supplier of the Year 2005 for Excellence in Customer Service.
Graham & Brown also now supplies Castorama France and Castorama Poland.
The photo shows B&Qs wallcoverings buyer, Miriam White, with Andrew Graham, Chief Executive of Graham & Brown.
Own-brands now account for 22% of Kingfishers sales.
The Performance Power and MacAllister own-brand power tool ranges are now distributed in all operating companies.
The Colours range of paint and decorative products was launched in France during the year and the range was extended in China.
Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 13 As one of the worlds biggest home improvement retailers, over 5% on the previous year despite lower shipments to Kingfisher has the scale and international reach to provide the UK where sales were affected by the weakness in customers with the best possible products at the best consumer spending.
Direct shipments to Kingfishers possible prices.
With nearly 650 stores in 11 countries, businesses in Continental Europe and Asia grew strongly.
Kingfisher has Group buying scale of over 7 billion, and Kingfishers sourcing offices in Asia, the first of which with the Hornbach companies, in which Kingfisher has a opened in 1994, increased shipments to France by nearly 21% economic interest, participating in the Group buying 16% whilst shipments to Kingfishers other international programmes, this figure rises to over 8 billion.
Kingfishers sourcing agent in This scale gives Kingfisher tremendous opportunities to India increased its deliveries to the Group significantly source goods on favourable terms, with the bulk of these during the year, particularly in textiles, hardware and tools.
savings passed on to customers.
The simple aim is for Further growth is expected this year.
Kingfisher to be the best in the home improvement sector at delivering value through its products, brands and suppliers.
Innovation and exclusivity This means achieving the lowest cost of goods, the most The development of Kingfishers cross-Group own-brands innovative, exclusive goods in each product category, continued, with strong growth in own-brand penetration sourced directly from the worlds best suppliers, leading to in B&Q Taiwan and B&Q China.
The average own-brand enhanced margins.
In turn, these gains can be used to fund penetration level across the Group was 22%.
One of the lower prices for customers, more product innovation, own-brand successes was the launch of low cost investment in better customer service and in improved stores.
air-conditioning systems under the AirForce brand in the UK and Bodner and Mann brand in France.
Lower cost, closer supplier relationships The Performance Power and MacAllister power tool Kingfisher has a good record in this area and its Cost Price ranges are now distributed in all operating companies and Reduction programme was successfully introduced represent Kingfishers first Group own-brands.
The Colours throughout the Group three years ago.
In the past two years, range of paint and decorative products made significant this programme has evolved to become Strategic Supplier strides in 2005 06 with full decorative category launch in Management SSM, which aims to make Kingfishers France and the expansion of a new range in China.
The relations with suppliers closer, deeper and more long-term.
Form range of storage solutions is also being introduced in Good prices are clearly still a top priority, but innovation and France and South Korea this year.
Both sides need longer-term agreements in order to make this possible.
The key focus is on the Groups major suppliers, particularly those which are capable of supplying several of Kingfishers operating companies.
The process starts by defining a clear set of objectives for suppliers, which include required levels of innovation, availability, price and suppliers alignment with Kingfishers Castorama France held three internal trade shows in Lille in strategic objectives.
Future plans are shared with key 2005, giving suppliers the opportunity to show their new ranges suppliers to facilitate long-term planning and investment.
in the gardening, decoration and building categories to As a result of this process, product categories which Castoramas buyers and store staff.
Over 100 suppliers attended account for half of Kingfishers cost of goods sold are the building category event.
covered by Group buying programmes.
These cover five key categories paint, power tools, lighting, flooring and sealants.
This has led to 120 million of incremental gross gains in 2005 06.
Significant investment has been made in Group-wide systems to support these initiatives.
These include the proprietary Vision system which enables Kingfishers buyers to track and control import projects from the initial sourcing brief through to arrival at the distribution centre.
Other systems also enable buyers to compare cost prices across the Group.
Direct sourcing An important part of Kingfishers sourcing strategy is to buy goods direct from factories wherever possible, rather than through agents which adds to costs.
To this end, Kingfisher has established a network of sourcing offices in the Far East, South Africa, Poland and India.
Last year, direct shipments totalled US$575 million.
