18 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 Operating review continued second half offset the impact of range change, store revitalisation and a weaker market in the first half.
Cost productivity savings and Group supply benefits funded price reduction and store France refurbishment.
In the third year of a major revitalisation programme, Castorama made further improvements in product ranges, store environment and cost productivity and is now ranked by consumers as the home improvement store of first choice, according to INFORCO.
Price competitiveness Castorama continued to reduce In France, according to Banque fide France, DIY comparable store prices on everyday products and reinforced its value credentials with sales growth was 0.8%, its slowest rate for over 12 years.
Kingfishers a billboard and catalogue marketing campaign.
Its price perception market share grew with like-for-like LFL sales up 2.7%, benefiting ranking continued to improve, now independently ranked third by from the twin-track development of the full range Castorama home consumers, an improvement from ninth in 2003 INFORCO.
improvement format and the discount Brico Dpt format.
Range development Over 6,000 new, more contemporary decorative, shower and kitchen products were introduced as part Castorama of a full relaunch of these ranges with supporting catalogues.
This caused some trading disruption in the first half as stores were Castorama sales of 1.6 billion down 0.2% LFL and retail profit of 132.2 million were in line with the previous year after a strong cleared of previous ranges and new ranges introduced.
Twin-track Castorama revitalisation on track The ongoing revitalisation programme helped Castorama outperform the French DIY market in the second half of the year.
A quarter of the stores are now in the new, modern format.
6,000 new products were launched during the year in the Castorama stores.
The new store in Englos, near Lille pictured, features new ranges of flooring, bathrooms and kitchens.
Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 19 The response from customers in the second half was positive with Brico Dpt kitchen and bathroom sales the strongest performing categories.
Brico Dpt continued to deliver growth against strong During the second half, Castorama LFL sales growth of 3.0% comparatives and annual sales exceeded 1 billion for the first time.
exceeded the Banque fide France comparable store sales growth of Sales increased 17.1% to 1.1 billion 7.3% LFL.
Castorama plans more range improvements in 2006 07, strong in all categories, boosted by the addition of new products to including new ranges of kitchens, tiles and window decor.
existing ranges, and the distribution of a second annual catalogue.
Store development Following 30 months of store Retail profit increased 23.2% to 97.8 million.
Margins benefited development activity, Castorama now has a quarter of all its stores from improving scale efficiencies and Strategic Supplier in the new modern format and these continue to outperform.
new stores were opened, six were revamped and three relocated.
Eight new stores opened, including one transfer from A further seven relocations, two new openings and six transfers to Castorama.
The Brico Dpt store opening programme is expected Brico Dpt are planned for 2006 07. to accelerate next year, with around seven store openings and six Cost productivity A strong focus on cost productivity has transfers from Castorama.
Brico Dpt is now targeting over 120 enabled Castorama to lower its prices and invest in stores whilst stores in France, up from its previous target of 100. increasing profits in the last three years.
Castorama continued to To support continued growth, Brico Dpt invested in new take full advantage of the Groups sourcing programmes to reduce distribution facilities and systems.
the cost of products with direct imports as a proportion of total purchases up to 8%.
INFORCO is a leading French market research agency.
All sales and profit growth figures are in constant currencies.
strategy 1billion Brico Dpt, which produces the highest return on capital in the Kingfisher Group, delivered annual sales of over 1 billion for the first time.
