40 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Directors report The directors have pleasure in submitting their report for the year ended Disclosure of information to the auditor 31 December 2006.
Each of the directors in office as of the date of approval of this report confirms that so far as he she is aware, there is no relevant audit information being Business review information needed by the auditor in connection with preparing its report A review of the Groups activities and future developments, which fulfils the of which the auditor is unaware and that he she has taken all the steps that requirements of the business review, including the financial performance he she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself herself during the year, key performance indicators and a description of the principal aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditor risks and uncertainties facing the Group, is set out on pages 8 to 31 and is aware of that information.
pages 34 to 36 which form part of this report.
The description of the Groups corporate governance arrangements on pages 37 to 39 also forms part of Share capital this report.
A description of the Groups financial risk management objectives On the 13 April 2006, a share consolidation took effect whereby every then and policies and its exposure to price, credit liquidity and cash-flow risk is existing 17 ordinary shares of 10 pence each were replaced by six new ordinary 1 contained in note 25 to the consolidated accounts on pages 85 and 86.
Other shares of 28 3 pence each.
The holders of the Groups 300 million convertible matters material to the appreciation of the Groups position are contained in bond exercised their conversion rights and converted all the bonds into ordinary the Chairmans statement on pages 4 and 5 and the Chief Executives shares in 2006. statement on pages 6 and 7.
At 22 February 2007, substantial shareholdings notified to the Company Disposal of Hilton International and return of value pursuant to section 198 of the Companies Act 1985 were for: Legal and The disposal of the Hilton International hotels division completed on General Investment Management Limited 4.65 per cent, Lloyds TSB Bank 23 February 2006 and on the same date the Company changed its name plc 3.07 per cent, MFS Investment Management 6.05 per cent and from Hilton Group plc to Ladbrokes plc.
Following the disposal and a Prudential plc 3.00 per cent.
subsequent review of the Companys capital structure, a special dividend Further details in respect of the share capital are shown on pages 89 and 90, of 233.4 pence per ordinary share was paid on 25 April 2006 to shareholders note 28. on the register on 13 April 2006.
Responsible Business Results A report on Responsible Business RB is on the Companys website The results for the year are shown in the consolidated income statement www.
com and highlights are given on pages 26 to 31. on page 58.
The processes described under internal control on page 39 applied to Dividends RB, as did the practices described on page 37 for assisting the directors to The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 8.6 pence update their knowledge.
In addition to business presentations regularly made on each of the ordinary shares entitled thereto, making a total of 13.2 pence to the Board at which RB was considered as appropriate, the Board conducts per share for the year excluding the special dividend paid on 25 April 2006. an annual RB review and Board members regularly receive RB updates.
Subject to shareholders approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held RB performance is included in divisional accountability systems and on 18 May 2007, the final dividend is expected to be paid on 1 June 2007 remuneration arrangements.
to shareholders registered on 2 March 2007.
The risks and opportunities relating to RB in 2006 primarily revolved around the Annual General Meeting reputation of the Group and the quality of its brands.
Of particular importance This years Annual General Meeting will be held at the Queen Elizabeth II was the promotion of responsible gambling and the protection of children and Conference Centre on 18 May 2007 at 11.00am.
RB also i impacted the performance of the Groups employees Directors on whom the Group relies for the provision of high quality services to customers The directors during the year were those listed on pages 32 and 33 together and ii the health and safety of these employees and the customers they serve.
with Messrs I R Carter, D M C Michels and B G Wallace who resigned on Performance indicators continued to be developed in accordance with group- 23 February 2006 and Mr I P Livingston who resigned on 31 October 2006. wide RB policies.
No breaches of RB policies and procedures material to the Biographical details of all the directors are on pages 32 and 33.
Group were identified by the Board in 2006.
Details of directors service contracts, their share interests and other details The identification and management of RB issues, the RB reporting framework of their remuneration by the Company are contained in the Directors and accuracy of any associated data has been verified by the Companys Remuneration Report on pages 43 to 56.
RB adviser, Acona Group AS.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 41 Employee policies The Board values two-way communication between senior management and employees on all matters affecting the welfare of the business.
As well as regular management visits to operating units, conferences and meetings, communication is by video, intranet and audio programmes.
Throughout the Group via staff councils, employees are encouraged to be involved in the running of the business and opinion surveys are undertaken.
The Companys Annual Report is made available to staff and, together with regular staff magazines, provides employees with a greater awareness of the Groups performance as well as the financial and economic factors that affect it.
In addition, those employees who are eligible are also encouraged to become involved in the Groups performance through participation in share schemes.
During 2006, the Company offered free shares for a value of up to 250 to all employees with over one years service to recognise the contribution of its staff to the Companys success.
The offer immediately applied to 85 per cent of the Groups 14,000 staff, and extends to other staff as they complete one years service with the Group.
Throughout the Group, the principles of equal opportunities are recognised in the formulation and development of employment policies.
It is the Companys policy to give full and fair consideration to applications from people with disabilities, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
If an employee becomes disabled, the Companys objective is the continued provision of suitable employment, either in the same or an alternative position, with appropriate training being given if necessary.
Employees with disabilities share in the opportunities for training, career development and promotion.
Charitable donations During 2006, in addition to donations made to overseas charities, group companies donated 310,000 to UK charitable organisations.
Supplier payment policy The Company agrees payment terms for its business transactions when goods and services are ordered.
It ensures that suppliers are aware of the terms of payment and the relevant terms are included in contracts where appropriate.
Subject to satisfactory performance by the supplier, arrangements are adhered to when making payments.
At the year-end, the Company had no trade creditors.
Going concern The directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and that it is therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements.
By order of the Board M J Noble Secretary 22 February 2007 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Directors remuneration report contents 43 Introduction 43 Remuneration committee composition 43 Remuneration policy 44 Annual bonus 44 Longer term incentives 45 Performance measures 46 Retirement benefits 46 Executive directors shareholding guidelines 46 Service contracts 46 Non-executive directors 46 Performance graph 47 All-employee incentive arrangements 47 Directors remuneration and interests: audited information 49 Share option schemes 52 Other share schemes 54 Retirement provision 54 Listing rules and Section 7A disclosures 55 Directors interests in shares 56 Emoluments
