2 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Company overview Ladbrokes plc is one of the worlds leading betting and gaming companies.
We have consistently led the industry through state of the art technology and our experienced management team.
European Retail Ladbrokes shops incorporate Our 14,000 employees are key to Ladbrokes the latest in betting shop design and technology, success and have enabled us to build on our creating a unique experience for customers, with a 121-year heritage.
See page 8 At 31 December 2006, we had the largest Remote betting and gaming retail estate of betting shops in the world with Ladbrokes.
com is one of the worlds leading 2,625 shops in the UK, Ireland, Belgium and Italy.
The online Sportsbook offers a Our eGaming business accepts bets from over comprehensive range of odds on international racing, 500,000 active customers in 16 currencies sports and events, as well as a Betting-in-Play service and 12 languages.
offering commentary, statistics and up to the minute odds on the days Ladbrokes operates one of Europes biggest major sporting fixtures.
coms online Telephone Betting businesses with over 120,000 gaming services, Ladbrokescasino.
com, active customers served by call centres in London, Ladbrokespoker.
com, Liverpool and Kuala Lumpur.
are operated from our headquarters in Gibraltar.
Our Telephone Betting We remain focused on growth within our established call centres are available 24 hours a day, seven Retail and eGaming businesses.
See page 14 In addition to moving our brand overseas, as other Vernons Vernons provides pool countries regulate betting and gaming activities, and lottery games to its customers via the post, we will continue to pursue opportunities which we telephone and the internet.
See page 18 believe will enhance shareholder value.
International developments Ladbrokes market-leading experience in the UK has put us in an ideal position to pursue growth opportunities around the world.
See page 20 Casino developments In July 2006, Ladbrokes opened the Ladbrokes Casino & Sports Bar at Londons Paddington Hilton.
See page 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 3 Where we are Ladbrokes has the largest betting shop presence in the UK with 2,141 shops.
Ladbrokes also operates two greyhound stadia, 44 in-stadia betting operations covering most English and Scottish Premiership football clubs and at a number of leading racecourses.
We currently have the largest bookmaking estate in the Republic of Ireland with 179 shops and for the first time we now have 16 shops in Northern Ireland.
Established in 1982, our Belgian retail estate 286 shops is the market leader in the country and continues to perform steadily in a highly competitive marketplace.
Ladbrokes experience and leadership in the UK betting and gaming sector has given us scope to expand internationally.
During December 2006, three betting shops in Turin started trading under Ladbrokes ownership, representing our first steps into the Italian market.
Later the same month, Ladbrokes was awarded 142 new licences to operate betting shops and corners in Italy.
In 2006, Ladbrokes signed a consultancy agreement to help launch Chinas first sports In 2007, Ladbrokes signed a Joint Venture lottery pool single match betting shops and in with Cirsa Slot to develop a sports betting 2007 Ladbrokes set up a Joint Venture company business in Spain.
with Hong Kong based MegaInfo Holdings Ltd.
In addition to opportunities in the UK, we already have an established international online business with our portfolio of eGaming products and services.
com attracts nearly 2 million registered customers.
Ladbrokes has a Joint Venture partnership in Africa with KaiRo International, a South African-based gaming company with interests in several African markets.
