32 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Board of Directors 01 Sir Ian Robinson FREng Chairman Sir Ian was appointed Chairman of the Board on 1 October 2001.
He joined the Board as a nonexecutive director and Deputy Chairman of the Board on 22 February 2001.
He was Chief Executive of Scottish Power plc from 1995 to 2001.
He is a fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering and a member of The Takeover Panel.
He is also a non-executive director of Scottish & Newcastle plc, Compass Group plc and Siemens Holdings plc.
01 Sir Ian Robinson 02 Christopher Bell 03 Rosemary P Thorne Chairman Chief Executive Group Finance Director 02 Christopher Bell Chief Executive Christopher Bell became Chief Executive following the completion of the sale of the Hilton International hotels division in February 2006.
He was previously Chief Executive of Ladbrokes Worldwide and was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2000.
He joined Ladbrokes in 1991 and became Managing Director in 1995.
Prior to joining Ladbrokes he held a number of senior positions with Allied Domecq.
He is also Vice Chairman of the Association of British Bookmakers, Chairman of the Bookmakers Committee, a Board member of the Horserace Betting Levy Board, 04 Alan S Ross 05 John P OReilly 06 L Patrick Lupo a Board member of the British Institute of Sport Managing Director Managing Director Remote Senior Independent and Leisure and a non-executive and senior European Retail and Casino Betting and Gaming Non-Executive Director independent director of Game Group plc.
03 Rosemary P Thorne FCMA FCT Group Finance Director Rosemary Thorne joined the Ladbrokes plc Board following the completion of the sale of the Hilton International hotels division in February 2006.
Before joining Ladbrokes, she was the Group Finance Director of Bradford & Bingley plc from 1999 to 2005.
Prior to that, from 1992 to 1999, she was an executive director of J Sainsburys plc where she held the 07 Henry E Staunton 08 John F Jarvis 09 Nicholas M H Jones position of Group Finance Director.
Ms Thorne is Independent Independent Independent a non-executive director of Cadbury Schweppes plc Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director and Abbey National plc and a director of Satellite Information Services.
She is a member of the Financial Reporting Council and was previously a member of the Financial Reporting Review Panel.
04 Alan S Ross Managing Director European Retail and Casino Alan Ross joined the Board following the completion of the sale of the Hilton International hotels division in February 2006.
He was appointed Managing Director Ladbrokes Retail in April 2000.
During his long career 10 Christopher 11 C Pippa Wicks at Ladbrokes, he has held a number of senior J Rodrigues Independent management positions, including Managing Director Independent Non-Executive Director of Coral Group and Managing Director of Ladbrokes Non-Executive Director Casinos prior to the acquisition of Stakis.
He was appointed Managing Director International Betting and Gaming in April 1999.
He is Chairman of 49s Limited and a director of Satellite Information Services.
He is a member of the Business in Sport and Leisure Board, the British Greyhound Racing Fund Board, the Association of British Bookmakers Council and the Bookmakers Committee and is also on the GamCare Advisory Group.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 33 05 John P OReilly Managing Director 09 Nicholas M H Jones FCA Independent Remote Betting and Gaming Non-Executive Director John OReilly joined the Board following the Nicholas Jones was appointed a non-executive completion of the sale of the Hilton International director on 22 July 2002.
He is a qualified chartered hotels division in February 2006.
He has led the accountant and business school graduate.
He is a Ladbrokes eGaming Division since its establishment distinguished corporate financier and is Vice Chairman in 2000.
He has responsibility for Vernons in addition of Lazard in London, a position he has held since to Ladbrokes.
His other interests include horse racing and Betting operations.
Since joining Ladbrokes, he has from 1991-2000 he was Chairman of the National held senior responsibility within the Company for Stud.
Age 60. marketing, public relations, public affairs, property, business development and the Telephone Betting 10 Christopher J Rodrigues CBE Independent business.
He is a director of the Remote Gambling Non-Executive Director Association.
Christopher Rodrigues was appointed a nonexecutive director on 1 September 2003.
In January 06 L Patrick Lupo Senior Independent 2007, Mr Rodrigues was appointed Deputy Chairman Non-Executive Director of the board of Provident Financial plc and Chairman Patrick Lupo was appointed non-executive director of their International Division, and also the new Chair on 21 January 2001.
He was previously Chief of the national tourism body, VisitBritain.
He was until Executive and then Executive Chairman of DHL November 2006 President and Chief Executive of Worldwide Express.
Mr Lupo is a non-executive Visa International.
He was previously Group Chief director of Bunge Limited.
He was a non-executive Executive of Bradford & Bingley plc.
Prior to that he director of O until January 2006 when it was acquired was Group Chief Executive of Thomas Cook and held 2 by Telefonica, and was, until 2004, a non-executive several senior management positions with American director of WH Smith.
Patrick held a number of senior Express.
Christopher is also a Steward of Henley positions at DHL Airways and DHL Worldwide Express Royal Regatta.
11 C Pippa Wicks Independent 07 Henry E Staunton FCA Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Pippa Wicks was appointed a non-executive director Henry Staunton was appointed a non-executive on 1 June 2004.
An Oxford and London Business director on 1 September 2006.
Mr Staunton was School graduate, she was appointed a Managing previously the Finance Director at ITV plc and Director of AlixPartners Ltd, London, the specialist Granada Group plc.
He is currently a non-executive performance improvement and turnaround firm director at Legal & General plc and Standard in 2003.
She previously held senior positions within Bank plc.
Prior to this, Mr Staunton was also Pearson plc and was Group Finance Director of a non-executive director at Emap plc, BskyB, Courtaulds Textiles plc between 1993 and 1999.
Independent Television News Limited and Ashtead Pippa began her career with Bain & Company and Group plc, of which he was also Chairman between was a non-executive director of Arcadia Group plc 2001 and 2004.
08 John F Jarvis CVO, CBE Independent Non-Executive Director John Jarvis was appointed a non-executive director on 1 July 2006.
Currently Chairman of Jarvis Hotels Ltd, Mr Jarvis is also non-executive Chairman of Sandown Park Racecourse and a member of The Jockey Club.
He was previously a non-executive director at United Racecourses and a non-executive Chairman of Sporting Index.
From 1979 to 1990, Mr Jarvis was an executive director of Ladbroke Group plc and Chairman of Hilton International from 1987 to 1990.
