Board of Directors Nigel Keen Peter Hill Chairman.
BSc, MBA, Chartered a non-executive director in 1993 and Engineer.
Chairman of the Director in 2001 and Chief Executive in Nominations Committee and a member of 2002.
Previously held senior management the Remuneration Committee.
Chairman positions with Invensys plc and BTR plc.
of Axis-Shield plc, Oxford Instruments plc Non-executive director of Meggitt plc and and Deltex Medical Group plc.
an Independent Board Member of United Kingdom Trade & Investment.
Anthony Reading, MBE Professor Michael Kelly Non-executive director.
Senior independent BSc, MSc, PhD, ScD.
Chairman of the Appointed 1 July 2006.
A member of Remuneration Committee and a member the Remuneration Committee.
Currently of the Nominations Committee.
Also a Prince Philip Professor of Technology at member of the Audit Committee with the University of Cambridge, and part-time effect from 31 December 2006.
Previously Chief Scienti c Advisor to the Department an executive director of Tomkins plc, and for Communities and Local Government.
earlier held senior management positions Formerly Cambridge Executive Director with BTR plc.
Non-executive director of for the Cambridge-MIT Institute, and George Wimpey Plc, Spectris plc and e2v previously Head of the School of technologies plc.
Electronics, Computing and Mathematics at the University of Surrey.
20 The Laird Group PLC Jonathan Silver Martin Rapp Andrew Robb Finance Director.
Aged Joined Laird in 1986 and appointed to Joined Laird in 1996 as General Manager of 64.
Chairman of the the Board as Finance Director in 1994. the Groups EMI shielding business, becoming Audit Committee and a member of the Previously Group Treasurer and Corporate President of APM, Inc in 1997.
Chief Executive of Laird Technologies, Inc in Finance Director of Pilkington plc and 2001.
P&O Steam Navigation Co. NonPreviously held management positions with executive director and Chairman of the Monsanto.
Non-executive director of Kionix, Audit Committee of Corus Group plc, Inc.
Kesa Electricals plc and PayPoint plc and non-executive director of Northgate Information Solutions plc.
Dr William Spivey Sir Christopher Hum, KCMG Non-executive director.
A of the Remuneration Committee and also member of the Remuneration and a member of the Audit Committee with Nominations Committees.
Master of effect from 31 December 2006.
Formerly Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge.
President and CEO of Luminent, Inc. H M Diplomatic Service, retired.
Formerly having previously held senior management H M Ambassador to the Peoples Republic positions with AT&T Corporation and of China, having previously served as Lucent Technologies.
Non-executive H M Ambassador, Warsaw, as Assistant director of the Raytheon Company, Under Secretary of State for North Asia Novellus Systems, Lyondell Chemical, and the Paci c, and earlier as Head of the ADC Telecommunications and Cascade Hong Kong Department of the Foreign and Microtech Inc.
