Report of the directors LogicaCMG Annual report and accounts 2006 Report of the directors The directors present their report together the Report of the Directors by reference.
Contents with the financial statements of the company Strategic objectives for the business are 1.
Principal activities and its subsidiaries, for the year ended described on pages 2 to 9.
A review of the 1.1 Results and dividends 31 December 2006.
These will be laid development, performance and position of 1.2 Business review before shareholders at the annual general the business as well as an analysis of KPIs 1.3 Creditor payment policy meeting AGM to be held on 24 May 2007. is given on pages 2 to 33.
A glossary of key and practice performance indicators KPIs, including 1.4 Research and development 1.
Principal activities fide nitions and rationale for selection, are 2.
Financial instruments Throughout the year, the group was in on page 128.
Directors the business of providing information KPIs are identi ed by the symbol 3.1 Directors and of cers insurance technology services, concentrating on: throughout this report.
Substantial shareholdings Further information on the acquisition the marketing, design, production, 5.
Employment policies of interests in subsidiaries and associates integration and maintenance of custom- 6.
Remuneration Committee report during the year is provided below.
Auditors On 18 January 2006 the group hardware systems 8.
Auditors right to information announced that completion of the acquisition consultancy, applications management 9.
Annual general meeting of Unilog S. A. had taken place on 13 January and project management in the eld 9.1 Repurchase of company shares 2006 and that it now held a 96.6% of information technology 9.2 Authority to allot securities controlling interest in Unilog S. A.
On 10 July the design, development, implementation 9.3 Amen dment of the Articles 2006 a further announcement was made and marketing of software products and of Association that all of the remaining share capital of the reusable elements of applications 10.
Political donations and contributions Unilog S. A. would be compulsorily acquired software, called systems kernels 11.
Charitable donations and Unilog S. A. would be removed from the the outsourcing of information Euronext Paris List.
Following successful technology and business services.
completion of the compulsory acquisition 1.1 Results and dividends procedure, the group now owns 100% Consolidated revenue amounted to of Unilog S. A. and shares in Unilog S. A.
2,665.2 million, compared with 1,834.1 have been delisted.
million for the year ended 31 December On 21 August 2006 the group announced 2005.
The pro t before tax was 129.4 a recommended cash and share offer for million compared to 104.8 million restated the proposed acquisition of WM-data AB, for the year ended 31 December 2005. a leading Nordic IT group.
These proposals The pro t attributable to equity holders were approved by shareholders at an of the parent company was 82.0 million, extraordinary general meeting EGM compared with 65.8 million restated for of the company held on 2 October 2006. the previous year.
Adjusted basic earnings Following the offer for WM-data AB, per share from continuing operations were the group received acceptances in respect 10.7 pence 2005: 7.5 pence.
Net debt at of a total of 400,618,093 WM-data shares 31 December 2006 stood at 557.1 million and SEK199.5 million nominal value of 2005: 96.1 million.
WM-data convertible debentures, The directors have proposed a final representing approximately 95.33% dividend of 3.4 pence per share 2005: of the total capital of that company and 3.2 pence per share which, when taken approximately 97.16% of the voting rights with the interim dividend of 2.2 pence per attaching to such capital.
A compulsory share 2005: 2.11 pence per share paid acquisition procedure under the Swedish to shareholders on 20 October 2006, Companies Act 2006 to acquire all the will amount to a dividend for the year remaining WM-data shares was initiated of 5.6 pence.
If approved, the final dividend prior to the year-end.
will be paid on 25 May 2007 to eligible On 13 October 2006 a total of shareholders on the register at close 345,821,170 new shares in LogicaCMG plc of business on 27 April 2007. were allotted to shareholders and Dividend waiver details are set out convertible debenture holders of WM-data in note 32 on page 94.
AB who had accepted the companys offer as part of the consideration for 1.2 Business review the acquisition of WM-data AB and on The information that ful ls the requirements 24 October 2006 a further 41,043,271 shares of the Business Review can be found were allotted to WM-data AB shareholders in various parts of the annual report and and convertible debenture holders in accounts, which are incorporated in respect of the same matter.
The group also 40 paid a total cash consideration of SEK2.35 was appointed as an executive director extent permitted by law and the companys billion 170.8 million in relation to the offer of the company.
On 10 October 2006 Articles of Association, against all costs, in 2006.
Crister Stjernfelt, the President and Chief charges, losses and liabilities that they Additional information about the Executive Of cer of WM-data AB, was may incur in the execution of their duties, acquisition of WM-data AB is set out appointed as an executive director powers, authorities and discretions as on pages 97 and 98. of the company.
directors of the company, or any other On 20 February 2007 the group announced On 21 November 2006 the company company of which, at the request of the that it had entered into an agreement to announced that, with effect from 1 January company, they are directors or of cers.
sell, subject to the necessary employee 2007, Nol Harwerth and Wolfhart Hauser Copies of these indemnities are kept consultation and regulatory approval, its would be appointed as non-executive at the companys registered of ce and Telecoms Products business to an directors of the company.
In addition, are open for inspection by any member investment consortium led by Atlantic Bridge it was announced that, with effect from the of the company.
completion of the companys 2007 AGM, It was also announced that the proceeds of Helmut Mamsch, having completed nine 4.
Substantial shareholdings the sale would be used to reduce the groups years service, would retire from his At 29 March 2007 the company had debt, to buyout some existing minority directorship and as the deputy chairman been noti ed that the following were interests and to return funds to shareholders and senior independent non-executive interested in 3% or more of the through a share buyback programme.
Wim Dik, who companys share capital: was appointed as a non-executive director 1.3 Creditor payment policy and practice in 2002, will replace him in those roles.
Name Number of shares % The Companies Act 1985 Directors The interests of the directors in the Fidelity International Ltd 85,945,680 5.6 Report Regulations 1997 Statement of shares of the company are shown in UBS Global Asset Payment Practice require the company to the Remuneration Committee report.
Management 77,642,145 5.1 make a statement of its policy and practice As disclosed in the documents sent to The Capital Group on the payment of creditors.
The company shareholders in relation to the respective Companies Inc. and its subsidiaries seek the best possible acquisitions of Unilog S. A. and WM-data and its af liates 80,880,658 5.3 terms from suppliers appropriate to their AB, Grard Philippot and Didier Herrmann, Legal & General Group plc businesses and, in placing orders, give both of whom were shareholders in Unilog and its subsidiaries 53,816,866 3.5 consideration to quality, delivery, price and S. A. and Crister Stjernfelt, who was a the terms of payment which will be agreed shareholder in WM-data AB, all received with suppliers when the details of each consideration, including shares, for the 5.
Employment policies transaction are agreed.
The company and acquisition of their interests in those The group operates in a number of its subsidiaries will continue to honour their companies by the group.
countries and its employment practices contractual and other legal obligations Other than as referred to above, none vary to meet local conditions and and to pay creditors on the dates agreed of the directors had a material interest requirements.
In all cases, they are in contract and purchase orders.
in any contract of signi cance to which established on the basis of best practice At 31 December 2006, the number of the parent company or a subsidiary in that country.
There is no discrimination days of annual purchases represented was a party during the financial year.
against people with disabilities who apply by year-end trade creditors for the group At the 2007 AGM, Seamus Keating, to join the group and anyone within the amounted to 53 days 2005: 43 days.
Martin Read and Cor Stutterheim will group with a disability is awarded the retire and offer themselves for re-election, same opportunities for promotion, training 1.4 Research and development in accordance with the Articles of and career development as other staff.
During the year the group invested Association.
In addition, Crister Stjernfelt, Further details on our employment policies 40.2 million 2005: 31.1 million in Nol Harwerth and Wolfhart Hauser, all of are included in the corporate social research and development on software whom have been appointed as directors responsibility statement on pages 43 to 46. products, principally within the Telecoms since the last AGM, will offer themselves Products business, of which 11.3 million for election.
As referred to above, Helmut 6.
Remuneration Committee report 2005: 5.6 million was capitalised.
Mamsch will retire as a director at the The Remuneration Committee report is set completion of the meeting.
Financial instruments The exposure of the group to financial risks 3.1 Directors and of cers insurance 7.
Auditors and the risk management objectives and The company maintains insurance cover After due and careful consideration, policies relating to those risks are set out for all directors and of cers of group the directors have recommended the on pages 91 and 92. companies against liabilities which may be reappointment of  incurred by them while acting as directors LLP as the companys auditors.
The directors are listed on pages 34 and 35.
As at the date of this report, indemnities On 10 January 2006 Didier Herrmann, are in force under which the company has the Executive Vice President of Unilog S. A. agreed to indemnify the directors, to the 41 Governance Report of the directors LogicaCMG Annual report and accounts 2006 Report of the directors continued  LLP has On 20 February 2007, when the company a special resolution to this effect expressed its willingness to continue in announced the sale of its Telecoms Products is proposed as resolution number 13 of ce and therefore a resolution for their business it also announced that it expected in the Notice of the forthcoming AGM.
reappointment will be proposed at the to return approximately 130 million of the The proposed authority will expire at forthcoming AGM.
net proceeds of the sale to shareholders the 2008 AGM and permits the directors, via a share buyback programme in 2007. during this period, to issue up to an 8.
Auditors right to information It is the companys present intention to aggregate nominal amount of 7,685,090 Each of the directors at the date of approval use the authority in this resolution in part representing 5% of the issued share of this report con rms that: to purchase shares in the market in respect capital at 29 March 2007 without of that programme.
first offering them to existing shareholders.
a so far as he or she is aware, there is no Other than as referred to above, the Board Although this authority is renewed at relevant audit information of which the has no speci c plans to use this authority.
each AGM, there is no intention that in any companys auditors are unaware However, the authority may be used to three-year period it would be used to issue b he or she has taken all the steps that he make a purchase of the companys ordinary more than 7.5% of the companys issued or she ought to have taken as a director shares if suitable market conditions arise share capital on a non pre-emptive basis.
to make himself or herself aware of but will only be exercised if the Board any relevant audit information and to considers that the purchase is in the best 9.3 Amendment of the Articles establish that the companys auditors interests of shareholders generally and of Association are aware of that information.
would result in an increase in earnings Resolution number 14 in the Notice per share.
of the forthcoming AGM proposes that 9.
Annual general meeting It is the companys present intention amendments be made to the companys The companys AGM will be held on 24 May to cancel any shares that are purchased.
Articles of Association to allow it to 2007 at 3.00pm at the London Underwriting The authority approved at the 2006 AGM take advantage of the new electronic Centre, 3 Minster Court, Mincing Lane, remained valid at the year-end.
No purchases communications provisions in the London EC3R 7DD, United Kingdom.
or commitments to purchase were made Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act.
The principal changes relating to electronic 9.1 Repurchase of company shares communications introduced by the 2006 Resolution number 11 in the Notice of the 9.2 Authority to allot securities Act enable a company to use electronic forthcoming AGM proposes granting the Resolution number 12 in the Notice of the communications as the default position directors the unconditional and general forthcoming AGM proposes the renewal when providing documents such as the authority to make one or more market of the directors authority to allot the annual report and accounts to shareholders purchases of the companys ordinary authorised but as yet unissued share by placing such documents on a website, shares for the purposes of Section 166 capital of the company in accordance rather than sending them in hard copy.
of the Companies Act 1985, on such with Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985.
Further information is set out in the letter terms and in such manner as the directors This authority, which is renewed at each from the chairman attached to the Notice.
shall determine, subject to maximum AGM of the company and was also renewed and minimum prices which may be paid at the extraordinary general meeting EGM 10.
Political donations and contributions for each ordinary share as set out in held on 2 October 2006, expires at this The companys policy is not to make any the resolution.
The maximum number of donations or contributions to political the maximum aggregate number of shares subject to such an authority would parties or organisations and no such shares that may be purchased pursuant be 507,215,979 representing approximately payments were made during the year.
to this authority shall be limited to 33% of the companys total issued share Further information about the companys 153,701,812 shares, which is equivalent capital at 29 March 2007.
The directors do policy is set out in the corporate social to 10% of the companys issued share not have any present intention of exercising responsibility statement on pages 43 to 46. capital as at 29 March 2007 this authority other than in connection this authority shall remain in force until with the groups employee share schemes.
Charitable donations the conclusion of the next AGM of the Under Section 89 of the Companies The donations made to charities during the company but will terminate on the date Act 1985, equity securities in the company year are also set out in the corporate social falling 12 months from the date that this may not be allotted for cash other than responsibility statement on pages 43 to 46. resolution is passed if the AGM has not in respect of an employee share scheme been held by that date without first being offered pro-rata By order of the Board the company may agree before the above to existing shareholders, unless the prior authority terminates to purchase ordinary approval of shareholders is given in shares where the purchase will or may a general meeting.
be executed after the authority The directors consider that it is in the P Weaver FCIS terminates either in whole or in part best interests of the company that the Company secretary the company may complete such relevant authority given at the AGM in 2006, 29 March 2007 a purchase even though the authority which expires at the 2007 AGM, should has ended.
be renewed on similar terms.
Accordingly, 42 Corporate social responsibility statement 1.
Our business provide a framework for everything we do Contents is based on nearly 40 years experience 1.
Our business 1.1 Ethical conduct in the IT industry.
1.1 Ethical conduct We recognise the obligations we have To cater for the wide variety of work we 1.2 Customers towards our staff, shareholders, customers, do, we aim for a balance between exibility 1.3 Business partners and suppliers suppliers, competitors and the community in the way we operate and tight control to 1.4 Community as a whole.
We believe our reputation, consistently meet customer expectations.
1.5 Environment together with the trust and con dence We have clear and strong lines of 2.
Our employees of those with whom we deal, to be one communication which allow us to respond 2.1 Releasing potential of our most valuable assets.
In order to quickly and ef ciently to customer and 2.2 Communications and keep this reputation and trust, we demand market requirements, and our customers employee satisfaction and maintain the highest ethical standards receive a consistent service across 2.3 A meritocracy in carrying out our business activities.
geographies, industries and technology 2.4 Health and safety All employees are required to abide areas.
Our sales effort and delivery 3.
Charity by our ethical policy, which prohibits all capability are aligned in order to ensure 4.
Political contributions forms of illegal or immoral behaviour.
It can that we can successfully and consistently be found on the companys website and deliver what we promise.
The policy helps to uphold the reputation of our company and staff, and 1.3 Business partners and suppliers maintains public con dence in LogicaCMG.
As with our relationships with our Staff are encouraged to promptly report other stakeholders, we aim to develop any potentially illegal, improper and or relationships and improve networking unethical conduct that they become aware with business partners and suppliers based of at their workplace or in connection on mutual trust.
We believe one of our with their work.
We believe we have an major strengths is our approach to alliances environment that enables staff to raise and partnerships with customers.
Many genuine and legitimate concerns internally.
of our new contracts come through these However, in the event that staff believe their alliances and our partners contributions reporting to line management may result help us to deliver the solutions required in harassment, victimisation or undue by our customers and the market.
distress, they may contact a con dential The companys alliance management helpline to report matters.
The helpline programme is key to understanding provides an opportunity for concerns to evolving strategies and teaming together on be investigated and for appropriate action integrated solutions with a strong emphasis to be taken to ensure that the matter on innovation, execution, and collaboration.
Our global strategic alliances have been strengthened, particularly our relationships 1.2 Customers with technology market leaders SAP, We strongly believe that integrity in Microsoft, IBM and HP, but also with Oracle dealings with customers is a prerequisite and Cisco.
The value to the business has for a successful and sustained business been re ected in signi cant joint contract relationship.
wins, taking advantage of LogicaCMGs We operate a highly effective and new Global Service Delivery capabilities.
ef cient organisation, focused on meeting Our clients appreciate the ability to offer, customer objectives.
Our aim is to provide through partnership, the best combination products and services which give fair value of state-of-the-art technology and worldand consistent quality, reliability and safety class products, strong customer relations in return for fair reward.
We operate policies and deep industry knowledge and of continual improvement, of both experience, combined with the capacity processes and the skills of our staff, to take to implement and deliver value-added, best advantage of advances in technology.
mission-critical, repeatable global This safeguards our operations for the solutions on time and within budget.
future, ensuring that we continue to add value to our customers businesses.
1.4 Community This is underpinned by a consistent LogicaCMGs chief contribution to local approach to the way we conduct our work.
communities is achieved through its staff.
This approach, embodied in our Cortex With around 40,000 employees in 41 business management system a set of countries across the globe, the company best practice business processes which not only brings employment, but also seeks 43 Governance
