Market review LogicaCMG Annual report and accounts 2006 Our markets today We have an excellent Financial Energy track record of Services and Utilities successful delivery in five market segments.
Our balanced portfolio helps insulate us against adverse market conditions.
2006 revenue by market sector 20% 18% % of IT services revenue UK United Kingdom Revenue growth Revenue growth Nor Nordics by key location by key location NL Netherlands FR France UK Nor NL FR fide Int UK Nor NL FR fide Int fide Germany Int International 29.1% 100% 15.9% 12.4% 0.8% 8.5% 29.7% 27.5% 8.1% 21.6% 40.7% 3.8% Top five clients Top five clients ABN AMRO BP BNP Paribas E. ON Crdit Agricole Crdit Lyonnais Electricit fide France ING Energias fide Portugal Rabobank Shell Highlight of 2006 Highlight of 2006 For further examples of what A200m outsourcing contract A seven-year contract with we do for our customers, with ING for application a major oil and gas company see www.
com management and managed for exploration and production testing see page 17.
10 Industry, Telecoms Public Sector Distribution and Media and Transport 27% 9% 26% Revenue growth Revenue growth Revenue growth by key location by key location by key location UK Nor NL FR fide Int UK Nor NL FR fide Int UK Nor NL FR fide Int 6.4% 1.1% 5.0% 1.9% 15.2% 18.8% 7.8% 8.0% 3.6% 16.4% 78.3% 84.1% 1.8% 0.7% 9.9% 3.0% 40.7% 26.4% Top five clients Top five clients Top five clients Deutsche Post World Net Deutsche Telecom T-Mobile NL Defence Dutch Railways NL Home Affairs France Telecom Orange Ford Hutchison 3G UK Crown Prosecution Service InBev Telefonica O2 UK Defence Philips UK Health Vodafone Highlight of 2006 Highlight of 2006 Highlight of 2006 A 5.5 year contract to manage Signi cant revenue from a newA seven-year, 150m InBevs entire European and start mobile telecoms operator, application services contract global HQ business systems with the UKs Department Natrindo Telepon Seluler, in see pages 19 and 22.
Indonesia see page 22. for Constitutional Affairs see pages 24 and 25.
11 Business review Market review LogicaCMG Annual report and accounts 2006 Our global position Global Service Delivery LogicaCMG delivers a full range of IT outsourcing and business process solutions and services through our Global Service Delivery organisation.
Our blended sourcing model mixes onsite, onshore, nearshore and offshore resources to deliver services to our customers at the right cost, quality, performance, security and risk.
This model uses people, process and technology to deliver an integrated service locally to our customers.
4 Key markets and positions in Europe We are a tier-one European IT services supplier with leading positions in the United Kingdom, France, the Netherlands and the Nordics.
We are ranked seventh in Europe by revenue and have a strong international network.
LogicaCMG key locations Source: PAC Core IT Services, LogicaCMG 13 Source: LogicaCMG Business review Market review LogicaCMG Annual report and accounts 2006 Our market capabilities We have a thorough Projected market growth understanding of the by line of business 2007 2010 markets in which we operate.
We develop Western Europe the solutions our US$bn customers require to IDT 60 CAGR: 5.40% grow their business.
Public Sector CAGR: 8.40% 50 Financial Services CAGR: 8.05% Financial Services 40 We ended 2006 with healthy order books in both banking and insurance.
For the 30 second year running, we have increased Telecoms our market share in Financial Services.
CAGR: 3.95% Revenue was up by 16.6%: double the 20 underlying market growth of around 6 to 8%.
Energy & Utilities CAGR: 9.01% 10 Our strength in Europe continues to pay dividends.
The UK, Netherlands, France and the Nordics all performed well.
And we 2007 2008 2009 2010 had signi cant successes in Asia-Paci c and the Middle East.
Global The potential US$bn Global spending on external IT services Financial Services CAGR: 8.13% 200 by financial services customers is poised to top US$160 billion in 2007.
Energy & Utilities CAGR: 8.68% Around a quarter of that spending is Telecoms in Europe.
CAGR: 5.79% 150 The financial services industry is at the cutting edge of globalisation.
Retail and corporate banks pursue global strategies: securities exchanges and clearing houses 100 are forging international links.
This is Public Sector matched by global sourcing strategies for CAGR: 6.54% technology and certain business processes at leading financial services institutions.
50 IDT In the insurance industry, cross-border CAGR: 6.46% entities are becoming the norm, but the rapid consolidation of ownership across Europe has not yet been matched by globalisation 2007 2008 2009 2010 of process and IT systems.
Market participants recognise that this can lower costs, while also reducing Source: Gartner operational and legal risks.
It can also help them to improve service and the clarity of The Markets in Financial Instruments developments are encouraging banks to their offering to customers.
Directive MiFID will introduce a single develop EU-wide compliance capabilities Regulatory change is a key driver for IT market and regulatory regime for and payments infrastructures.
As new statutory requirements investment services across the European 2007, high-volume SEPA testing will be a are introduced financial institutions are Union.
EU regulators are implementing signi cant, although one-off, need.
being forced to update their systems to the Payment Services Directive PSD Strategically, there is a growing comply.
This process often leads to more and, within the eurozone, the Single Euro recognition among financial institutions fundamental reviews and triggers business Payments Area SEPA, to reduce the of the need to drive out ef ciencies by transformation initiatives.
These transforming their back of ce organisation, 14 Source: Gartner Dataquest Industry Market Strategies Worldwide Vertical Forecast Database, November 2006 A c A ca as se e s st tu ud dy y N Na at ti ix xi is A s As ss su ur ra an nc ce es s, t, th he e Nat Natixis ixis Assurances Assurances began began b be et tw we ee en t n th he c e cu us st to om me er r a an nd d insurance insurance subsidiar subsidiary y o of f Natixis, Natixis, the the se search arch f fo or r an an I IT T par part tner ner the IT provider.
LogicaCMGs i is s a h a ho ol ld di in ng w g wh hi ic ch c h co om mb bi in ne es s c ca ap pa ab bl le of t e of ta ak ki ing o ng on n a p a pr roje ojec ct t ex ext te en ns si iv five e k kn nowow-h ho ow w a an nd d va var ri io ou us o s op pe er ra at ti io on na al s l su ub bs si id di ia ar ri ie es s to r to re eb bu ui il ld i d it ts c s co or re e sy sys st te em ms s pro prof fessional essional e ex xper pertise tise in in t th he e o of f insurance insurance.. Natixis Natixis Assurances Assurances from the ground up.
insuran insurance ce sect sector or is is in inv va aluable luable.. i is s p pu ur rs su ui in ng a p g a pr rog ogr ra am mm me to e to ac ach hi ie ev five s e st tr ro ong g ng gr ro ow wt th h i in n a a Log Logic ica aC CM MG G w wo on t n th he c e co on nt tr ra ac ct t W Wh he en n c co om mp pl le ete, t te, th he n e ne ew sy w sys st te em m h hi ig gh hl ly y com comp pe et ti it ti iv five e ma mark rket et.
The to design, build and manage w wi il ll l e eq qu ui ip t p th he c e co om mp pa an ny w y wi it th a h a i in ns su ur re er h r ha as a t s a te ec ch hn no ol lo og gy y- -l le ed d the transition to an integrated single single, consist consistent ent vie view w o of f all all it its s strategy.
It recognised that its l li ife i fe in ns su ur ra an nc ce IT sy e IT sys st te em m. I.
It t insuran insurance ce quo quot tati ations ons t to o clients.
ex exi is st ti in ng g I IT T s sy ys st te em m, r re es sp po on ns si ib bl le e i is s n no ow w w wo or rk ki in ng c g cl los ose el ly w y wi it th h Nat Natixis ixis Assurances Assurances will will gain gain fo for o r ov five er r 1 1.. 2 m 2 mi il ll li io on p n pe er rs so on na al l N Na at ti ix xi is A s As ss su ur ra an nc ce es s o on n a m a ma ajo jor r a n a ne ew l w le ev five el of m l of ma an na ag ge em me en nt t lif life e assuran assurance ce c co on nt tra racts, cts, re restru structurin cturing g pro programme gramme o of f the the c co on nt tr ro ol w l wh hi ic ch w h wi il ll l a al ll lo ow i w it t to to was compartmentalised insurer insurer s s e ex xistin isting g inf informati ormation on r re ev vi it ta al li is se e i it ts p s pr ro od du uc ct r t ra an ng ge, e, a an nd o d ou ut tm mo od fide ed d. T. Th hi is s wa was s sys syste tem ms s. S. Su uc ch h a l a la ar rg ge e- - raise productivity and optimise c co on ns stra trai in ni in ng g th the e g gr ro ow wth th o of f s sc ca al le a e an nd c d co om mp pl le ex p x pr roje ojec ct t it its s cust customer omer ser services.
In early 2005, d fide ep pe en nd ds o s on n c cl los ose c e co oo op pe er ra at tio ion n 15 15 Business review A case study The The energieclearingH energieclearingHouse ouse LogicaCMG designed and built Throughout Throughout it its s five five-yeyea ar r F Fo ou un nd da at ti io on n E ECH CH wa was s s se et u t up p th the e s sy yst ste em m th tha at t i is s a at t th the e h he ear art t o of f h hi is st to or ry ECH h y ECH ha as a s al lway ways s in 2001 by leading Dutch utility E EC CH.
H. It It als also o h ho osts sts and and mana manages ges b be ee en n a ab bl le e t to o r re el ly y o on n r ro ob bu us st t c co om mp pa an ni ie es to s s to su up pp po or rt t t th he e it it and and p pr ro ov vides ides consult consultancy ancy e ex xt te ensions nsions t to o funct functionalit ionality y liberalisati liberalisatio on n o of f Holland Holland s s energy energy ser services vices t to o E EC CH H mana management gement.. b be ei in ng d g fide el li iv five er re ed o d on n b bu ud dg get a et an nd d m ma ar rk ket et.
ECH i. ECH is s a an n i im mp pa ar rt ti ia al l o on n t ti im me e b by y L Lo og gi ic ca aC CM MG G.. W Wh he en n instituti institution, on, whi which ch suppor supports ts To date, 20% of residential and t th he ECH r e ECH re en ne ewe wed i d it ts a s as ss se et t th the e tran transf sfer er o of f in inf fo orm rma at ti io on n 70% of business customers and information management b be et tw we ee en t n th he m e ma any d ny di if ff fe er re en nt t ha hav five e s swit witched ched supplier suppliers s t th hrough rough s sy yst ste em ms s c co on nt tra racts cts with with parties involved in the transport the ECH system: it handles LogicaCMG in 2006, to the and delivery of energy.
For up up t to o a a milli million on client client-relatrelate ed d end of 2009, it commended energy energy businesses businesses it it deliv deliver ers s messages a day around 98% L Lo ogi gicaC caCMG MG s s pro prof fessi essionalism onalism si signi gni cant cant co cost st sa savin vings, gs, of t of th he D e Du utc tch e h en ne er rg gy y m ma ar rk ket et.. and acknowledged it as a s si in nc ce t e th he IT f e IT fu un nc ct ti io on na al li it ty i y is s key strategic partner.
maintained centrally at the ECH.
For many, the relationships with some of the worlds Energy and Utilities transformation and automation of the back largest financial institutions.
A notable of ce goes hand in hand with an increased success during the year was a 200 million Against a backdrop of growth in emphasis on innovative customer service.
outsourcing deal signed with ING.
This underlying markets, LogicaCMGs Retail banks and insurers are becoming is an application management and Energy and Utilities division increased more focused on individual customers.
managed testing outsourcing contract its order intake and revenue in most Customer data integration is gaining ground that includes staff transfer in mainland major geographies.
as they invest in technologies that help Europe.
Our blended service model to build client loyalty and deliver targeted provides customers with the right mix Our oil and gas business showed solid customer offerings.
of onshore, nearshore and offshore growth in 2006.
We will continue to There is growing interest in insurance facilities to meet their business needs.
develop our capabilities in this sector and automation to reduce administration costs, Customers increasingly call on our are focused on maintaining our working especially in life and pension businesses.
consultancy capability to help them solve relationships with important customers As standardised solutions gain greater complex business problems.
We undertook like Statoil and Total.
acceptance, major packaged solutions a major project this year to completely Revenues in 2006 were down slightly which deliver service-oriented architecture, transform the systems and processes for as a result of disappointing orders in 2005, such as SAP, are likely to gain traction.
the National Bank of Kuwait.
However, we ended The trend for outsourcing application In insurance, we are also active the year with a stronger order book showing development plays to our strengths as internationally.
We are re-engineering backincreased business from existing clients a financial services specialist with a of ce systems in France for BNP Insurance.
and the addition of some important new leading global service delivery model.
The application development contract clients.
There is increased appetite in the banking that we won with Natixis Assurances, the industry for business process outsourcing insurance subsidiary of the Natixis Bank, The potential BPO solutions, driven in part by the demonstrates the strength of bringing Industry analysts estimate that combined need to handle SEPA-related payments together strong customer relationships at global IT spend in the energy and utilities processing.
In insurance, BPO services for Unilog with LogicaCMGs leading Global sector will reach US$73 billion in 2007 routine administration are becoming more Service Delivery capability.
In the UK we source: Energy Insights, an IDC company.
are delivering managed testing services Cost, competition and compliance are three to Legal and General and are providing key drivers for energy and utility companies.
Our capabilities complete IT systems to Skandia Bank in Considerable economies of scale remain Our banking proposition stretches across the Nordics.
in the energy and utilities markets and the payments, financial services transformation Several of our financial services move towards outsourcing will continue.
A highly propositions draw on LogicaCMGs Energy costs are at historically high capable and modern software product expertise in other domains.
Our elevels: infrastructure and workforces are set underpins our service capability.
identity offering is helping banks to ageing.
Energy producers want to maximise For example, we provide a clearing and combat electronic fraud.
It combines our their return on assets.
Utilities, looking for settlement solution and have products experience gained in financial services secure sources of supply, are diversifying to address financial crime.
Our software with our knowledge of biometrics.
Similarly their fuel mixes and asset bases.
Our application, LogicaCMG All Payments our e-invoicing expertise strengthens our customers need real-time network Solution LAPS, includes a high-volume clearing and settlement capabilities in information, sophisticated knowledge payment system which meets the need financial services.
management systems and secure data of our customers for faster, more ef cient With nearly 40 years of experience in the management to assist them in responding payments processing.
financial services industry, LogicaCMG has to these business challenges.
We have a strong track record in payments credibility and know-how.
We are a leader Transmission and distribution companies processing and a solid understanding of in payment services and deliver innovative must contend with increased competition the changing regulatory environment.
Our solutions across the banking and insurance and the growing internationalisation of LAPS application is well established in the sectors.
International financial institutions their businesses.
Increased competition is market and is creating major opportunities.
favour fewer, trusted suppliers, who can triggering restructuring, often as a result The contract to implement SEPA payments support them with a global service, and of mergers and acquisitions.
International processing for a leading German bank who they believe have the capability to M&A activity is likely to accelerate as was an important win during the year.
In help them truly transform their business.
markets deregulate and national operators addition, we have won key work with a LogicaCMG is part of that select group.
look to foreign markets to grow their number of institutions, including a leading business.
Belgian bank, to deliver their SEPA testing.
New global businesses are being created We have worked with 40 of the worlds and they will need to consolidate systems top 50 banks, including ABN AMRO, and make use of BPO services to optimise Barclays, BNP Paribas and JP Morgan.
their cost bases and entrench ef ciency During 2006 we signed several major gains.
These trends will open the door to contracts and developed our strategic partnerships with IT service providers 17 Business review Market review LogicaCMG Annual report and accounts 2006 Cost, competition and compliance are the three key drivers for Energy and Utilities customers.
who can support customers across In the upstream oil and gas sector, We continued to work closely with multiple geographies.
companies are putting more emphasis regulatory bodies on infrastructure to These international businesses face on replacing depleting reserves.
There support international emissions trading.
They will is increased demand from existing and For example, we are implementing and have to comply with regulatory demands new customers for our enterprise asset supporting a complex infrastructure project in multiple jurisdictions, without imposing management and analytic systems.
For for the United Nations which will allow undue burdens on their operations.
example, enhanced oil recovery is enabled transfer and monitoring of emission quota Environmental and financial transparency through improved reservoir modelling and units between national registries.
This considerations continue to move up production technology in areas like well will help to realise the Kyoto Protocol on the agenda.
There is a worldwide trend design, well stimulation and sand control.
towards closer oversight and more detailed We provide exploration and production Climate change is having a major impact reporting.
Market participants are looking information management and a dedicated on our customers.
Major energy users for a services partner who can help them service desk to the whole of Statoil.
are already using technology to make the respond strategically in this changing Downstream, the focus is on operational most of existing resources and to help environment.
For Total, identify new energy sources, while driving we deploy IT systems to support their down costs.
LogicaCMGs automated Our capabilities re ning and marketing business.
For other meter infrastructure propositions are LogicaCMGs broad portfolio of energy major oil companies we deploy supply core technologies here and the WM-data and utility solutions and services spans chain management solutions and for major acquisition has strengthened this capability.
upstream and downstream oil and gas, companies like ExxonMobil and Statoil we LogicaCMG is also developing a control competitive markets, enterprise asset deliver payment and loyalty card solutions.
and management system for 48 windfarms management, the environment, energy LogicaCMG is one of a small number across Iberia for Energias fide Portugal.
Our knowledge of SAP global partners.
We develop Developing these propositions further of our customers, their industries and customised solutions using SAP will be a key priority in 2007. the latest market trends gives us the components.
Our 18 million outsourcing The WM-data and Unilog acquisitions ability to support our blue-chip clients contract with a major Latin American brought us signi cant new clients such as Total, EDF, Statoil and Hafslund.
energy company supports SAP applications To address cost concerns, we help across 14 subsidiaries.
We worked closely We are now a much larger player in the our customers enhance their operational with SAP on the development of their nextenergy and utilities space and will take excellence, with enterprise asset generation energy and utility solutions and full advantage of our increased scale management systems, including geospatial have agreed a 20 million contract with during 2007.
We have, for instance, information systems GIS, mobile EDF to operate and support their use of identi ed important cross-selling workforce solutions and real-time asset SAPs industry-speci c offering for utilities opportunities in the Nordics and the management.
We have developed a mobile business SAP IS-Utilities.
Baltic states and we will actively pursue asset management system for Frances Our Global Service Delivery capability these in the coming year.
Veolia Propret and we are upgrading and is an important strength, which helped We continue to focus on building merging the GIS systems of Australias us secure several major deals in 2006.
A our share of wallet in strategic accounts.
Citipower and Powercor into a single uni ed seven-year contract with a major oil and gas During the year we signed a number of system.
In Brazil, one of the worlds largest company for exploration and production IT major framework agreements with key water supply and management companies support was a signi cant win.
There were utility companies across Europe.
We have is using LogicaCMGs GIS systems, substantial outsourcing contract renewals developed a strong portfolio of offerings in enabling them to standardise network with Hydro Tasmania and Sydney Water Energy and Utilities, and are well positioned information and allow wider access to in Australia and a four-year deal with the to bene t from the growth opportunities data throughout the company.
18 A case study InBev is the worlds leading all cited when InBev made a n a ne ew S w SA AP P- -b ba as se ed E d ER RP P brewer, active in over 130 LogicaCMG LogicaCMG it its s st str ra ategic tegic par part tner ner s sy yst stem.
It It also also super supervises vises countries and employing more f fo or r a ap pp pl licat ication ion ma management nagement.. subcont subcontra ract ctor ors s and and o ot ther her than 86,000 people worldwide.
ser service vice pro provider viders.
s. A An nd d T Th he c e co om mp pa an ny i y is s t tr ra an ns sf fo or rm mi in ng g InBe InBev v w wa ant nted ed t to o f fo ocus cus rs first t o on n i it ts s Logic Logica aCMG h CMG ha as t s ta ak ke en n itself itself int into o a a leading leading global global regional capabilities.
It signed on 110 InBev employees.
b bu us si in ne es ss s: a s : a st tr ra at te eg gy y w wh hi ic ch h a a70 million v five e- -y ye ea ar r c co on nt tra ract ct implies implies m mo ore re stre streamlined amlined with LogicaCMG in June 2006 to The The result result: : an an appli applicati cation on and and cent centralised ralised I IT T ser services.
manage its Western Europe and ser service vice en environment vironment which which global global headquar headquart te er rs s business business harm harmonises onises operat operations ions in in T To o help help realise realise it its s vision, vision, it it s sy ys st te em ms s.. S Si ix x m mo on nt th hs s l la at te er r, t th he e 1 17 7 cou count ntries ries s sp panning anning 1 12 2 t ti ime me s so ought ught out out suitable suitable e ex xt te ernal rnal c co on nt tra ract ct w wa as s e ex xt te ended nded t to o c co ov five er r zo zon ne es f s fr ro om m Co Cou un nt ty y Co Cor rk k to to p pa ar rt tn ne er rs s. Log.
Logic ica aC CMG MG s s c cl los ose e C Ce en nt tr ra al a l an nd E d Ea as st te er rn E n Eu ur ro op pe e.. t th he e Berin Bering g St Strait rait.. InBe InBev v has has under understandin standing g o of f InBe InBev v s s r re ed du uc ce ed o d op pe er ra at ti io on na al c l co os st ts s, b bu us si in ne es ss s, i, it ts s e ex xible ible appro approa ac ch h Under the agreement impro improv five ed d ser servi vice ce le lev five els ls and a previous successful LogicaCMG LogicaCMG manages manages InBe InBev vs s and and is is gainin gaining g bro broad ad relati relationship onship in in German Germany y w we ere re core core appli applicati cations, ons, in includin cluding g business business bene bene ts.
19 19 Business review A c A ca as se e s st tu ud dy y B Br ri it ti is sh T h Te el le ec co om m s s B BT T l la ar rg ge es st t BT s BT se el le ec ct te ed d Log Logi ic ca aC CM MG fo G for r recon recon gurati guration, on, as as e ev five er r c ca ap pi it ta al e l ex xp pe en nd di it tu ur re p e pr roje ojec ct t a p a pr roof oof- -o of f- -c co onc nce ep pt p t pr roje ojec ct t ag aga ai in ns st t t th he 2 e 25 5% t % th ha at t is underway.
The xe xed d- -lliin ne e and and subsequent subsequentl ly y ask asked ed it it h ha ad b d be ee en n e ex xp pe ec ct te ed d. T. Th ha an nks ks operat operator or is is repla replacing cing it its s public public t to o implemen implement t its its appro approa ac ch h to Log to Logic ica aC CMG MG s s i in nv five es st ti ig ga at ti iv five e switched telephone network nat nation ionwide wide.. L Lo ogicaC gicaCMG MG and and mana management gement e ex xper pert tise ise, P PS ST TN N w wi it th h t th he e n ne ex xt t g ge en ne er ra at ti io on n m ma an na ag ge es t s th he e e en nt ti ir re e p pr rog ogr ra am mm me e B BT T has has sa sav five ed d around around 2 21 1s st t Centu Centur ry y IP IP- -N Net etw wo ork rk 2 21 1C CN N.. and co-ordinates sub- 3 3 m mi il ll li io on s n si in nc ce t e th he s e st ta ar rt of t of c co on nt tra ract ctor ors s in in the the eld eld and and the project in September 2005.
B BT T s s current current ne net tw work ork in includes cludes o of ffsh fshore ore s so of ft tw ware are rms.
1 15 5, 000 000 c co or re e b br re c e ca ab bl le es s, w, wh hi ic ch h W Wi it th h o ov five er r 1 10 0, 000 000 r re ec co or rd ds s o on n deliver high bandwidth services Logic LogicaCMG aCMG s s p pr roac oact ti iv five e th the e s sy yst ste em m, th the e pr pro oj je ec ct t i is s o on n t to o UK UK businesses.
It It plans plans appro approa ac ch h has has helped helped B BT T b bu ud dg get et, o, on n t ti im me e a an nd n d ne ea ar ri in ng g t to o int integrat egrate e t th hese ese int into o 2 21 1C CN N.. to av to avo oi id u d un nn ne ec ce es ss sa ar ry c y co os st ts s.. c co om mp pl le et ti io on n. T. Th he e e el le ec ct tr ro on ni ic c T To o d do o t th ha at t i it t n ne ee ed fide ed d b be et tt te er r For instance, less than 10% records records are are helpin helping g B BT T planner planners s q qu ua al li it ty i y in nfo for rm ma at ti io on a n ab bo ou ut t t th he es se e o of f t th he e cables cables ha hav five e had had t to o be be to c to co on n rm rm t th he e resilience resilience a as ss se et ts s. I.
It t wa was a m s a ma ajo jor l r lo og gi is st ti ic cs s ph physi ysically cally t tr ra ac ck ke ed d t to o identif identify y o of f t th he e net netw work ork as as t th he ey y roll roll and and mana management gement challenge challenge.. t th hos ose w e wh hic ich m h may n ay ne ee ed d out out 2 21 1CN CN ac across ross t th he e UK UK.. 20 20 Several signi cant IDT wins in 2006 con rmed the strength of LogicaCMGs Global Service Delivery capability.
manufacturers seek to reduce costs, and automotive to compete effectively Industry, Distribution minimise inventory levels and become more and build market share.
Our customers and Transport responsive to customer demand.
are international organisations: among These trends are spurring increased them are Deutsche Post World Net, Philips, LogicaCMG had a good order intake in automation at all stages in the supply chain, Carrefour and Ford.
As a top three provider the Industry, Distribution and Transport requiring organisations to demand real-time of manufacturing execution systems MES IDT market during 2006 with growth systems that can manage production on an and a first-rate systems integration partner in our main European markets.
with a powerful outsourcing capability, revenues grew 1% during the year Developing closer relationships with we are able to meet our customers against market growth of 3 to 5%.
customers is a key driver for business demand for global sourcing and their transformation.
In the retail sector, the production priorities.
LogicaCMG is now a major player major players are building market share We have a strong track record of in Europes manufacturing, retail, through brand differentiation.
They are designing and implementing CRM systems.
turning to data mining and analytic tools Our expertise in data mining and business Unilog and WM-data have added strong to enhance per customer revenues and analytics is helping businesses understand IDT capabilities and we see signi cant to integrated customer relationship their customers better.
For example, cross-selling opportunities within this management CRM solutions to distil point LogicaCMGs CRM solution for Philips market sector.
of sales data into management information Luminaires uses the SAP Enterprise Portal that informs successful marketing strategies.
to equip front-line teams with customer The potential Addressing higher energy costs and information: it is reducing management LogicaCMG serves diverse companies environmental concerns are key priorities overheads and generating sales.
across the industry, distribution and for transport companies.
They look to We deliver global solutions as a leading transport sectors.
Common to all sectors transport management solutions that system integrator and SAP specialist.
is a focus on business innovation as a incorporate real-time data and locationLogicaCMG has established strengths in means of delivering competitive advantage based services to better manage their enterprise asset management and we are and defending market share.
Across assets, minimise costs and maximise helping our customers to standardise and these sectors, it is increasingly important customer bene ts.
Public transport optimise their production processes.
for business partners to be agile and operators are looking for mobile ticketing Transport represents an important part capable of responding swiftly to shifts in solutions and real-time travel information of our business in the IDT market segment.
Fleet managers need fuel LogicaCMG has built up signi cant domain that innovative technologies will help consumption and location-based data.
Our intelligent transport them achieve this.
They are automating Road pricing initiatives require locationsystems are helping transport and logistics manufacturing processes to accelerate aware tarif ng systems.
companies to map vehicles, capture realproduction cycles and enhance product World-class organisations no longer time locational data and improve customer exibility, using data mining to build closer compete on cost alone.
We are developing smart retailing links with customers and deploying suppliers who understand their priorities transport solutions using smartcards, wireless technologies to track orders and can offer an integrated approach to IT Radio Frequency Identi cation RFID and improve logistics.
In manufacturing, businesses are For instance, we provide back of ce investing in IT to optimise their supply Our capabilities and settlement services to Scotcard, the chains and increase operational ef ciency.
LogicaCMGs technological solutions and smartcard-based concessionary travel They are developing global production services help businesses in distribution scheme for the Scottish Executive.
There is a shift from just in and transport and across various industries French railway operator SNCF, LogicaCMG time JIT delivery to JIT production as including logistics, manufacturing, retail has developed a mobile solution which 21 Business review Market review LogicaCMG Annual report and accounts 2006 allows its 12,000 inspectors to check tickets costs.
Traditional operators have a different Telecoms and Media using Wi-Fi-enabled PDAs.
This won the cost structure and struggle to compete best mobility project award in the major Overall, our revenue in the Telecoms effectively in this space.
A principal company category at the 2006 Mobile and Media space in 2006 increased by challenge for them is to manage the decline Of ce Show.
Similarly, we helped to equip 24% due to signi cant growth following in their voice revenue.
There are two main the mobile workforce at Nederlandse a major contract win in Asia.
This approaches: nding ways to optimise their Spoorwegen, the Dutch rail operator, with compares favourably with estimated cost structures and compensating for their real-time information, greatly improving 6 to 9% market growth.
losses through the introduction of new, ef ciency and customer communication.
Most of our larger IDT customers are Total revenue was split fairly evenly Fierce competition is forcing operators outsourcing an increasing proportion of between our Telecom Solutions 48% and to take further measures to optimise their non-core activities.
Several signi cant Telecoms Products 52% operations.
It is driving industry IDT wins in 2006 con rmed the strength revenue growth was in Telecom Solutions, consolidation and promoting business of LogicaCMGs global service delivery mainly driven by major wins in 2005 such process automation and other mechanisms capability.
These included application as PT Natrindo Telepon Seluler NTS in that reduce operating expenditure.
management contract wins with Lotus Cars, Indonesia, managed testing for a major Larger global players are emerging as InBev and Air Liquide.
Global sourcing is global operator and HR payroll support consolidation takes hold.
They require also gaining momentum in France and in for KPN.
We are performing particularly services and solutions that will help them the Nordics.
Our integrated GSD service strongly in a number of key regions, notably integrate their networks and businesses.
centre has an outstanding track record in the Netherlands, Germany and France.
The same competitive pressures are business process outsourcing.
In payroll, Following the sale of our Telecoms stoking the demand for outsourced IT for instance, LogicaCMG produces pay Products business, announced in and business process services.
slips for over 60 million employees.
early 2007, our focus is on building our Convergence is a continuing theme with Our innovative approach and technical capabilities in the services and solutions a requirement for greater innovation.
In and domain skills are creating new market in telecoms and media.
order to attract and retain customers, the opportunities.
We are currently developing operators need to provide interesting and transport solutions, which leverage expertise The potential diverse services.
To succeed, convergent gained from the Galileo satellite project, In a uid, fast-changing environment, three businesses will need to build content and we are pioneering new applications trends dominate: consolidation driven and media delivery services with fully in the emerging area of Near Field by the need for global economies of scale integrated, single networks, which provide Communications NFC.
We also have as well as growth: convergence, in the straightforward services to their customers.
a strategic partnership with Philips xed mobile space and with broadband This is prompting signi cant investment Applied Technologies to manage, develop networks and media services: and new in next generation networks, systems and and support embedded software in Philips content innovation, to attract customers services.
An interesting consequence is products.
Both opportunities and the emergence of new business models Our customers require innovative challenges arise from these dynamics.
solutions and services to help them Customer centricity is a key transform their businesses.
They operate consequence of these trends, leading Our capabilities in a global market and they want a reliable to the need for more sophisticated and Our Personal Services Portal PSP partner who can deliver global solutions.
integrated customer care and channel is meeting consumer demand for web With its sound IDT domain knowledge, management.
This requires knowledge personalisation with products such as innovative technologies and strong about the customer and an insight into their secure mail and social networking sites.
international network, LogicaCMG is usage and needs.
This in turn requires a Our customers use these products to just such a partner.
community approach and comprehensive deepen relationships and defend market data integration.
We work in partnership with our In Europe, operators face a mature, customers to minimise the risk of trialling saturated and highly competitive market.
Our PSP products receive They focus on cost reduction and on royalties from sales to consumers instead differentiation through service innovation of charging the customer direct.
These to deliver growth and improved margins.
and other innovative solutions are helping The Asian market is very consumer-led telecom participants to deliver new services and service innovation through content across their networks.
management and service quality are major Innovation is a key competitive market drivers.
It is critical that new services The traditional cash generator for perform effectively and that they are network operators, voice-based service, is integrated in an end-to-end fashion across being eroded by non-traditional players like the network.
Our systems integration Google and Yahoo!
who can deliver voice expertise helps our Telecoms and Media and data services at far lower marginal customers to go to market more quickly, 22 A c A ca as se e s st tu ud dy y The The UK UK s s Minist Ministr ry y of of Def Defence ence an any yw where here: : in in pe pea ac ce et time ime w wi it th t h th he N e NH HS fo S for s r se ec co on nd da ar ry y MOD MOD is is t tr ra an ns sf forming orming or or on on t th he e bat batt tle le eld.
This This will will enable enable them them medical care provision for its to d to fide el li iv five er b r be et tt te er r, q, qu ui ic ck ke er r 2 20 00 0, 000 000 m mi il li it ta ar ry y p pe er rs so on nn ne el l.. As the 80 million programme tre trea at tm me en nt ts s t to o th the ei ir r p pa ati tie en nts.
is is deliv delivered, ered, t to oda day ys s paper paper- - Commanders and staff will also Log Logic ica aC CMG i MG is s p pr ro ov vi id di in ng a g a b ba as se ed sys d syst te em ms w s wi il ll l b be e r re ep pl lac ace ed d ha hav five e dat data a minin mining g and and analy analyti tical cal 10-year service to deliver the by a single, central database tools to investigate disease Defence Medical Information hos hosted ted at at LogicaCMG LogicaCMG s s secu secur re e incidence incidence, bat batt tl le e in injuries juries and and t th he e C Ca apabilit pability y P Pr ro og gramme ramme D DMIC MICP P, , fa facilit cility y in in W Wa ales.
Medical Medical t te eams ams ef ef ca cac cy y o of f speci speci c c t tr re ea at tm me en nt ts s.. an integrated set of healthcare in in con con i ic ct zo t zon ne es w s wi il ll l b be e a ab bl le e and dental systems tailored t to o a ac cc ce es ss s u up p- -t to o- -d da at te e p pa at ti ie en nt t This mission-critical and t to o t th he e MOD MOD s s r re eq qu uir irement ements s.. records records on on hand-held hand-held fide devices.
s so of ft tw ware are-intintensiv ensive e int integrati egration on pro programme gramme will will impro improv five e pat patient ient F Fo or t r th he e r rs st t t ti im me e, d, do oc ct to or rs a s an nd d Clinicians Clinicians will will ha hav five e inst instant ant care care and and o ov verall erall e ef f cienc ciency y, dentists dentists in in t th he e armed armed f fo orces rces acc acces ess to e s to ex xte ten ns si iv five r e re efe fer re enc nce e allo allowing wing t th he e MOD MOD t to o ma maximise ximise will will ha hav five e immediate immediate a ac ccess cess material and in 2010 patient t th he e number number o of f people people wh who o are are t to o medi medical cal records records an any yt time ime, information will be exchanged t fo t for t r ta as sk k a at t a an ny o y on ne t e ti im me e.. 23 23 Business review Market review LogicaCMG Annual report and accounts 2006 Our systems integration expertise helps our Telecoms and Media customers to go to market more quickly, giving them critical competitive advantage.
giving them critical competitive advantage.
demonstrated by our work with a major Public Sector With launch time-frames for new services telecoms operator and leading Swiss measured in days rather than months, risks retailer.
The mobile operator chose our LogicaCMG is active right across of inadequately tested services are high.
hosted mobile virtual network operator the Public Sector, including health, LogicaCMGs managed testing services MVNO, managed from a nearshore education, justice, space, defence, automate as much of the testing process as service centre, for a successful  and security.
Revenue was possible, using proven industry-standard go M-Budget Mobile service launched in up 4.2% in 2006.
Despite budgetary methodologies to achieve consistent, firstpartnership with supermarket giant Migros.
constraints, we are seeing strong time testing, which is fully integrated with Operators rely on Service Level demand for our core capabilities and all related systems such as provisioning Agreements SLAs, which guarantee services and continue to build on a and billing.
For a major global telecoms quality standards to their customers, strong outsourcing base in the UK.
operator, we provide a provisioning solution to differentiate themselves from their and run managed testing services to competitors.
We provide systems In the UK, we had a healthy order backlog, support their innovation programme.
that monitor and collect the technical with existing contracts providing a strong We are leaders in billing and payment information needed to support SLAs and underlying revenue stream into 2007.
In the systems and are applying these skills offer solutions that transform that data Netherlands, we maintained our status as to help our customers bring innovative into valuable customer information.
Such a top-three provider of IT services to the services to market.
Our billing solutions services will become increasingly important public sector.
help operators to innovate rapidly and as content-rich applications become more reliably, without having to modify their prevalent in the future.
The potential core billing platforms.
We manage billing Customer pro ling is moving rapidly up Many analysts expect that government services for France Telecom and other the agenda for operators worldwide.
Our spending will tail off further between now leading names.
capabilities in business analytics and data and the end of the decade.
In the UK, Many operators are transforming mining technologies have been signi cantly which is our largest market for public their systems and processes to deliver strengthened by the addition of Unilog and sector business, year-on-year budget converged multi-media services across WM-data to the group.
Both have strong growth is essentially at.
In addition, the both xed and mobile networks.
We provide customer relationship management CRM ef ciency improvements driven by the technology-based solutions coupled with offerings in telecoms.
Gershon Review require at least 2.5% business change management to help At a time of great change our customers year-on-year cost savings in government our clients to succeed in the emerging want suppliers who are reliable partners.
market for voice, data and media services.
IT providers need to deliver adequate Internationally, public sector reform is We are working, for instance, with logistical support, offer comprehensive focusing on government transformation leading Dutch telecoms operator KPN outsourcing capabilities and deliver an and the provision of citizen and businessto help integrate disparate systems and end-to-end portfolio of solutions and centred services with an increased processes as it combines its xed line services, with aggressive pricing to match.
recognition of the value of sharing services and mobile networks.
between departments or outsourcing Our ability to develop technical of business processes to deliver cost applications which help our customers ef ciencies.
This is re ected in the UK ful ll their commercial requirements was governments Transformational Government 24 agenda and implementation plan issued LogicaCMG has developed particular medical services through the Defence in 2006. strengths in the justice and education Medical Information Capability Public service providers want to work sectors.
In the UK, key outsourcing wins Programme DMICP.
with IS IT service providers who are able this year included a seven-year application Our unique position in the space to deliver integrated services and can services contract for Development, market ensures we play leading roles partner with them to deliver transformation Innovation and Support Contracts DISC in the majority of major software and and tangible business bene ts.
With with the Department for Constitutional security programmes.
Skynet 5 is the UKs a continued emphasis on the need for Affairs DCA, estimated to be worth in largest space software ground contract.
business-led programmes and valueexcess of 150 million to LogicaCMG.
In Our role encompasses delivery of SAPadded services, the complexity and our partnership with the Crown Prosecution based business support systems, of ce scale of future initiatives will increase.
Service CPS to deliver the COMPASS systems, satellite communications service In addition, consulting services are programme, we built, and now support, provisioning, network management and becoming an increasingly signi cant a national electronic case management secure customer relationship management.
component of the services required by system to facilitate more than 1.3 million We continue to expand into information our public sector customers as they seek prosecutions annually in England and Wales.
services and location-based applications to leverage business bene t. They are Our understanding of the education and are priming larger programmes.
involving potential providers at an earlier sector was key in securing a high-pro le We have also won key projects valued at stage in the procurement process to shape contract to implement an online clearing approximately 50 million for work on the requirements.
system for UCAS, the UK university and new Galileo satellite navigation system.
We Heightened security considerations and college applications agency.
This system are fide ning the policy for end-to-end data the need for secure borders and information is now being extended to post-graduate security of the GMES programme Global processes remain at the top of government applications.
Other signi cant education Monitoring for Environment and Security agendas.
As a result of our pioneering wins during 2006 included an extension and researching the technology required for work on identity management we are to our contract with the UKs Of ce for a safe landing of ExoMars Europes next well positioned to bene t from growth Standards in Education Ofsted and the mission to Mars.
Managing Information Across Partners LogicaCMG is a trusted partner for In IT-related programmes in the UK MIAP Programme for the Learning and governments and supranational agencies Defence sector, there is scope to extend Skills Council.
We are helping public existing projects and a number of key The use of shared services and business sector organisations to achieve their programmes which are entering the early process outsourcing BPO by government strategic objectives and deliver improved stages of procurement.
Within the space departments, agencies and local authorities services to citizens and businesses.
market, the ESA-led ExoMars mission to achieve more cost-effective and ef cient Our strengthened consulting capability will generate further opportunities.
In the and outstanding track record of assured Military satellite communications, satellite Netherlands, for instance, the LogicaCMGdelivery over three decades remains a key navigation and earth observation continue developed e-procurement platform is differentiator in winning new business.
to be important growth areas.
standardising procedures and reducing costs for the government.
Six ministries use Our capabilities this to buy goods and services online.
The Government departments and agencies contract to provide HR services for continue to place a signi cant emphasis on the Medical Research Council MRC in the surety of delivery, management of risk the UK was an important BPO-related and realisation of bene ts.
LogicaCMG has win, whilst in Australia, LogicaCMG is a demonstrable track record of almost 40 supporting the implementation of shared years in delivering mission-critical complex services applications for the Queensland programmes which yield business bene t State Government.
and value, on time and to budget.
Another major programme is the 3 In the Netherlands, we have secured key billion Defence Information Infrastructure contracts to support the Centre for Work DII programme to the UK Ministry of and Income and the Unemployment of ces.
Defence MOD the biggest and most In France, LogicaCMGs data management complex single infrastructure project, systems will be employed by marketto date, being rolled out in Europe.
leading polling organisation TNS Sofres LogicaCMG is part of a consortium for the 2007 presidential and legislative delivering key components of this elections.
Furthermore, the combination At supranational level, the EU Taxation of LogicaCMGs and Unilogs capabilities and Customs Union Directorate General has led to a 10 million win with the French relies on LogicaCMG to manage the quality Ministry of Defence.
As prime contractor assurance and quality control of all its IT to the UK MOD we secured an 80 million projects.
contract to transform the UK MODs 25 Business review
