Executive Committee LogicaCMG Annual report and accounts 2006 Other members of the Executive Committee Nick Caplan 47 Paul Schuyt 49 Nigel Perks 48 Chief marketing of cer Chief executive, The Netherlands Group HR director Nick was appointed a member of the Paul was appointed chief executive, Nigel was appointed group HR director and Executive Committee of LogicaCMG in The Netherlands, in February 2003 and a member of the Executive Committee of January 2005.
He joined LogicaCMG in May a member of the Executive Committee of LogicaCMG in March 2004, having been 2003 as managing director for international LogicaCMG in April 2004.
Having worked corporate HR director since September financial services.
His previous experience for PTT Post now TPG Paul joined CMG 2001.
Prior to joining the company, Nigel has included interim chief executive of two as a management consultant in 1987. was a Board member and European HR software houses.
Prior to this, Nick was head He held various management positions director of Equifax PLC.
Nigel previously of CSCs European financial services in the telecoms and public sectors prior to held a variety of senior international HR consultancy, systems integration and being appointed country director of CMG roles with Prudential and Digital Equipment outsourcing and prior to that operations Benelux in 2002.
Co. DEC. director of JIB, an organisation providing insurance and risk advisory services to businesses around the world.
John Coleman 59 Thomas Ivarson 52 Chief executive, International Sales, marketing and ILoB director, John was appointed chief executive, Nordics Joe Hemming 44 International, and a member of the Thomas was appointed executive vice Chief executive, UK Executive Committee of LogicaCMG in president wireless networks now Telecoms Joe was appointed chief executive of June 2003, having previously been Products and a member of the Executive LogicaCMG UK and a member of the managing director of the UK Telecoms Committee of LogicaCMG following the Executive Committee in January 2007, division.
He joined Logica in 1982, holding merger of Logica and CMG in December having been managing director of a variety of sales, line management and 2002.
In October 2003 he became group LogicaCMGs space and defence business senior positions, before moving to the USA sales and marketing director and in 2007 since January 2004.
Joe gained his early to run the West Coast operation.
John he became ILoB and sales and marketing experience in the defence industry at Thorn brie y managed the UK government team director for the Nordic region.
Thomas EMI Electronics before joining Easams, the in 1993, before then moving into telecoms, joined CMG in October 2001 as chief IT business of the GEC-Marconi group in including two years as International Line executive of CMG wireless data solutions.
Joe moved to Logica plc in 1995 as of Business ILoB director for telecoms Between 1995 and 2001 he was CEO and commercial director for the public sector from 2000 to 2002. president of the EHPT Group.
Previously he business and was subsequently appointed worked for 15 years with Ericsson.
Thomas chief operations of cer of Logica North was a non-executive director of Intec America in 1998, where he remained until Telecom Systems plc from 2003 to 2005.
2001, when he was appointed commercial director of Logica UK and a member of the UK management Board.
Following the merger of Logica and CMG in December 2002, Joe continued in the role as commercial director of the new LogicaCMG UK organisation until January 2004.
36 Aydin Azernour 51 Chris McDermott 50 Chief executive, IT services, France Chief executive, Telecoms Products Aydin was appointed a member of the Chris was appointed chief executive, wireless Executive Committee of LogicaCMG and networks now Telecoms Products and chief executive of IT services France, an Executive Committee member of in January 2006.
He joined Unilog in 1985 LogicaCMG in December 2002.
Chris joined and, in 1998, was appointed a member of Logica in May 2001 as supervisory the Unilog Executive Committee in charge managing director responsible for Logicas of engineering activities in the industry business across Asia Paci c and was later sector.
Appointed a member of the Unilog appointed supervisory managing director management Board in 2000, Aydin for Logicas mobile networks division.
Prior established and developed the Unilog to that, he was vice president and general Start-up Valley, an organisation intended manager of the worldwide public sector to host and develop innovative projects.
business at Unisys, having previously run their worldwide commercial and European telecoms business.
Before Unisys, Chris worked for Nortel and GEC Avionics.
For information on Board members see pages 34 to 35 Patrick Guimbal 51 Chief executive, Management Consulting, France, Germany and Switzerland Patrick was appointed an Executive Committee member and chief executive, Management Consulting France, Germany and Switzerland in January 2006.
He is in charge of Unilog Management, the subsidiary of Unilog for consulting activities in France and Germany.
Patrick joined Unilog in 1997 in order to design and implement a new strategy for consulting.
Prior to this, he rose through the ranks with Bossard, a European management consulting company, to become an executive committee member.
