ANGLO AMERICAN plc ANNUAL REPORT 2006 DIRECTORS REPORT Directors report The directors have pleasure in submitting the statutory financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2006.
Principal activities and business review Anglo American plc is the holding company of the Anglo American Group, a global leader in mining with a range of high quality core businesses covering platinum, diamonds, coal, base metals, ferrous metals and industrial minerals.
More detailed information about the Groups businesses, activities and financial performance can be found in the chairmans and chief executives statements, and the operating and financial review on pages 4 to 55.
The information required by the amendment to the Companies Act in respect of an Enhanced Business Review is also set out in the operating and financial review.
Going concern The Groups business is a going concern as interpreted by the Guidance on Going Concern and Financial Reporting for directors of listed companies registered in the UK, published in November 1994.
Dividends An interim dividend including a special dividend of 67 US cents per ordinary share totalling 100 US cents per ordinary share was paid on 21 September 2006.
The directors are recommending that a final dividend of 75 US cents per ordinary share be paid on 3 May 2007 subject to shareholder approval at the AGM to be held on 17 April 2007.
This would bring the total dividend in respect of 2006 to 175 US cents per ordinary share.
However, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, the final dividend will be accounted for in the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007.
Three shareholders have waived their rights to receive dividends.
In each case, these shareholders act as trustees nominees holding shares for use solely in relation to the Groups employee share plans.
These shareholders and the value of dividends waived during the year were: Greenwood Nominees Limited $52,915,331 Security Nominees Limited $174,219 Rose Nominees Limited $36,662 Share capital The Companys authorised and issued share capital as at 31 December 2006, together with details of shares allotted during the year, is set out in note 28 on page 113.
The Company was authorised by shareholders at the 2006 AGM to purchase its own shares in the market up to a maximum of 10% of the issued share capital.
This authority will expire at the 2007 AGM and a resolution to renew it for a further year will be proposed.
As at 20 February 2007, 55,485,838 shares, representing 3.73% of the issued share capital, had been purchased under this authority.
Material shareholdings Details of interests of 3% or more in the ordinary share capital of the Company are shown within the shareholder information section of the Notice of Meeting 2007.
Directors Biographical details of the directors currently serving on the Board are given on pages 24 and 25 of the Annual Review.
Details of directors interests in shares and share options of any Group company can be found in the remuneration committees report on pages 66 to 83.
Peter Woicke and Mamphela Ramphele joined the Board on 1 January 2006 and 25 April 2006 respectively.
Dr Maria Silvia Bastos Marques retired from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM on 25 April 2006.
Cynthia Carroll was appointed to the Board with effect from 15 January 2007 and will be proposed for election at the forthcoming AGM.
She will succeed Tony Trahar as Group chief executive on 1 March 2007.
Tony Trahar will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM on 17 April 2007.
Chris Fay, Sir Rob Margetts and Nicky Oppenheimer will be proposed for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
56 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2006 Sustainable development The Anglo American Report to Society 2006 will be available in April.
This report focuses on the safety, sustainable development, health and environmental performance of the Groups managed operations, their performance with regard to the Companys Good Citizenship: Our Business Principles and their community development social programmes.
Payment of suppliers Anglo American plc is a holding company and, as such, has no trade creditors.
Businesses across the Group are responsible for agreeing the terms under which transactions with their suppliers are conducted, re ecting local and industry norms.
The Group expects its regular and signi cant suppliers to perform to standards comparable to those set out in the Good Citizenship: Our Business Principles.
The Group values its suppliers and recognises the bene ts to be derived from maintaining good relationships with them.
Anglo American acknowledges the importance of paying invoices, especially those of small businesses, promptly.
Value of land Land is mainly carried in the financial statements at cost.
It is not practicable to estimate the market value of land and mineral rights, since these depend on product prices over the next 20 years or longer, which will vary with market conditions.
Post balance sheet events Post balance sheet events are set out in note 39 to the financial statements on page 124.
Audit information Each director has con rmed that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware and that each director has taken all reasonable steps to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
Employment and other policies The Anglo American Group is managed along decentralised lines.
Each key operating business is empowered to manage, within the context of its own industry, and the different legislative and social demands of the diverse countries in which those businesses operate, subject to the standards embodied in Anglo Americans Good Citizenship: Our Business Principles.
Within all the Groups businesses, the safe and effective performance of employees and the maintenance of positive employee relations are of fundamental importance.
Managers are charged with ensuring that the following key principles are upheld: adherence, as a minimum, to national legal standards on employment and workplace rights at all times: adoption of fair labour practices: prohibition of child labour: prohibition of inhumane treatment of employees and any form of forced or bonded labour, physical punishment or other abuse: continual promotion of safe and healthy working practices: promotion of workplace equality and elimination of all forms of unfair discrimination: provision of opportunities for employees to enhance their work-related skills and capabilities: recognition of the right of our employees to freedom of association: and adoption of fair and appropriate procedures for determining terms and conditions of employment.
Copies of the Good Citizenship: Our Business Principles booklet are available from the Company and may be accessed on the Companys website www.
co. uk As in previous years, numerous employee communication and education initiatives and workshops took place covering, amongst others, safety, sustainable development, financial results and Group strategy.
The aim was to inform and consult employees on matters of concern to them and to raise awareness of financial and economic factors affecting the performance of the Group.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2006 | 57 ANGLO AMERICAN plc ANNUAL REPORT 2006 DIRECTORS REPORT In addition, the Company regularly publishes Optima available on the Companys website and AngloWorld, which contain items of news, current affairs and information relevant to Group employees.
During the year, the Company continued to enhance the new enterprise information portal thesource aimed at promoting knowledge-sharing across the Group and keeping employees up to date with developments in those business sectors in which the Group is active.
The availability of thesource continues to grow and it is now available to over 13,000 computer-connected employees across the Group.
Following a Groupwide communication and culture survey in 2005 measures have been implemented to address weaknesses identi ed and a number of business units also undertook climate surveys amongst their workforces in 2006.
Charitable donations During the year, Anglo American and its subsidiaries made donations for charitable purposes or wider social investments amounting to $50.3 million 0.6% of pre-tax pro t. Charitable donations of $2.7 million were made in the UK, consisting of payments in respect of education, sport and youth $0.8 million 29% : community development $0.4 million 15% : health and HIV AIDS $0.3 million 11% : environment $0.2 million 8% : arts, culture and heritage $0.2 million 8% : housing homelessness $0.2 million 8% and other charitable causes $0.6 million 21%.
These gures were compiled with reference to the London Benchmarking Group model for fide ning and measuring social investment spending.
A fuller analysis of the Groups social investment activities can be found in the 2006 Report to Society.
Political donations No political donations were made during 2006.
Anglo American has an established policy of not making donations to, or incurring expenses for the bene t of, any UK political party or any other EU political organisation as fide ned in the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
Annual general meeting The AGM will be held on 17 April 2007.
A separate booklet enclosed with this report contains the notice convening the meeting together with a description of the business to be conducted.
By order of the Board Nicholas Jordan Company Secretary 20 February 2007 58 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2006
