ANGLO AMERICAN plc ANNUAL REPORT 2006 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW The Company overview and strategy The businesses Anglo American is one of the worlds largest mining and natural resource groups.
With its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, it is a global leader in platinum, gold and diamonds, with signi cant interests in coal, base and ferrous metals, industrial minerals and paper and packaging.
The Group is geographically diverse with operations in Africa, Europe, South and North America, Australia and Asia.
The performance of the businesses is reported according to the commodity group around which they focus.
The businesses are described below.
Detail of their financial performance in 2006 is found on pages 37 to 48.
Platinum Business overview Worlds No.
1 primary Anglo Americans managed subsidiary, Anglo Platinum Limited, located in South Africa, is the worlds producer of platinum leading primary producer of platinum accounting for about 40% of the worlds newly mined production.
Anglo Platinum mines, processes, re fines and markets the entire range of platinum group metals PGMs One of the biggest capital platinum, palladium, rhodium, ruthenium, iridium and osmium.
expenditure programmes in world mining Anglo Platinum wholly owns four mining operations, three smelters, a base metals re nery and a precious Long term outlook is favourable metals re nery, all of which are located in the Limpopo and north west provinces of South Africa.
Each of for platinum and other platinum Anglo Platinums mines operates its own concentrator facilities, with smelting and re ning of the output group metals being undertaken at the Rustenburg Platinum Mines metallurgical facilities and the Polokwane smelter.
The groups four wholly owned mining operations include Rustenburg Platinum Mines Rustenburg and Amandelbult Sections, as well as Potgietersrust Platinums Limited PPRust and Lebowa Platinum Mines Limited.
Anglo Platinums Union Section is 85% held following the recently concluded transaction with a black economic empowerment BEE consortium, the Bakgatla-Ba-Kgafela traditional community, in terms of which the community acquired a 15% interest in Union Sections mining and concentrating business.
In addition, the group has a 50:50 joint venture with a historically disadvantaged South African HDSA consortium, led by African Rainbow Minerals, over the Modikwa platinum mine: a joint venture with Royal Bafokeng Resources, a HDSA partner, over the combined Bafokeng-Rasimone platinum mine and Styldrift properties: and a joint venture with Xstrata over the Mototolo mine.
Anglo Platinum also has pooling and sharing agreements with Aquarius Platinum covering the shallow reserves of the Kroondal and Marikana mines and portions of the reserves at Anglo Platinums Rustenburg Section.
The operations are situated in the worlds richest reserve of PGMs known as the Bushveld Complex, with 2006 production exceeding 2.8 million ounces of re ned platinum, primarily from the Merensky, UG2 and Platreef ores.
Although PGMs are the primary products of Anglo Platinums operations, base metals such as nickel, copper and cobalt sulphate are important secondary products and are signi cant contributors to the groups earnings.
The group holds a 22.5% share in Northam Platinum Limited, acquired as a consequence of a mineral rights swap.
In Zimbabwe, the group is developing a mine, Unki, on the south chamber of the Great Dyke Platinum deposit.
In addition to its current operations, Anglo Platinum has access to an excellent portfolio of ore reserves to ensure that the company is well placed to strengthen its position as the worlds leading platinum producer for many generations to come.
10 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2006 Industry overview and demand drivers PGMs have a wide range of industrial and high technology applications.
Demand for platinum is driven by its use in jewellery and in autocatalysts, for both petrol and diesel engine vehicles.
These uses are responsible for 75% of net total platinum consumption.
However, platinum also has an enormous range of lesserknown applications, predominantly in the chemical, electrical, medical, glass and petroleum industries.
The platinum jewellery market requires constant promotion and development to ensure that platinum maintains its position as one of the most desirable metals for jewellery.
Anglo Platinum is the major supporter of the Platinum Guild International, which since its inception in 1975 has played a key role in encouraging demand for platinum and establishing new platinum jewellery markets.
Currently, the three largest platinum jewellery markets are China, Japan and North America.
Industrial applications for platinum are driven by technology and, especially in the case of autocatalysts, by legislation.
Technological development continues to drive industrial demand and ongoing research into new applications will create further growth in this sector.
With the rapid spread of exhaust emissions legislation, over 91% of new vehicles sold in the world now have autocatalysts tted.
The intensifying stringency of emissions legislation will drive growth in PGM demand for autocatalysts as new legislation is applied to trucks and off-road vehicles in the US.
The increasing popularity of diesel powered vehicles in Europe continues.
This has also intensi ed the demand for platinum, as diesel powered cars can only use autocatalysts that are predominantly platinum based.
Interest in fuel cell technology has accelerated dramatically over the past decade, largely on the back of rising concerns about environmental degradation and energy costs.
At present demand is small, but gradual medium to long term growth, first in small battery replacement applications and stationary fuel cells and later with the commercialisation of fuel cell vehicles, is envisaged.
Palladiums principal application is in autocatalysts around 48% of net production.
Palladium is also used in electronic components, including multi-layer ceramic capacitators, in dental alloys and more recently as an emerging jewellery metal.
Palladium demand is expected to atten out against a backdrop of increasing supply expected from South African expansions.
Rhodium is an important metal in autocatalysts.
Nearly 85% of rhodium produced is used in catalytic converters for the auto industry.
Amounts are also consumed in industrial applications such as glass-making for at panel display units.
In the short to medium term the market supply demand balance is expected to remain tight, supported by autocatalyst growth and glass demand for at screen televisions.
Thrifting using less metal, typically in thinner coatings to achieve the same catalytic effect and increased supply from UG2 expansions may ease the market balance in the longer term.
The other three PGMs produced are ruthenium, iridium and osmium.
Ruthenium and iridium have been mainly used in chemical and electronic applications and osmium is used as a catalyst in the pharmaceutical industrial sector and to stain specimens for microscopic analysis.
Recently, ruthenium has found an application in magnetic memory storage devices, which has accelerated demand substantially.
Current high US dollar PGM market prices partly re ect the up-cycle being enjoyed by most commodities, but are supported by strong market fundamentals, in particular for platinum where metal supply has been in fide cit for seven years and long term demand is robust, based on growth in existing applications and emerging fuel cell technology.
Supplies of and demand for platinum are expected to grow and the market is expected to remain balanced over the short to medium term.
Palladium demand is also expected to grow but, against a backdrop of increasing supply from South African expansions, remains adequately supplied.
The increased supply of rhodium from expansionary activity should place pressure on current prices in the longer term.
As a result of the current expansionary activity in the mining industry a key challenge that faces platinum producers is the ability to manage and deliver capital projects as well as retaining and attracting skilled staff.
Anglo Platinum has focused on skills recruitment and retention and securing contractor capacity to ensure its projects remain on time and within budget.
This has placed increased pressure on costs and organisational ef ciency.
The company continues to focus on cost containment and savings so as to limit the increase in unit costs.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2006 | 11 ANGLO AMERICAN plc ANNUAL REPORT 2006 | OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW THE BUSINESSES Strategy and business development Anglo Platinums strategy is to develop the market for PGMs, expand production into that growth opportunity and conduct its business safely, cost-effectively and competitively.
Growing demand is achieved by substantial investment in research and development into new uses for PGMs, through customers including Johnson Matthey plc, and global promotional campaigns for jewellery through the Platinum Guild International.
These investments enable Anglo Platinum to meet its objective of growing the market.
In order to meet the increased demand, Anglo Platinum is targeting expanding operations at an average compound growth target of 5% per annum.
Much of this expansion will come from the development of Anglo Platinums extensive resources.
Anglo Platinum expects to meet its long term growth pro le of 5% per annum by exploiting its own reserves through direct investment in projects as well as with joint venture partners.
This growth pro le requires projects that will create additional new production as well as maintain existing production levels owing to reserve depletion from current mining activities.
Overall mining production as measured in equivalent re ned platinum production and purchase of concentrate increased in 2006 by 5.4%, or 135,000 equivalent re ned platinum ounces, in line with Anglo Platinums strategy.
The implementation of Anglo Platinums extensive suite of mining and processing projects to expand and maintain production continues on schedule.
Projects that have increased production include Modikwa, Kroondal and for the first time in 2006, the Marikana and Mototolo ventures which have each added 12,800 equivalent re ned platinum ounces for 2006.
Marikana, approved in 2005, will produce 74,000 equivalent re ned platinum ounces a year by 2009.
Mototolo is set to reach steady state production by the end of 2007, producing equivalent re ned platinum production of 130,000 ounces per annum at steady state.
In 2006 the company approved capital expenditure totalling $1.6 billion, which included the PPRust North expansion project.
Work on this project, which aims to mill an additional 600,000 tonnes of ore per month, producing an additional 230,000 re ned platinum ounces per annum from 2009, has commenced.
Projects that contribute towards maintaining production levels include the Amandelbult 1 shaft optimisation project which was successfully completed during the year, with the 75,000 tonnes per month tpm UG2 concentrator being fully commissioned and running at capacity.
This concentrator processes UG2 ore as Merensky production declines owing to the depletion of Merensky ore reserves.
The Amandelbult East Upper UG2 project which was approved in 2006 will conventionally mine the UG2 reef, using existing mining infrastructure previously employed to extract Merensky reef, at the vertical number 2 shaft and at three decline shafts.
The 75,000 tpm UG2 concentrator will be expanded to 210,000 tpm and by 2012 the project will contribute an additional 106,000 ounces of re ned platinum per annum.
The Rustenburg Paardekraal 2 shaft replacement project will access deeper Merensky reserves at a rate of 100,000 tpm.
The project is expected to produce 120,000 ounces of re ned platinum per annum by 2015 replacing decreasing production as a result of reserve depletion.
The Townlands Ore Replacement project at a capital cost of $139 million was approved in February 2007 and will replace 70,000 ounces of re ned platinum per annum by 2014 with production from new Merensky and UG2 areas at the Rustenburg Townlands shaft.
Anglo Platinums announced expansion programme and ore replacement projects underpin a sustained high level of exploration activities.
Exploration is mainly directed at accumulating geological data in areas where PGM orebodies are known to occur and is thus primarily focused on quantifying ore reserves and mineral resources in the Bushveld Complex, as opposed to seeking out unknown mineralisation.
Anglo Platinum is involved in exploring for PGMs on the Great Dyke of Zimbabwe.
The Great Dyke is the second largest known repository of platinum after the Bushveld Complex.
Exploration work is focused on new projects in the area, including the Unki mine, as well as establishing extensions to the resource base for future projects.
In addition, Anglo Platinum is involved in exploration activities in Canada, Russia, Brazil and China.
12 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2006 Diamonds Business overview fide Beers is the worlds leading diamond exploration, mining and marketing company.
Its expertise extends fide Beers is a global leader to all aspects of the diamond pipeline, including prospecting, mining and recovery and, through its marketing in the world diamond industry arm, the London based Diamond Trading Company DTC, the sorting, valuing and sale of rough gem Global retail sales continue diamonds.
fide Beers produces around 40% by value of total annual global diamond production from its to rise mines in South Africa and through its partnerships with the governments of Botswana, Namibia and Tanzania.
Through the DTC, fide Beers markets around 45% of the worlds diamonds and has conducted fide Beers group diamond a renowned diamond advertising campaign based on its famous advertising promise, A diamond is forever, production surpasses for over half a century.
fide Beers and Mot Hennessy Louis Vuitton have established a high-end retail 50 million carats jewellery joint venture, through fide Beers Diamond Jewellers, with stores in the leading malls around Upcoming projects will add the world.
3.3 million carats to fide Beers annual production capacity Anglo Americans diamond interests are represented by its 45% shareholding in fide Beers Investments DBI.
The other shareholders are Central Holdings Limited, an Oppenheimer family holding company 40%, and the Botswana government 15%.
DBI is the 100% owner of fide Beers sa.
fide Beers sa has a 50% interest in each of Debswana Diamond Company Proprietary Limited and Namdeb Diamond Corporation Proprietary Limited, owned jointly with the governments of Botswana and Namibia respectively: a 75% interest in Williamson Diamonds Tanzania, a 74% interest in fide Beers Consolidated Mines Limited Ponahalo Investments acquired a 26% indirect interest in fide Beers Consolidated Mines in April 2006 and owns 100% of the non-South African elements of the DTC.
Industry overview and demand drivers The diamond industry can broadly be separated into two markets: one dealing in gem quality rough diamonds, by far the more important of the two, and the other dealing with industrial quality diamonds.
Gem grade diamonds are sold for use in jewellery and valued for their size, shape, colour and clarity.
Some natural stones are used for industrial purposes such as cutting, drilling and other applications.
95% of diamond material used in industrial applications is synthetic.
Roughly 65% of the worlds diamonds by value originate from southern and central Africa, although signi cant sources of the mineral have been discovered in Canada, Russia and Australia.
Approximately 130 million carats of diamonds are mined each year and while the vast majority of natural diamond production by value is gem quality, approximately 70% of mined diamonds by weight are unsuitable for use in jewellery and are destined for industrial use.
Strategy and business development From being regarded as the custodian of the diamond industry, fide Beers now aims to be the partner of choice.
Upstream, the company is developing two new mines in Canada, Snap Lake and Victor, which will enter production in late 2007 and at the end of 2008 respectively, while it is re-opening the long-dormant Voorspoed mine in South Africa and increasing its marine mining operations off that countrys Atlantic coast.
Downstream in the pipeline, the DTC continues to successfully address the challenges of driving consumer demand through its sales and marketing strategy: Supplier of Choice.
This strategy has effectively restimulated growth in the industry following the stagnation of the mid-late 1990s, resulting in both volume and value gains in diamond demand.
Global retail sales are estimated to have exceeded $68 billion in 2006 and were bolstered by an increase in advertising programmes by the DTCs clients and its downstream trade partners as well as the DTCs own marketing initiatives.
To sustain the success of driving retail demand the DTC continues to develop further consumer understanding on a market-by-market basis.
With a global spend of more than $8 million each year on research, it is continuously developing and researching new opportunities that have the potential to stimulate retail growth for diamonds.
While developing these new programmes, the DTC executes existing scale marketing programmes which are at present the primary vehicles for stimulating the diamond market to achieve its ambitious growth targets.
Increasing industry marketing remains a vital goal if the DTC is to achieve these targets and, while it has been very successful to date, it continues to aim to increase marketing spend at approximately twice the rate of diamond jewellery market growth over the next five year period.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2006 | 13 ANGLO AMERICAN plc ANNUAL REPORT 2006 | OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW THE BUSINESSES The launch of Value Added Services for clients marks the second phase of Supplier of Choice, focusing on generating pro table value growth for clients in an increasingly competitive environment.
The services are based on DTC expertise in selling and marketing gem diamonds, and are designed to enable sightholders to maximise the effectiveness of their businesses.
fide Beers is conducting exploration activities in Canada within the Northwest Territories, Nunavut, Saskatchewan, Manitoba, Ontario and Quebec.
In South America a presence is maintained in Brazil, with an indicator mineral laboratory in Brasilia and a small team to manage existing joint venture agreements and assess other opportunities.
Exploration continues in South Africa, Botswana and Zimbabwe.
Botswana continues to yield interesting results, particularly in the area surrounding the Orapa mine.
Elsewhere in Africa, exploration is taking place in highly prospective parts of Angola, the Democratic Republic of Congo and the Central African Republic.
The Partner of Choice strategy has been successful in the region, resulting in a number of joint venture agreements with parastatal agencies and other privately and publicly owned exploration and mining entities.
fide Beers is steadily increasing its exploration activities within Russia and Ukraine and has signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Alrosa, Russias leading diamond producer, which is expected to lead to joint diamond prospecting and exploration activities in Russia.
In India, exploration is under way in Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Orissa, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Chattisgarh, with encouraging results.
In China, the representative of ce in Beijing continues to seek opportunities for partnership and some co-operative activities.
Base Metals Business overview One of the worlds leading Anglo Base Metals has interests in 13 operations in six countries: copper producers, with important nickel and zinc assets six copper operations in Chile the wholly owned Los Bronces, El Soldado, Mantos Blancos and $1.2 billion Barro Alto nickel Mantoverde mines, Chagres smelter and a 44% interest in the Collahuasi mine, producing copper and project gets go-ahead associated by-products such as molybdenum and silver: the Codemin nickel and Catalo niobium mines in Brazil and the Loma fide Nquel mine in Venezuela: Signi cant expansion potential the Namakwa mineral sands mine and plants in South Africa produce titanium dioxide, zircon and rutile, in copper together with associated by-products: the Lisheen in Ireland, Black Mountain and Skorpion both in southern Africa zinc mines, producing zinc and associated by-products such as lead, copper and silver.
The $1.2 billion 36,000 tonnes per annum tpa Barro Alto nickel project in Brazil was approved in December 2006 and will enter production in 2010.
Industry overview and demand drivers Annual changes in demand for base metals are reasonably well correlated with changes in industrial production.
In general, however, the long term trend is for the intensity of use consumption of metal per unit of industrial production to decline.
With the exception of nickel, base metals industry ownership is relatively fragmented.
The global market shares of the four largest copper, nickel and zinc metal producers are approximately 21%, 50% and 25% respectively.
Producers are price takers and there are relatively few opportunities for product differentiation.
The industry is highly capital intensive and is likely to become more so as high grade surface deposits are exhausted and deeper and or lower grade deposits, requiring greater economies of scale in order to be commercially viable, are developed.
Real prices of copper, nickel and zinc have declined over the long term, although there have been material and sustained deviations from this trend, most recently and notably in the present uptrend which began in 2004.
The decline in prices over a lengthy period re ects the long term reduction in costs as a result of improvements in technology and lower input costs.
Average margins, therefore, have tended to be maintained.
In recent years one of the dominant features has been the increased demand for a range of commodities as a result of industrialisation and urbanisation in China and other developing countries.
China now comprises an estimated 22%, 18% and 28% of global demand for copper, nickel and zinc respectively and these markets have all bene ted materially, with several of these commodities reaching their highest price levels for many years in 2006.
The in ow of fund money from both speculative and longer term portfolio investors has served to further exaggerate the upward movement in metal prices.
Use of base metals Coppers principal application is in the wire and cable markets 60%-65%, followed by brass.
End users rely on coppers electrical conductivity, corrosion resistance and thermal conductivity.
Applications making use of coppers electrical conductivity, such as wires, cables and electrical connectors, account for over 14 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2006 50% of total offtake.
Corrosion resistance makes up around 20% of demand, with applications in the construction industry including plumbing pipe and roof sheeting.
The metals thermal conductivity also makes it suitable for use in heat transfer applications such as air conditioning and refrigeration, which make up some 10% of total demand.
Remaining applications include structural and aesthetic uses.
Around 60% of all refined nickel goes into stainless steel.
Other uses include high corrosion-resistant alloys for use in chemical plants, superalloys that can withstand elevated temperatures and which are predominantly used in aviation, high tech electronic uses and as a substitute for chromium plating.
Zinc is used predominantly in galvanising and alloys.
The electrochemistry of zinc is such that steel coated with zinc galvanised steel exhibits high levels of corrosion resistance.
This application is responsible for around 60% of total refined demand.
Zinc based alloys in die casting, ranging from automotive components to toys and models, account for around 14% of refined demand, with copper based zinc alloys brass accounting for 9%.
Zinc semis are used as roofing products and in dry cell batteries.
Chemical and other applications make up the remainder of refined demand approximately 10%, where zinc is used in a diverse range of products and applications, including tyres, paints, pharmaceuticals and chemical processing.
Mineral sands sale In January 2007 it was announced that black economic empowerment company Exxaro Resources Limited had exercised an option in terms of which it had, subject to satisfaction of conditions precedent and contractual price adjustments, agreed to acquire 100% of Namakwa Sands for $0.3 billion R2.0 billion and 26% of each of Black Mountain and Gamsberg for a combined $26 million R180 million.
Black Mountain and Gamsberg will remain subsidiaries of and continue to be managed and operated by Anglo Base Metals.
Strategy and business development Anglo Base Metals strategy is to find or acquire, develop and operate long life, low cost mines in a socially and environmentally responsible manner, with a strong focus on efficient resource allocation, continuous improvement and capital and operating excellence.
Options for growth are constantly being developed and evaluated from a combination of sources, including greenfield and brownfield projects, acquisitions, exploration and technology development.
The ability to grow through acquisitions in a value additive manner at this point in the cycle is challenging.
However, a combination of exploration success, which has seen the divisions exploration and research and development budgets materially increased, and a strong project pipeline provide material scope for organic growth, including but not limited to: the recently approved $1.2 billion Barro Alto nickel project which will enter production in 2010 and increase existing nickel production by 36,000 tpa by 2011: the Los Bronces expansion project feasibility study, which envisages increasing copper production by 170,000 tpa at a capital cost of approximately $1.2 billion, will be completed during 2007: Collahuasi has the potential to increase sulphide mill throughput from 130,000 tonnes per day tpd to 160,000 to 180,000 tpd through a debottlenecking programme, the conceptual study of which will be completed in 2007: the revised feasibility study on the Quellaveco project in Peru, which contemplates an operation producing approximately 200,000 tpa of copper in concentrate at a capital cost of approximately $1.2 billion, will be completed in 2008.
In 2006, Anglo Base Metals spent $53 million on exploration and has increased its exploration around its Chilean copper mines, adding significant resources at Los Bronces.
Exploration to the south of Los Bronces continues to report significant intervals of copper mineralisation.
In Brazil, further drilling at the Jacar nickel discovery has indicated the potential for a major new nickel asset for the company, while work continues in the Philippines to complete a pre-feasibility study at Boyongan by the end of 2007.
At Gamsberg, South Africa, initial drilling of several key zinc targets has provided encouraging results.
Copper exploration is being undertaken in Brazil, Chile, Indonesia, Mexico, Peru and the US.
Nickel sulphide mineralisation is being sought in Arctic Canada, Russia and Scandinavia through alliances and zinc programmes continue in Australia, South Africa and Namibia.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2006 | 15 Anglo AmericAn plc AnnuAl RePORT 2006 | operAting And finAnciAl review THe BuSIneSSeS Ferrous Metals and Industries Anglo Ferrous Metals and Industries principally comprises iron ore, carbon steel, manganese and vanadium Further progress in optimising operations in South Africa, manganese operations in Australia and grinding media operations in north the asset base: formation of America, South America and Australia.
In Canada, steel and value added steel products are manufactured.
Kumba Iron Ore as a pure-play iron ore company Business overview Kumba Iron Ore has a Kumba iron ore 64% holding $754 million expansion Kumba Iron Ore was born from the unbundling of Kumba Resources, through which exxaro, South Africas programme to boost largest empowered mining group, was also created.
Kumba Iron Ore, which listed on the Johannesburg Stock production by 40% by 2009 exchange on 20 november 2006, offers investors exposure to a pure-play iron ore company.
Kumba Iron Ore is the worlds fourth largest supplier of seaborne iron ore, and exported over 70% of its 31 million Record iron ore production tonnes per annum Mtpa production in 2006.
Kumba Iron Ore supplies approximately 30 global customers, Scaw makes record operating mainly in europe and Asia.
The group, through its subsidiary Sishen Iron Ore Company Pty ltd SIOC, profit of $160 million currently operates two mines in South Africa Sishen in the northern Cape, which achieved a record production of 29 Mtpa in 2006, and Thabazimbi, in limpopo, which produced 2 Mtpa in 2006.
Kumba Iron Ore consolidates 80% of SIOC and, as a result of its 64% shareholding in Kumba Iron Ore, Anglo American consolidates an effective 51% in SIOC.
Scaw 100% holding Scaw Metals is an international group, manufacturing a diverse range of steel products.
Its principal operations are located in South Africa as well as north and South America.
Scaw produces rolled steel products bar, wire rod and sections, steel and high chromium white iron castings, cast high chromium and forged steel grinding media, plain carbon and low alloy steel chain and fittings, steel wire rope, synthetic and natural fibre rope and pre-stressed concrete wire and strand.
Scaw products serve the construction, railway, power generation, mining, cement, marine and offshore oil industries worldwide.
Most of the South African operations are based in or close to Germiston, 20 kilometres east of Johannesburg.
Scaws international grinding media business, Moly-Cop, is headquartered in Chile, with operations in Mexico, the Philippines, Australia, Canada, Italy, Zambia and Zimbabwe.
AltaSteel, a manufacturer of steel and valueadded steel products in Canada, was acquired by Scaw in February 2006.
Samancor 40% holding Samancor is the worlds largest integrated producer by sales of manganese ore and alloys.
Anglo American has a 40% shareholding in Samancor, with BHP Billiton holding the remaining 60% and having management control.
Samancors business encompasses the production of manganese ores and alloys.
The company supplies its worldwide customer base with commodities produced by its various mines and plants, which are situated in South Africa and Australia.
Samancor owns Australian manganese operations consisting of Groote eylandt Mining Company Proprietary limited and Tasmanian electro Metallurgical Company Proprietary limited.
Highveld Steel and vanadium 29% holding Highveld is a Johannesburg Stock exchange listed company producing vanadium products, steel, ferroalloys and carbonaceous products, with its main operations situated in Witbank, South Africa.
It is the largest vanadium producer in the world.
In addition, its steelworks have a current annual rated capacity of 1 Mtpa, consisting of billets, blocks and slabs.
Ore for the steelworks and Vanchem, Highvelds main vanadium operation, is sourced from Highvelds Mapochs mine near Roossenekal in Mpumalanga, South Africa.
Hochvanadium is a wholly owned subsidiary, based in Austria, which processes and sells vanadium products.
Transalloys and Highvelds Rand Carbide operate as divisions of Highveld, producing manganese alloys and carbonaceous products respectively.
tongaat-Hulett 50% holding Tongaat-Hulett is listed on the Johannesburg Stock exchange.
It comprises Hulett Aluminium Hulamin and the Tongaat-Hulett agri-processing business which includes the essentially integrated components of land management, agriculture and property development.
Tongaat-Hulett is the second largest cane sugar producer in southern Africa, with operations in South Africa, Zimbabwe, Mozambique and Swaziland.
The starch and glucose operations, based in Gauteng and Cape Town, South Africa, are the largest in southern Africa.
Moreland, which converts Tongaat-Huletts agricultural land to property developments at the appropriate time, is the premier land developer on the prime coastal strip north of Durban, South Africa.
Hulamin, based in KwaZulu-natal, South Africa, is an independent niche producer of aluminium rolled, extruded and other semi-fabricated and finished products.
16 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2006 Industry overview and demand drivers Steel The most widely used of all metals, steel is used in the construction of buildings, bridges, machinery, vehicles and many household appliances.
World crude steel production increased by 9% in 2006, to reach a total of 1.2 billion tonnes.
China accounted for most of the increase, with its share of world total production rising to 34% in 2006.
The coming year again promises to be a year of strong steel production growth with global world output in 2007 forecast to rise by over 6%.
Further out, global steel growth rates are forecast to average 4.4% between 2007 and 2010, with world steel production set to increase by almost 300 million tonnes between 2005 and 2010, to reach a total of 1.4 billion tonnes.
Global steel prices peaked in mid-2006 but tailed off by the end of 2006 largely due to a US stock overhang.
Iron ore Global demand for iron ore in 2006 increased year on year by 15% to 1.7 billion tonnes.
It is expected to remain strong over the next two decades, with steady growth projected to 2020, particularly in the seaborne market.
This growth will be fuelled by the continuing development of the steel industry in China, which is expected to exceed 50% of total iron ore demand by 2007 up from 42% in 2005.
Further steel growth in the former Soviet Union and South America, in the short term, and India and other developing markets in the longer term, contributes to this positive picture.
Short to medium term scrap shortages should ensure that iron ore demand growth is higher than steel production growth for at least the next ten years.
Iron ore supply is continuing to ramp up as major global producers bring capacity on line.
A further benchmark annual price increase of 9.5% has been achieved by major producers, effective 1 April 2007, after increases of 71.5% in 2005 and 19% in 2006.
Unit cost containment remains a major issue for commodity producers and Kumba Iron Ore has been no exception, experiencing signi cant cost pressures in 2006, with higher fuel, labour and project-linked operating costs as well as increases in stripping and maintenance related activities.
Manganese Manganese ore is smelted to produce manganese ferroalloys such as ferromanganese and silicomanganese.
Manganese is not recycled and, since only very small amounts are present in nished steel, steel scrap recycling does not signi cantly impact on manganese demand.
World consumption of manganese ore rose by 10% in 2006, having dropped marginally in 2005.
As around 91% of ore is consumed in ferroalloy production, the performance of the manganese alloy industry is the key determinant for ore demand.
Demand for manganese ore is generally robust, driven by steel production increases in China and strong steel production in other market areas.
While generally the market remains oversupplied, the situation has improved from 2005 with some marginal suppliers pulling out of the market.
Ore prices are expected to show gradual improvements from those seen in 2006.
The manganese alloy market remains regionally different, but in general the global market remains well balanced for the first half of 2007.
The outlook for prices remains unclear owing to a combination of factors such as anti-dumping cases in Europe, a further rise in Chinese duties and general capacity availability, although the effect of these changes plus strong steel demand and increasing energy costs are expected to be generally positive for alloy prices.
Vanadium Most vanadium produced is consumed in alloy form in the production of carbon and alloyed steel.
Other uses for vanadium are as an alloying agent in titanium-aluminium alloys, principally used in the aerospace industry, and as a chemical for catalysts and pigments.
Demand for vanadium depends largely on world steel production.
Important vanadium suppliers include South Africa, China and Russia.
Vanadium prices in 2006 were off the record levels seen in 2005, with Highveld achieving an average ferrovanadium price of $39 kgV in 2006, compared with the 2005 average of $66 kgV.
The vanadium market in 2007 is expected to remain similar to that seen in 2006.
Strategy and business development The core strategy of the business remains that of growing Anglo Americans position in iron ore with a view to consolidating it as the cornerstone of the recon gured Ferrous Metals portfolio.
Kumba Iron Ore has extensive brown eld and green eld opportunities to expand its iron ore production to 45 Mtpa by 2009 and to over 70 Mtpa by 2015.
After completion of the detailed feasibility study for the 10 Mtpa Sishen Expansion Project in late 2004, an investment decision on this project was made in February 2005.
In August 2006, this project was expanded to 13 Mtpa.
Production is anticipated to commence by mid-2007, ramping up to full capacity by the beginning of 2009.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2006 | 17 8 8297 AA Rep 1-51 280207. indd Sec1:17 297 AA Rep 1-51 280207. indd Sec1:17 1 13 3 07 20:34:29 3 3 07 20:34:29 Anglo AmericAn plc AnnuAl RePORT 2006 | operAting And finAnciAl review THe BuSIneSSeS A pre-feasibility study on a further expansion at Sishen mine of between 10 and 20 Mtpa is currently under way and will be completed by mid-2007.
This study evaluates the potential to increase utilisation of the lower grade resources at Sishen mine.
Depending on the outcome of the pre-feasibility study, a commitment towards the execution of a detailed feasibility study is expected in 2007.
The Sishen South Project involves the development of a new opencast operation near the town of Postmasburg, approximately 70 kilometres south of Sishen mine.
The 9 Mtpa Sishen South Project will produce a range of products similar to the Sishen expansion Project.
An investment decision on this project is expected to be made during 2007.
Tongaat-Hulett is proceeding with a $158 million expansion of its sugar production and cane growing activities in Mozambique at its Xinavane and Mafambisse sugar mills.
Hulamin is currently undertaking a $120 million expansion to increase its rolled products capacity by 20% to 250,000 tpa, focusing on high margin products.
In line with the strategy of optimising the divisions asset base, further progress was made during 2006.
In July, Anglo American announced the sale of its 79% shareholding in Highveld Steel to evraz, an international steel producer, and Credit Suisse, for a total aggregate consideration of $678 million.
Following the disposal of the initial 49.8%, for which Anglo American received $412 million, evraz has an option to acquire Anglo Americans remaining 29.2% stake in Highveld Steel for $266 million once regulatory approvals are received.
This amount will be reduced by any dividends paid by Highveld Steel prior to Anglo American selling its remaining shares.
The deal represents a substantial foreign direct investment in South Africa.
In november, the Kumba empowerment transaction was completed.
This resulted in the listings on the Johannesburg Stock exchange of Kumba Iron Ore, as a pure-play iron ore company in which Anglo American holds 64%, and exxaro, which became South Africas largest black economic empowered natural resources company.
In December, Tongaat-Hulett announced the proposed unbundling and listing of Hulamin, and simultaneous introduction of broad based black economic empowerment BBBee into both companies.
This transaction, which is anticipated to take place by mid-2007, will result in BBBee groups acquiring 25% and 15% interests in Tongaat-Hulett and Hulamin respectively.
Anglo Americans shareholding in Tongaat-Hulett will reduce from 50% to 38% and its shareholding in Hulamin will reduce from an effective 45% to 39%.
In line with Anglo Americans objective of consolidating its agri-processing businesses within Tongaat-Hulett, it was announced in December that Tongaat-Hulett had acquired Anglo Americans 50% shareholding in the Zimbabwe Stock exchange listed sugar producer, Hippo Valley estates, for $36 million.
Coal Business overview New capital expenditure Anglo Coal is the worlds sixth largest private sector coal producer and a major exporter.
In 2006, Anglo projects in Australia: Dawson Coal produced 96 million tonnes mt from three geographic regions: South Africa, Australia and South project $835 million set to America.
come on stream in late 2007 and Lake Lindsay $516 million In South Africa, Anglo Coal owns and operates eight mines and has a 50% interest in Mafube mine, a joint in 2008 venture with eyesizwe.
Four mines are trade mines in the Witbank coalfield which supply approximately 20 Cerrejn is ramping up to million tonnes per annum Mtpa of low ash metallurgical and thermal coals to the export and local markets.
32 Mtpa, with full production Coal is exported through Richards Bay Coal Terminal, in which Anglo Coal has a 27% interest.
Anglo Coals scheduled for 2008 new Vaal, new Denmark and Kriel mines supply around 35 Mpta of thermal coal to eskom, the South African state owned electric power utility.
Its coal supply contracts with eskom cover the delivery of Market remains strong for tonnages and qualities, generally for the expected life of the relevant power station.
The eskom power thermal coal stations are mine mouth facilities, and coal is transported a short distance from the mine by conveyor to the power stations stockpiles.
Anglo Coals Isibonelo mine produces some 5 Mtpa for Sasol Synthetic Fuels under a 21 year supply contract.
In Australia, Anglo Coal has one wholly owned mine and has controlling interest in another four.
The mines are located in Queensland and new South Wales and produce approximately 25 Mtpa.
Anglo Coal also owns an effective 23% interest in the Jellinbah mine in Queensland.
The mines produce high quality coking 18 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2006 coal used for steel production, and export and domestic thermal coal used for power generation and industrial applications.
The company is the fourth largest producer of coal in Australia and also has signi cant undeveloped coal reserves.
At Dawson mine, expansion of the mine to increase attributable production by 5.7 Mtpa is under way with completion expected in 2007, while at Capcoal, the Lake Lindsay development is progressing with estimated completion during the second half of 2008.
The additional production from both Dawson and Lake Lindsay will increase Anglo Coals metallurgical coal production to approximately 16 Mtpa.
Key future development prospects are Grosvenor and Moranbah South in Queensland and Dartbrook and Saddlers Creek in New South Wales.
In South America, Anglo Coal has a 33% shareholding in Cerrejn Coal, which produces approximately 28 Mtpa, with approved expansion plans to increase production to 32 Mtpa.
Cerrejn primarily produces thermal coal which is exported to Europe and the Americas.
In addition, Anglo Coal has a 25% interest in Carbones del Guasare CDG which owns and operates the Paso Diablo mine in the state of Zulia, in northern Venezuela.
Industry overview and demand drivers Coal is the most abundant source of fossil fuel energy in the world, considerably exceeding known reserves of oil and gas.
The bulk of coal produced worldwide is thermal coal used for power generation where it competes with oil, gas, nuclear and hydro generation.
Thermal coal is also supplied as a fuel to other industries such as the cement sector.
Metallurgical coal is a key raw material for 70% of the worlds steel industry.
Approximately 5 billion tonnes of hard coal is produced globally each year and the majority of this is used in the country of production.
A small volume is traded across land borders such as those between the US and Canada or between the former Soviet Union countries.
The international seaborne coal market comprises some 0.7 billion tonnes.
The thermal coal component in this sector comprises some 0.5 billion tonnes and the metallurgical component some 0.2 billion tonnes.
Metallurgical coal is primarily used in the steelmaking industry and includes hard coking coal, semi-soft coking coal and pulverised coal injection PCI coal.
Metallurgical coal is produced in a relatively limited number of countries.
The chemical composition of the coal is fundamental to the steel producers raw material mix and product quality.
The market for this coal is generally characterised by large volume, longer term, annually priced contracts.
Demand in this sector is fundamentally driven by economic, industrial and steel demand growth, but the Med-Atlantic and Indo-Paci c markets have their own particular supply and demand pro les.
Price negotiations between Australian suppliers and Japanese steel producers generally, but not always, set the trend that in uences settlements throughout the market.
Anglo Coal is a signi cant supplier to virtually all the major steel producing groups in the world.
Thermal coal is primarily used for power generation, although the cement industry is an important secondary source of demand.
The thermal coal market is supplied by a larger number of countries and producers than the metallurgical coal market, spread across the world.
Production companies vary in size and operate in a highly competitive market.
Demand for thermal coal is driven by demand for electricity and is also affected by the availability and price of competing fuels such as oil and gas, as well as nuclear power.
Driven by the deregulation of the electricity markets, customers focus increasingly on securing the lowest cost fuel supply at any particular point in time.
This has resulted in a move away from longer term contracts towards short term contracts, spot pricing, the development of various price indices, hedging and derivative instruments.
Anglo Coal exports thermal coal from South Africa, South America and Australia to customers throughout the Med-Atlantic and Indo-Paci c markets.
The balance of Anglo Coals production is sold domestically in Australia and South Africa.
In South Africa a large portion of domestic sales are made to the domestic power utility, Eskom, on long term i. e. life of mine cost-plus contracts.
Sales also take place to domestic industrial sector consumers.
In Australia, domestic sales are predominantly to power utilities under long and shorter term contractual arrangements.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2006 | 19 ANGLO AMERICAN plc ANNUAL REPORT 2006 | OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW THE BUSINESSES Strategy and business development Anglo Coals strategy is focused on globalisation to secure a balanced and pro table mix of metallurgical and thermal coal assets, supplying international markets in the Med-Atlantic and Indo-Paci c basins and, where appropriate, selected customers in the country in which the production takes place.
This will be achieved via the expansion of existing assets, acquisition of new assets and by strategic alliances that facilitate, protect and augment the above strategy.
While Anglo Coal continues to grow and expand its operations in its existing geographies, it is looking at potential opportunities in new regions, such as China, Indonesia, the US and Canada.
In South Africa, Anglo American has approved the $132 million development of the Mafube mine.
The Mafube mine will supply coal to Eskom, the local power utility, and to the export market.
It is anticipated that the mine will increase thermal coal production by a total of 5 Mtpa, atributable share being 2.5 Mtpa.
The current and forecast growth rates in the South African economy present numerous opportunities for the coal industry, especially in connection with the supply and demand of electricity.
Anglo Coal is evaluating a number of opportunities in order to continue to participate in the domestic electricity supply sector and is currently reviewing these opportunities with potential historically disadvantaged South African partners and Eskom.
In Australia, the focus is on delivery of the expansion of Dawson Complex in 2007 and the development of Lake Lindsay in 2008.
In addition to the current developments, Anglo Coal is reviewing a number of studies for Moranbah South, Grosvenor, Dartbrook and Saddlers Creek.
In Colombia, the approved expansion at Cerrejn from 28 to 32 Mtpa is on schedule and should be achieved in 2008.
Feasibility studies are currently under way reviewing possibilities of expanding the Cerrejn operation beyond 32 Mtpa.
Anglo Coal has recently established a 60% interest in Peace River Coal, consisting of one operating metallurgical coal mine and signi cant coal resources in western Canada.
Peace River Coal is expected to produce approximately 2.0 Mtpa in 2007.
In China, Anglo Coal has a 60% interest in the Xiwan open cut coal lease area mine where the feasibility of developing the mine with downstream partners is under evaluation.
The impact of climate change continues to be a focus area and Anglo Coals strategy is to participate where appropriate to help address the issue of carbon emissions and climate change as the demand for energy continues to grow.
To this end, Anglo Coal formed an alliance with Shell to further advance the Monash Energy clean coal-to-liquids project in the state of Victoria, Australia.
The Monash Energy project will involve the gasi cation via Shells proprietary coal gasi cation process of Anglo Coals brown coal from Victorias Latrobe Valley for further conversion into clean transportation fuels, including virtually zero sulphur, synthetic diesel using Shells proprietary gas-to-liquids technology.
In addition to the Monash Energy project, Anglo Coal is also a member of The FutureGen Industrial Alliance, a body consisting of major energy and mining companies, who will partner with the US Department of Energy to design, construct, and operate the worlds first near zero emissions coal-fuelled power generation plant.
Anglo Coal is a member of the World Coal Institute and in this capacity contributes to promoting the interests and addressing the concerns of the wider coal industry.
Anglo Coal has spent $24 million in continuing to investigate resources for thermal and coking coal, coal bed methane and oil sands, mainly looking in southern Africa, China and Australia.
It has conducted advanced resource evaluations of the Xiwan project in China and projects in Canada and Australia.
In February 2007, Anglo Coal announced the creation of Anglo Inyosi Coal, an empowered coal company housing key current and future domestic and export focused coal operations.
Anglo Coal has signed a Heads of Agreement with Inyosi, a newly formed broad based black economic empowerment company.
Inyosi will acquire 27% of Anglo Inyosi Coal, creating a company valued at R7 billion and incorporating several key Anglo Coal assets: namely Kriel Colliery an existing mine, and Elders, Zondagsfontein, New Largo and Heidelberg projects.
20 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2006 Industrial Minerals Business overview Completion of strategic Anglo Industrial Minerals AIM has two businesses Tarmac and Copebrs.
Tarmac is a leader in the review facilitates continuous construction materials business in the UK and also has operations in continental Europe and the Middle improvement both operationally East.
It is principally involved in the production of crushed rock, sand and gravel, asphalt, concrete and and commercially mortar, concrete products, lime and cement.
Copebrs is a leading Brazilian producer of phosphate fertilisers, phosphoric acid and sodium tripolyphosphate STPP.
Tarmac acquires assets in Turkey and Romania for Tarmac first time Tarmac accounts for around 90% of AIMs business and is well positioned with a long life asset and reserve Work under way on Tarmacs base.
It is the UK market leader in aggregates, asphalt and mortar and is the second largest in ready-mixed largest ever contract concrete.
resurfacing a stretch of Englands M1 motorway Tarmacs UK organisation comprises two business units: Aggregate Products and Building Products.
These units are supported by a shared service centre based in Wolverhampton, in central England.
Aggregate Products comprises aggregates, asphalt, contracting, recycling and ready-mixed concrete.
The organisation is based on seven geographical areas, enabling greater local customer focus.
Building Products comprises those businesses that have essentially national markets.
These include cement, lime, mortar and concrete products.
Tarmacs International Business is a combination of seven different businesses operating in 11 countries, with a centralised management team in Frankfurt.
Tarmac is a leading producer of hard rock, sand and gravel and concrete products in the countries in which it operates in central Europe, and of ready-mixed concrete in the Madrid and Alicante areas of Spain.
In France and Poland, it has important and growing shares of the concrete products markets.
Tarmac has recently entered Turkey and acquired a developing business in Romania, involving interests in quarries and ready-mixed concrete.
Products Sand and gravel Used mostly in the production of ready-mixed concrete, sand and gravel are also used for lls and drainage.
Extracted from pits and dredged from coastal waters, materials are washed and graded prior to use.
Crushed rock Crushed rock is predominantly used for road construction where it is used both as a foundation and, when heated and mixed with bitumen, as a surfacing material, other foundations, drainage, railway ballast and concrete products.
Extraction is generally from open pits, by drilling and blasting followed by various crushing and screening processes to achieve speci cations appropriate to the ultimate end use.
Crushed rock may also be used in ready-mixed concrete.
Ready-mixed concrete Manufactured at production units located close to its market, ready-mixed concrete consists of sand, gravel, crushed rock, water, cement, cement replacements and other components dependent upon the performance required from the resultant mix.
Ready-mixed concrete is transported to site in specialist truck mixers designed to thoroughly mix the material during transit.
Mortar and screeds Mortar and screeds consist of sand, cement, and various admixtures dependent on application and performance requirements.
Mortar is predominantly used for masonry applications such as bricklaying and will often contain lime to improve working properties.
Levelling screeds and self-smoothing owing screeds are generally used to prepare oors to receive final surfaces.
Asphalt Manufactured by coating graded, crushed rock with bitumen, asphalt is the main product used for surfacing roads.
Applied hot or cold to road foundations, asphalt is either supplied to site or collected by contractors from strategically located plants.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2006 | 21 ANGLO AMERICAN plc ANNUAL REPORT 2006 | OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW THE BUSINESSES Concrete products Utilising extracted materials, the concrete products sector provides the construction industry with a variety of prefabricated products, including blocks for walling, pre-stressed structural ooring and engineered precast elements.
Lime and cement Using similar production processes, lime and cement are added value materials used widely within construction.
Lime is also an important product in the agricultural, environmental and industrial sectors.
Copebrs Copebrs principal products are phosphoric acid, a range of phosphate based fertilisers and STPP.
Phosphoric acid is the raw material for the manufacture of phosphate fertilisers and STPP.
Phosphate fertilisers are used to supplement natural soil nutrients to achieve high agricultural yields.
STPP is used in water treatment and the manufacture of detergents, paints and ceramics.
Industry overview and demand drivers The aggregates, asphalt and ready-mix markets in which Tarmac participates in the UK are heavily consolidated, with the top five players controlling over 70% of each market.
The cement market too is highly consolidated, with the leading five companies accounting for nearly 90% of the market.
The main aggregates players also compete, to a greater or lesser extent, in the concrete products market, which is more fragmented.
A highly competitive marketplace, coupled with weak demand, resulted in the construction industry experiencing dif cult market conditions over the past few years.
Market conditions in the UK are expected to remain challenging with weak demand in some sectors, including roads and housing.
The volatility of energy prices and the impact on cement and distribution costs will also continue to affect the industry.
Tighter planning regimes are likely to lead to current holdings of consented mineral reserves becoming more valuable over time.
Strategy and business development Tarmacs strategy is to maximise shareholder value by exploiting its core competitive advantage of maintaining reserves in established territories and continuing acquisitive and organic growth in selected territories.
It will focus on the UK and Europe, with increasing emphasis on central and eastern Europe, where it can develop businesses of scale: it will concentrate on aggregates and downstream activities where the latter provide routes to market for aggregates.
The company will continue to focus on the active management of its portfolio to optimise its returns to shareholders.
During 2005, Tarmac was restructured to deliver improved and sustainable financial performance by creating an effective, ef cient and enterprising organisation that is reliable, straightforward, understanding and responsive in its relationships with customers.
Tarmac continues to seek opportunities to add further value to its business.
Several programmes are under way across the UK and international businesses, which will deliver improvements in business performance and lay the foundations of a culture of continuous improvement in all businesses.
Speci c strategies are: to become the supplier of choice across Tarmacs full product range and through its various routes to market: to continue to develop innovative product and service solutions to differentiate it from competitors: strategic sourcing that is targeted to produce annual savings through economies of scale in company wide procurement: capital expenditure to reduce cost and improve productivity.
22 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2006 Gold Business overview Strategic alliances established AngloGold Ashanti is one of the worlds largest gold producers, with production of 5.64 million ounces of in Russia and are being pursued gold in 2006 and has extensive reserves and resources.
The company draws its production from four in China continents.
Its operations comprise open pit and underground mines and surface reclamation plants in Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Ghana, Guinea, Mali, Namibia, South Africa, Tanzania and the US, and employs Continuing investor interest approximately 61,000 people around the globe.
in gold AngloGold Ashanti continues to enhance the value of the company through organic growth.
The company currently has several major capital projects in development that will be coming into production over the next few years and currently has an extensive exploration programme in 15 countries.
The company has seven underground operations in South Africa, nine operations in East and West Africa, an open pit operation in North America, three South American operations one open pit, two underground and one open pit operation in Australia.
The Boddington Expansion Project in Australia was approved by the AngloGold Ashanti board in January 2006.
Production is scheduled to commence during the third quarter of 2008.
AngloGold Ashanti also continues to build on its strategy of seeking out partnerships with junior exploration and mining companies in regions outside the worlds mainstream mining areas.
In these partnerships, the company, when possible, seeks to retain the right to convert its minority stakes into majority holdings if and when a project reveals the potential to become a large deposit.
Over the past year the company has diversi ed in this way into regions such as Laos, China, the Philippines and Alaska.
AngloGold Ashanti also focuses on developing the market for its product.
Through its international gold marketing initiatives on its own, and in collaboration with organisations such as the World Gold Council, it is able to take advantage of downstream opportunities for potential value capture and help to ensure a healthy customer base.
Industry overview and demand drivers Gold is used primarily for fabrication and bullion investment and is traded on a worldwide basis.
Fabricated gold has a variety of uses, including jewellery, electronics, dentistry, decorations, medals and of cial coins.
Central banks, financial institutions and private individuals buy, sell and hold gold bullion as an investment and as a store of value.
Apart from golds status as the ultimate store of value estimates are that the worlds central banks hold approximately 33,000 tonnes, the overwhelming use for gold is in jewellery.
On average, over the past decade, demand for gold from the jewellery industry has consistently outstripped newly mined supply.
Strategy and business development AngloGold Ashantis strategic objectives are to drive down costs, lower mining and geopolitical risk by diversi cation and invest directly in, or partner in, downstream retail operations.
Its value adding growth strategy will remain a core focus and the company will continue to look for additional opportunities to grow its business organically, through focused exploration and a disciplined approach to opportunistic asset acquisitions and mergers and acquisitions, not least in new regions such as Russia, Laos, the Philippines, China and countries in South America such as Colombia.
AngloGold Ashanti is changing from being solely a gold mining company to one that is able to add value at several stages of a supply chain from the geologists search for a deposit through to the consumer.
The company is committed to developing the market for gold.
Its marketing programme aims to increase the desirability of its product, to sustain and grow demand, and to support the deregulation of the market in key economies.
During 2006, AngloGold Ashanti spent some $16 million on gold marketing initiatives, of which the majority was spent through the World Gold Council.
Gold marketing expenditure by AngloGold Ashanti in 2005 and 2004 amounted to $13 million and $15 million, respectively.
Independently of its support for the World Gold Council, AngloGold Ashanti is active in a number of other marketing projects that support gold.
It remains the only gold company in the world to have committed this level of resource to the marketing of the metal it produces.
AngloGold Ashanti holds a 25% stake in OroAfrica, the largest manufacturer of gold jewellery in South Africa, as an investment in the downstream bene ciation of gold in South Africa.
AngloGold Ashanti and OroAfrica have co-operated in a number of projects, including OroAfricas development and launch of an African gold jewellery brand.
An important strategic step has been the establishment of a Jewellery Design Centre at OroAfrica at a cost of $250,000.
The purpose of the centre is to improve product standards through technology, design and innovation.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2006 | 23 ANGLO AMERICAN plc ANNUAL REPORT 2006 | OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW THE BUSINESSES AngloGold Ashanti and Mintek, South Africas national metallurgical research organisation, launched Project AuTEK in 2002 to research and develop industrial applications for gold.
Project AuTEK has developed a gold based catalyst for the oxidation of carbon monoxide at ambient temperatures.
Mintek has carried out pilot scale catalyst production tests.
Negotiations for the commercial production of the catalyst have commenced.
The company is now looking outside of the worlds mature gold regions and has exploration projects in Africa in the Democratic Republic of Congo and in South America in Colombia.
In Russia, AngloGold Ashanti has announced the formation of a strategic alliance with Polymetal.
Strategic alliances are being pursued in China to allow the company to successfully extract value from a region undergoing signi cant regulatory change.
Exploration partnerships in the Philippines and Laos have resulted in land positions being acquired in several prospective areas.
Paper and Packaging Business overview Agreement in principle reached Mondi is an integrated paper and packaging business with revenue of $7.5 billion in 2006.
Its key for Mondi to become a Dual operations and interests are in western Europe, emerging Europe and South Africa and it is principally Listed Company Structure, involved in the manufacture of packaging paper, converted packaging products including corrugated with listings in London and packaging, bags and exible packaging and of ce paper.
In addition, it has merchant operations which Johannesburg focus on Austria and emerging Europe and newsprint operations in South Africa, the UK and Russia.
First phase of modernisation Mondi is integrated across the paper and packaging production process, from the growing of wood for pulp programme at Syktyvkar in production and the manufacture of pulp and paper, to the conversion of packaging papers into corrugated Russia under consideration packaging and industrial bags.
$365 million capital expenditure in Poland or the Czech Republic Mondi has production operations in around 115 locations across 35 countries, employing around 34,000 being considered employees worldwide as at 31 December 2006.
Industry overview and demand drivers Mondi operates in the following broad industry sectors: the packaging sector, which includes packaging paper, paper based packaging primarily corrugated boxes, industrial bags and folding cartons and non-paper based packaging made from materials including metal, glass, rigid plastics and exible plastics: and the graphic paper sector, which includes uncoated woodfree paper, uncoated mechanical paper, coated woodfree paper, coated mechanical paper and newsprint.
Within the packaging sector, Mondi primarily competes in the global paper based packaging value chain.
In the graphic paper sector, Mondi primarily competes in the global uncoated woodfree paper value chain, with a presence in selected geographic markets in newsprint.
Prices for Mondis products are affected by changes in capacity and production and by demand for its products which is in uenced by general economic conditions, changes in consumer preferences and inventory levels maintained by its customers.
Changes in these factors have, in the past, resulted in signi cant uctuations in the prices for Mondis products and can be expected to have a similar effect in the future.
The industry is currently undergoing broad rationalisation, with many of the large players having announced signi cant capacity closures, restructuring measures and cost saving programmes.
Strategy and business development The strategic focus of Mondi is to add value through sustainable pro t growth over the course of the paper cycle.
In existing operations, the focus is on maintaining and developing its cost advantages over its major competitors and achieving growth through a combination of its various business excellence initiatives and selected capital expenditures focused around low-cost assets in emerging markets.
A disciplined acquisition programme is intended to supplement this organic growth, with the focus on targets offering clear market and or operations synergies with Mondis existing business.
Mondi continued to strengthen its global position within the paper and packaging industry in 2006 with focused acquisitions, the more signi cant being Akrosil release liner, Stambolijski kraft paper and bags and Schleipen & Erkens release liner.
Management closely monitors the existing asset base, and in 2006 took the decision to close or divest various underperforming assets, particularly within the corrugated packaging business.
24 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2006 Business focus Anglo Americans strategy has been to become a more focused mining group, in the process simplifying its structure and enhancing returns Strategic focus $1.6 billion has been realised through the disposal of nonIn order to achieve its strategy, Anglo American has undertaken a major restructuring of its asset base.
core assets in 2006 Over the past seven years, disposals of non-core businesses have totalled $11.8 billion and acquisitions Mondi demerger planned for amounted to $15.7 billion.
mid-2007 Following implementation of the restructuring programme, Anglo American will be focused around six Phased exit of the AngloGold commodity groups: platinum, diamonds, base metals, coal, ferrous metals and industrial minerals.
As a Ashanti holding more focused, cohesive group, further cost savings and synergies as well as technology and knowledge sharing will be key priorities.
Platinum is one of the main differentiators of the Group.
With platinum group metals enjoying an unparalleled and expanding range of applications, and the prospect of buoyant demand for years to come, Anglo Platinum, will continue to be a major part of the Groups mining portfolio.
The steady increase of Anglo Platinums production over the last decade is testament to the major role Anglo Platinum will play in the Groups future.
fide Beers, like Anglo Platinum, is a world leader in its eld.
It has a market share of some 40% of rough diamond production and is bringing on stream two new mines in Canada and one in South Africa over the next two years to augment its overall output.
In little over a decade, Anglo Coal has become a leading producer and exporter, supplying coal from three continents.
In partnership with a number of major energy companies, Anglo Coal is examining the feasibility of producing downstream products such as gas and synthetic fuels on a commercial scale and is gradually moving from being a pure coal supplier to becoming a broader player in the energy eld.
Anglo American is consolidating its position as a major copper producer, with several expansions under way or at the feasibility stage.
With Anglo Platinums nickel production set to rise signi cantly, combined with Anglo Base Metals Barro Alto nickel project, the Group is set to become a signi cant nickel producer with around 100,000 tpa in 2012.
Kumba Iron Ore is becoming a major force in the consolidated iron ore industry, with current expansions that will boost production by around 40% to 45 Mtpa, with further potential to raise this to over 70 Mtpa by 2015.
Following an extensive review, Tarmac has restructured in the UK and reduced its downstream activities.
Tarmac has sold a number of small underperforming businesses in western Europe and is focusing on the growth markets of eastern Europe.
It is aiming to make a $50 million structural pro t improvement over the next three years.
In terms of the restructuring, Anglo American has sold $1 billion of its stake in AngloGold Ashanti, reducing its shareholding from 51% to 42%.
We will continue to explore all available options to exit AngloGold Ashanti in an orderly manner.
Regarding Mondi, plans for a full demerger are progressing.
Approval in principle has been received from the regulatory authorities in South Africa for a Dual Listed Company Structure with primary listings in Johannesburg and London.
In 2006, the first tranche of Anglo Americans 79% shareholding in Highveld Steel was sold to Evraz and Credit Suisse.
In November, Kumba was restructured.
Anglo American now owns 64% in pure-play iron ore company Kumba Iron Ore.
The unbundling of Tongaat-Huletts aluminium business to shareholders and simultaneous introduction of broad based BEE into both Tongaat-Hulett and Hulett Aluminium will occur during the second quarter of 2007.
This will reduce Anglo Americans interest in Tongaat-Hulett to 38% and in Hulamin to 39%.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2006 | 25 ANGLO AMERICAN plc ANNUAL REPORT 2006 | OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW BUSINESS FOCUS Anglo Americans principal objective is to maximise long term value creation for shareholders through the effective development and operation of world class mining assets.
In order to achieve this, the Group needs to ensure it has the technical resources in place to manage operations ef ciently.
High quality mining assets are the lifeblood of any mining company, and Anglo American constantly seeks to replace and augment its asset base through a combination of exploration, discovery and development, complementing this organic growth process by value accretive acquisition.
In order to execute this strategy the Group has identi ed the following areas as being of central importance.
Safety The safety of all employees is of paramount importance to Anglo American and is one of its core values.
The Groups approach to safety is based on three pillars.
The instillation of a safety culture throughout the Group with a zero injury tolerance mindset ensures that the Group learns from each incident and adheres to a set of simple, non-negotiable safety standards.
Sustainable development This means ensuring that all stakeholders in Anglo Americans mining operations are positively impacted by those operations.
The Group aims to respond to the five key global challenges wealth, energy, health, land use and biodiversity identi ed at the Johannesburg World Summit on Sustainable Development in 2002 and to incorporate the principles of sustainable development and social responsibility into all aspects of the business cycle.
World class assets Anglo Americans strategy is to seek to invest in opportunities that will deliver strong cash ows through the cycle and which offer the greatest potential for optimisation and expansion.
Consequently, the Group concentrates on pursuing mining investments that will provide low cost and long life exposure to the commodity price cycle.
Furthermore, the Group aims to ensure that maximum value is gained from ownership of these assets through a continual focus on cost savings and operating ef ciencies.
Project pipeline Anglo American has one of the strongest organic growth pipelines in the mining industry, encompassing all our business units across a wide range of geographies.
This pipeline creates a distinctive platform for Anglo American to deliver growth and value creation through the cycle.
The Group will continue to invest in growth projects in its core mining businesses of platinum, diamonds, coal, base metals and iron ore to ensure that it is well positioned to deliver growth well into the future.
People Anglo Americans employees are essential to the long term success of the Group.
Anglo American continues to invest in the development of its people and strives to ensure that it is positioned to attract and retain the best mining and other talent.
26 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2006 Key performance indicators In order to measure and assess the achievement of its strategic objectives, Anglo American has put in place a number of key performance indicators KPIs.
These encompass both financial and nonfinancial indicators as well as quantitative and qualitative measures.
While these KPIs are helpful in measuring the Groups performance, it should be stressed that they are not exhaustive and that many additional performance measures are used to monitor progress.
Strategic objective KPI Description Results and target if applicable Long term value creation and Return on capital employed Calculated as total operating pro t before impairments for the 2006: 32.4% world class assets year divided by the average total capital less other investments 2005: 19.2% and adjusted for impairments.
Year on year cost savings Reduction in year on year operating costs is analysed between operating ef ciencies, procurement savings and restructuring and synergies.
Underlying earnings per Underlying earnings are net pro t attributable to equity 2006: $3.73 share shareholders, adjusted for the effect of special items and 2005: $2.58 remeasurements, and any related tax and minority interests.
Total shareholder TSR is fide ned as share price growth plus dividends reinvested Please refer to Remuneration Committee return TSR over the performance period.
The Group uses a performance report on pages 66 to 83. period of three years and calculates TSR annually.
Optimise production volumes Production and extraction of the Groups prime commodities, A full analysis of the Groups production measured in industry standard units.
Record production levels achieved for platinum, coal, iron ore, nickel on continuing operations basis and zinc.
Copper production increased over 2005 levels.
Safety Work related fatal injuries FIFR is calculated as the number of fatal injuries per 200,000 2006: 44 fatalities, 0.017 FIFR and fatal injury frequency hours worked.
2005: 46 fatalities, 0.017 FIFR rate FIFR 2007 target: zero incidents Lost time injury frequency The number of lost time injuries LTIs per 200,000 hours 2006: 1.16 rate LTIFR worked.
An LTI is an occupational injury which renders the 2005: 0.94 person unable to perform his her duties for one full shift or more 2007 target: 0.94 the day following the one on which the injury was incurred, whether a scheduled work day or not.
Sustainable development Improve energy ef ciency Improvements in energy ef ciency and reduction in CO emission A 15% improvement in energy 2 and reduce CO emission per unit of production are measured from a 2004 baseline.
ef ciency and 10% reduction in CO 2 2 intensity emissions per unit of production by 2014.
Community social investment Social investment as fide ned by the London Benchmarking Group 2006: $50.3m, 0.6% of PBT includes donations, gifts in kind and staff time for administering 2005: $56.7m, 1.0% of PBT community programmes or volunteering in company time.
New capital investment Capital projects and Optimise the pipeline of projects and ensure that new capital A full analysis of the Groups project investment, optimising risk is only committed to projects that show a positive net present pipeline is on pages 28 and 29. rate of return value on a risk adjusted basis.
People Please see the narrative on pages 49 to 50 describing the Groups Human resources principles.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2006 | 27 ANGLO AMERICAN plc ANNUAL REPORT 2006 | OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW BUSINESS FOCUS Project pipeline and major projects Project pipeline Anglo American has one of the strongest project pipelines in world mining.
Across the Group, the platinum, diamond, coal, base metals and iron ore projects that are under development total $6.9 billion.
This array of projects stretching into the future, building on Anglo Americans unique suite of existing assets, has created formidable organic growth potential for the Group.
In South Africa, Anglo Platinum, the world leader in platinum, with considerable platinum reserves, is implementing its extensive suite of projects to expand and maintain production, with $1.6 billion approved in 2006.
Against a background of positive fundamentals for the entire range of platinum group metals PGMs, the company plans to lift its platinum production in 2007 to between 2.8 and 2.9 million ounces, as well as expand output of other PGMs.
A $692 million project to add 230,000 platinum ounces per annum at PPRust is under way, with a further $230 million allocated to maintaining existing production of 200,000 ounces per annum.
The $224 million East Upper UG2 project at Amandelbult, to exploit mainly the UG2 reef, will raise the mines platinum output by 106,000 ounces a year by 2012.
Accessing Merensky reef, the $316 million Paardekraal 2 shaft project, to replace 120,000 ounces of platinum annually by 2015, has also been given the go ahead.
Anglo Base Metals has several projects in South America which will ensure that Anglo American retains its signi cant market position in copper, while the Group is also becoming a bigger player in nickel.
At Minera Sur Andes in Chile, the Chagres smelter is now operating at full capacity following the completion of a recent expansion project.
Los Bronces has a feasibility study under way on a $1.2 billion project to increase copper production by 75%, while a debottlenecking opportunity is being evaluated at Collahuasi.
A feasibility study is being conducted on the Quellaveco project in Peru.
A decision on whether to proceed with the mine, which would produce in the region of 200,000 tonnes of copper a year, at a capital cost of approximately $1.2 billion, is expected in 2008.
In Brazil, the recently approved $1.2 billion Barro Alto project will produce an average of 36,000 tonnes of nickel in ferronickel annually over a minimum 26 year mine life.
The mine should come on stream in 2010, ramp up to full production the following year and boost the Groups total nickel production to around the 100,000 tonnes per annum level by 2012.
Anglo Ferrous Metals, through Kumba Iron Ore, is well advanced on the 13 Mtpa $754 million Sishen expansion project in South Africas Northern Cape, with first output due in 2007 and full ramp up targeted for 2009.
Further brown eld and green eld projects should increase Kumba Iron Ores annual production to over 70 Mtpa by 2015.
Other iron ore growth opportunities are being pursued.
Anglo Coals actual and approved thermal domestic coal projects are scheduled to raise attributable production to surpass 100 Mtpa early on in the next decade.
In Australia, the $835 million Dawson mine is planned to reach production in late 2007, producing 12.7 Mtpa of metallurgical and thermal coal for the export market.
Construction has also started on the $516 million Lake Lindsay green eld project at the German Creek mine.
Annual saleable production will be 4.0 Mtpa, comprising mainly metallurgical coal.
The recent granting of prospecting rights to Anglo Coal by South Africas Department of Minerals and Energy is an encouraging development.
At Cerrejn in Colombia, capacity is being expanded from the current level of 28 Mtpa to 32 Mtpa in 2008, with further expansion potential to at least 50 Mtpa.
fide Beers has a number of signi cant projects to maintain its role as a leading global diamond producer.
The major expansion focus is in Canada, where it is spending about $1.7 billion to bring two advanced projects to production.
The technically and logistically challenging Snap Lake development close to the Arctic Circle in the Northwest Territories is due to come on stream in 2007, producing 29 million carats over the life of the project.
In Ontario, the provinces first diamond mine, Victor, is set to enter production in the last quarter of 2008 and yield 7 million carats over a mine life of about 12 years.
In South Africa, work is under way on reopening the long dormant Voorspoed mine and on getting diamond mining under way off South Africas Atlantic coast, for a total investment of $315 million.
28 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2006 Major growth and replacement projects Currently Anglo American has major projects under development amounting to $6.9 billion, on an attributable basis, stretching across all business units and geographies.
The Group is considering further major projects with an estimated potential cost between $10 billion and $15 billion.
Selected major completed projects 1 Full Capex 2 Sector Project Country production $m Production volume Coal Grasstree Australia 2006 153 4.5 Mtpa Isibonelo South Africa 2006 65 5.0 Mtpa Base Metals El Soldado Chile 2007 73 17 year life extension copper Selected major approved projects 1 Full Estimated 2 Sector Project Country production capex $m Production volume Platinum PPRust North expansion South Africa 2009 692 230,000 oz re ned Pt Mototolo JV South Africa 2007 100 130,000 oz re ned Pt Paardekraal 2 shaft South Africa 2015 316 replace 120,000 oz Pt Amandelbult UG2 South Africa 2012 224 106,000 oz Pt Townlands Ore South Africa 2014 139 replace 70,000 oz Pt Replacement project PPRust North Replacement South Africa 2009 230 replace 200,000 oz Pt Lebowa Merensky South Africa 2010 179 replace 108,000 oz Pt Marikana JV South Africa 2009 18 145,000 oz Pt Coal Dawson Australia 2007 835 5.7 Mtpa Lake Lindsay Australia 2008 516 4.0 Mtpa Mafube South Africa 2008 264 5.0 Mtpa Cerrejn Colombia 2008 129 3.0 Mtpa 2nd stage Base Metals Barro Alto Brazil 2011 1,200 36,000 tpa nickel Ferrous Metals Sishen expansion South Africa 2009 754 13 Mtpa Gold Mponeng below 120 level South Africa 2013 272 2.5 M oz over life of project 3 Boddington Australia 2009 432 4.7 M oz over life of project Diamonds Snap Lake Canada 2008 878 29 m carats over life of project Victor Canada 2009 833 7 m carats over life of project Voorspoed South Africa 2009 170 8.3 m carats over life of project South African Sea Areas South Africa 2008 145 4.6 m carats over life of project Selected major future unapproved projects Estimated full Estimated 4 2 Sector Project Country production capex $m Production volume Coal Zondagsfontein South Africa 2009 335 6.6 Mtpa implementation Elders Opencast South Africa 2011 335 6.5 Mtpa Elders Underground South Africa 2013 180 4.0 Mtpa Heidelberg Underground South Africa 2013 120 3.0 Mtpa Waterberg South Africa 2014 355 23.9 mmcf New Largo South Africa 2017 530 13.7 Mtpa MACWest South Africa 2009 90 2.7 Mtpa Base Metals Los Bronces expansion Chile 2011 1,200 170,000 tpa copper Collahuasi debottleneck Chile 2010 300-500 60,000-120,000 tpa copper Quellaveco Peru 2012 1,200 200,000 tpa copper Ferrous Metals Sishen South South Africa 2011 420 9 Mtpa iron ore Sishen Pellet South Africa 2013 145 1.5 Mtpa iron ore Sishen Expansion 2 South Africa 2013 560 10 Mtpa iron ore 1 Shown on 100% basis unless otherwise stated.
2 Production represents 100% of incremental or replacement production from the project.
3 This represents AngloGold Ashantis 33.3% share of Boddington.
4 Shown on 100% basis, approximate amounts.
Anglo Platinum also has a number of unapproved projects under evaluation: Amandelbult 4 shaft, Booysendal JV, Der Brochen, Ga-Phasha JV, Pandora JV, Styldrift and Twickenham.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2006 | 29 ANGLO AMERICAN plc ANNUAL REPORT 2006 | OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW BUSINESS FOCUS Sustainable development The Group made a rm commitment to sustainable development in 2000.
It has since worked to ensure that its policies and strategies address the key economic, social and environmental risks and concerns which underpin this agenda through daily good business practice as well as through work in partnership with other industry leaders, international agencies and NGOs.
This has highlighted real business opportunities.
The Groups approach to sustainable development and measurement of its performance is reported in the Report to Society.
The report is published annually in April and is available both in printed form and electronically on the Company website.
The report provides extensive detail of the Groups commitment to its principles of sustainable development as well as analysis of its performance in 2006.
Sustainable development strategy The sustainable development strategy is reviewed annually but has as a core theme the need to embed sustainable development thinking into business practice and to systematically address risks and opportunities.
The sustainable development strategic process is constantly evolving and includes consultation at various levels.
The process includes input from area experts through Communities of Practice COP into the various steering groups.
Issues raised here are tabled at the SD Forum where all divisions are represented.
Priorities are then integrated into the strategy document which is submitted to the SD Council for sanctioning prior to presentation to the Executive Board.
This loop is cyclical, with the SD Council highlighting priority actions to be addressed by the COPs, steering groups and SD Forum.
SD Council A sustainable development council, made up of the leaders of corporate functions and business units, takes the lead on strategy and agrees Group targets.
SD Forum Senior managers with responsibility for sustainable development meet regularly during the year to address constraints and opportunities in formulating and giving effect to the strategy and policies.
Sustainable development risks and opportunities are assessed and reported periodically through the Groups internal risk management procedure.
Safety Anglo Americans vision of zero harm is built on three clear principles: all injuries and occupational illnesses are preventable: all necessary steps must be taken to learn from incidents in order to prevent any recurrence: and common, simple, non-negotiable standards must be consistently applied.
During 2006 a peer review programme was instituted across the Group, and in 2007 the peer review findings and experience from others will be integrated to reinforce the safety strategy and to enhance the application of the Company safety framework and principles.
The challenge of improving safety performance across the Group to meet Anglo Americans goal of zero harm to the workforce has been the major focus of the year, with renewed efforts through both engineering and behavioural interventions at every level of the organisation to understand and eliminate the root cause of injuries.
During 2005 the Groups Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR was 0.94.
The target for 2006 was 0.64, or a 32% reduction.
Anglo Americans core business going forward achieved a LTIFR of 1.58 in 2006.
Energy use and reducing CO emissions 2 Climate change is one of the most signi cant global challenges.
Anglo American reports energy use and carbon emissions annually and is committed to ongoing operational efforts to reduce its impact.
The Company also actively engaged in long term international research and development programmes for zero emissions power generation and carbon sequestration.
The Company is aiming to achieve a 10% reduction in CO emissions per unit of production energy 2 intensity by 2010 and increase energy ef ciency by 15% of the 2004 baseline by 2014.
The Groups managed companies used 303.7 million Gigajoules GJ of energy in 2006 2005: 298.5 million GJ.
The Groups managed companies CO equivalent emissions in 2006 were 32.6 million tonnes 2 2005: 29.3 million tonnes.
30 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2006 Community social investment In addition to addressing core social issues at both corporate and operational levels, the Group annually invests across the world in community development, education and youth, the arts, the environment and other causes.
In 2006 the investment was $50.3 million or 0.6% of pre-tax pro t 2005: $56.7 million or 1.0%.
Key challenges Key challenges facing the mining industry In pursuing its strategy, Anglo American, along with many of its peers in the mining industry, faces a number of key challenges.
The ability to respond to these challenges will play a key role in ensuring that Anglo American is best placed to extract maximum bene t from all of its future growth options.
Anglo American has identi ed the following as being of particular importance.
Cost escalation Although the last few years have seen dramatic increases in the prices of a wide range of commodities, there has also been considerable pressure on operating and capital costs.
Controlling this cost escalation will ensure that Anglo American realises maximum value from its existing operations and that all future projects bene t from the best possible economics.
As set out in more detail below, Anglo American remains committed to an ongoing programme of cost savings, which has realised $583 million in 2006.
Mining skills People remain Anglo Americans most important asset and it is the technical expertise in core mining and engineering disciplines of these people that is the ultimate source of value creation in a mining company.
As an industry it is essential that this skills base is not depleted and that mining remains an attractive career option for the next generation of university graduates.
In responding to this challenge, Anglo American remains committed to its programme of university sponsorship and support to ensure that it will retain the skills necessary to secure all of its medium and long term growth opportunities.
Energy There is now more focus than ever on the global demand for energy and the sustainability and impact of meeting this ever increasing demand.
As one of the worlds largest mining companies, Anglo American is both a signi cant consumer and supplier of energy.
Consequently, Anglo American will continue to participate fully in the ongoing global and industry wide dialogue on how best to respond to this challenge and will continue to embed the principles of sustainable development into all of its operating practices.
Resource depletion Anglo American, in common with all mining companies, must continually invest in its resource base to ensure that it has a steady pipeline of new projects in place to replace production from those assets that reach the end of their life.
As existing operations become depleted, mining companies will have to access new mineral deposits which may be geologically or metallurgically more complex than those of existing assets.
Anglo American has a programme of continuous investment to develop the technology and productivity improvements that will allow Anglo American to develop these deposits in the most value accretive manner.
Key challenges facing Anglo American driving operational excellence A key challenge is to drive the process of operational excellence throughout the business from exploration to procurement.
Operational excellence is very much a twin pronged thrust: driving a culture change through our continuous improvement efforts that aim to get each employee involved in improving what they do and how they do it, and the development or adoption of leading edge technology and of applying it quickly and intelligently.
Procurement and supply chain excellence has been a major element of the Groups activities since 2000 with the inception of Project Angelo, which was designed to increase volume leverage for lower supplier prices and maximise synergies Groupwide.
In 2006, Anglo American businesses spent $14 billion with their suppliers and achieved cost savings of $583 million in synergies, operating ef ciencies and negotiated procurement savings.
At Anglo Platinums Waterval mine, trials of extra low pro le XLP trackless mining equipment, employed in areas of severely restricted height, have shown a near tripling in cubic metres mined per month, with improved productivity and safety.
The exercise has also shown that it is possible to determine accurately the structural life expectancy of heavy mining machinery such as load haul dumpers in different conditions, which enables more accurate replacement strategies to be put in place.
Modi cations can now be designed Anglo American plc Annual Report 2006 | 31 ANGLO AMERICAN plc ANNUAL REPORT 2006 | OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW BUSINESS FOCUS to extend the life of XLP and other equipment and it is intended to embed these design principles into the equipments speci cations by transferring the technology to the equipment manufacturers.
Following its success at Waterval mine, this new mining method will be implemented at other Anglo Platinum operations, where practically and economically viable, during 2007-2008.
At Kumba Iron Ores Sishen mine the focus is on bringing about a sustained improvement in operating margins by extracting ore from material previously fide ned as waste.
The mining operation reduces waste stripping by using smaller loaders in the ore waste contact areas.
Contact ore that would have been discarded owing to excessive dilution is now separated and recovered by the smaller scale equipment.
The clean ore is then hauled to the crusher and the waste discarded.
This selective mining process has yielded two important bene ts: ore that would have been discarded owing to dilution is recovered, while contact waste, that would have claimed space in the bene ciation plant, is removed before the material enters the plant.
During 2006, 2.7 million tonnes of ore was recovered from waste, with a near equivalent amount of clean ore delivered to the plant.
At the Skorpion zinc mine, located in a remote and arid environment in southern Namibia, a novel solvent extraction and electrowinning process was developed by Anglo Base in partnership with Anglo Research and Spanish technology providers to treat an oxide zinc ore. Skorpion is now one of the lowest cost zinc producers in the world exploiting a deposit that was previously uneconomic to mine.
Open pit slope stability is an issue of growing importance to the mining industry due to the potential for loss of life and serious injury not to mention damage to equipment, leading to loss of production.
Radar based and laser based mobile systems, designed to detect sub-millimetre slope movements long before they can be detected by the naked eye, and then generate alarms, are being installed where necessary at open pit operations across the Group.
Vehicle related incidents are responsible for a disproportionately high number of deaths and serious injuries at Group operations.
Anglo Technical Division and business unit representatives have compiled a matrix of technologies to examine various collision avoidance systems.
Combinations of several technologies, including radar, video cameras, ultrasonic, infrared and radio frequency, are being implemented at Group operations.
Information is being shared across the business units, while a joint working group is establishing closer relationships with suppliers and investigating joint initiatives with other mining companies.
In South Africa, poor road conditions at Anglo Coals Landau colliery had been causing damage to haul trucks and impacting productivity in wet weather.
To counter this, and to ensure that there would be sustained improvement, a detailed haul road design and construction standard was drawn up.
Previously discarded sandstone was used in the construction of the haul roads, which were properly cambered, with improved drainage.
The bene ts include a 7% reduction in haul truck maintenance costs, increased tyre life, improved productivity arising from shorter truck turnaround times and a saving of around $200,000 in diesel in 2006.
In the UK, Tarmac recently completed a review to evaluate the commercial activities of the Aggregate Products business and to identify areas of opportunity.
The project, which drew together people from all major disciplines in Tarmac, has resulted in a signi cant change in organisational structure and proposed new ways of working that require retraining, upskilling and behavioural change.
Post programme audits have been undertaken to embed the new skills and knowledge gained and to continue the improvements in working practices.
32 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2006
