Resources The resources we consider critical to achieving our strategic objectives include: Development during 2006 our people we provided entry level our knowledge and expertise development to over 6,500 our proven and probable reserves individuals 1,150 bursars, 2,045 our financial strength together with the committed and uncommitted borrowing facilities available to us.
apprentices, 560 graduates and over 2,700 other trainees.
Our people Transformation during 2006 we exceeded our targets in our The Groups strategy remains centred on achieving world beating performance in all areas of our business South African operations on with and through our people.
We employ more than 125,000 people who are located in over 50 countries HDSA representation at around the globe excluding joint ventures and our independently managed businesses.
management levels 43% and gender diversity 14% females.
Development Many of our operations are labour intensive, providing employment and economic advancement for previously disadvantaged communities.
We invest in a number of local, regional and global schemes to offer training and education support in our employment catchment areas and during 2006 we provided bursaries to 1,150 students, enrolled 2,045 apprentices and offered employment to 560 graduates and over 2,700 other trainees.
We entered a collaborative venture with the South African government and the South African technikons during 2006, which will expand our successful local and global university student work experience programmes to include over 200 additional trainee artisan placements per annum.
The Groups various work placement schemes have also become an important part of the Groups strategy in securing a steady entry resourcing pipeline, particularly in scarce skills areas.
Talent management During 2006 we conducted an audit of our talent management processes which are designed to plan for succession into business critical roles and identify and develop the key leadership people in our business.
The outcome of the audit was a fundamental re-af rmation of our three tier approach to talent management business level reviews feeding cross business functional reviews, which in turn inform our CEO led biannual strategic group talent reviews.
The review processes have provided us with the opportunity to build our talent pools for succession into key positions, to accelerate the development of key members of the talent population and identify timeously where we need to supplement our internal resources with further breadth and depth of experience from outside the Group.
Our portfolio of talent development programmes continues to grow in scope and sophistication as we partner with world leading providers of executive development.
During 2006 we introduced further re nements to our high potential and senior management and executive programmes designed to challenge and equip our delegates at the intellectual, interpersonal and intercultural level.
We believe that event based development constitutes only 10% of the learning opportunities that our Group has to offer, and have built in a rigorous requirement for our programme alumni and their sponsors to commit to ongoing development through stretch assignments in current roles and broadening career moves into different businesses and different geographies.
In order to further enhance our ability to deliver compelling career growth opportunities within the Group we have embarked on a number of initiatives to facilitate cross business and cross country moves during 2007.
Reward and retention The strength of demand in the commodity markets and the tight supply of key mining skills have meant that we have continued to pay close attention to a variety of mechanisms to attract and retain our people.
These have included, but not been limited to, various pay and equity related schemes.
During 2006 we have also concentrated on developing many of our managers motivational and leadership skills and on providing training and learning opportunities to our employees to enable them to enhance their own skills and careers.
One of our key measures of employee retention is percentage voluntary labour turnover.
On a Groupwide basis this has remained constant over the last three years approximately 5%, and fell below 3% within our Group talent population in 2006.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2006 | 49 ANGLO AMERICAN plc ANNUAL REPORT 2006 | OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW RESOURCES While we have put in place some special reward retention measures for key targeted individuals, in general our Group reward processes remain closely aligned to our performance contract and development cycle, and our incentives are performance linked, at Board level and downwards.
Our long term incentive programmes are benchmarked externally and are subject to regular review by the Remuneration Committee to ensure their ongoing appropriateness and effectiveness.
Transformation in Anglo American We continue to make progress with our transformation programmes within our South African operations.
We have increased the representation of historically disadvantaged South Africans HDSAs at management levels to 43% target 40%.
Women now constitute 14% of the workforce target 10% and 14% of the management ranks within our South African businesses.
Increased emphasis and attention will need to be paid to the retention of our HDSA population.
Within the Group as a whole our gender diversity pro le continues to change, with increased numbers of female managers in 2006 15%, and we recognise that further progress in this area is needed during 2007.
During 2006 we followed up on the findings from the 2005 Employee Communication Survey which had indicated improvement in most of the indicators since the previous survey in 2002, but that further work was still needed in developing our managers and leaders, in securing increased understanding by employees of Company goals and targets, and in increasing internal collaboration and knowledge sharing.
The further development and roll out of the Groups worldwide intranet during 2006 is playing an increasingly important role in fostering wider understanding of the Group and encouraging networking and knowledge transfer across different geographies and businesses.
Our knowledge and expertise Anglo American draws heavily on technology and research to maintain a lead in its key mining activities.
Technology as a core competence adds signi cant value to operations, thereby enhancing shareholder value.
It is important for signi cant research and development activity to be undertaken in house, although external partnerships are also of great value.
The Anglo American Research Laboratory and the Anglo Platinum Research Centre have recently merged to form Anglo Research.
The organisations are coming together on the same site, to derive maximum synergies and value adding bene ts.
Anglo Research and Anglo Technical Division work closely alongside the operating divisions on continuous improvement programmes.
At the other end of the spectrum, research focuses on cutting edge innovation and a number of pilot plants to test potential breakthrough technologies are in place or are at the design stage.
In one innovative study, nite-element analysis techniques are being used to identify potential areas of weakness in underground mining vehicles.
Another project is investigating the use of microwaves and radio frequency heating to pre-condition ores before separation.
A third is testing hyperspectral scanning technology as an aid to ore sorting.
Removing waste rock before crushing and separation can reduce operating costs and boost throughput of value bearing ore. Safety needs are often an important component of research and Anglo Technical Division is looking into safety commissioning procedures for major processing plant such as mills, furnaces and solvent extraction plants, where incidents are more likely during initial start up or after change interventions.
Other projects are aimed at improving energy ef ciency or reducing environmental impact.
Notably, Anglo Coal is studying a number of clean coal technologies to further the sustainable use of this fuel in long term environmentally friendly applications.
50 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2006 Exploration Exploration is one of the key activities for the continued growth of Anglo American.
The strong competition for resources globally has led the Group into more remote regions, to create exploration alliances and to apply new and innovative technology in its search for new mineral resources.
In 2006, the Anglo American Group was active across 33 countries, including 111 alliances with 103 different entities in 25 countries.
In 2006, Anglo Base Metals spent $53 million and has increased its exploration around its Chilean copper mines, adding signi cant resources at Los Bronces.
Exploration to the south of Los Bronces continues to report signi cant intervals of copper mineralisation.
In Brazil, further drilling at the Jacar nickel discovery has indicated the potential for a major new nickel asset for the Company, while work continues in the Philippines to complete a pre-feasibility study at Boyongan by the end of 2007.
At Gamsberg, South Africa, initial drilling of several key zinc targets has provided encouraging results.
Copper exploration is being undertaken in Brazil, Chile, Indonesia, Mexico, Peru and the US.
Nickel sulphide mineralisation is being sought in Arctic Canada, Russia and Scandinavia through alliances and zinc programmes continue in Australia, South Africa and Namibia.
Anglo Platinum $30 million is exploring in and around existing operations in South Africas Bushveld Complex.
Drilling continues at its Danba project in China, following encouraging exploration results.
Anglo Coal $24 million is continuing to investigate resources for thermal and coking coal, coal bed methane and oil sands, mainly looking in southern Africa, China and Australia.
Anglo Coal conducted advanced resource evaluations of the Xiwan project in China and projects in Canada and Australia.
Anglo Ferrous Metals $9 million is exploring for iron ore in South Africa and other iron ore growth opportunities are being pursued.
fide Beers spent $140 million and is currently active in Angola, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Botswana, Canada, India, South Africa and Namibia.
Ore reserves and mineral resources estimates Full details of our ore reserves and mineral resources estimates are found on pages 128 to 149.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2006 | 51
