ANGLO AMERICAN plc ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 Summary directors report for the year ended 31 December 2006 Introduction Business activities and development The directors present their summary financial statements for the Reports by the chairman and chief executive on the performance for year ended 31 December 2006.
The summary financial statements the year and the future development of the Group are included at the do not constitute the statutory financial statements as they do not beginning of this document.
contain suf cient information to allow as full an understanding of the results of the Group and the state of affairs of the Company or of Dividends the Group, and of its policies and arrangements concerning directors An interim dividend, including a special dividend, of 100 US cents per remuneration, as is provided by the full Annual Report.
ordinary share was paid on 21 September 2006.
The directors are recommending that a final dividend of 75 US cents per ordinary share The full financial statements, directors report and report of the be paid on 3 May 2007, subject to shareholder approval at the AGM.
auditors which is unquali ed and contains no reservations about accounting records or obtaining necessary information are included in Annual General Meeting a separate document entitled Annual Report 2006, which is available The AGM will be held on 17 April 2007.
A separate booklet enclosed to shareholders free of charge.
To obtain a copy of the Annual Report, with this document contains the notice convening the meeting together for this and or for future years, shareholders should contact either with a description of the business to be conducted.
Lloyds TSB Registrars or Link Market Services as appropriate.
Contact details for each are given on page 159.
Corporate governance Anglo American is committed to the highest standards of corporate Shareholder communications governance the way in which the Company is directed and controlled Shareholders on the UK register may elect to receive communications and complied fully with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance from the Company electronically and will then receive future Annual the Code throughout the year under review.
Reviews Annual Reports, Notice of the Annual General Meeting AGM and all other shareholder communications via e-mail noti cation.
By Directors registering for this service shareholders will be able to vote online The Board has a strong independent element and currently comprises, at AGMs and access information on their shareholding including, for in addition to the chairman, five executive and ten non-executive example, dividend payment history, sales and purchases and indicative directors, eight of whom are independent according to the fide nition share prices.
For the Company, electronic communication represents a contained in the Code.
Biographical details of the directors currently saving in terms of both costs and environmental resources.
serving on the Board are given on pages 24 and 25 of this document.
To register for the service, shareholders should log on to The Company is conscious of the need to maintain an appropriate mix www.
co. uk and follow the on-screen instructions.
It will be of skills and experience on the Board and to progressively refresh its necessary to have a Shareholder Reference Number when registering, composition over time.
In this respect, 2006 saw the appointment of which is shown on share certi cates, dividend tax vouchers and Peter Woicke and Mamphele Ramphele as new independent nonproxy cards.
Maria Silvia Bastos Marques retired from the Board at the 2006 AGM.
Cynthia Carroll was appointed to the Board with The new Companies Act 2006 contains provisions which will allow effect from 15 January 2007 and will be proposed for election at the a company to publish documents such as the Annual Report Annual forthcoming AGM.
She will succeed Tony Trahar as chief executive on Review on its website rather than posting them to shareholders, 1 March 2007.
Tony Trahar will retire from the Board at the conclusion provided it consults shareholders in advance and then continues to mail of the AGM.
Chris Fay, Sir Rob Margetts and Nicky Oppenheimer will such documents to shareholders that request them.
At the forthcoming be proposed for re-election at the AGM.
AGM, the Company will propose amendments to its Articles of Association to incorporate this new power.
Should the Company decide Details of the remuneration policy and of the remuneration of directors to exercise this power, it will first write to shareholders offering them are given in the remuneration report in the Annual Report and a the opportunity to elect to continue receiving such documents by post.
summary is set out on pages 29 to 32 of this document.
20 February 2007 26 | Anglo American plc Annual Review 2006
