ANGLO AMERICAN plc ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 DELIVERING OUR STRATEGIC GOALS $1.6 billion has been realised through the disposal of non-core assets in 2006 Delivering on Mondi demerger planned for mid-2007 our strategy Phased exit of the AngloGold Ashanti holding 1 Anglo Americans strategy has been to become a more focused mining group, in the process simplifying its structure and enhancing returns This has entailed a major fide Beers, like Anglo Platinum, partnership with a number producer, with several expansions restructuring of its asset base.
is a world leader in its eld.
It of major energy companies, under way or at the feasibility Over the past seven years, has a market share of some 40% Anglo Coal is examining the stage.
With Anglo Platinums nickel disposals of non-core businesses of rough diamond production and feasibility of producing production set to rise signi cantly, have totalled $11.8 billion and is bringing on stream two new downstream products such as combined with Anglo Base Metals acquisitions amounted to mines in Canada and one in South gas and synthetic fuels on a Barro Alto nickel project, the Group $15.7 billion.
Africa over the next two years to commercial scale and is gradually is set to become a signi cant nickel augment its overall output.
moving from being a pure coal producer with around 100,000 Following implementation of the supplier to becoming a broader tpa in 2012. restructuring programme, Anglo In little over a decade, Anglo player in the energy eld.
American will be focused around Coal has become a leading Kumba Iron Ore is becoming a six commodity groups: platinum, producer and exporter, supplying Anglo American is consolidating major force in the consolidated diamonds, base metals, coal, coal from three continents.
In its position as a major copper iron ore industry, with current ferrous metals and industrial minerals.
As a more focused, cohesive group, further cost savings and synergies as well as technology and knowledge sharing will be key priorities.
Platinum is one of the main differentiators of the Group.
With platinum group metals enjoying an unparalleled and expanding range of applications, and the prospect of buoyant demand for years to come, Anglo Platinum, will continue to be a major part of the Groups mining portfolio.
The steady increase of Anglo Platinums production over the last decade is testament to the major role Anglo Platinum will play in the Groups future.
Right: Underground drilling at Anglo Platinums Paardekraal mine in South Africa Right: A fide Beers exploration camp at Pingu Juak on Baf n Island in the Developing Nunavut Territory Anglo Americans of the Canadian Arctic core mining $15.7 bn $ 11.
8 bn of acquisitions worldwide of disposals worldwide portfolio since 1999 since 1999 08 | Anglo American plc Annual Review 2006 See also Anglo American at a glance IFC Below: Fuel cells promise to be the major Operating review p16 next wave driver of long term platinum The business p34 demand both in vehicles and for stationary applications expansions that will boost structural pro t improvement BUSINESS FOCUS production by around 40% to over the next three years.
45 Mtpa, with further potential to Anglo Platinum: raise this to over 70 Mtpa by 2015.
In terms of the restructuring, Anglo American has sold Future growth prospects Following an extensive review, $1 billion of its stake in Tarmac has restructured in the AngloGold Ashanti, reducing its underpinned by strong demand UK and reduced its downstream shareholding from 51% to 42%.
Tarmac has sold a We will continue to explore all number of small underperforming available options to exit AngloGold businesses in western Europe Ashanti in an orderly manner.
Anglo Platinum, with its unparalleled long life and is focusing on the growth reserve base and one of the biggest expansion markets of eastern Europe.
It is Regarding Mondi, plans for a programmes in mining, is set to remain the No.
1 aiming to make a $50 million full demerger are progressing.
Platinum group metals Approval in principle has been PGMs continue to expand their wide range of received from the regulatory uses, from the traditional sectors of autocatalysts authorities in South Africa for and jewellery to service new demand stimulated a Dual Listed Company Structure by a vast array of industrial and scienti c uses with primary listings in Johannesburg and London.
For many years, PGMs platinum, Currently, the jewellery industry In 2006, the first tranche of Anglo palladium, rhodium, ruthenium, iridium absorbs about 30% of the worlds Americans 79% shareholding in and osmium have outshone all other platinum, as well as signi cant Highveld Steel was sold to Evraz elements in their unique range of quantities of palladium.
China has and Credit Suisse.
Autocatalysts represent been the big driver in recent years, Kumba was restructured.
Anglo the most important demand sector, overtaking Japan in 2000 to become American now owns 64% in with PGM catalysts being used to clean the worlds largest platinum jewellery pure-play iron ore company up auto exhaust gases.
PGMs applications in industry Kumba Iron Ore.
The unbundling nearly half of the worlds newly mined are constantly expanding.
Key areas of Tongaat-Huletts aluminium platinum nds its way into the auto of new demand include hard disks, business to shareholders and industry, where over 90% of the mobile phones, the LCD at screen simultaneous introduction of worlds new vehicles are tted with TV sectors of glass manufacturing, broad based BEE into both autocatalysts.
Tightening emissions petroleum re ning, turbine coatings Tongaat-Hulett and Hulett legislation worldwide and the increasing and anti-cancer drugs.
Finally, steady Aluminium will occur during the demand for more fuel ef cient diesel progress continues to be made in second quarter of 2007.
This will vehicles the majority of which can only fuel cells, with most major auto reduce Anglo Americans interest use catalytic converters that are manufacturers investing in the in Tongaat-Hulett to 38% and in platinum based are intensifying development of commercial fuel Hulett Aluminium to 39%.
Right: In western China, an Anglo Platinum drill rig is employed in the search for platinum group metals $10.5 bn capital return announced in 2006 and 2007 Anglo American plc Annual Review 2006 | 09
