Operating review Clothing and Home This year, we offered customers a much better choice of stylish and fashionable products at outstanding value and our sales improved as a result.
Marks and Spencer Group plc www.
com clothingandhome2006 09 We gave our customers better The difficult first half affected the CLASSIC performance of all departments, as we took COLLECTION product, better styling and action to adjust ranges and prices.
But outstanding prices, while performance improved from the autumn, maintaining our high quality grew stronger over Christmas and momentum was sustained in the last standards.
Total Clothing sales stood level a clearer offer through fewer against last year at 3.3bn last year sub-brands and put new 3.3bn, while Home turnover was 0.8% up product more frequently into on the year at 353.8m last year 351.1m.
We now use focus groups to Womenswear experienced strong second ensure the changes we make half growth, reflecting our work to keep The year 2005 06 was a story of two hit the mark with customers.
ranges fresh so every woman can find halves.
The first six months saw a weaker In 2005 06, our Classic something new, every time she visits.
We performance as the changes we made took Collection team canvassed responded confidently to key trends shape.
In the second half, customers began the views of over 800 including military jackets, re-establishing our to respond to the improvements we had members of the Womens reputation for grown-up fashion.
Institute, who gave a thumbsmade by buying more, more often.
up to the improved quality of Per una performed strongly under the fit and materials used within While we are pleased with the progress leadership of George Davies.
George will the range, but confirmed that we have made this year, there remains we need to continue take a new role as per una Chairman from much to do to further improve our core developing collections with July 2006 but will remain very committed to offer, as well as new opportunities to go more fashionability.
The the day-to-day running of the business.
feedback had a direct impact on our buying.
In January, for Menswear and Lingerie followed a similar Performance example, we doubled our pattern of tough trading in the first half and M&S continues to be the UKs leading order of a favoured printed strong growth in the second, although retailer of Clothing and Footwear by both skirt, so that we could stock growth was more muted than that seen in value and volume.
Throughout last year, we improved our Menswear reduced its brands to three market share performance and ended the Autograph, Blue Harbour and Collezione year ahead in volume terms with 9.9% by autumn 2005.
Autograph was share last year 9.7%, as customers bought re-launched in August 2005, providing a more in response to better product and wider offer of designer-led pieces, and was pricing: but marginally behind in value terms a strong performer.
Suiting also performed at 10.2% last year 10.5%, primarily well and hit a three-year high in its market reflecting price deflation.
Blue Harbour, the biggest casualwear brand for men in the UK, also In value terms, Womenswear ended the had a strong year.
year with 10.5% market share last year 10.7% : Menswear, 9.5% last year 9.8% : In Lingerie, the move to fewer brands in Lingerie 24.1% last year 25.5% and 2005 made the offer clearer and easier to Childrenswear 4.1% last year 4.3%.
shop, whilst the per una lingerie range, launched in November 2005, brought new The increase in full price clothing market excitement.
A continued focus on really share was marked, up 2.0% to 14.2%, good basics at our Opening Price Points reflecting the real improvements we made in and great value across the entire offer was offering better values, with the first price complemented by beautiful detailing, being the right price.
Body, with its simple, clean-cut lines, was This resulted in a significant reduction in the particularly strong and now represents 30% level of marked down products, which of our Collections.
contributed some 50% of our margin improvement in 2005 06.
In the last quarter, Our Home business continued with its clear we achieved positive market share growth strategy of great value and simpler but in all departments at a total level for the first stylish ranges with mainstream appeal, time in three years, with gains most marked supported by a much better catalogue and in Womenswear.
10 Marks and Spencer Group plc a comprehensive online offer.
This focus competitive pricing from basic items to more GETTING on providing what our customers really desirable clothes and fabrics, like linen.
THE LOOK want meant that performance improved across the year.
We also increased the number of products offered at the top end of the price As we worked to give customers what spectrum.
In Womenswear, we now use the they wanted in Childrenswear, our market Autograph label across our ranges to share slipped apart from in school clothes distinguish extra special clothes made from and babywear.
the highest quality silks, lace, linen and cashmere.
We expect Autograph to In November, to improve our performance, become one of the biggest UK luxury we placed Babywear and Girlswear under womens brands by the end of 2006 07. the control of our Womenswear team, and Boys and Toddler clothes under the Better buying, better product management of Menswear.
One of the first Our Buying Academy, set up in 2005, signs of change was the new fashion range, trained our 900 buyers, designers and Girls Boutique for 7-14 year olds, which merchandisers during the year to ensure had a good first season.
that we maintain tight control on all aspects of buying.
Outstanding value across our ranges Powerful advertising Offering customers outstanding value We set challenging weekly targets to control created huge demand for great quality at great prices at all points stock levels at every part of the supply iconic items like the Twiggy across our price hierarchy continued to be a chain, to improve availability and reduce cardigan, but customers say key priority.
We adjusted our pricing levels of marked down product.
that they sometimes like help structure, raising the proportion of products in co-ordinating outfits.
we offer at opening prices from an average We also reduced the number of products of 17% in 2004 05 to 31% at the year end.
we had to return to the manufacturer We have introduced because of faults to the lowest level since Get the Look zones in We continued to re-establish our value our records began in 1988. all stores, using mannequins credentials.
We introduced new offers to show which tops and such as the 5 womens t-shirt and 6 bra, We are getting new product to stores more belts work best with new the 50 career girl suit, 9 mens jeans quickly and effectively from around the trends like skinny jeans, and fleeces.
world in just six weeks for some fast for instance.
We rotate the fashion lines.
In Home, we introduced a whole new value range, including a three-steamer set for We are also buying with more confidence, The new Girls Boutique 9.50 and a 15 bale of six towels.
This making sure that products we think range has gone a step further was well received by customers and customers will love are available in sufficient with special labels and Get resulted in a significant increase in the quantity when they want them.
the Look books to help girls volume of sales.
layer and co-ordinate the Womenswear chased new trends and fast latest fashions.
We used the autumn Your M&S For Less sellers by using an uncommitted Open To advertising campaign to emphasise our Buy budget.
Last autumn, we caught the Our Portofino rattan-style furniture has been developed for all-weather use, combining style with convenience and durability, making them perfect for the patio.
Our DD-G range, which is already one of the widest on the high street, will be extended further this year to include new styles and colours.
Marks and Spencer Group plc 11 As part of our focus on casualwear we have added a casual offer to our Classic Collection to complement our popular smartwear lines.
In 2006, we will re-vamp Blue Harbour Vintage, creating a more distinct, slightly younger offer to Blue Harbour.
trend for culottes and city shorts, Blue Harbour Vintage range to FAST FASHION transferring fabric originally set aside for create a distinct, slightly younger offer to skirts and trousers.
Menswear is looking to Blue Harbour.
use Open To Buy in the same way during 2006 07.
We will also expand the Maternity offer that we introduced in January 2006 to a full Our 55 technologists introduced industryrange from t-shirts to suits.
leading innovations, including the first tumble-dryable suit and seamless moulded Our Classic Collection will be further bra.
We were also the first major UK retailer developed using feedback from the special to sell Fairtrade cotton products, Real Cool customer focus group we have established Cotton t-shirts, and Heels with a Secret in for the range.
Lingerie greatly expanded its range of Shapewear, after We are repositioning Collezione as our the success of the Magic Knicker, and is up-market mens smartwear brand and In November 2005, the planning the first co-ordinated range of rolling out a new mens shoe shop format Womenswear team, our new mastectomy lingerie.
In Home, we to 25 stores, providing better service and Turkish office and local introduced all-weather rattan-style furniture doubling the choice of shoes in the suppliers worked together to and will be offering a wipe-clean fabric same space.
design, buy and deliver a across our sofa ranges from autumn 2006. fast-fashion Limited In Lingerie, we will broaden further our Collection Boutique range in Our sourcing offices in Hong Kong, India, DD-G offer, introducing more styles, as well less than eight weeks.
Buying Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and Turkey were up as more colours.
We will also continue to at this speed, with product and running early in 2005 06, allowing us to add fashionable, trend-led lingerie to our pre-sorted for stores at source more efficiently and keep a close Collections.
source, means we have a check that our strict ethical standards are faster supply of new product.
They also enable us to buy more Improving Childrenswear is a key priority, We now use this process product direct from the manufacturer.
as some 70% of women aged between regularly to design and 30 and 45, have children.
Our restructure, deliver Limited Collection Looking ahead splitting responsibility for our offer between Boutique ranges within six While we have seen improvements this year, our Womenswear and Menswear teams, is weeks.
Mens Autograph, we still see considerable potential over the complete and we are working hard to deliver Blue Harbour, and the first coming 12 months and beyond.
better product and to provide the different Girls Boutique range have age groups with an appropriate offer.
also used this supply technique Casual clothing remains the fastest growing in 2005 06. market, in line with increased spending on Finally, we will continue to provide our holidays and weekends away, and will be a customers with stylish, great value Home focus this year.
products through our website and improved catalogue, to build further on the progress We introduced new Womenswear denim made during 2005 06. shops to all stores in April 2006 with a broader, more fashionable offer.
In Menswear, we are re-vamping the casual
