Operating review Food Our food business enjoyed a very successful year.
Strong product development, new advertising, improved Food Halls and the performance of Simply Food all helped drive sales.
Marks and Spencer Group plc www.
com food2006 13 M&S food stands, above all, Healthy eating POMEGRANATE People want to know more about their JUICE A FIRST for outstanding quality and food and are becoming increasingly health innovation.
% expect us to offer them new, We made healthy eating a particular priority 20 delicious food, sourced during the year, increasing the number of of our Food offer carries the responsibly, and to create and products carrying our Eat Well sunflower Eat Well sunflower logo.
interpret new trends in eating.
logo by 300 to over 1,000 around 20% of our food offer.
We are most successful when we do this with confidence, combining the skills of our Our Eat Well logo is placed on foods buying teams, our food technologists and which do not contain artificial colours, our suppliers.
flavourings or sweeteners and are either naturally healthy foods or nutritionally In recent years, we have chased too wide a balanced, based on current Government range of initiatives, often done on too small guidelines.
This approach has been a scale to have real impact.
We have since assessed by independent nutrition experts refined our product strategy, concentrating at the British Nutrition Foundation.
on four main areas fresh, natural, healthy food: special celebration products: authentic We have provided Guideline Daily Amounts Pomegranates are one of the ready meal ranges and exceptional GDAs on all our food since August 1999 most popular superfoods, everyday food like our Oakham chicken and now plan to introduce colour-coded but finding a way to make and Aberdeen Angus steaks.
GDAs to help customers make healthier the first totally natural food choices.
pomegranate juice required During the year we backed this strategy lateral thinking.
with powerful advertising and bold product Concern about additives in foods is also development including launching 1,600 Pomegranate crushing growing and we have moved faster than entirely new lines and upgrading a further machines pulp the whole fruit anyone to remove them.
We are also exploring different ways and not just the sweet centre, were first to commit ourselves to removing to make our food available to our customers so most pomegranate drinks hydrogenated fats from virtually all our foods through new locations and formats.
have to be sweetened with by the end of 2006 a challenging added sugars.
One of our commitment, already achieved in over 90% technologists spotted the Performance of affected products.
potential to adapt a passion Total Food sales grew by 7% to 3.6bn and fruit crusher to crush only the also enjoyed a 3.6% increase in like-for-like Our Marks & Spencer Cook!
range centre of the pomegranates.
Throughout the year, key areas such providing customers with prepared raw The technology was installed as fresh produce, particularly fresh fruit ingredients to make delicious meals is in Egypt where pomegranates salads and juices, as well as meat, already additive-free.
The 19 products in our are grown in abundance.
In delicatessen and Food to Go products Eat Well for Kids range contain no artificial October, we launched the experienced strong growth.
Christmas was colours, flavours or sweeteners and no UKs first fresh and natural particularly successful with like-for-like sales added preservatives.
Sales in the last quarter of our many innovations continued to improve, helped especially by We remain the only major retailer to have met last year.
a healthy eating campaign which included the British Retail Consortiums salt reduction 200 newly developed products.
targets and are on track to meet the Food Standard Agencys targets for 2010.
Improved marketing also contributed to our performance.
Customers particularly In another innovation, we introduced a welcomed our Food Festivals where those unique Omega-3 rich milk, through a spending more than 35 could sample for specially-developed feed for our dairy cows free some of the products we are most which allows them to produce milk rich in proud of including salmon, wine and the optimum sort of Omega-3, properly chocolate puddings.
While healthy eating is a key trend, we never lose sight of the importance of great taste and eating quality.
We employ trained chefs to develop new dishes and improve existing lines.
14 Marks and Spencer Group plc From ethically reared animals to local cheeses, we source the best speciality food from home and abroad.
These Cuxwold pork pies are part of our new speciality range launched in spring 2006.
All of our wines are blended exclusively for us, sourced from the highest quality vineyards around the world and we have fully-qualified wine advisers in our top stores.
ADDITIVE-FREE We are also continuing to work hard to In spring 2006, we introduced a new range improve everyday food.
Our Oakham of 300 speciality products which illustrate chicken and Muirden pork both unique, the care we take in sourcing our food.
The naturally reared products remain popular range includes Cuxwold pork from Norfolk with customers.
We were the first major and Lincolnshire and Apple and Cider Jelly food retailer in Europe to sell tenderstem from Biddenden, Kent.
broccoli, high in essential vitamins, and we now have a 40% UK market share.
We also During the year, we also set about giving all won 360 awards last year for our cheeses.
our food a distinctive look and will have re-packaged almost all our lines by the end The Marks & Spencer Cook!
This work is already noticeable in range is designed for the Our Look behind the label campaign, our stores, particularly on Food to Go busy person who doesnt launched in January 2006, allowed us to items, like sandwiches and drinks, and on always have the time or expertise to cook great food.
tell customers how carefully we source grocery, bakery and delicatessen products Launched in the autumn, it food.
It highlighted our work to remove which have attractive, eye-catching designs.
provides prepared or fresh additives, reduce salt, ban GM-foods and ingredients for dishes like encourage responsible fish sourcing.
There Celebrate salmon fillets with soy, honey is more detail on the campaign in our We remain a first choice for customers and ginger glaze.
Corporate Social Responsibility Report online looking for high quality, trusted food at www.
celebration times like Easter and All 120 products in the range Valentines Day.
are preservative and additiveOur Oakham chicken was recognised with free.
We have even replaced an award from Compassion in World Farming We saw strong demand at Christmas for the salt we use with one and during the year, we introduced more products like ham and turkey joints and which is free of an anti-caking agent.
We have also created naturally grown breeds of turkey and pork.
specially-prepared vegetables, including a new supply base for the glazed parsnips.
At Valentines, sales of range to make sure we get In March, we announced that we would single long-stem roses increased by 160%, the ingredients right.
switch all the coffee and tea we sell in our helped by advertising.
In May 2006, we extended our in-store food Last year, we introduced cardboard ordering service, increasing our range of sandwich packs made from well-managed party food and personalised cakes by timber supplies with a biodegradable around a quarter.
Reaching new customers Speciality foods Our Simply Food stores continue to reach We go to great lengths to source speciality new customers who like the convenience foods from home and abroad, assisted by offered by locations such as railway stations our own team of agronomists, farmers, and motorway service areas.
chefs, winemakers, animal welfare and marine specialists.
