com stores2006 Marks and Spencer Group plc We are pleased with the customer response to the stores we refurbished in our trial and now plan to roll the new design out across the chain, with more than 60 additional stores in the plan for this year.
By the end of 2006, every customer in the UK will be within easy driving distance of a newly refurbished M&S store.
Our Stores We are carrying out our biggest store refurbishment programme ever and continuing to open new stores in key locations.
SIMPLY FOOD Our biggest tangible asset is our store department should be laid out, to ensure a TO THE FORE portfolio.
It is also the way that our consistent spring product launch.
Store customers experience our brand.
Our stores standards remain a focus for us in 2006 07. are in great locations, but they have been subject to underinvestment in past years.
Meeting needs in new locations We have embarked on a major We continue to look at locations where we refurbishment programme to rectify this and are under-represented and opened eight bring our stores up to the standards our main chain stores in 2005 06.
We also took customers expect.
At the same time, we will decisive action where stores were underopen in new locations where opportunities performing and closed seven.
Following a exist to further grow our business.
net increase in store numbers of 29, we We joined forces with BP now have a total of 451 across the UK, Connect in 2005 to trial our Improving our stores including 43 Simply Food franchise stores.
Simply Food offer in BP Following a four store trial in 2004 05, we forecourts.
The trial provided refurbished 17 more stores by Christmas Simply Food stores are an important way a new, convenient option for 2005.
By this December, we will have to meet customer demand in convenient existing customers and also converted around 35% of our store portfolio, locations.
During the year, we acquired 28 introduced new customers to equating to five million sq ft. stores in select locations from Iceland for our Food offer.
These will open this summer, taking The format has a lighter, brighter feel, new the number of Simply Food outlets to 172. equipment and an improved layout.
We Currently, we are opening around one store continue to make improvements, including a week, either alone or in partnership with to Womenswear, where we trialled a more SSP at railway stations or Moto at femine, clearer layout in March 2006, which motorway services.
is now being rolled out as part of the refurbishment programme.
Our Outlet stores allow us to sell excess product year-round, without taking space We are also improving the consistency of away from new ranges in our main stores.
standards across all stores, so that they During 2005 06, we opened four new look, feel and are maintained in the same Outlets, taking the total number to 24, and way.
In early 2006, we issued detailed visual expect to open more in the year ahead.
packs called The Look, showing how each
