Marks and Spencer Group plc www.
com international2006 15 International Our International business contributed 9.1% to the Groups pre-tax profits.
Comprising wholly-owned stores as well as franchise stores around the world, our International division continues to flourish.
In 2005 06, it generated a turnover of 522.7m last year 455.8m and an operating profit of 65.6m last year 60.4m.
As part of our plan to refocus the business we agreed the sale of our US supermarket chain, Kings Super Markets, for 35.4m $61.5m in March 2006.
We are currently reviewing the trial of Franchise Simply Food in eight BP forecourts, which We operate 198 franchise stores in 30 territories around the world.
we launched in autumn 2005, and one During the year, 22 stores opened including two in Moscow, an which we opened after the year end.
additional four in the Czech Republic and three more in India.
We have also closed a number of stores in the period, either to move The market for M&S food is potentially to better sites or to concentrate on larger, more profitable stores.
In seven stores we tested new Total space grew from 1.30 million sq ft to 1.43 million sq ft. formats including Hot Food to Go, like hot wraps and soups, and in four stores we We see considerable scope to increase the number of franchise introduced new bakeries, selling fresh crusty stores in our current territories and to enter new ones.
We opened in bread and first class patisseries and Switzerland in April 2006, and have plans to open in Ukraine and delicatessens where customers can sit and Latvia, as well as to expand our Russian presence to St Petersburg, eat breakfast, brunch, a light lunch or in 2006 07.
Franchise stores give us the opportunity to expand supper.
These ideas help bring theatre and internationally without significant capital cost.
By continuing to work excitement to our stores.
with trusted partners, we benefit from both their local knowledge and increased economies of scale.
Looking ahead We will continue to provide innovative food Wholly-owned of exceptional quality in 2006 07.
Healthy We have eight wholly-owned stores in Hong Kong and this eating will remain a priority for us.
continues to be an attractive and profitable market for us.
Competition for good sites remains tough and rents are high, but We plan to increase our Eat Well products, we are keen to expand our presence there.
extend our additive-free Marks & Spencer Cook!
range and continue to reduce salt Our stores in the Republic of Ireland are thriving.
In 2005 06, we and remove hydrogenated fats from our opened two stores in Blackrock and Galway and in April 2006 we food.
We will also continue to highlight the opened another in Newbridge Retail Park, west of Dublin.
We will special quality of our food and its open in Drogheda in summer 2006, bringing the number of stores provenance.
Building on our popularity at Christmas and other key times of the year, we will seek to become the preferred destination for 11 STORES personal celebrations like birthdays, REPUBLIC OF IRELAND 45 STORES CENTRAL weddings and anniversaries.
60 STORES EUROPE EUROPE 9 STORES We will open more Simply Food stores and CENTRAL ASIA 8 STORES 1 STORE HONG KONG extend the trial of new formats, like our Eat BERMUDA Over Deli bars, bringing our food to a wider 18 STORES 65 STORES MIDDLE EAST IN ASIA PACIFIC audience.
Later this year we will open our first stand-alone restaurant at our Newcastle store, where customers will be able to dine out on a range of our food.
KEY WHOLLY-OWNED STORES FRANCHISED STORES
