Marshalls text 2006:Marshalls Text 3 4 07 14:46 Page 30 Directors Report The Directors have pleasure in submitting their Statement is 12.70 pence 2005: 12.10 pence per Report and Financial Statements for the year share being the previous years final dividend of ended 31 December 2006.
The Consolidated 8.40 pence 2005: 8.00 pence per share and the Group Financial Statements have been prepared interim dividend of 4.30 pence 2005: 4.10 pence under International Financial Reporting Standards per share in respect of the year ended 31 IFRSs.
The Parent Company Financial December 2006 and paid on 6 December 2006.
Statements have been prepared in accordance This follows the disclosure under IFRS.
Share Capital Principal Activities and Business Details of the share capital and allotments during Review the year are set out in Note 20 on pages 81 to 82.
The principal activities of the Group are the Details of outstanding awards under the Marshalls manufacture and supply of landscape, driveway and plc Long Term Incentive Plan are set out in Note 18 garden products from a range of materials, including on pages 78 and 79. concrete, natural stone, iron, steel, wood, glass and polyurethane.
Further details of the principal Directors activities of the Group are set out in Note 33 on Details of each of the Directors who served page 92. throughout the year, together with biographical details, are set out on page 22.
The Chairmans Statement on pages 4 and 5 and the Operating and Financial Review on pages 7 to 21 Graham Holden and Andrew Allner will retire by contain a review of these activities.
rotation at the Annual General Meeting.
Both of these Directors, being eligible, offer themselves Details of the Groups policy in relation to employees for re-election in accordance with the Companys and information on charitable and political donations Articles of Association.
Details of Directors attendance at Board and Details of the Groups policies in relation to Corporate Committee meetings and a statement on Board Governance are disclosed on pages 33 to 38.
Evaluation is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 33 to 38.
Group Results The Consolidated Income Statement for the year Directors Interests ended 31 December 2006 is shown on page 52.
Full details of Directors remuneration, interests in the share capital of the Company and of their Dividends share based payment awards are set out on pages The Board is recommending a final dividend of 40 to 49 in the Directors Remuneration Report.
8.85 pence 2005: 8.40 pence per share which, together with the interim dividend of 4.30 pence Charitable and Political Donations 2005: 4.10 pence per share, make a combined Details of the charitable donations made during dividend of 13.15 pence 2005: 12.50 pence per the year are set out in the Corporate Social share.
Payment of the final dividend, if approved Responsibility Statement on pages 23 to 25. at the Annual General Meeting, will be made on 6 July 2007 to shareholders registered at the close Disposals and Acquisitions of business on 8 June 2007.
On 4 May 2006, the Group acquired the assets of Urban Engineering which specialises in the The dividend paid in the year to 31 December sale of a range of shelters and associated 2006 and disclosed in the Consolidated Income products.
Following the half year end the 30 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2006 Marshalls text 2006:Marshalls Text 3 4 07 14:46 Page 31 Group also purchased the assets of Tempakerb, a Statement of Directors business which manufactures temporary kerbs from Responsibilities in respect of the recycled materials and Decathlon, which Annual Report and the Financial manufactures high capacity drainage systems.
Statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the On 30 November 2006, the Group acquired the entire Annual Report and the Group and Parent share capital of Scenic Blue UK Limited, a garden Company Financial Statements in accordance design and landscape installation franchising with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Since the year end the Group has acquired a small Group and Parent Company Financial Statements natural stone business and a supplier of high quality for each financial year.
Under that law they are and widely specified seating systems.
required to prepare the Group Financial Statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted Fixed Assets by the EU and applicable law and have elected to The Group continues to invest in the business with prepare the Parent Company Financial net capital investments in the year of 24.0 million Statements in accordance with UK Accounting 2005: 20.7 million.
Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
In the opinion of the Directors, the current existing use value in respect of commercial properties and The Group Financial Statements are required by mineral assets, combined with the current market law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present value in respect of surplus assets, of the Groups fairly the financial position and the performance interests in land and buildings exceeds the book of the Group: the Companies Act 1985 provides in value by approximately 40 million.
relation to such Financial Statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to Payment to Suppliers Financial Statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair The Group follows the CBIs prompt payment code presentation.
and operates and abides by a clearly defined payment policy which has been agreed with all major The Parent Company Financial Statements are suppliers.
The Groups creditor payment period at 31 required by law to give a true and fair view of the December 2006 was 51 days 2005: 52 days.
state of affairs of the Parent Company.
Substantial Shareholdings In preparing each of the Group and Parent As at 9 March 2007, the Company had been notified Company Financial Statements, the Directors are of the following disclosable interests of 3 per cent or required to: more in its voting rights: %.
select suitable accounting policies and then Prudential plc 11.06 apply them consistently: AXA S. A.
7.46. make judgements and estimates that are New Star Asset Management Limited 4.82 reasonable and prudent: Liontrust Investment Services Limited 4.06. state for the Group Financial Statements, Credit Suisse Asset Management 3.36 whether they have been prepared in Legal and General Investment accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: Management Limited 3.36 Artemis Investment Management Limited 3.23 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2006 31 Marshalls text 2006:Marshalls Text 3 4 07 14:46 Page 32 Directors Report continued.
state for the Parent Company Financial Annual General Meeting Statements, whether applicable UK The Notice convening the Annual General Accounting Standards have been followed, Meeting to be held at Birkby Grange at 12 noon subject to any material departures disclosed on Wednesday 16 May 2007, together with and explained in the Parent Company explanatory notes on the resolutions to be Financial Statements: and proposed, is contained in a circular to be sent to.
prepare the Financial Statements on the going shareholders with this Annual Report.
concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Auditors Company will continue in business.
A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as Auditors to the Company and to authorise the The Directors are responsible for keeping proper Directors to determine their remuneration will be accounting records that disclose with reasonable proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its Financial Statements comply with the By Order of the Board Companies Act 1985.
They have general Elizabeth Blease responsibility for taking such steps as are Company Secretary reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets 9 March 2007 of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors' Report, Directors' Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company's website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Disclosure of Information to Auditors The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
