DIRECTORS REPORT for the 52 weeks ended 25th February 2006 The Directors present their report and the audited financial On 19th January 2006 it was announced that John King, the Chief statements for the 52 weeks ended 25th February 2006.
Executive would leave the business on 31st December 2006.
A search has commenced for a replacement Chief Executive but to Principal activities date no successor has been appointed.
The principal activity of the Group is the sale of clothing and Charles Thompson and John Westwood retired from the Board on homewares.
7th July 2005, at the close of the 2005 Annual General Meeting.
Bill Review of business Shannon and Geoff Brady were appointed as Non-Executive The Companies Act 1985 Operating and Financial Review and Directors on 29th April 2005 and were duly re-elected at the 2005 Directors Report etc.
2005 1011] came into Annual General Meeting.
Martin Reavley joined the Board as a force on 22nd March 2005.
However, a Statutory Instrument was Non-Executive Director on 8th July 2005 and he will retire in subsequently introduced to repeal the regulations for an Operating accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association and and Financial Review, with effect from 12th January 2006.
This offer himself for re-election.
Robert Shrager will retire as a Director means that companies need now only comply with the Business at the close of the 2006 Annual General Meeting and will not be Risk requirements as contained in the above legislation.
The Board has decided to include a Business Review, see pages In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, John 3 to 8.
Hargreaves retires by rotation and offers himself for re-appointment at the Annual General Meeting.
On 4th May 2005 the Group sold the Lee Cooper business for a gross consideration of 30m.
The financial impact of the disposal is John Hargreaves, John King and Phil Dutton have service contracts shown on page 48 of the Financial Statements.
which are terminable on 12 months notice.
The Non-Executive Directors do not have contracts of service but have letters of Dividend appointment conrming their term of ofce.
The Directors have proposed a final dividend of 6.0p per share 2005: 6.0p per share, which together with the interim dividend of No Director was or is materially interested in any contract which was 2.9p per share 2005: 2.9p per share makes a total of 8.9p per significant in relation to the Groups business, other than his contract share 2005: 8.9p per share.
of service, where appropriate, during or at the end of the period.
The final dividend will be paid on 14th July 2006 to shareholders During the year, the Company maintained insurance for its Directors whose names appear on the Register of Members at the close of and Ofcers.
Creditor payment policy Dividends have been waived on the holdings of Matalan Quest UK suppliers are paid at the end of the month following invoice or Trustee Limited and Matalan Trustee Limited as detailed in note 26 to the specic agreed terms.
Foreign suppliers are paid on average on page 46. within 13 days 2005: 14 days of the receipt of invoice or delivery documentation.
International Financial Reporting Standards It is the Groups policy to ensure that suppliers are aware of the The Directors have adopted International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as endorsed by the European Union for the 52 Groups terms of payment and these terms are agreed at week period ended 25th February 2006 and the comparative period.
commencement of business with each supplier.
Payments are made in accordance with the payment terms and conditions agreed.
Trade The impact of adoption of IFRS on the reported balances is explained in note 34.
The accounting policies adopted under IFRS creditor days of the Group at 25th February 2006 were 27 days can be found on pages 50 to 56.
2005: 22 days based on average monthly purchases.
The Company has no trade creditors.
Directors and directors interests Employees and employment policies The current Directors of the Company and their biographical details are contained on page 9 and their interests, including share options Employee involvement Employees are encouraged to become in the Companys share capital, are set out in the Remuneration involved in the Groups operating performance and in all matters which may concern them.
Regular performance updates are provided Report on pages 13 to 17.
10 via employee briengs and a significant proportion of the bonus and also reviews applications for support from other charities.
scheme is linked to overall Company performance.
In addition, The Group is a member of Business in the Community and through employee involvement in key targets is encouraged through its stores works with local communities in a number of different ways appropriate incentive schemes and employees are encouraged to including working with and contributing to smaller charities.
New participate in the Groups Save As You Earn scheme.
charitable initiatives are considered by the Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Committee which meets at least twice a year.
The Group remains committed to improving the skills, knowledge Further details of the Companys CSR policy are outlined on pages and competence of all employees and a significant investment is 7 and 8. made in training and development.
The development needs of all employees are reviewed as part of an annual appraisal process and During the year the Group made no political donations but made the all development activity is measured to ensure a business benefit is following charitable donations totalling 263,170 2005: 321,000 : achieved from such investment.
This supports the Groups aim which Jeans for Genes 94,420 is to attract, retain and motivate the highest calibre of employee.
NSPCC 75,000 Tsunami Disaster Appeal 93,750 The Group provides full and sympathetic consideration to the employment, training, career development and promotion of disabled Further to the above, Matalan and the Hargreaves family have made employees.
This also includes those employees who become a ten year pledge of 6.0m 750,000 from Matalan to the NSPCC disabled during their employment and each case is judged on its Safe House Appeal for the building of a unique centre in the North own specic circumstances.
of Liverpool which will house all the NSPCC services under one roof.
The Safe House Appeal was launched at the Matalan Ball in Consultation Employee feedback is received through a variety of September 2004 and in total will cost in the region of 17.0m.
methods including a structured consultation forum and regular listening groups.
Collective and individual consultation takes place Auditors in line with relevant legislation concerning key issues affecting  LLP have indicated their willingness to employees.
During 2005, collective consultation was carried out continue in ofce and a resolution that they be re-appointed will be relating to the closure of a distribution centre in Winwick and in the proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
region of 300 redundancies across head ofce and the stores.
The Substantial shareholdings consultation involved detailed discussions with elected employee representatives and resulted in the majority of the redundancies in At the date of this report the Companys share register of substantial head ofce and the stores being voluntary.
A formal recognition shareholdings showed the following interests in 3% or more of the Companys issued share capital.
agreement with a Trade Union is in place for specic distribution centre employees and consultation takes place with Trade Union Number of ordinary shares % Representatives.
John Hargreaves including shares held in trust 114,603,187 28.0 John Jason Hargreaves 36,594,382 9.0 Equal opportunities The Group is opposed to all forms of Jamey Hargreaves 36,522,402 8.9 discrimination and offers equal access to employment, promotion Maxine Adams 30,968,252 7.6 and development regardless of gender, race, ethnic origin, religion, Harris Associates 33,320,721 8.1 sexual orientation, age or disability.
All recruiting managers receive Fidelity Investments 18,631,925 4.6 training to ensure they understand current legislation and best Credit Agricole Cheuvreux International 12,675,559 3.1 practice.
In addition, a training programme has been designed to includes shares held by Abacus Trust Company on behalf of the Hargreaves family.
ensure all line managers are fully conversant with all legislation The combined holding of Abacus Trust Company was 92,904,756 shares 22.7%.
relating to discrimination and associated issues.
Share capital Health and safety The Groups policy on health and safety is The share capital and the changes during the period are described described on pages 6 and 7 of the Business Review.
Charitable donations Holdings of ordinary shares held by Matalan Quest Trustee Limited The Group has developed a close relationship with the NSPCC and Matalan Trustee Limited are detailed in note 26 on page 46.
11 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Authority to purchase shares also required to prepare the accounts on the going concern basis During the period, the Board recommended that the proceeds from unless it is inappropriate to do so.
the disposal of the Lee Cooper Group of 24.4m be returned to The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company shareholders by way of a share buyback.
At the Annual General keeps accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy Meeting held on 7th July 2005 authority was given to the purchase at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and of up to 42,044,138 ordinary 10p shares in the Company.
which enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the To date, the Company has purchased for cancellation 11,860,000 Companies Act 1985 and IFRS as endorsed by the European Union.
ordinary 10p shares at an average price of 178.5 pence per ordinary The Directors also have responsibility for taking such steps as are share at a total cost of 21.3m between 9th May 2005 and 23rd reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company February 2006. and the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
This equates to 2.9% of the Companys issued ordinary share These accounts are published on the Groups website, capital.
The authority to buy back shares remains in place and a www.
The Directors are responsible for the new resolution to renew the authority will be proposed at the 2006 maintenance and integrity of the website: the work carried out by the Annual General Meeting.
auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and Going concern accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes After making enquiries, the Directors are satisfied that the Group that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were and the Company has adequate financial resources to operate for initially presented on the website.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the The Directors recognise the uncertainty regarding legal going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
requirements of financial statements published on websites, which Statement of directors responsibilities is compounded as information published on the internet is The Directors are required by UK company law to prepare financial accessible in many countries.
Legislation in the United Kingdom statements for each financial period that give a true and fair view of governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
financial period and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing the accounts the Directors are required to select By Order of the Board appropriate accounting policies and apply them consistently, to make reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and to Simon N Waite state that all applicable accounting standards have been followed, Company Secretary save as disclosed in the notes to the accounts.
