3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 63 Overview Strategic report Statutory and corporate Corporate Governance Audited financial statements governance information Portfolio and other information The UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules require 3i, as a Investment policy closed-ended investment fund, to publish an investment policy.
The current investment policy is set out below.
Shareholder approval is required for material changes to this policy.
Non-material changes can be made by the Board.
Since Investment policy publication of the Annual report and accounts 2015 the Board hasmade one non-material change to the first paragraph of the 3i is an investment company which aims to provide its investment policy by changing across to in in the phrase shareholders with quoted access to private equity, across Europe, Asia and the Americas.
This change was made so infrastructure and debt management investment returns.
as to better reect the Groups current areas of investment focus.
Currently, its main focus is on making quoted and unquoted equity and or debt investments in businesses and funds in Europe, Asia and the Americas.
The geographies, Tax and investment company status economic sectors, funds and asset classes in which 3i The Company is an investment company under section 833 of invests continue to evolve as opportunities are identied.
HM Revenue & Customs has approved Proposed investments are assessed individually and all the Company as an investment trust under section 1158 of the significant investments require approval from the Groups Corporation Tax Act 2010 and the Company directs its affairs Investment Committee.
Overall investment targets are toenable it to continue to remain so approved.
subject to periodic reviews and the investment portfolio is also reviewed to monitor exposure to specic geographies, Regulation and management arrangements economic sectors and asset classes.
3i Investments plc, 3i Debt Management Investments Limited, 3i seeks to diversify risk through significant dispersion of 3iBIFM Investments Limited, 3i Europe plc and 3i Nordic plc investments by geography, economic sector, asset class allofwhich are subsidiaries of the Company are authorised and andsize as well as through the maturity prole of its regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA under the investment portfolio.
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
Where applicable, certain Group subsidiaries businesses outside the United Although 3i does not set maximum exposure limits for asset Kingdom are regulated locally by relevant authorities, including allocations, it does have a maximum exposure limit that, save two subsidiaries registered as investment advisers with the US as mentioned below, no investment will be made unless its Securities and Exchange Commission.
cost does not exceed 15% of the investment portfolio value as shown in the last published valuation.
A further investment 3i Investments plc acts as investment manager to the Company may be made in an existing investee company provided the and certain of its subsidiaries.
Contracts for these investment aggregate cost of that investment and of all other management and other services, for which regulatory investments in that investee company does not exceed 15% authorisation is required, provide for fees based on the work done of the investment portfolio value as shown in the last and costs incurred in providing such services.
A higher limit of 30% will apply to the may be terminated by either party on reasonable notice.
Companys investment in 3i Infrastructure plc.
For the 3i Investments plc also acts as investment adviser to 3i avoidance of doubt, 3i may retain an investment even if its Infrastructure plc.
These services and related fees are set out carrying value is greater than 15% or 30% as the case may incontracts containing detailed provisions.
be of the portfolio value at the time of an updated valuation.
3i plc provides the Group with certain corporate and Investments are generally funded with a mixture of debt and administrative services, for which no regulatory authorisation is shareholders funds with a view to maximising returns to required, under contracts which provide for fees based on the shareholders, whilst maintaining a strong capital base.
3is work done and costs incurred in providing such services together gearing depends not only on its level of debt, but also on with a performance fee based on realised profits on the sale the impact of market movements and other factors on the ofassets.
The Board takes this into account when, as required, it sets a precise maximum level of gearing.
3i Investments plc is authorised by the FCA to, among other The Board has therefore set the maximum level of gearing at things, manage Alternative Investment Funds AIFs.
It is 150% and has set no minimum level of gearing.
If the gearing currently the Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM ratio should exceed the 150% maximum limit, the Board will ofve AIFs, namely, 3i Group plc, 3i Growth Capital Fund, 3i take steps to reduce the gearing ratio to below that limit as Eurofund V, the 3i European Middle Market Loan Fund and the soon as practicable thereafter.
3i is committed to achieving 3iGlobal Income Fund.
In compliance with regulatory requirements, balance sheet efficiency.
3i Investments plc has ensured that a depository has been appointed for each AIF.
This is Citibank Europe plc, UK Branch for all AIFs with the exception of the 3i Global Income Fund which has appointed Citi Depositary Services Ireland Limited.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 64 Corporate Governance Statutory and corporate governance information The Annual report and accounts meet the investor disclosure Share capital and debentures requirements as set out in FUND 3.2.
6R The issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 1 April of the FCAs Investment Funds sourcebook for 3i Group plc as a 2015 was 972,453,819 ordinary shares and at 31 March 2016 was standalone entity.
TheCompanys profit for the year is stated in 19 22 972,661,444 ordinary shares of 73 pence each.
It increased over itsStatement of changes in equity and its Financial position is theyear by 207,625 ordinary shares on the issue of shares to the shown on page 97.
The Company performs substantially all of trustee of The 3i Group Share Incentive Plan and on the issue itsinvestment related activities through its subsidiaries and ofshares under The 3i Group Discretionary Share Plan.
thereforethe Groups Consolidated statement of comprehensive At the Annual General Meeting AGM on 25 June 2015, the income is considered to be more useful to investors than a Directors were authorised to repurchase up to 97,000,000 ordinary Company statement.
shares in the Company representing approximately 10% of the Furthermore, in some instances the relevant FUND disclosures Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 11 May 2015 until have been made in relation to the Group on a consolidated basis the Companys AGM in 2016 or 24 September 2016, if earlier.
rather than in respect of 3i Group plc as a standalone entity.
This Thisauthority was not exercised in the year.
is because 3i Group plc, as a standalone entity, operates through its group subsidiaries and therefore reporting on the Groups As detailed in Note 16 to the Accounts, as at 31 March 2016 activities provides more relevant information on the Company theCompany had in issue Notes issued under the 3i Group plc andits position.
There have been no material changes to the 2,000 million Note Issuance Programme.
Companys operations in the past year.
Directors conicts of interests and Directors Although the disclosures required by FUND 3.2.
6R of the FCAs Investment Funds sourcebook are covered in this Annual report they are also, for convenience, summarised Directors have a statutory duty to avoid conicts of interest with on the 3i website at www.
This will be updated as required the Company.
The Companys Articles of Association enable and changes noted in future Annual reports.
Directors to approve conicts of interest and include other conict of interest provisions.
The Company has implemented processes The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive requires to identify potential and actual conicts of interest.
Such conicts 3ito comply with certain reporting obligations.
A summary of are then considered for approval by the Board, subject, if theremuneration policy of 3i can be found on the necessary, to appropriate conditions.
As permitted by the Companys Articles of Association during The total amount of remuneration paid by 3i to its staff for the theyear and as at the date of this Directors report, there were year was 83 million, of which 41 million was xed remuneration inplace Qualifying Third-Party Indemnity Provisions and 42 million was variable remuneration.
The aggregate total asdenedunder relevant legislation for the benefit ofthe remuneration paid toAIFM Identied Staff for the year was Companys Directors and for the benefit of Directors 17 million, of which 14 million was paid to Senior Management ofoneassociated company.
and 3 million was paid to other AIFM IdentiedStaff.
Employment Results and dividends The employment policy of the Group is one of equal opportunity Total comprehensive income for the year was 824 million in the selection, training, career development and promotion of 2015: 659 million.
An interim dividend of 6.0 pence comprising employees, regardless of age, gender, sexual orientation, ethnic a base dividend of 2.7 pence and an additional dividend of 3.3 origin, religion and whether disabled or otherwise.
pence per ordinary share in respect of the year to 31 March 2016 was paid on 7 January 2016.
The Directors recommend a final 3i treats applicants and employees with disabilities fairly and dividend of 16 pence comprising a base dividend of 5.4 pence provides facilities, equipment and training to assist disabled and an additional dividend of 10.6 pence per ordinary share be employees to do their jobs.
Arrangements are made as necessary paid in respect of the year to 31 March 2016 to shareholders on to ensure support to job applicants who happen to be disabled the Register at the close of business on 17 June 2016. and who respond to requests to inform the Company of any requirements.
Should an employee become disabled during their The trustee of The 3i Group Employee Trust the Employee employment, efforts would be made to retain them in their Trust has waived subject to certain minor exceptions dividends current employment or to explore the opportunities for their declared on shares in the Company held by the Employee Trust retraining or redeployment within 3i.
Financial support is also and the Trustee of The 3i Group Share Incentive Plan has waived provided by 3i to support disabled employees who are unable dividends on unallocated shares in the Company held by it.
towork, as appropriate to local market conditions.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 65 Overview Strategic report Corporate Governance Audited financial statements Portfolio and other information 3is principal means of keeping in touch with the views of its significant agreements employees is through employee appraisals, informal As at 31 March 2016, the Company was party to one agreement consultations, team briengs and staff conferences.
Managers subject to a renegotiation period on a change of control of throughout 3i have a continuing responsibility to keep their staff theCompany following a takeover bid.
This agreement is a informed of developments and to communicate financial results 350 million multi-currency Revolving Credit Facility Agreement and other matters of interest.
This is achieved by structured dated 5 September 2014, between the Company, Barclays Bank communication including regular meetings of employees.
The Company is required to notify 3i is an equal opportunities employer and has clear grievance Barclays Bank PLC, as agent bank, within five days, of a change anddisciplinary procedures in place.
3i also has an employee ofcontrol.
This opens a 20-day negotiation period to determine assistance programme which provides a condential, free and ifthe Majority Lenders as dened in the agreement are willing independent counselling service and is available to all UK staff tocontinue the facility.
Failing agreement, amounts outstanding and their families in the UK.
would be repayable and the facility cancelled.
3is employment policies are designed to provide a competitive Statement of Directors responsibilities reward package which will attract and retain high quality staff, The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and whilst ensuring that the relevant costs remain at an accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and appropriatelevel.
those International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs which 3is remuneration policy is inuenced by 3is financial and other have been adopted by the European Union.
performance conditions and market practices in the countries Under Company Law the Directors must not approve the Group inwhich it operates.
All employees receive a base salary and are financial statements unless they are satisfied that they present also eligible to be considered for a performance-related annual fairly the financial position, financial performance and cash ows variable incentive award.
For those members of staff receiving of the Group for that period.
The Directors consider that this higher levels of annual variable incentive awards, a proportion Annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced ofsuch awards is delivered in 3i shares, vesting over a number and understandable and provides the information necessary for ofyears.
Remuneration policy is reviewed by the 3i Group plc shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business Remuneration Committee, comprising 3i Group plc nonmodel and strategy.
In preparing the Group financial statements executiveDirectors.
the Directors: Where appropriate, employees are eligible to participate in 3i a select suitable accounting policies in accordance with share schemes to encourage employees involvement in 3is International Accounting Standard 8: Accounting Policies, performance.
Investment executives in the Private Equity business Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors and then apply line may also participate in carried interest schemes, which allow themconsistently: executives to share directly in future profits on investments.
Similarly, investment executives in the Infrastructure and Debt b present information, including accounting policies, in a manner Management business lines may participate in asset-linked and that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable orfee-linked incentive arrangements.
Employees participate information: inlocal state or company pension schemes as appropriate to c provide additional disclosures when compliance with the localmarket conditions.
specic requirements in IFRSs as adopted by the EU is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular Political donations transactions, other events and conditions on the Groups financial In line with Group policy, during the year to 31 March 2016 no position and financial performance: donations were made to political parties or organisations, or independent election candidates, and no political expenditure d state that the Group has complied with IFRSs as adopted by was incurred.
the EU, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and e make judgements and estimates that are reasonable.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 66 Corporate Governance Statutory and corporate governance information The Directors have a responsibility for ensuring that proper Audit information accounting records are kept which are sufficient to show and Pursuant to section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006, each of the explain the Groups transactions and disclose with reasonable Directors confirms that: accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and a so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information enable them to ensure that the Group financial statements of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are b they have taken all steps they ought to have taken to make reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of such information.
In accordance with the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules, Appointment of auditor the Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge that: In accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a the financial statements, prepared in accordance with aresolution proposing the reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the as the Companys Auditor will be put to members at the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the forthcoming AGM.
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and Restatement b the Strategic report includes a fair review of the development The Group carried out a review of the accounting for subsidiaries and performance of the business and the position of the in the parent companys balance sheet which resulted in the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation restatement shown in Note 31 of the financial statements.
taken as a whole together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Information required by listing rule 9.8.
4 The Directors of the Company and their functions are listed in the Information required by Listing Rule 9.8.
4 may be found as set out Board of Directors and Executive Committee section.
below: Topic Location Going concern Capitalised interest Portfolio income on page 41 The Directors have acknowledged their responsibilities in relation Share allotments Note 19 to the financial statements for the year to 31 March 2016.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to Information included in Strategic report affect its future development, performance and position are set In accordance with section 414 C 11 of the Companies Act 2006 out in the Business review section.
The financial position of the the following information otherwise required to be set out in the Group, its capital structure, gearing and liquidity positions are Directors report has been included in the Strategic report: risk described in the Financial review section.
The Groups policies management objectives and policies: post balance sheet events: onrisk management and the Directors viability statement are likely future developments in the business: and greenhouse contained in the Risk management section.
contained in the Financial statements and Notes including, in particular, details onnancial risk management.
The Directors viability statement is also shown in the Strategicreport.
The Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
The Directors have considered the uncertainties inherent in current and expected future market conditions, their possible impact upon the financial performance of the Group and a report from the Group Finance Director on the outlook for liquidity.
After consideration, the Directors are satisfied that the Company has and will maintain sufficient financial resources to enable it to continue operating in the foreseeable future, which is at least 12 months from the date of the accounts, and therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual report and accounts.
