3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 58 Corporate Governance Bo ard of Directors and Executive Committee Bo ard of Directors Simon Thompson Simon Borrows Chief Executive Chairman Chief Executive since 2012, and an Non-executive Director since April 2015 and appointed Chairman with Executive Director since he joined 3i in2011.
Chairman oftheGroup Risk effect from close of 2015AGM.
Chairman ofTullow Oil plc and nonCommittee, the Executive Committee andthe Groups Investment Committee.
executive director of Rio Tinto plc.
Member of the Supervisory Board of Peer Previous experience Holding B. V. the Dutch holding company Executive director of Anglo American for the Groups and 3i Eurofund Vs plc and chairman of the Tarmac investment inAction.
Non-executive director of director atThe British Land Company PLC.
AngloGold Ashanti Ltd, Newmont Previous experience Mining Corporation and Sandvik AB.
Senior Independent Director of Amec Formerly Chairman of Greenhill & Co International LLP, having previously been Foster Wheeler plc.
Previous career ininvestment banking with N M Co-Chief Executive officer of Greenhill &Co, Inc. Before founding the European Rothschild and S. G. Warburg.
operations of Greenhill & Co in 1998 he was the Managing Director of Baring Brothers International Limited.
Julia Wilson Jonathan Asquith Group Finance Director Deputy Chairman Group Finance Director and member Deputy Chairman since April 2015 and ofthe Executive Committee since Senior Independent Director since 2008.
Non-executive Director since Investment Committee since 2012.
Chairman of Citigroup Global Joined 3i in 2006as Deputy Finance Markets Limited.
Alsoanon-executive Previous experience director at Legal &General Group Plc.
Chairman of AXA Investment Managers Previous experience to 2014.
Non-executive director of Group Director of Corporate Finance Ashmore Group plc and Dexion Capital atCable& Wireless plc.
Director of Schroders plc from 2002to2008, during which time he was Chief Financial officer and later Vice Chairman.
Previously spent 18 years ininvestment banking with Morgan Grenfell and Deutsche Bank.
Caroline Banszky Peter Grosch Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director since July Non-executive Director since 2014.
TheManaging Director of the November 2015.
Chairman of Kelvion Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. GmbH, deputy Chairman ofSLM since 2002.
Solutions AG and director of Faster SPAaswell as being chairman of Previous experience Euro-Diesel, a3iinvesteecompany.
Chief Operating officer of SVB Holdings PLC, nowNovae Group PLC, Previous experience aLloyds listed integrated vehicle from CEO and President of Diehl Aerospace 1997 to 2002.
Previously Finance and Defence Systems, Executive Vice Director of N. M. Rothschild & Sons President DaimlerChrysler Off highway Limited from1995 to 1997, having and Managing Director and Board joined the bank in 1981.
Sheoriginally Member of MTU Friedrichhafen trained withwhat isnow KPMG.
David Hutchison Martine Verluyten Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director since Non-executive Director since 2012.
ChiefExecutive Anon-executive director of Thomas ofSocial Finance Limited and a Cook Group plc, STMicroelectronics NV non-executive director of the Start-Up and Groupe Bruxelles Lambert.
Previous experience Previous experience Chief Financial officer of Umicore, Until 2009 Head of UK Investment aBrussels-based listed materials Banking at Dresdner Kleinwort technology group, from 2006 to Limited and a member of its Global December 2011.
Before joining Umicore Banking Operating Committee.
was Group Controller and then ChiefFinancial officer of Mobistar.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 59 Overview Strategic report Corporate Governance Audited financial statements Portfolio and other information Ex ecutive Committee Menno Antal Kevin Dunn Managing Partner, Private Equity General Counsel and Company Secretary A member of the Executive Committee and the Groups Responsible for 3is legal, compliance, Investment Committee since 2010. internal audit, human resources Member of the Supervisory Board of andcompany secretarial functions.
Peer Holding B. V. the Dutch holding Amember of the Executive company for the Groups and Committee since joining 3i in 2007.
Previous experience Previous experience Prior to joining 3i, was a Senior Joined 3i in 2000 and Managing Managing Director, running GEs Director, Benelux, since 2003.
Prior to European Leveraged Finance business joining 3i, spent 10years at Heineken after serving as European General ina range of international managerial Counsel for GE.
Prior to GE, was a positions.
Holds an engineering partner at the law rms Travers Smith degree from Delft University and an and Latham & Watkins.
Jeremy Ghose Alan Giddins Managing Partner and CEO Managing Partner, Private Equity of 3i Debt Management A member of the Executive A member of the Executive Committee Committee and the Groups Investment Committee since 2010. and Chairman of the Debt Management Investment Committee since joining Previous experience 3iin2011 on 3is acquisition of Mizuho Joined 3i in 2005.
Prior to joining 3i, Investment Management UK Limited spent 13years in investment banking, from Mizuho Corporate Bank.
latterly as aManaging Director at Socit Gnrale.
Qualied as a Previous experience Prior to joining 3i, was with Mizuho chartered accountant withKPMG.
Corporate Bank formerly The Fuji Bank since 1988 and on its executive board since 2005.
Founder of Mizuhos Leveraged Finance business in 1988 andof the third-party independent debt fund management business in 2005.
Ben Loomes Phil White Managing Partner, Infrastructure Managing Partner, Infrastructure and Group Strategy Director A member of the Executive Committee A member of the Executive and theGroups Investment Committee since February2014.
Committee and the Groups Investment Committee since 2012.
Previous experience Previous experience Joined 3i in 2007.
Prior to joining 3i, experience in infrastructure Joined 3i in 2012.
Prior to joining 3i, experience included mergers and investment, advisory and nancing, including roles at Macquarie, acquisitions, nancing advisory andrestructuring, including roles WestLBand Barclays.
atGoldman Sachs, Greenhill & Co andMorganStanley.
