3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 60 Corporate Governance The role of the Board Board and Committee structure Division of responsibilities The Board is responsible for ensuring that there is an effective Role of the Chairman organisational and reporting structure in place such that there are clear reporting lines within the Group and well dened roles and Leads the Board in setting its agenda, agreeing strategy, responsibilities.
This is to ensure that the right decisions are being monitoring financial and operational performance, and made with involvement from the right people.
The Board is assisted by various Principal Committees of the Organises the business of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness, andmaintaining an effective system of internal controls.
Board which report to it regularly.
This committee structure isoutlined on page 61.
The Board reviews membership of these Ensures that non-executive Directors receive relevant and accurate information to facilitate an open and effective discussion.
The Board aims to ensure that undue includes ensuring that the non-executive Directors receive regular reliance is not placed on particular Directors.
These Board reports on shareholders views on the Group.
Committees have clearly dened terms of reference which are Responsible for the composition of the Board andfacilitates the available at www.
com effective contribution of non-executive Directors and constructive Day-to-day management of the Group is the responsibility of the relationships between Executive and non-executive Directors.
To assist him in this role, the Chief Executive has established a number of additional Committees which are also outlined on page 61.
Role of the Chief Executive Board composition Direct charge of the Group on a day-to-day basis and is Composition accountable to the Board for the financial and operational performance of the Group.
Executive 25% Leads the Executive Committee to develop and implement Non-Executive 75% theGroups strategy and manage risk and the internal controlframework.
Chairs the Investment Committee to review the acquisition, management and disposal of investments.
Reports to the Board on financial and operational performance, risk management andprogress in delivering the strategic objectives.
Regularly engages with shareholders and other key stakeholders Tenure onthe Groups activities and progress.
39 years 50% 13 years 37.5% Under 1 year 12.5% Role of non-executive Directors Scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed objectives and monitor the reporting of performance.
Seek assurance on the integrity of the financial information and thatnancial controls and systems of risk management are robust Gender diversity and defensible.
Male 62.5% Determine appropriate levels of remuneration for Executive Directors and Executive Committee and have a prime role in Female 37.5% appointing Directors and in succession planning.
Constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy: this occurs at meetings of the Board, and in particular at the annual review meeting to discuss ongoing strategy, the most recent of which took place in December 2015.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 61 Overview Strategic report Corporate Governance Audited financial statements Portfolio and other information Governance framework The Board Chairman: Simon Thompson Chief Executive: Simon Borrows Comprises: Chairman, 2 Executive Directors and5non-executive Directors Role of the Board p60 Biographies p58 Principal Board Committees Audit and Compliance Remuneration Nominations Valuations Committee Committee Committee Committee Director and senior Board appointments, Valuation policy Financial reporting, management remuneration and size, balance and investment risk and internal controls and Group remuneration and composition valuations Caroline Banszky Chairman structure of the Board David Hutchison Chairman Jonathan Asquith Jonathan Asquith Chairman Simon Thompson Chairman Simon Thompson Martine Verluyten Caroline Banszky Jonathan Asquith Simon Borrows David Hutchison Caroline Banszky Peter Grosch Peter Grosch Martine Verluyten David Hutchison Julia Wilson Martine Verluyten Audit and Compliance Remuneration Nominations Valuations Committee report Committee report Committee report Committee report p75 p82 p74 p79 In addition to its Principal Committees, the Board also has a number of other standing Committees, including the Treasury Transactions Committee, established to consider specic items of business on an ad hoc basis as required.
Chief Executive Committees Executive Committee Investment Committee Group Risk Committee Conicts Committee Principal oversight Acquisition, management Oversees the Groups Independent review bodyfor management and disposal of risk management of conict issues ofthe business investments framework Simon Borrows Chairman Simon Borrows Chairman Simon Borrows Chairman Kevin Dunn Chairman Menno Antal Menno Antal Menno Antal Ben Loomes Kevin Dunn Alan Giddins Kevin Dunn Julia Wilson Jeremy Ghose Ian Lobley Jeremy Ghose Alan Giddins Ben Loomes Alan Giddins Ben Loomes Phil White Ben Loomes Phil White Julia Wilson Phil White Julia Wilson Julia Wilson Head of Group Compliance Head of Internal Audit Executive Committee Investment Committee Group Risk Committee Conicts Committee p59 p28 p28 p28 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 62 Corporate Governance The role of the Board How the Board operates Effectiveness The Chairman leads the Board and ensures its effectiveness.
During the year, the Board conducted its annual evaluation of Heorganises its business and sets its agenda.
In addition to the itsown performance and that of its Committees and individual Chairman, there are currently five non-executive Directors with Directors.
On this occasion, the process was externally facilitated arange of strong and complementary skills.
Lintstock Limited has no other connections with the Company.
The evaluation consisted of a questionnaire, Attendance at Board and Committee meetings during the year is completed by all Board members plus the other six members shown on page 68.
Before each Board and Committee meeting, of the Executive Committee, one-to-one interviews, and a relevant reports and papers, including financial performance data subsequent report and action plan that was discussed and and detailed updates on the progress and implementation of agreed at the Board.
Overall, the evaluation concluded that thestrategic plan where appropriate, are circulated to Directors.
the Board is performing well, but some areas for further TheBoard is able to discuss these reports and updates and to improvement were identied and agreed.
challenge directly the Executive Directors and other senior management, who attend all or part of the Board meetings The evaluation included the following topics: consideration of whererelevant.
Board composition, expertise and dynamics: time management and Board support: the performance of the Boards Committees: The key responsibilities and areas of focus for the Board are: the Boards strategic and operational oversight: succession Strategy contribute to the development of, and agree, the planning and human resources management: and priorities for Groups strategy.
This includes through review and discussion change.
During the review Directors identied areas for further ofreports and updates at Board meetings as well as through broadening of the Boards experience and expertise through the annual strategy conference which is attended by the Board recruitment as opportunities arise.
Areas requiring increased and, where relevant, members of the Executive Committee.
focus, debate and, in some cases, reporting were identied and additional opportunities for Directors to interact with senior Group financial and operational performance review and personnel beyond the Executive Committee were agreed.
monitor the performance of the Group, including through regular reporting and discussions with the Executive In his role as Senior Independent Director, Mr J P Asquith led a Committee and other senior management.
review by the Directors of the performance of the Chairman and subsequently reported back to the Board and provided feedback Senior management ensure that the Executive Committee to the Chairman.
has the skills and resources to deliver the strategy and that appropriate succession and contingency planning is in place.
Evaluation and composition review the performance of the Board and its Committees to ensure that they are effective.
Ensure that the Board and its Committees comprise competent and capable individuals with a range of skills and experience who bring independent views to the decisions being made.
Internal controls maintain an appropriate internal control framework.
Risk ensure that there are effective risk management policiesand processes in place and an appropriate governancestructure.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it and its duly authorised Committees for decision.
This is described on page 67.
Matters delegated by the Board to management include implementation of the Board approved strategy, day-to-day management and operation of the business, the appointment and remuneration of staff below the Executive Committee and the formulation and implementation of risk management policies and processes.
