3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 74 Corporate Governance Nominations Committee report The Nominations Committee has a vital role to play in ensuring the Board has theright balance ofskills and experience to lead the Company.
Simon Thompson Chairman, Nominations Committee In its work the Committee keeps in mind the balance and Membership during the year composition of the Board, including succession planning, and the Name Membership status needs of the Company in terms of the desirable experience and Simon Thompson Member since 13 April 2015 and qualications of future appointees as non-executive Directors.
Chairman since 25 June 2015 The Company has a formal, rigorous and transparent process for Sir Adrian Montague Retired as Chairman and a member the appointment of Directors with the objective of identifying the on 25 June 2015 skills and experience prole required of new Directors and Jonathan Asquith Member since March 2011 identifying suitable candidates.
The procedure includes the Caroline Banszky Member since July 2014 appraisal and selection of potential candidates by the Committee, Alistair Cox Member until 10 November 2015 including in the case of non-executive Directors whether they Peter Grosch Member since 1 November 2015 have sufficient time to full their roles.
Specialist recruitment David Hutchison Member since November 2013 consultants assist the Committee to identify suitable candidates for appointment.
The Committees recommendations for Martine Verluyten Member since January 2012 appointment are put to the full Board for approval.
During the year, the Nominations Committee held three Further to the publication of the Davies Report on Women on meetings.
Attendance of members at those meetings is shown Boards, and Code Provision B.
2.4, the Board strongly supports onthe table on page 68. theprinciple of boardroom diversity, of which gender is one The Committee completed the process commenced in the previous important aspect.
The Boards aim is to have a diverse Board year of identifying and recommending to the Board a candidate interms of gender, industry experience, skills and educational to succeed Sir Adrian Montague as chairman of the Board.
The Board makes appointments on process was led by MrAsquith as Senior Independent Director.
merit and against objective criteria.
External search consultancies engaged by the Company are instructed to put forward for all The Committee also considered a number of candidates for Board positions a diversity of candidates including women appointment as non-executive Director and recommended to candidates.
External search consultancies engaged by the theBoard the appointment of Mr Grosch who was subsequently Committee during the year were Egon Zehnder and The Zygos appointed as a Director on 1 November 2015.
Egon Zehnder also provided other recruitment services to the Group during the year.
The Zygos Partnership hadno other connections with the Company during the year.
