3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 67 Overview Strategic report Corporate Governance Audited financial statements Corporate governance statement Portfolio and other information Investments and divestments in the ordinary course of business This section of the Directors report above certain limits set by the Board from time to time: contains the corporate governance Policy on borrowing, gearing, hedging and treasury matters: statement required by FCADisclosure Adequacy of risk management and internal control systems: Appointments to the Board and the Executive Committee: and Transparency Rule 7.2.
Principal terms and conditions of employment of members ofthe Executive Committee: and Corporate governance Changes in employee share schemes and other long-term The Company seeks to comply with established best practice in incentive schemes.
the eld of corporate governance.
The Board has adopted core values and global policies which set out the behaviour expected Matters delegated by the Board to management include of staff in their dealings with shareholders, customers, colleagues, implementation of the Board approved strategy, day-to-day suppliers and others who engage with the Company.
operation of the business, the appointment and remuneration of Throughout the year, the Company complied with the provisions executives below the Executive Committee and the formulation of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code published and execution of risk management policies and procedures.
bythe Financial Reporting Council in September 2014 which is A succession and contingency plan for executive leadership is available on the FRC website.
prepared by management and reviewed periodically by the Board.
The purpose of this plan is to identify suitable candidates The Boards responsibilities and processes for succession to key senior management positions, agree their The Boards key responsibilities are described on page 60.
It is training and development needs, and ensure the necessary responsible for the overall management of the Group and may human resources are in place for the Company to meet exercise all the powers of the Company subject to the provisions itsobjectives.
of relevant statutes, the Companys Articles of Association and any directions given by special resolution of the shareholders.
Meetings of the Board TheArticles of Association empower the Board to offer, allot, The principal matters considered by the Board during the year grant options over or otherwise deal with or dispose of the inaddition to matters formally reserved to the Board included: Companys shares as the Board may decide.
The Companies Act 2006 authorises the Company to make market purchases of its The Groups strategic plan, related KPIs and annual budget: own shares if the purchase has first been authorised by a resolution Regular reports from the Chief Executive: ofthe Company.
Reviews of and updates on the Groups Private Equity, At the AGM in June 2015, shareholders renewed the Boards Infrastructure and Debt Management businesses: authority to allot ordinary shares and to repurchase ordinary shares on behalf of the Company subject to certain limits.
Details Regular reports from the Boards committees: of the authorities which the Board will be seeking at the 2016 Remuneration and pension matters including remuneration AGM are set out in the 2016 Notice of AGM.
philosophy and strategy: The Articles of Association also specically empower the Board The recommendations of the Valuations Committee on toexercise the Companys powers to borrow money and to valuations of investments: mortgage or charge the Companys assets and any uncalled capital and to issue debentures and other securities.
The Annual report and accounts, half-yearly report and quarterly trading updates: Matters reserved for the Board Dividend policy and dividends: The Board has approved a formal schedule of matters reserved to Reports on regulatory matters including significant regulation it and its duly authorised Committees for decision.
These include: affecting the Group: Approval of the Groups overall strategy, strategic plan and Review of Balance Sheet Policy: annual operating budget: Organisational capability and succession plans: and Approval of the Companys half-yearly and annual financial statements and changes in the Groups accounting policies The new requirement for a viability statement in the Report orpractices: andaccounts.
Changes relating to the capital structure of the Company or Reports and papers are circulated to the Directors in a timely itsregulated status: manner in preparation for Board and Committee meetings.
These Major capital projects: papers are supplemented by information specically requested by the Directors from time to time.
Major changes in the nature of business operations: 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 68 Corporate Governance Corporate governance statement Performance evaluation During the year, the Board conducted its annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual Directors.
Further details are given on page 62.
Attendance at Board and committee meetings The table below shows the number of full meetings of the Board and its committees attended by Directors during the year to 31 March 2016 and, in brackets, the number of such meetings they were eligible to attend.
In addition to these meetings a number of additional ad hoc meetings were held to deal with specic items as they arose.
Audit and Compliance Nominations Remuneration Valuations Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Total meetings held 76364 Number attended: 1 S R Thompson 7 7 2 2 3 3 2 Sir Adrian Montague 2 2 1 1 S A Borrows 7 7 4 4 J S Wilson 7 7 4 4 J P Asquith 7 7 6 6 3 3 6 6 C J Banszky 7 7 6 6 3 3 1 1 3 A R Cox 5 5 4 4 2 3 5 5 4 P Grosch 3 3 1 1 1 1 D A M Hutchison 7 7 3 3 6 6 4 4 M G Verluyten 6 7 2 2 1 3 4 4 1 Appointed 13 April 2015.
Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, retiring Appointment and re-election of Directors Directors are eligible for reappointment.
The ofce of Director is Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, the Companies vacated if the Director resigns, becomes bankrupt or is prohibited Acts and satisfactory performance evaluation, non-executive by law from being a Director or where the Board so resolves Directors are appointed for an initial three-year term.
Before the following the Director suffering from ill-health or being absent third and sixth anniversaries of first appointment, the Director from Board meetings for 12 months without the Boards discusses with the Board whether it is appropriate for a further permission.
three-year term to be served.
In accordance with the Code, all Directors are subject to Under the Companys Articles of Association, the minimum reappointment every year.
Accordingly, at the AGM to be held number of Directors is two and the maximum is 20, unless on30 June 2016, all the Directors will retire from ofce.
All the otherwise determined by the Company by ordinary resolution.
Directors are eligible for and seek reappointment.
The Boards Directors are appointed by ordinary resolution of shareholders or recommendation for the reappointment of Directors is set out by the Board.
The Companys Articles of Association provide for inthe 2016 Notice of AGM.
Directors to retire by rotation at an AGM if they were appointed by the Board since the preceding AGM, they held ofce during The roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive the two preceding AGMs but did not retire at either of them, they andSenior Independent Director held non-executive ofce for a continuous period of nine years or more at the date of that AGM, or they choose to retire from ofce.
The Board approved division of responsibilities between the Shareholders can remove any Director by special resolution Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive is described on andappoint another person to be a director in their place by page 60.
Mr J P Asquith served as Senior Independent Director ordinary resolution.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 69 Overview Strategic report Corporate Governance Audited financial statements Portfolio and other information Directors employment contracts Directors Mr S A Borrows and Mrs J S Wilson each have employment Directors biographical details are set out on page 58.
The Board contracts with the Group with notice periods of 12 months where currently comprises the Chairman, five non-executive Directors notice is given by the Group and six months where notice is given and two Executive Directors.
Mr J P Asquith, Ms C J Banszky, by the Director.
Save for these notice periods their employment MrSA Borrows, Mr D A M Hutchison, Ms M G Verluyten and contracts have no unexpired terms.
None of the other Directors MrsJ S Wilson served as Directors throughout the year under has a service contract with the Company.
Sir Adrian Montague served as a Director until 25 June 2015 and Mr A R Cox served as a Director until 10 November 2015.
Mr S R Thompson was appointed as a non-executive Director Training and development on 13 April 2015 and became Chairman on 25 June 2015 and The Company has a training policy which provides a framework Mr P Grosch was appointed as a non-executive Director on within which training for Directors is planned with the objective of 1 November 2015. ensuring Directors understand the duties and responsibilities of being a director of a listed company.
All Directors are required to In addition to fullling their legal responsibilities as Directors, keep their skills up to date and maintain their familiarity with the non-executive Directors are expected to bring an independent Company and its business continually.
Presentations on different judgement to bear on issues of strategy, performance, resources aspects of the Companys business are made regularly to the and standards of conduct, and to help the Board provide the Board.
On appointment, all non-executive Directors have Company with effective leadership.
Further details of their role discussions with the Chairman and the Chief Executive following areset out on page 60.
Non-executive Directors are expected to which appropriate briengs on the responsibilities of Directors, make available sufficient time to meet the requirements of the the Companys business and the Companys procedures are appointment.
The average time commitment is expected to be arranged.
The Company provides opportunities for non-executive around 15 days a year together with additional time for serving Directors to obtain a thorough understanding of the Companys onthe Boards committees.
business by meeting members of the senior management The Boards discussions, and its approval of the Groups strategic teamwho in turn arrange, as required, visits to investment plan and annual budget, provide the non-executive Directors with orsupport teams.
the opportunity to contribute to and validate managements plans The Company has procedures for Directors to take independent and assist in the development of strategy.
The non-executive legal or other professional advice in relation to the performance Directors receive regular management accounts, reports and oftheir duties.
information which enable them to scrutinise the Companys andmanagements performance against agreed objectives.
The Boards committees Directors independence As described on page 60, the Board is assisted by various principal committees of the Board which report regularly to it.
All the non-executive Directors other than the Chairman who was Themembership and activities of the Audit and Compliance independent on appointment and Mr P Grosch were considered Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Valuations by the Board to be independent for the purposes of the Code in Committee and the Nominations Committee are described the year to 31 March 2016.
Mr P Grosch is not considered intheir separate reports on pages 74 to 92. independent because of his links with the Groups Private Equity business including his position as chairman of Euro-Diesel, a 3i The Board discontinued its Brand and Values Committee.
work previously done by that Committee including review of 3isvalues, responsible investing policy and other reputational The Board reviews non-executive Director independence at matters was considered sufciently core to the Group that it least annually, having regard to the potential relevance and wasmore appropriate for it to be dealt with by the full Board.
materiality of a Directors interests and relationships.
Other than for Mr P Grosch, no Director was materially interested in any contract or arrangement subsisting during or at the end of the The Company Secretary financial period that was significant in relation to the business of Directors have access to the advice and services of the General the Company.
Mr Grosch receives directors fees from and is a Counsel and Company Secretary, who advises the Board, through shareholder in Euro-Diesel, a company in which the Group the Chairman, on governance matters.
The Companys Articles of is invested.
Association and the schedule of matters reserved to the Board or its duly authorised committees for decision provide that the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the full Board.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 70 Corporate Governance Corporate governance statement Major interests in ordinary shares Notications of the following major voting interests in the Companys ordinary share capital notiable in accordance with Chapter 5 of the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules or section 793 Companies Act 2006 had been received by the Company as at 31 March 2016 and 1 May 2016.
As at % of issued As at % of issued 31 March 2016 share capital 1 May 2016 share capital BlackRock, Inc 89,752,894 9.23 90,028,400 9.26 Artemis Investment Management LLP 66,131,467 6.80 65,244,247 6.71 UBS Global Asset Management 37,240,978 3.83 37,134,475 3.82 Threadneedle Asset Management Limited 40,818,505 4.20 40,601,830 4.17 Legal & General Investment Management Limited 30,558,207 3.14 30,658,737 3.15 Meetings with potential investors Relations with shareholders and potential investors During the year, the Executive Directors and the Investor Relations Approach to Investor Relations team held regular meetings with potential investors internationally The Board recognises the importance of maintaining a purposeful to communicate the strategy and performance of 3i.
The Group has a comprehensive Annual and half-yearly results presentations Investor Relations programme to help existing and potential The Executive Directors present the annual and half-yearly results investors to understand its activities, strategy and financial to a broad group of institutional investors and analysts.
The Chief Executive and the Group Finance presentations are webcast live on 3is website, and the on-demand Director meet with the Companys principal shareholders to webcast remains available on the website for a period of discuss relevant issues as they arise.
dialogue with shareholders on strategy, corporate governance and Directors remuneration as required.
The Board receives Capital markets day reports from the Companys brokers on shareholder issues and The 2015 capital markets day, held in June, consisted of a non-executive Directors are invited to attend the Companys presentation to significant shareholders and analysts by senior presentations to analysts and are offered the opportunity to 3iexecutives and the management teams of Scandlines and meetshareholders.
Basic-Fit, two of the investments in our Private Equity portfolio.
This event was held in London.
The presentations were focused Board oversight on the Scandlines and Basic-Fit business model and strategy and The Executive Directors brief the Board on a regular basis on the on their recent financial performance.
The presentation materials implementation of the Investor Relations programme and on used on the day were made available on 3is website to enable feedback received from analysts and investors.
Any significant those investors and analysts that could not attend to access the concern raised by shareholders in relation to the Group is also information provided at the meeting.
In addition, research reports published by investment banks on 3i are circulated to the Board Industry conferences on a regular basis.
Throughout the year, the Executive Directors also participated in a number of industry conferences organised by investment banks The Board also receives periodic feedback from existing for their institutional investor base.
These included conferences shareholders and potential investors through 3is corporate organised by Morgan Stanley, Socit Gnrale, KBW, Bank of brokers, Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Barclays.
America Merrill Lynch, JPMorgan Cazenove and Citi.
Institutional investor programme Individual investors Meetings with principal shareholders Individual investors are encouraged to engage with the Group The Executive Directors meet with the Groups principal and provide feedback through the Investor Relations team and shareholders on a twice yearly basis, following the publication of the Company Secretary, whose contact details are available on annual and half-yearly results and as required during the year.
Chairman and Senior Independent Director are also available to meet with shareholders as required.
The Investor Relations team also manages a programme of engagement with smaller shareholders, implemented through regular presentations andmeetings.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 71 Overview Strategic report Corporate Governance Audited financial statements Portfolio and other information There are no restrictions on the transfer of fully paid shares in the Website Company, save as follows.
The Board may decline to register: a 3is website provides a brief description of 3is history, current transfer of uncerticated shares in the circumstances set out in the operations and strategy, as well as an archive of over 10 years of Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001: a transfer to more than news and historical financial information on the Group and details four joint holders: a transfer of certicated shares which is not of forthcoming events for shareholders and analysts.
Annual and inrespect of only one class of share: a transfer which is not half-year results presentations are also webcast live and onaccompanied by the certicate for the shares to which it relates: demand on 3is website.
atransfer which is not duly stamped in circumstances where a duly stamped instrument is required: or a transfer where in accordance Annual General Meeting with section 794 of the Companies Act 2006 a notice under The Company also uses its AGM as an opportunity to section 793 of that Act has been served by the Company on a communicate with its shareholders.
At the Meeting, business shareholder who has then failed to give the information required presentations are generally made by the Chairman and the Chief within the specified time.
In the latter circumstances the Company Executive.
The Chairmen of the Remuneration, Audit and may make the relevant shares subject to certain restrictions Compliance, and Nominations Committees are generally including in respect of the ability to exercise voting rights, to available to answer shareholders questions.
Business to be transfer the shares validly and, except in the case of a liquidation, discussed at the meeting is notied to shareholders in advance to receive the payment of sums due from the Company.
through the Notice of Meeting and covers matters such as the There are no shares carrying special rights with regard to control annual election of Directors, the appointment of the Auditors and of the Company.
There are no restrictions placed on voting rights the dividend declaration.
During the meeting, shareholders are of fully paid shares, save where in accordance with Article 12 of the also asked to approve the financial statement and report of the Companys Articles of Association a restriction notice has been Directors and Auditors.
In addition, shareholders are asked to served by the Company in respect of shares for failure to comply approve the Directors remuneration report.
with statutory notices or where a transfer notice as described The 2015 Notice of AGM was dispatched to shareholders not less below has been served in respect of shares and has not yet been than 20 working days before the Meeting.
At that Meeting, voting complied with.
Where shares are held on behalf of former or on each resolution was taken on a poll and the poll results were current employees under employee share schemes, those made available on the Companys website.
participants can give instructions to the holder of such shares asto how votes attached to such shares should be exercised.
Rights and restrictions attaching to shares In the circumstances specified in Article 38 of the Companys A summary of the rights and restrictions attaching to shares as at Articles of Association the Company may serve a transfer notice 31 March 2016 is set out below.
The relevant circumstances relate to: a potential tax disadvantage to the Company, b the number of The Companys Articles of Association may be amended by United States Residents who own or hold shares becoming 75 special resolution of the shareholders in a general meeting.
or more, or c the Company being required to be registered as an Holders of ordinary shares enjoy the rights set out in the Articles investment company under relevant US legislation.
The notice of Association of the Company and under the laws of England and would require the transfer of relevant shares and pending such Wales.
Any share may be issued with or have attached to it such transfer the rights and privileges attaching to those shares would rights and restrictions as the Company by ordinary resolution or, be suspended.
failing such resolution, the Board may decide.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend, speak and vote ofits securities that may restrict the transfer of shares or exercise at general meetings and to appoint proxies and, in the case of of voting rights.
corporations, corporate representatives to attend, speak and vote at such meetings on their behalf.
To attend and vote at a general meeting a shareholder must be entered on the register of Portfolio management and voting policy members at such time not being earlier than 48 hours before the In relation to unquoted investments, the Groups approach is to meeting as stated in the Notice of general meeting.
On a poll, seek to add value to the businesses in which the Group invests holders of ordinary shares are entitled to one vote for each through the Groups extensive experience, resources and shareheld.
contacts and through active engagement with the Boards of those companies.
In relation to quoted investments, the Groups Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys policy is to exercise voting rights on all matters affecting Annual report and accounts, to receive such dividends and other itsinterests.
distributions as may lawfully be paid or declared on such shares and, on any liquidation of the Company, to share in the surplus assets of the Company after satisfaction of the entitlements of the holders of any shares with preferred rights as may then be in issue.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 72 Corporate Governance Corporate governance statement Processes and procedures Risk management and internal control Appointment of experienced and professional staff, both by The Board has ultimate responsibility for risk management and recruitment and promotion, of the necessary calibre to full internal control, including for the determination of the nature their allotted responsibilities: andextent of the principal risks it is willing to take to achieve its strategic objectives and for ensuring that an appropriate A planning framework which incorporates a Board approved culturehas been embedded throughout the organisation.
Risk strategic plan, with objectives for each business unit: management and internal control systems cannot eliminate all Formal business risk reviews performed by management which risks but it is the role of the Board to ensure such systems are evaluate the potential financial impact and likelihood of robust and effective and take account of such risks.
In addition identied risks and possible new risk areas: such systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate therisk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide The setting of control, mitigation and monitoring procedures only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material and the review of actual occurrences, identifying lessons to misstatement or loss.
belearnt: Through the regular meetings of the Board and the schedule of A comprehensive system of financial reporting to the Board, matters reserved to the Board or its duly authorised committees based on an annual budget with monthly reporting of actual for decision, the Board aims to maintain full and effective control results, analysis of variances, scrutiny of key performance over appropriate strategic, financial, operational and indicators and regular re-forecasting: complianceissues.
Regular reports to the Board, which analyse funding The Board has put in place an organisational structure with clearly requirements, track the generation and use of capital and the dened lines of responsibility and delegation of authority.
The volume of liquidity, measure the Groups exposure to exchange Board considers and approves a strategic plan and budget on rate movements and record the level of compliance with the anannual basis and receives regular updates.
In addition, there Groups funding objectives: are established procedures and processes for planning and A reward process designed to align behaviours with the Groups controlling expenditure and the making of investments.
There risk appetite: arealso information and reporting systems for monitoring the Groups businesses and their performance.
A Group Compliance function whose role is to integrate regulatory compliance procedures and best practices into The Group Risk Committee is a management committee formed theGroups systems: by the Chief Executive and its purpose is to identify and assess the principal risks faced by the business, in the context of the Well dened procedures governing the appraisal and approval Groups risk appetite, and oversee the mitigation or management of investments, including detailed investment and divestment of those risks.
This process was in place for the year to 31 March approval procedures, incorporating appropriate levels of 2016 and up to the date of this report.
Details of the risk authority and regular post-investment reviews: and management framework can be found in the Risk section.
Regular risk reviews, including an assessment of risks to reliable The overall risk management and internal control process is financial reporting covering people, processes and systems, regularly reviewed by the Board and the Audit and Compliance and updates on the management of identied risks or actual Committee and complies with the Guidance on Risk incidents.
Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
The Audit and Compliance Committee performed its annual review of the systems effectiveness and reported its conclusions to the Board.
The process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of this Annual report and accounts 2016.
The internal control process established for the Group includes: Policies Core values and global policies together comprising the Groups high-level principles and controls, with which all staff are expected to comply: Detailed policies and procedures, with processes for reporting weaknesses and for monitoring corrective action: and A Compliance manual, with procedures for reporting compliance therewith.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 73 Overview Strategic report Corporate Governance Audited financial statements Portfolio and other information Verication Directors report An Internal Audit function which undertakes periodic For the purposes of the UK Companies Act 2006, the Directors examination of business units and processes and recommends report of 3i Group plc comprises the Corporate Governance improvements in controls to management: section on pages 57 to 81 other than the Directors remuneration report on pages 82 to 92.
The external Auditors who are engaged to express an opinion on the annual financial statements: The Strategic report, Directors report and Directors remuneration report have been drawn up and presented in An Audit and Compliance Committee which considers accordance with and in reliance upon English company law and significant control matters and receives reports from Internal the liabilities of the Directors in connection with those reports Audit, the external Auditor and Group Compliance on shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by aregularbasis: thatlaw.
The risk management and internal control systems are By order of the Board monitored and supported by Internal Audit and Group Compliance, which operate on an international basis and report K J Dunn to management and the Audit and Compliance Committee on Company Secretary the Groups operations.
The work of Internal Audit is focused 18 May 2016 onthe areas of greatest risk to the Group determined with reference to the Groups risk management process: and Registered Ofce: 16 Palace Street The external Auditors review and test the system of internal London SW1E 5JD financial control and the information contained in the annual financial statements to the extent necessary for expressing theiropinion.
Financial reporting In the context of the above framework, there are specic processes in place in relation to financial reporting, including: Comprehensive system of key control and oversight processes, including regular reconciliations, line manager reviews and systems access controls: Updates for consideration by the Audit and Compliance Committee of accounting developments, including draft and new accounting standards and legislation: A separate Valuations Committee which considers the Groups investment valuation policies, application and outcome: Approval of the Groups budget by the Board and regular updates on actual and forecast financial performance against budget: Reports from Internal Audit on matters relevant to the financial reporting process, including periodic assessments of internal controls, processes and fraud risk: Independent updates and reports from the external Auditors on accounting developments, application of accounting standards, key accounting judgements and observations on systems and controls: and Appropriate Board oversight of external reporting.
