3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 75 Overview Strategic report Audit and Compliance Corporate Governance Audited financial statements Committee report Portfolio and other information The Audit and Compliance Committees priorities in FY2016 were to maintain thestrength of 3is internal control environment as well as the integrity ofitsnancial reporting.
Caroline Banszky Chairman, Audit and Compliance Committee The Chairman of the Committee also met a number of these Membership during the year individuals separately in advance of the Committee meetings Name Membership status providing an additional forum to discuss relevant issues.
During Caroline Banszky Chairman Member since 17 July 2014 the year, the Committee held private discussions with theGroup Chairman since 1 January 2015 Finance Director, the Head of Internal Audit, and the Head of Jonathan Asquith Member since March 2011 Group Compliance, and with the external Auditor in the absence Alastair Cox Member until of management.
10 November 2015 Martine Verluyten Member since 11 November 2015 The Board is satisfied that Ms Banszky and Mr Asquith have recent and relevant financial experience as outlined in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Further detail on each non-executive Directors experience can be found in the Directors biographies on page 58.
Throughout the year, the Committee received regular reports on a number of matters including the valuation of the investment portfolio, internal audit findings and follow-up work, accounting issues and judgements, and legal and regulatory matters.
In particular, the Committee focused on the developments with regard to regulation for audit tendering and the denition of non-audit services, cyber security and the requirement for a viability statement.
The Committee received presentations from anumber of members of senior management including the Group Finance Director, Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, Group Financial Controller, the Head of Internal Audit, the Head of Compliance and the external Auditor Ernst & Young LLP.
Other attendees were invited from time to time depending on the nature of agenda items.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 76 Corporate Governance Audit and Compliance Committee report What the Committee reviewed in 2016 The Committee met six times during the year and the members attendance at meetings is shown in the table on page 68.
During the year the Committees activities included considering the following: Annual and half-yearly reports Conrmation of the external Auditors independence Quarterly performance updates Policy and approval of non-audit fees Key accounting judgements and estimates The FY2016 Audit plan, including the Auditors significant audit risks, being the valuation of the unquoted investment portfolio and Developments in financial reporting the calculation of carried interest as well as the area of audit focus Fair, balanced and understandable revenue recognition Valuation reports and recommending the investment asset Auditor performance and effectiveness valuations to the Board Regulatory position with regard to audit tender Financial reporting External audit Internal control and risk management Risk reviews Review of 3is system of internal control and risk management Cyber security External and Internal audit reports Regular reviews of compliance with regulatory rules Review of Corporate Governance changes including the risk Annual report on taxation appetite statement and viability statement L itigation Internal audit effectiveness review Liquidity and going concern In addition to areas of significant accounting judgement and Given the significant changes to the taxation environment monitoring the effectiveness of 3is risk management, the announced as part of the OECDs Base Erosion profit Shifting Committee particularly focused on the matters described below.
BEPS project in October 2015, the Committee received an update on the impact of BEPS on the Group in addition to the As one of the changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code annual update it receives from the Tax Director on the Groups for the2016 reporting year onwards, the Directors are required taxation status more generally.
As an authorised Investment to make a statement in the Annual Report as to the longer-term Trustthe Company does not pay tax on capital profits in the viability of 3i as well as enhanced risk disclosures.
However the changes coming into force received regular updates throughout the year on the work being overthe next few years are expected to increase the resources undertaken to support the viability statement and risk disclosures, needed to comply with the various reporting requirements.
including forecasts for capital and liquidity, the stress tests of TheCommittee also considered the appropriateness of the 3is five-year strategic plan and an assessment of the key risks for Groups tax disclosures in the Annual Report and on its website.
A report was prepared for the Board in January 2016 which detailed the process undertaken across the business to The improved investment performance and good ow of develop suitable scenarios against which to test 3is financial realisations led the Committee to review both carried interest performance as well as the results of these stress tests.
This report receivable and payable balances.
Internal Audit also carried was then updated and presented to the Committee in May 2016. out a review of carry payable and receivable in the year.
The Committee agreed to recommend the viability statement and Following discussions with management and the external riskdisclosures to the Board for approval.
Auditor, the Committee was satisfied that carried interest wasbeing appropriately accounted for.
The Committee received two presentations in the year from the ITDirector on cyber security risk management.
Management In the year, management performed a detailed review of the engaged external advisers in late 2015 to assess the threat to IFRS 10 accounting for subsidiaries in the parent companys cyber security, including the potential impact of cyber attacks, balance sheet.
The Committee considered and reviewed the on both 3isinformation and infrastructure and its portfolio accounting adjustments as well as the external Auditors findings companies.
The Committee assessed the results of this review, and reporting in this area.
These adjustments had no impact on including the proposed actions to strengthen risk management the Groups reported result.
further, and were satisfied that 3is capability was proportionate to its size and business activity.
The Committee will receive an update on cyber security and the implementation of recommended actions in FY2017.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 77 Overview Strategic report Corporate Governance Audited financial statements Portfolio and other information Areas of accounting judgement and control focus The Committee pays particular attention to matters it considers to be important by virtue of their size, complexity, level of judgement or potential impact on the financial statements and wider business model.
significant areas of accounting and control focus considered by the Committee are detailed in the table below, alongside the actions taken by the Committee with appropriate input, guidance and challenge from the external Auditor to address theseissues judgements.
Areas of significant accounting judgement What the Committee reviewed and concluded Valuation of the Proprietary Capital portfolio The most material area of judgement in the financial statements, and On behalf of the Board, the Committee considered quarterly reports noted as a key risk by the external Auditor, relates to the valuation of the from the Valuations Committee, with particular focus on the unquoted Proprietary Capital portfolio, which at 31 March 2016 was assumptions supporting the unquoted asset investments, any valuation 3,839million, or 86% of net assets, under the Investment basis.
uncertainties and the proposed disclosure in the financial statements.
In recognition of the importance of this area the Board has a separate As in 2015, the 2016 Annual report includes a separate report from the Valuations Committee to review the valuations policy, process and Valuations Committee.
Details of the key valuation considerations and application to individual investments.
This Valuations Committee the review and challenge undertaken in the year is included in the provides quarterly reports to the Committee and the Board.
Valuation Committee report on pages 79 to 81.
The valuation of the Proprietary Capital portfolio is a primary input into The Committee reviewed the carried interest payable and receivable as the carried interest accrual, which is determined by reference to the part of the overall summary prepared alongside the 2016 Annual report.
Fair, balanced and understandable and the presentation of 3is results Under the UK Corporate Governance Code the Board should establish The Committee reviewed the Half-yearly and Full Year financial arrangements to ensure the Annual report presents a fair, balanced and statements as well as the Quarterly Performance Updates with understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects and management, focusing on the integrity and clarity of disclosure make a statement that they considered the Annual report to be fair, so as to ultimately enable the Board to provide the fair, balanced balanced and understandable.
andunderstandable conrmation to shareholders in the 2016 Annualreport.
On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee considered what, if any, enhancements were necessary to current procedures to ensure that this A report summarising the considerations for the 2016 Annual report statement could be made.
wasreviewed by the Audit Committee in advance of the year end and asummary of the detailed procedures undertaken was prepared The Group prepares a non-GAAP Investment basis financial statements alongside the 2016 Annual report.
following its adoption of IFRS 10 to ensure that its results remain understandable.
The Committee was satisfied that maintenance of the Investment basis financial statements was appropriate.
The external Auditor states in its audit report that the information given in the FY2016 Strategic report and Corporate Governance report is consistent with the financial statements.
Risk and internal control reviews The Committee holds responsibility on behalf of the Board for components of the risk management and internal control overseeing the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and framework and highlights the key developments in the year, internal control systems.
It monitors the activities of the Group alongwith commentary on their operation over the year.
The Risk Committee GRC, the risk management processes in place, effectiveness of such controls is reviewed by Internal Audit, either the Groups whistleblowing arrangements and the activities of the through dedicated procedures or in the course of other Internal Internal Audit function, including its reporting on the Audit reviews over the year.
Group Compliance carries out desk effectiveness of internal controls.
based monitoring, business unit and thematic reviews in relation to compliance policies and other regulatory matters.
A report summarising each quarterly GRC meeting, along with the risk report considered, is provided to the Committee for review The Group maintains a framework of controls related to key and discussion.
The risk report details the principal risks, which financial processes, including the preparation of consolidated arederived from the Group Risk process, along with commentary financial statements, and management of the associated risks.
on how the exposure to these risks has moved in the quarter.
The The Groups control policies and procedures, which are in Committee also monitors Internal Audit activity quarterly, covering accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance change management and other areas of identied higher risk.
onrisk management, internal control and related financial and business reporting have been in place throughout the financial The Head of Internal Audit provided an annual assessment of year and up to the date this report was approved.
theGroups risk management and internal control systems for presentation to the Committee.
The review documents the 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 78 Corporate Governance Audit and Compliance Committee report Assessing external audit effectiveness Internal audit The Committee reviews the effectiveness of Ernst & Young LLP The Committee continued to monitor the scope, activity, and through the use of questionnaires completed by management, resources of the Groups internal audit function including whether byconsidering the extent and quality of their contribution at its the current operating model remained effective and concluded meetings throughout the course of the year, and in one-to-one that it remained appropriate.
The Committee Chairman met Ernst & Young LLPs During the year the Committee approved the annual internal Head of Audit Quality Assurance, together with their Head of audit plan and subsequent updates.
It also received a quarterly Financial Services Assurance Practice to discuss their approach to report from the Head of Internal Audit summarising the audits audit quality, and what assurance had been taken in connection concluded in the period and periodical updates on outstanding with their audit of 3i.
agreed actions from previous reports.
The Head of Internal Audit The 2016 evaluation also reviewed the quality of the audit process, meets the Committee privately as well as meeting regularly with the use of Ernst & Young LLPs valuation practice to support the the Audit Committee Chairman throughout the year.
audit of the portfolio valuations, the technical knowledge of the team and the staff turnover within the Ernst & Young LLP audit External audit team and the Committee concluded that the audit was effective.
Ernst & Young LLP has been the Groups statutory external auditor since before the Group was listed on the London Stock Exchange Audit tender in 1994.
The Committee assesses the independence and The Committee is cognisant of the requirements governing the objectivity, qualications and effectiveness of Ernst & Young LLP appointment of an external Auditor, notably the requirements of on an annual basis.
The Committee also concludes on whether to the Competition and Markets Authority CMA in relation to the recommend to the Board the reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP mandatory re-tendering of audit services every 10 years, together as auditor.
with the European Unions requirements for mandatory rm rotation.
The Group confirms that it has complied with the Auditor appointment and independence provisions of the CMAs Order for the financial year under review.
The Committee recognises the importance of ensuring the independence and objectivity of the Groups auditor.
It reviews During the year the Committee received regular updates on the nature and extent of the services provided by them, the level theGroups position on its external audit and potential tender.
of their fees and the element comprising non-audit fees.
Ofparticular interest to 3i was the Financial Reporting Councils consultation, released in September 2015, on the implementation The total audit fee for the year was 2.0 million 2015: 2.0 million.
of the EU legislation and the application of the rules, particularly The Committee is satisfied that this fee is appropriate in respect around the components of an audit group.
The scale of the of the audit services provided and that an effective audit can be current engagement across the Group and its portfolio provided.
The Committee oversees the Groups policy on the companies with rms that may participate in any tender, as well provision of non-audit services by the external auditor.
The asthe complexities around how the rules would apply to Private Committee continues to see benets for the Group in engaging Equity investments, meant that the Committee concluded that it Ernst & Young LLP where: would be appropriate to use the full transitional arrangements in Work is closely related to the audit: or relation to auditor rotation as outlined by the Financial Reporting Council.
The Committee currently expects that Ernst & Young LLP A detailed understanding of the Group is required: or will be retained until 2020 when mandatory rotation will be Ernst & Young LLP is able to provide a higher quality and or required.
As a result, Ernst & Young LLP replaced the lead audit better value service than other potential providers.
partner in March 2016 to enable continuity throughout the periodto 2020.
The Committee Chairman is notied of all assignments allocated By order of the Board to Ernst & Young LLP over a dened limit, other than those related to due diligence within the Groups investment process.
The key C J Banszky principle of our policy is that permission to engage the external Chairman, Audit and Compliance Committee auditor will always be refused when a threat to independence 18 May 2016 and or objectivity is perceived.
Appointments in relation to the investment process are independent of the audit team and are reviewed separately by the Investment Committee but are reported to the Audit and Compliance Committee Chairman.
Details of the non-audit fees paid to the auditors are disclosed inNote 6 to the financial statements.
The Committee concluded that all of these fees fell within its criteria for engaging Ernst & Further information on the Audit and Compliance Committees terms ofreference can be found at Young LLP and does not believe they pose a threat to the auditors independence or objectivity.
