Governance Report of the Audit and Risk Committee In addition to the above matters, the Committee reviewed the Committee remit following areas: During the year, the Audit and Risk Committee undertook itsresponsibilities in accordance with its Terms of Reference, the Group structure and accounting treatment for the entities asdetailed on the Companys website.
This included the criteria assessed by the Directors to conclude that the Company continues to meet the Matters reviewed in the year definition of an Investment Entity as required for the adoption of the Investment Entities exception to IFRS 10, which defines how The principal matters reviewed by the Audit and Risk Committee the Company presents its financial statements within the Halfduring the year are described below.
yearly report and Annual report and accounts: and Financial reporting the implementation of the new Viability Statement required The Committee reviewed and made recommendations to the by the 2014 revision of the Code.
This included overseeing the Board regarding significant accounting matters and the accounting development of the risk management framework of the Company disclosures in the Half-yearly report and Annual report and as detailed in the Risk section below.
The most significant matters of judgment The Committee presented its conclusions on the above areas to considered by the Committee were: the Board and advised the Board that it considered the Annual valuation of the Companys infrastructure assets this year, the report and accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and areas examined included the level of discount rates applied in understandable and provides the information necessary for the valuation models, with a particular focus on those used for all shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business economic infrastructure assets, where changes were proposed.
The Committee discussed these matters with the Investment External audit Adviser and the auditor, including the auditors infrastructure valuation expert: The Audit and Risk Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the external audit process during the year, considering performance, investment income recognition the Committee reviewed objectivity, independence and relevant experience, and concluded monthly management information for the portfolio and individual that Ernst & Young LLPs appointment as the Companys auditor portfolio companies to identify where variances of income from should be continued.
In structuring its review, the Committee used expectations required further explanation: and a practical framework based on a guide issued by the Institute of calculation of the advisory and performance fees payable to Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
the Investment Adviser as well as the review of valuations, which drive advisory and performance fees, noted above, the Ernst & Young LLP has been the Companys auditor since inception Committee engaged the auditor to perform additional work to in 2007 and the audit has not been re-tendered.
The engagement agree that the advisory and performance fees were calculated in audit partner was rotated last year.
The Committee is aware of the accordance with the underlying Investment Advisory Agreement.
provisions of the Code that state that an audit should be re-tendered The Committee also had access to a review of the calculation of every 10 years and the EU Audit Directive and Regulation which has the performance fee carried out by the internal audit function of introduced a requirement for applicable companies to undertake a the Investment Adviser.
tender of the external audit every 10 years, and change auditor at least every 20 years.
The Committee has considered the provisions The Committee considered the requirements of the UK Companies and transitional arrangements applicable to the Company and has Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulation 2013 decided that a full audit tender will be conducted in the year ending with which it is complying voluntarily, in line with best practice 31 March 2017 before a recommendation regarding future audit reporting.
The Committee specifically reviewed the Annual report arrangements isbrought to the Companys AGM in July 2017. and accounts to conclude whether the financial reporting is fair, balanced, understandable, comprehensive and consistent with The Audit and Risk Committee monitors the Companys policy for how the Board assesses the performance of the Companys non-audit services to ensure that the provision of such services business during the financial year, as required for companies by the external auditor does not impair the auditors independence with a Premium Listing under the Code.
As part of this review, the or objectivity.
In order to safeguard auditor objectivity and Committee considered if the Annual report and accounts provided independence, the chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee is the information necessary to shareholders to assess the Companys required to approve all non-audit work undertaken by the auditor, performance, strategy and business model and reviewed the for the Company and its subsidiaries in advance and as a general description of the Companys Key Performance Indicators.
rule the auditor will not be engaged on investment-related work.
However, exceptions to this may be permitted if i the Company is acting in a consortium, ii the auditor is considered specialists in the sector, or iii the auditor is best placed to undertake the work through its knowledge of the Companys financial systems, procedures and internal controls.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 65 Governance Report of the Audit and Risk Committee Continued Ernst & Young LLP provided non-audit services to the consolidated Other matters Group for fees totalling 5,000 for the year to 31 March 2016 Other matters reviewed by the Committee during the year were: 2015: 221,000.
This related to agreed-upon procedures on the the effectiveness of the internal control environment of advisory and performance fees.
In this financial year and previous the Company and the Companys compliance with its years, in line with the Companys policy, Ernst & Young LLP provided regulatory requirements: non-audit services to support the transaction activity conducted by the Group during the year in relation to certain investee companies.
the coverage of the proposed interim and final dividends, including The fees for these services are generally borne by the underlying a review of the Boards assessment of the coverage of dividend investee companies or unconsolidated subsidiaries, and therefore payments through income generated by the Company, nonare not included in the expenses of the Group.
In assessing the income cash distributions received from portfolio companies, auditors independence, the Committee reviews the total amount of net capital profits generated from the sale of portfolio assets and fees paid to the auditor in accordance with the stated policy on retained reserves: non-audit services, regardless of whether they are borne by the the debt levels in the underlying portfolio companies: Group or by the investee companies.
the Companys compliance with its regulatory obligations in Jersey, including a review of compliance with the Codes of Risk Practice for Certified Funds: and During the year the Committee: the ongoing impact of international initiatives such as the EU recommended that a new Risk Framework be adopted by the Alternative Investment Fund Management Directive, including the Board as described on page 33: timing of the Companys registration under the Directive and the led the Board and senior executives of the Investment Adviser in impact of marketing provisions under the Directive.
an exercise to identify and rate risks in a risk matrix.
This exercise The Committee reported to the Board on how it has discharged its collated individual perceptions of risk without reference back to responsibilities and reported to the Board the key matters arising previous risk assessments and brought the results together to ateach meeting.
All recommendations were accepted by the Board.
The resulting matrix helped identify the principal risks described on page 36 and the scenarios used Steven Wilderspin for stress testing to support the conclusions of the Viability Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee Statement: and 11 May 2016 considered the presentation of risk-related matters in the Annual report and accounts.
66 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016
