Governance Corporate governance statement Meetings of the Board This section of the Directors report contains thecorporate governance statement required A calendar of eight scheduled main Board meetings was agreed at the start of the year.
Due to the nature of the Boards close byFCADisclosure and Transparency Rule 7.2. involvement in the operation of the Company and in making investment-related decisions, a number of further meetings are The Companys approach to corporate governance arranged from time to time at shorter notice.
During the year, there The Company is committed to upholding the highest standards were seven main meetings of the Board of Directors.
The time of corporate governance.
It observes the requirements of the UK allocated to the eighth scheduled Board meeting was instead utilised Corporate Governance Code the Code, a copy of which is available for a discussion of the Companys strategy with the Investment from the Financial Reporting Council website www.
In addition to these meetings, there were six full Board subject to the FCAs Listing Rule 15.6.
6 2, and to the extent applicable meetings arranged at short notice and one meeting of a specifically to the Company, given that it has no Executive Directors.
The Code formed committee to execute decisions arising from full Board applies to all companies with a Premium Listing on the London Stock meetings.
The Directors attendance at main Board meetings is set Exchange, irrespective of their country of incorporation.
out in the table below: The Company complied with all the applicable provisions of the Directors attendance Number of meetings Codefor the financial year ending 31 March 2016. year to 31 March 2016 while a Director Attendance The Board has adopted a code for Directors dealings in ordinary 1 Richard Laing 2 2 shares, which is based on the Model Code for Directors dealings 2 Peter Sedgwick 5 5 contained in the Listing Rules the Model Code.
The Board is responsible for taking all proper and reasonable steps to ensure Philip Austin 7 7 compliance with the Model Code by the Directors.
Doug Bannister 7 7 Wendy Dorman 7 7 The Boards responsibilities and processes Ian Lobley 7 7 The Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall management Paul Masterton 7 7 of the Company.
It determines matters including financial strategy and planning and takes all investment and divestment decisions, Steven Wilderspin 7 7 taking into account the advice it receives from the Investment 1 Served from 1 January 2016.
The Board has put in place an organisational structure 2 Served until 31 December 2015. to ensure the efficient performance of its responsibilities.
This is further described under the heading Internal control on page 64.
The Boards responsibilities are set out on page 54.
The principal matters considered by the Board during the year in relation to those Matters reserved for the Board responsibilities included the following: The Board has approved a formal schedule of matters reserved Strategy and returns to itand the Audit and Risk Committee for decision.
The matters The Board conducted a review of the Companys strategy through reserved for the Board include: a series of Board meetings, taking advice from the Investment approval of the Companys overall strategy, plans and annual Adviser, the Companys Corporate Brokers and Financial Adviser.
operating budget: These meetings involved the following: approval of the Companys half-yearly and annual financial review of the infrastructure market segments in which the statements and changes in the Companys accounting policies Company operates, and of competitors activity and the returns or practices: available from investing in those markets: approval of changes relating to the capital structure of the approval to revise the Companys target total return to 810% over Company or its regulated status: the medium term, as announced with the Companys full-year approval of the appointment and removal of the Investment results to 31 March 2015: Adviser and annual review and continued approval of key approval to adopt a new dividend policy targeting a progressive agreements with service providers, including the Investment annual dividend per share, as announced with the Companys Advisory Agreement with 3i Investments plc: full-year results to 31 March 2015: approval of major changes in the nature of business operations approval of the dividend target for FY16 of 7.25 pence per share, as orinvestment policy: announced with the Companys full-year results to 31 March 2015: approval of investments and divestments: approval to amend the Companys investment policy and increase approval of portfolio company valuations and review of the the single asset gross concentration limit from 20% to 25%, performance and plans for each portfolio company: subjectto shareholder approval.
The amendment to the investment review of the adequacy of internal control systems, including policy in respect of the single asset gross concentration limit was thoseoperated by independent service providers: and approved by a majority of shareholders at the EGM convened on 7 July 2015: appointments to the Board and determination of terms ofappointment of Directors.
regular reviews of portfolio asset performance, including the underlying performance of assets within the India Fund and review of the expected future returns from the portfolio: 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 59 Governance Corporate governance statement Continued review of the recommendations of the Investment Adviser on the Other matters considered by the Board valuation of portfolio investments, including the benchmarking of succession planning, as well as comprehensive selection process those valuations in the context of prevailing market conditions and in which Peter Sedgwick did not participate and subsequent the timing of completion ofregulatory review processes: and appointment of Richard Laing as Chairman with effect from regular reviews of feedback from shareholders following key 1 January 2016: strategic and financial announcements.
the Board reviewed the impact of changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code including the requirement to incorporate a Investment activity viability statement into the Annual report and accounts for 2016: approval of new investment decisions, including the decision the Board received updates to UK and Jersey law and regulations to invest in ESVAGT, two additional oil storage terminals with and considered their impact on the Company: and Oiltanking, the investment in the WODS OFTO project, the the Board considered the market practice for offering a scrip Condorcet Campus project, as well as Wireless Infrastructure dividend alternative to shareholders.
Group, TCR and Hart van Zuid, which were announced after the year end: Information review of regular reports from the Investment Adviser relating Reports and papers are circulated to the Directors in a timely to the infrastructure market and early stage work-in-progress manner in preparation for Board and committee meetings.
investment opportunities: These papers are supplemented by information specifically early stage strategic review of the Companys holding in Elenia requested by the Directors from time to time.
alongside the other shareholders in the Elenia group: and review of the market opportunity in a number of Performance evaluation European geographies.
Board Financial management During the year, the Board conducted a formal evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees.
This was an internal management of the Companys liquidity and review of the exercise following the full external review conducted by Dr Tracy Companys liquidity policy: Long of Boardroom Review, a specialist consultancy, in 2014. review of the Companys existing RCF, and decision in May 2015 The evaluation this year considered, amongst other factors, the to renew and increase the size of the Facility to 300 million on balance of skills, experience and knowledge of the Board members.
Approval and decision in April 2016 to increase the size of the RCF by a further 200 million to December 2016 As part of the review: and extend the maturity by an additional year: the Chairman led a review of the performance of the Board and its approval and decision to implement a 150 million return of capital Committees, as well as of individual Directors: and to enable shareholders to participate in the exceptional sale of the chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee led a review of the Eversholt Rail by way of a special dividend payment of 17 pence Audit and Risk Committee.
per share: The review of the Chairman did not take place last year as he was approval to implement a 9 for 10 consolidation of the Companys appointed with effect from 1 January 2016, and had not served shares subject to shareholder approval in conjunction with forasufficient amount of time.
the payment of the special dividend.
The consolidation of the Companys shares was approved by a majority of shareholders The results of the processes were formally reported to the Board atthe EGM convened on 7 July 2015: and Audit and Risk Committee respectively.
All Board members ongoing review of foreign exchange hedging: and members of the Investment Adviser gave personal views and feedback was presented to the Board.
review and ongoing monitoring of the OECDs Action Plan on BaseErosion and Profit Shifting: Following the completion of the above process, the Board noted approval of the Companys annual budget for the year to that the results of the exercise showed a high overall degree of 31 March 2017: satisfaction with the operation of the Board and interaction with the Investment Adviser.
review and approval of the new risk framework: and following the year end, approval of the Companys intention to The following recommendations were made as a result of the review: raise up to 350 million in new equity through an Open Offer, to continue to accelerate and deepen the level of Directors Placing and Intermediaries Offer.
knowledge and understanding of the markets in which the Company operates, to allow them to provide constructive Manage relations with the Investment Adviser challenge to the Investment Adviser.
In this context, it was agreed a review with the Investment Adviser of its origination capabilities: that priorities for both internal and external Board presentations, and detailing aspects of the infrastructure sector, should be reviewed formal evaluation of the performance of the Investment Adviser.
and agreed by the Board within the context of the broader corporate calendar: and to continue to address the future composition and succession requirements for the Board.
60 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Governance Investment Adviser Directors The Board has a Management Engagement Committee comprising The Board comprises the Chairman and six non-executive Directors.
all Board members, with the exception of Ian Lobley, the 3i Group Biographical details for each of the Directors are set out on page nominee Director who served throughout the year, which carries 55.
All Directors served throughout the year under review, with out the annual evaluation of the Investment Adviser required under the exception of Peter Sedgwick, who served until 31 December the Listing Rules and which manages the relationship with the 2015, and Richard Laing, who was appointed with effect from Investment Adviser on behalf of the Company.
During the year, the 1 January 2016.
Committee assessed the performance of the Investment Adviser.
No Director has a service contract with the Company, nor are Following its assessment, and based on the good performance of any such contracts proposed.
The Directors were appointed as the Investment Adviser, the Directors believe that the continued non-executive Directors by the subscribers to the Memorandum appointment of the Investment Adviser on the terms set out in of Association of the Company or at subsequent Board meetings.
Note18 is in the interest of shareholders.
Each of the Directors has an appointment letter which reflects the best practice guidelines published in December 2011 by the Institute Appointment and re-election of Directors of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
Under the Code, all directors of FTSE 350 companies should be Following the formal appraisal process of Directors, and in subject to annual election by shareholders.
As a result, all Directors accordance with Section B.
7.2 of the Code, the Chairman will propose will voluntarily retire and stand for election or re-election at the the election or re-election of all Directors at the forthcoming AGM.
Copies of the appointment letters are available from the Company The Chairman Secretary upon request.
The Chairman, Richard Laing, succeeded Peter Sedgwick with The Directors appointments can be terminated, without effect from 1 January 2016.
The Chairman leads the Board in the compensation for loss of office, in accordance with the Articles.
determination and implementation of its strategy.
The Chairman is Under the Articles, their appointments can inter alia be terminated responsible for organising the business of the Board, ensuring its on notice from the other members of the Board, and also on effectiveness and setting its agenda.
The Chairman also acts as the ceasing to be a Director if they fail to be re-elected at any Annual Companys appointed member to the Advisory Board for the 3iIndia General Meeting.
In addition to fulfilling their legal responsibilities Infrastructure Fund.
He receives no additional remuneration for as Directors, the Directors are expected to bring an independent this role.
The Chairman facilitates the effective contribution of all judgment to bear on issues of strategy, performance, investment the Directors and constructive relations between the Companys appraisal and standards of conduct.
They are also expected advisers, including the Investment Adviser, and the Directors.
to ensure high standards of financial probity on the part of the The Chairman maintains direct links with the Companys advisers Company.
As well as papers for Board meetings, the Directors and ensures that regular reports from them are circulated to the receive monthly management accounts, reports and information Directors to enable the Directors to remain aware of shareholders which enable them to scrutinise the Companys performance against views.
The Chairman ensures, with the co-operation of the agreed objectives.
Investment Adviser, that a programme of effective communications is available for shareholders, including with the Chairman and Senior Changes to the Board of Directors Independent Director, when shareholders so wish.
On 31 December 2015, Peter Sedgwick stepped down as Chairman and Director of the Company.
Richard Laing was appointed Chairman Senior Independent Director of the Board in his stead, effective from 1 January 2016.
Philip Austin is the Senior Independent Director.
In accordance with the Code, any shareholder concerns can be conveyed to the Senior Directors independence Independent Director.
The contact details of the Senior Independent All the Directors, with the exception of Ian Lobley, who was appointed Director are freely available on the Companys website or through as the 3i Group nominee to the Board with effect from 6 May 2014, the Company Secretary.
are considered by the Board to be independent for the purposes of the Code.
The Board assesses and reviews the independence of each of the Directors at least annually, having regard to the potential relevance and materiality of a Directors interests and relationships.
No Director was materially interested in any contract or arrangement subsisting during or at the end of the financial year in relation to the business of the Company.
As a non-independent Director who is not a member of the Management Engagement Committee, Ian Lobley did not participate in the Boards evaluation of the performance of the Investment Adviser.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 61 Governance Corporate governance statement Continued Training and development Remuneration Committee The Company has developed a framework within which training The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Philip Austin, is for Directors is planned, with the objective of ensuring that the charged with reviewing the scale and structure of the nonDirectors understand the duties and responsibilities of being a executive Directors remuneration, and for the year under review director of a listed company and the business environment of the was constituted by all the independent non-executive Directors Company.
All Directors are required continually to update their skills PeterSedgwick and subsequently Richard Laing, PhilipAustin, and maintain their familiarity with the Company and its business.
Steven Wilderspin, Doug Bannister, Wendy Dorman and Presentations on different aspects of the Companys business are PaulMasterton.
All members served throughout the year, except made regularly to the Board, usually by the Investment Adviser, but forPeter Sedgwick, who served until 31 December 2015, and on occasion by other advisers, including the Companys corporate RichardLaing, who was appointed to the Remuneration Committee brokers and financial adviser.
On appointment, all Directors have discussions with the Chairman The Remuneration Committee had one meeting in the year to and Company Secretary, following which appropriate briefings on the 31 March 2016, attended by all members.
A report from the responsibilities of Directors, the Companys business, the Companys Remuneration Committee is set out on page 67. procedures and, where appropriate, briefings on the infrastructure Nominations Committee market are arranged.
The Company provides opportunities for Directors to obtain a thorough understanding of the Companys The Nominations Committee, chaired by Peter Sedgwick until business and the industry it operates in by meeting senior members 31 December 2015 and by Richard Laing with effect from 28 January of the investment advisory team who in turn can arrange, as 2016, in the year under review comprised Paul Masterton, who required, visits to portfolio investments or support teams.
served throughout the year, Philip Austin and Wendy Dorman.
Wendy Dorman was appointed to this Committee on 1 June 2015.
This year, the Directors also received presentations on aspects of the The Committee held three scheduled meetings in the year to infrastructure market, including recent transactions and the returns 31 March 2016, attended by all members, with the exception of available from investing in the economic infrastructure market, PhilAustin, who was absent for one meeting.
In addition, there were as well as the market opportunity in greenfield projects in Europe.
several informal discussions held between the members in relation The Board also received briefings on legal updates in relation to to matters agreed at scheduled meetings.
changes to laws and regulations in Jersey and the UK.
The Company has procedures for Directors to take independent legal or other The Committee is responsible for adopting a formal and transparent professional advice about the performance of their duties.
procedure for the appointment of new Directors, including interviewing potential candidates.
Final decisions on nominations, The Boards committees however, are taken by the entire Board.
The Nominations Committee can use the services of external search consultancies when new The Board is assisted by various standing committees which Directors are being recruited.
During the year, the Nominations report regularly to the Board and reviews the membership of these Committee approved the nomination of Richard Laing as Chairman committees on a regular basis.
of the Board, following a comprehensive selection process in which The Boards committees all have clearly defined terms of reference Peter Sedgwick did not take part.
As part of the process to appoint which are available at www.
The terms of new Directors to the Board, the Committee availed itself of the reference of the Audit and Risk Committee, of the Nominations services of OdgersBerndtson, an external search consultancy which Committee, of the Remuneration Committee and of the Management is independent of the Company.
Engagement Committee provide that no one other than the particular As well as seeking an appropriate balance of expertise and committee chairman and members may attend meetings, unless experience, especially in finance and infrastructure, the nominations invited to attend by the relevant committee.
process has to take account of the residence of Directors, as the Audit and Risk Committee majority of Directors have to be non-resident in the UK.
For practical reasons relating to the conduct of the Companys affairs, most The Audit and Risk Committee, chaired by Steven Wilderspin, in the Directors are resident in the Channel Islands.
year under review also comprised Philip Austin, Doug Bannister, Paul Masterton and Wendy Dorman.
All members served throughout The Committee has been reviewing succession planning, to ensure the year, except for Wendy Dorman, who was appointed to this that processes and plans are in place with regards to Board Committee on 1 July 2015.
The qualifications of the members appointments dealing with succession and diversity.
The Boards of the Audit and Risk Committee are set out in the biographical policy on diversity is set out below.
details of the Directors on page 55.
All the members of the Audit Diversity and Risk Committee are independent non-executive Directors.
The Companys policy is to have a Board with a diverse range of The Board is satisfied that the Audit and Risk Committee chairman, skills, professional backgrounds and gender.
To that end it will StevenWilderspin, has recent and relevant financial experience and continue to ensure that in making appointments to the Board it, is a qualified Chartered Accountant.
and any executive search firm that assists it, will consider a wide During the year to 31 March 2016, there were four meetings of the range of candidates from different backgrounds while making Audit and Risk Committee, attended by all members.
A report from appointments solely on merit and which meet the objectives of its the Audit and Risk Committee is set out on page 65. policy on diversity, including gender.
62 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Governance Investment Committee Relations with shareholders As outlined on page 54, the Board as a whole acts as the Approach to Investor Relations Investment Committee.
The Board recognises the importance of maintaining a purposeful relationship with shareholders and the Company has Management Engagement Committee a comprehensive Investor Relations programme, devised and The Management Engagement Committee has been chaired by implemented by the Investment Adviser, to help existing and Richard Laing from 28 January 2016, replacing Peter Sedgwick who potential investors to understand its activities, strategy and financial chaired it until 31 December 2015.
In the year under review, this performance.
The Chairman maintains a dialogue with shareholders Committee comprised Philip Austin, Doug Bannister, Wendy Dorman, on strategy and corporate governance as required and shareholders Paul Masterton and Steven Wilderspin.
are offered the opportunity to meet with the Chairman and with the Senior Independent Director.
The Board receives reports from the While the remit of the Committee is to manage all aspects of the Companys brokers on shareholder issues and Directors are invited relationship with the Investment Adviser, its principal function is to attend the Companys presentations to analysts and are offered to consider annually, and recommend to the Board, whether the the opportunity to meet shareholders at the AGM.
continued appointment of the Investment Adviser is in the best interest of the Company and its shareholders and to give reasons Board oversight forits recommendation.
The Committee also reviews the terms of The Investment Adviser briefs the Board on a regular basis on the Investment Advisory Agreement.
the implementation of the Investor Relations programme and on During the year, there were three meetings of the Management feedback received from analysts and investors.
Any significant Engagement Committee, attended by all members.
In those concern raised by shareholders in relation to the Company is meetings, the Committee monitored the overall relationship and communicated to the Board.
Research reports published by among specific topics it: investment banks on the Company are circulated to the Board onaregular basis.
reviewed reports from industry analysts, comparing the performance of listed infrastructure investment companies, The Board also receives periodic feedback from existing including an analysis of the terms of their advisory agreements shareholders and potential investors through the Companys and fees charged: corporate brokers, JPMorgan Cazenove and RBC Capital Markets.
monitored and reviewed the Investment Advisers performance against the Companys targets and general market conditions: Institutional investor programme Meetings with principal shareholders reviewed the quality, timeliness, accuracy and relevance of the The Investment Adviser meets with the Companys principal information provided to the Board, including reviews of portfolio shareholders on a twice yearly basis, following the publication of company performance: and annual and half-yearly results and as required during the year.
reviewed non-investment services provided by the The Chairman and Senior Independent Director are also available Investment Adviser.
tomeet with institutional shareholders as required.
The Board concluded that the continued appointment of Meetings with potential investors 3iInvestments plc as Investment Adviser is in the interest During the year, the Investment Adviser held regular meetings with ofshareholders.
potential investors in the UK and internationally to communicate the strategy and performance of the Company.
The Company Secretary Annual and half-yearly results presentations The Company has appointed Capita Financial Administrators Jersey The Chairman and Investment Adviser present the annual Limited as Company Secretary.
andhalf-yearly results to a broad group of analysts.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who advise the Board, through the Chairman, on Individual investors governance matters.
The Companys Articles of Association and the Individual investors are encouraged to engage with the Company and schedule of matters reserved for the Board or its duly authorised provide feedback through the Company Secretary, whose contact committees for decision provide that the appointment and removal details are available on the website.
of the Company Secretary would be a matter for the full Board.
Website The Board reviewed the Company Secretarys performance during the year and approved its continued appointment.
The Companys website provides a description of its strategy and portfolio, as well as a full archive of news and historical financial information and details of forthcoming events for shareholders and analysts.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 63 Governance Corporate governance statement Continued the Investment Advisers procedures for evaluating investments Annual General Meeting include detailed appraisals and due diligence that are reviewed by The Company uses its AGM as an opportunity to communicate the Board as appropriate: with its shareholders.
At the Meeting, business presentations the Investment Adviser and the service providers prepare are generally made by the Chairman and the Investment Adviser.
valuations and management accounts which allow the Board to The Senior Independent Director and chairman of the Audit and Risk assess the Companys activities and review its performance: Committee are also generally available to answer shareholders questions.
Business to be discussed at the Meeting is notified to the Investment Advisers compliance and internal audit shareholders in advance through the Notice of Meeting and covers departments continually review the Investment Advisers matters such as the annual election of directors, the appointment operations.
The Audit and Risk Committee has access to relevant of the auditor and the dividend declaration.
During the Meeting, sections of their reports: shareholders are also asked to approve the Financial statements the Investment Adviser and the service providers prepare the and report of the Directors and auditor.
In addition, shareholders half-yearly and annual accounts of the Group and monitor all are asked to approve the Directors remuneration report and any associated financial reporting processes that are reviewed by the proposed changes to non-executive Directors fees.
Board as appropriate: and The 2015 Notice of AGM was dispatched to shareholders not less the Investment Adviser and the service providers notify the than 20 working days before the Meeting.
At that Meeting, voting on Board of any changes in accounting standards which may impact each resolution was taken on a poll and the poll results were made the Companys significant accounting policies or any other available on the Companys website.
statutory requirements which may subsequently impact the financial statements.
Portfolio management and voting policy The Company does not have a separate internal audit function as In relation to unquoted investments, the Companys approach is to it is not deemed appropriate given the structure of the Company, seek to add value to the businesses in which it invests through the although this is reviewed annually by the Audit and Risk Committee.
extensive experience, resources and contacts of the investment advisory team.
In relation to quoted equity investments, the Principles and processes Companys policy is to exercise voting rights on matters affecting The Company adopts a set of core values and controls, theinterests of the Company.
which include: Internal control a planning framework which incorporates a Board-approved medium-term strategy: The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal control.
The Audit and Risk Committee performed its annual formal business and operating risk reviews which evaluate the review of the systems effectiveness and reported its conclusions potential financial impact and likelihood of identified risks and to the Board.
The internal control system, which has been in place possible new risk areas: throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual the setting of control, mitigation and monitoring procedures and report, is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure the review of actual occurrences, identifying lessons to be learned: to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable and a comprehensive system of financial reporting to the Board, based not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
on an annual budget with monthly reporting of actual results, The Board has contractually delegated investment advisory and analysis of variances, scrutiny of key performance measures and support services to its key service providers and their contractual regular reforecasting: obligations encompass the implementation of systems of internal regular treasury reports to the Board, which analyse the funding control, including financial, operational and compliance controls and requirements, track the generation and use of capital and the risk management.
The Audit and Risk Committee of the Company volume of liquidity and record the level of compliance with the receives reports on the control systems and their operation from Companys funding objectives: its main service providers, and is responsible for reviewing these well defined procedures governing the appraisal and approval reports for determining the effectiveness of internal controls.
of investments, including detailed investment and divestment In addition, the Board regularly reviews the principal risks faced by approval procedures, incorporating appropriate levels of authority the Company and any entries in the Companys risk log.
and regular post-investment reviews: and an Audit and Risk Committee which considers significant control The Companys control policies and procedures, which are in matters and receives relevant reports from key service providers accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils guidance on risk compliance, control or internal audit functions.
management, internal control and related financial and business reporting, have been in place throughout the financial year and up tothe date this Report was approved.
These include: the Investment Advisory and UK Support Services agreements specifically define the roles and responsibilities of the Investment Adviser and the service providers.
These agreements set out information and reporting systems for monitoring the Companys investments and their performance: the Board considers and approves the Companys strategy and approves a budget on an annual basis: reports on the planning, forecasting and controlling of expenditure and the making of investments are regularly submitted to the Board and reviewed in detail: 64 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016
