Governance Governance This section describes how 3i Infrastructure is governed.
It explains how the Board is organised and operates, including the roles and composition of each of its Committees, and provides details on our Board members and how they are remunerated.
3i Infrastructures Board is responsible to shareholders for the Board of Directors andCommittees overall management and oversight of the Company, for agreeing The Board is assisted in its activities by a number of standing its strategy, monitoring its financial performance, setting and committees of the Board and, in undertaking its duties, it delegates monitoring its risk appetite and maintaining an effective system of certain authorities and decisions to these Committees.
committee structure, together with a summary of the roles and composition of the Committees, is outlined in the diagram below.
3i Infrastructure has no employees, and its investment and portfolio The Committees have terms of reference, which are available on monitoring activities are carried out by 3i Investments plc, its www.
com Investment Adviser, under the Investment Advisory Agreement.
Itisthe Boards responsibility to ensure that the Company has a The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board and clear strategy and that its Investment Adviser has the resources ensuring its effectiveness.
He is also responsible for organising andstructures to support the delivery ofthis strategy.
the business of the Board andsetting its agenda.
In addition to the Chairman, thereare currently five independent, non-executive The Board also has direct access to the Companys external advisers, Directors and one 3i Group plc nominee.
including the Companys corporate brokers, financial adviser and legal advisers.
The Board receives advice on a range of subjects Further details on the key responsibilities and areas offocus of the but particularly onthe infrastructure market, UK and Jersey legal Board and its Committees, as well as details on attendance at full matters and equity market issues.
Board meetings, are set outon pages 59 to 63.
3i Infrastructure plc BoardCommittees Audit and Risk Management Investment Remuneration Nomination Committee Engagement Committee Committee Committee Committee Financial Monitoring of the Acquisition, Director Board appointments reporting, performance of the monitoring remuneration and size, balance riskandinternal Investment Adviser and disposal of andcomposition controls investments ofthe Board Steven Wilderspin Richard Laing All Directors Philip Austin Richard Laing Chair Chair Chair Chair Philip Austin Philip Austin Richard Laing Philip Austin Doug Bannister Doug Bannister Doug Bannister Paul Masterton Wendy Dorman Wendy Dorman Wendy Dorman Wendy Dorman Paul Masterton Paul Masterton Paul Masterton Steven Wilderspin Steven Wilderspin 54 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016
