Corporate governance Nominations committee A year of change to the membership of the board and its committees.
Simon Troughton Composition During the year, the committee continued to work with the Simon Troughton was appointed chairman of the nominations external search consultant, Odgers Berndtson, in order to assist committee following the retirement of Roger Cornick on 30 in the process for identifying an additional independent nonSeptember 2016.
He is supported by three independent nonexecutive director to join the Board.
The committee identified executive directors, Julie Chakraverty, Richard Mully and Jutta that an individual with significant asset management knowledge af Rosenborg.
Roger Cornick and Simon Troughton served on and experience would serve the board well.
Following a detailed the committee throughout the year and Richard Mully joined interviewing process, we, and the search consultants, identified following the resignation of Jim Pettigrew in April 2016.
Both Julie Gerhard Fusenig as the most appropriate candidate.
He was and Jutta were appointed after the year-end.
appointed to the Board on 25 April 2016 and will stand for election at the Companys annual general meeting on 2 February 2017.
Responsibilities Odgers Berndtson has no other connection with the Group.
Review the structure, size and composition of the Board.
Under the leadership of one of the independent non-executive Carry out an annual review of the membership of each of directors the Board led the search for a new chairman to replace the Boards committees and make recommendations to Roger Cornick.
In the year under review, the committee were again able to Recommend new directors for appointment to the Board.
confirm to their colleagues on the Board that appropriate Responsibility for the appointment of new directors and for succession plans were in place for each of the senior executive nominating them for election by shareholders at the first roles and that training was in place for each of their potential opportunity following their appointment.
internal successors to enable them to be considered to accept senior management roles within reasonable timeframes.
Consider and make recommendations to the Board on The committee also reviewed, in detail, the proposals for the succession planning for directors and other senior executives.
recruitment of a Global Head of Distribution and were fully involved in the recruitment process.
Report on the committees activities during the year During the year, the committee discharged its responsibilities, In light of the number of Board changes in the year, with three under its terms of reference, by: directors having departed, the committee engaged considerably on both Board and Committee appointments, resulting in one a reviewing the proposals for re-election of directors at the Annual new Board appointment and new Chairmen for each of the General Meeting: Board committees.
b considering and making recommendations to the Board for the The Committee also reviewed and agreed the composition of the appointment of a new director and for changes to the main UK regulated entities, including the appointment of a new membership of the committees: chief executive officer for Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited.
c reviewing the succession plans for the executive directors and the other members of the GMB: Meetings and attendance The committee operates under formal terms of reference which d reviewing the composition of the boards of the significant UK are reviewed annually and held nine meetings during the year.
regulated entities: The Chief Executive was also a regular attendee at the meetings of e reviewing senior management training and development: the committee.
f reviewing the external appointments and time commitments of Maximum possible Meetings the directors: attendance attended g discussing the results of the annual performance evaluation exercise: and Simon Troughton 9 9 h examining the operations of the committee and reviewing its Richard Mully 3 3 terms of reference.
Roger Cornick 9 8 Jim Pettigrew 5 2 aberdeen-asset.
