Innovation committee It is essential that we continue to drive the innovation culture within the Group.
Val Rahmani Composition Challenges were launched this year inviting colleagues to share The innovation committee is chaired by Val Rahmani and she is their ideas as to what Aberdeen should be putting in place now to supported by three other standing members, Julie Chakraverty, enable it to continue to be a thriving and successful asset manager Andrew Laing and Kerry Christie, the Global Head of Human by the year 2020 and to share ideas as to what efficiencies Resources, as well as a further nine members of staff from our could be implemented throughout the business.
There has been regional offices, the majority of which are on our emerging talent significant take up from the business to these challenges and, programme.
The committee will look to rotate those non-standing following a review, it was agreed to take several ideas forward to members after an appropriate period.
Julie Chakraverty chaired the develop further.
committee for the year under review.
One of the aims of the committee going forward is to look to embed an innovation culture into the business in all decisions Responsibilities being made across the Group by ensuring that innovation is Continue to develop the framework for Aberdeen to best reflected in the Group Strategy and work is being continually respond to innovation opportunities.
Provide a platform for all Aberdeen colleagues to share their Meetings and attendance innovation ideas and shape our future business and culture, The committee operates under formal terms of reference which focusing on the four priorities of customers, talent, are reviewed annually.
The committee held eight meetings during productivity, and brand.
Work with external innovation experts to help drive Details of attendance from the Board members are shown in the committee debate.
Communicate key opportunities or investment areas to the Board.
Maximum possible Meetings attendance attended Report on the committees activities during the year Val Rahmani 8 8 During the year, the committee discharged its responsibilities, Julie Chakraverty 8 8 under its terms of reference, by: Andrew Laing 8 6 a identifying what aspects of innovation are important at Aberdeen: b embedding an innovation culture into the business: c encouraging staff to share their ideas of where the Group can grow and provide input to the existing corporate culture: d developing and inspiring staff to offer their blue sky thinking: and e focusing and prioritising new ideas.
The committee continues to harness ideas from across the business by reviewing and selecting employee contributions from the Aberdeen global idea-sharing platform called Ignite.
This platform helps facilitate collaboration between colleagues, regardless of location or role, by posing business challenges and sharing ideas and solutions.
Colleagues are now awarded 1,000 if their idea is declared a winning idea.
One of the first winning ideas on Ignite was to develop a client app and this has led to the development and successful launch of Aberdeens Thinking Aloud app which was introduced to the App Store earlier this year.
64 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016
