Corporate governance Audit committee The transition to new auditors has been a particular focus of the committee.
Jutta af Rosenborg Composition c reviewing the external auditors plan for the audit of the Groups Jutta af Rosenborg was appointed chairman of the audit 2016 financial statements, receiving and reviewing confirmations committee in April 2016, following the resignation of Jim of auditor independence and approving the terms of engagement Pettigrew.
She is supported by two independent non-executive and proposed fees for the 2016 audit: directors, Julie Chakraverty and Gerhard Fusenig.
During the d reviewing the reports of the internal audit team and agreeing year under review Richard Mully also served on the committee action plans, audit schedules and areas for future reviewing, but resigned on 30 September 2016.
All members of the and review the effectiveness of the internal audit function: committee served throughout the year except Gerhard Fusenig e approving a revised non-audit services policy in light of latest who was appointed to the committee in April 2016, following his EU requirements: appointment to the Board of Directors.
f reviewing managements annual report on the Groups system The Board is satisfied that all of the committee members have of internal control and its effectiveness, reporting to the Board recent and relevant financial experience to satisfy the provisions on the results of this review and receiving regular updates on key of the Code, by virtue of their holding or having held various risks and controls: executive and non-executive roles in other financial and asset g reviewing and approving external audit reports on client assets: management institutions.
Additionally, Jutta af Rosenborg is a h receiving reports from the Group Head of Risk and the risk qualified accountant.
committee on relevant matters that also impact internal controls and financial reporting: and Responsibilities i carrying out an annual performance evaluation exercise and Assist the Board in discharging its duties and responsibilities noting the satisfactory operation of the committee.
for financial reporting, internal control and the appointment and remuneration of an independent external auditor.
The audit committee has reviewed the contents of this years Review the scope and results of external audit work and its annual report and accounts and advised the Board that, in its cost effectiveness, and the independence and objectivity of view, the report is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the auditor.
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
Oversight of the work of internal audit and steps taken to The committee approved the viability statement.
The committee received a number of regular reports at each Review the Groups arrangements on whistle blowing, of its meetings during the year from internal audit, finance and ensuring that appropriate arrangements are in place for risk.
The Groups external auditor also provided regular reports, employees to be able to raise, in confidence, matters of both written and oral, to each of the meetings.
The committee possible impropriety, with suitable subsequent follow continues to ensure that issues and matters presented to them up action.
are resolved in a timely manner.
Report on the committees activities during the year The committee received regular reports from internal audit The committee has a schedule of events which, updated regularly, which confirmed the satisfactory operating of the details the issues to be discussed at each meeting.
also allows for new items to be included on the agenda of any of As part of its function in discharging its duties to review the the meetings.
effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control, During the year, the committee discharged its responsibilities, the committee approved, in conjunction with the risk committee, under its terms of reference, by: the 2015 16 Internal Controls Report which is an internally prepared document which contains an independent opinion from a reviewing the Groups draft 2015 financial statements and 2016  LLP PwC.
The opinion provided is, interim results statement prior to discussion and approval by as it was in 2015, an unqualified one.
The report is made available the Board, and reviewing the external auditors reports thereon: to our clients and consultants and describes the activities and b reviewing the continuing appropriateness of the Groups control procedures operating in the business in the year and is accounting policies: prepared in accordance with internationally recognised standards.
com 61 Audit committee continued Key accounting estimates discounted to present value.
The base case estimates for both The approach taken to the audit committee's review of the key earn-outs were supplemented by an external valuation.
accounting judgements is set out below.
The audit committee received a copy of the reports, as well as an explanation of the approach used by finance and the rationale for As well as these judgements, the committee pays close attention growth assumptions used for each acquired business.
The audit to the presentation of the results and the balance between committee challenged the finance team on the key assumptions statutory and 'alternative' performance measures.
For example, and satisfied itself that a balanced approach had been taken, in reviewing disclosures and KPIs, the committee sought given the information available and the relative stability of explanations on the nature and qualification of costs classified private equity revenues.
as restructuring and acquisition-related to ensure consistent treatment with management's policy and past practice.
We recognised intangible assets on acquisition in respect of Advance, Arden and Parmenions clients.
Intangible assets were Goodwill and intangibles impairment tests also recognised in respect of Parmenions software that underpins The Group has goodwill of 981.7 million and intangible assets the platform developed for use by advisers.
The value of these of 507.7 million.
The majority of these balances have arisen intangible assets was determined by the level of forecast cash from acquisitions.
flows that they are expected to generate, taking into account The goodwill balance is tested annually for impairment.
factors such as market growth and attrition.
A valuation report for The committee noted the current level of market capitalisation each acquisition was prepared by an independent valuation firm as well as internal valuations, agreeing that there remains a and this was reviewed by the audit committee to be satisfied that significant level of headroom over the book value of assets.
an appropriate approach was taken.
The intangible assets are reviewed for impairment indicators and They also discussed with management the determination of useful impairment tests are performed if there are indicators e. g. client lives over which the intangibles are amortised.
Where relevant, losses or an expectation that assets will be withdrawn.
Given the the term period of the agreement is used as a starting point, outflows from the high yield and total return capabilities acquired but this can be adjusted for other relevant factors.
from Artio in 2013, an impairment charge of 7.7 million was Re-measurement of SWIP earn-out recorded to re-measure the asset at 'value in use' calculated from The consideration for the SWIP transaction includes a potential discounted cash flows.
The potential liability for the earn-out is measured at fair There is a level of judgment in assessing future cash flows and value at each reporting period.
selecting appropriate comparators that form the basis for the The range of payments for the earn-out is between nil and impairment tests.
100 million and is dependent on the growth of revenues from the acquired investment solutions business over the period The audit committee examined these assumptions used in the from 1 April 2014 to 31 March 2019.
This, in turn, relies on the impairment tests.
They considered the impact of outflows and future performance of the Lloyds wealth business.
This value market volatility, noting that the majority of the outflows are is determined based on expected cash flows over five years, from investment areas that have grown organically, rather than discounted to a present value.
The base case estimates were through acquisitions.
The baseline flows from the former SWIP supplemented by an external valuation.
business excluding those related to the investment solutions earn-out are in line with expectations set at the time of the Management prepared a revised valuation of the earn-out at transaction and the committee noted that the business continues 30 September 2016 based on growth to date, expectations of to perform satisfactorily.
marketed growth and knowledge of client plans and product ideas.
It was noted the growth is lower than initial expectations and the Acquisition accounting committee reviewed a number of growth scenarios.
Aberdeen made three acquisitions during the year: Advance, Arden and Parmenion on 29 December 2015, 31 December 2015 and The wider board receives regular updates on the progress of the 11 January 2016, respectively.
Consideration for Parmenion and Lloyds relationship.
In addition, the audit committee challenged Arden includes potential earn-outs of up to 16.8 million and the finance team on the key assumptions and was satisfied that 49 million respectively.
The earn-outs are dependent on the a balanced approach had been taken, given the information future revenue growth of each of the businesses.
available and the uncertainty of how the assets managed for Lloyds wealth business may grow.
The audit committee reviewed reports prepared by the finance team on the accounting for the consideration, noting the Oversight of external auditors consistency in approach with past acquisitions.
This is the first year of the audit by PwC, who were appointed following the tender for audit services in 2015.
The potential liability for the Parmenion earn-out is measured at fair value and is dependent on the growth of revenues from As it is the first year of the new auditor relationship, the audit the acquired business over the period to 31 December 2017, committee paid detailed attention to the PwC audit plan, discounted to a present value.
Similarly, the Arden earn-out is including the approach to judgements and testing plan for key measured at fair value and is dependent on the growth of revenues areas, such as revenue recognition.
It also reviewed the coverage from the acquired business over the period to 31 December 2019, for overseas locations.
As part of the transition plan, PwC attended the year-end audit committees for the approval of the 62 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance 2015 annual report and have provided progress updates at April, The committee has been closely involved in monitoring the July and October 2016 meetings to ensure as clear as possible internal audit plan, looking to ensure that the audit scope an understanding of their work approach and that the audit continued to focus on all relevant areas of activity, including committee are satisfied the transition is effective.
corporate culture, first line accountability for risk and control, and cyber risk.
There have been a small number of areas where The committee will carry out a fuller review of the effectiveness of the committee has requested additional information in respect the external audit process performed by PwC on the completion of of matters reported, including looking to ensure that matters the audit.
raised were resolved in a timely manner.
The committee has Non audit services also been supportive of the use of data analytics within the audit The committee monitors its policy on the use of PwC for nonmethodology to ensure efficient and effective audit testing.
audit services to ensure independence.
The committee oversees The Head of Internal Audit reports to the Chief Executive as well which services are permitted and not permitted and which might as having unrestricted access to the chairman of the committee.
require the explicit prior approval of the committee.
A new Group Head of Internal Audit was appointed during the year The external auditor will only be appointed to a non-audit and the committee oversaw the selection process and transition of engagement when they are best suited to perform the work and the new Head.
there is no threat of a conflict of interest.
Internal audit use a co-source arrangement to supplement resource and provide capability in specialised areas and markets.
The non-audit services policy was fully revised during the year.
This covered changes as a result of the EU audit reform directive.
These services are tendered periodically.
The services were tendered in 2016 and a new firm has been appointed from The revisions covered an update on our requirements for future 1 January 2017. tender and rotation of auditors.
In line with EU requirements, we will adhere to the cap on the level of non-audit fees 70% Meetings and attendance of the average fees paid over 3 consecutive financial years.
The The committee operates under formal terms of reference which requirement to monitor takes place once there is a three year are reviewed annually and held six meetings during the year, track record - this starts for the three years to September 2019. with representatives of the external auditors in attendance The audit committee will monitor the ratio for the preceding at each meeting.
Other regular attendees at the meetings of years: based on the EU requirements, the ratio for the first year is the committee included the Chairman of the Board, the Chief 61.1%.
The internal controls reporting services performed by PwC Executive, the Finance Director and the other members of the are classified as non-audit services under the EU requirements Board, the Group Head of Risk, the Head of Internal Audit, although the services are assurance in nature.
Excluding the fees in the Compliance Officer and the Deputy Finance Director.
relation to those assurance services, the non-audit fee ratio for the The members of the committee also met, individually, with senior year is 33.3%.
members of the finance and internal audit team throughout The process and limits for the approval and pre-approval of certain the year, and this provided a forum for discussion outwith the services has been updated and the audit committee can continue formality of the committee meetings.
to pre-approve certain non-audit services, but only where they are There is close liaison between the audit and risk committees and 'trivial'.
The policy also limits the circumstances in which we can this facilitates an integrated approach to risk assurance.
The risk use our auditor for tax services: in practice, in most cases we will committee is scheduled to hold four meetings per annum, each of aim to select a different firm.
which is to be held on the same days as the meetings of the audit The auditor cannot act in a capacity as management or design a committee, in order to allow appropriate interaction between the system or process that it is subsequently required to test.
To assist in this interaction, there is a standing agenda item for the meetings of the audit committee to receive an Finally, consideration was also given to the likelihood of a oral report from the chairman of the risk committee, providing an withdrawal of the auditor from the market and, it was noted that update on matters relevant to the audit committee of those issues there were no contractual obligations which would restrict the considered by the risk committee.
choice of an alternative auditor.
The audit committee is mindful of the services provided by each of the Big Four to Aberdeen.
Attendance at each meeting by members is shown in the This was also considered in detail as part of the assessment of the table below: three firms participating in the tender.
Maximum possible Meetings Oversight of internal audit attendance attended The Head of Internal Audit provided both a written and oral report Jutta af Rosenborg 6 6 at each meeting of the audit committee during the year.
The committee also approved the full operations of the internal Julie Chakraverty 6 6 audit team, including audit plans, budgets and staffing levels.
Gerhard Fusenig 1 1 Typically, the committee receives a detailed written report Richard Mully 6 6 in advance of the meeting and this is followed by an oral presentation detailing the issues identified and the remedial Jim Pettigrew 4 4 action taken.
