Group management board The operational management of the Group is delegated by the Board to the Group management board GMB which comprises the five executive directors and other heads of department.
The GMB meets three times each month, has specific terms of reference which have been approved by the Board, and has responsibility for implementing the Boards strategy.
Gordon Brough Bev Hendry General Counsel Co-Head of Americas and Chief Financial Officer Gordon joined Aberdeen in February 2009 to head up the Groups Bev was appointed Co-Head of Americas and Chief Financial legal function having previously been the partner responsible Officer in July 2014.
He first joined Aberdeen in 1987 and helped for the Groups affairs at Maclay Murray & Spens LLP.
Gordon is establish Aberdeens business in the Americas.
Bev re-joined qualified as a lawyer in both Scots and English law.
Aberdeen from Hansberger Global Investors where he worked for six years as Chief Operating Officer.
Bev is a chartered accountant Kerry Christie and graduated with an MA in Economics from the University Global Head of Human Resources of Aberdeen.
Kerry is Global Head of Human Resources and was appointed to Martin Jennings the GMB in 2010.
She joined Aberdeen in March 2000 and was appointed Head of Human Resources in October 2003.
CEO Parmenion Head of Aberdeen Digital Kerry graduated from Robert Gordon University with a Martin Jennings is Chief Executive of the recently acquired BA in Public Administration and a postgraduate diploma in Parmenion business and heads digital strategy across the Group.
Martin joined Aberdeen in 2016 from FNZ where he was Chief Executive for their European business having previously run their Brad Crombie Australasian businesses.
Prior to FNZ Martin helped establish Global Head of Fixed Income AXAs Elevate business, finishing his time as Managing Director for Brad re-joined Aberdeen in 2012 after starting in the Groups the UK platform business.
graduate trainee programme twelve years ago.
In the interim, Devan Kaloo he worked at Bank of America Merrill Lynch as a managing director, running the banks non-financial corporate and high yield Head of Global Emerging Markets and Head of Equities credit research team for the EMEA region.
He graduated from Devan joined Aberdeen in 2000 as part of the Asian equities team McGill University with BA and MA degrees and read history at in Singapore, before later transferring to London.
Previously, the University of Cambridge.
he worked at Martin Currie in 1994 covering Latin America, subsequently working with North American equities, global asset Campbell Fleming allocation and eventually Asian equities teams.
Devan graduated Global Head of Distribution with an MA Hons in Management and International Relations Campbell Fleming joined as Global Head of Distribution in from the University of St Andrews and a postgraduate diploma in August 2016 from Columbia Threadneedle Investments Investment Analysis from the University of Stirling.
where he was the Chief Executive EMEA and Global COO.
Jonathan Loukes Previously, Campbell worked for JPMorgan Asset Management as Head of UK.
He worked for financial service regulators in the UK Deputy Finance Director and Australia where he completed his legal training.
Campbell Jonathan joined Aberdeen in 2010 from Deloitte where he held graduated in 1991 and was admitted as a barrister to the Supreme senior roles in corporate finance and audit.
Jonathan graduated Court of New South Wales.
Campbell joined the UK industry with an LLM from Glasgow University and an MBA from in 1995.
He is also a chartered accountant.
56 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance Gordon Neilly Mandy Pike Head of Strategy and Corporate Activity Global Head of Investment Execution Gordon joined in 2016 having previously been Joint CEO at Mandy is the Global Head of Investment Execution, covering all Cantor Fitzgerald Europe.
He is responsible for the development listed securities, including equities, fixed interest, cash, FX and and implementation of the Groups strategy and overseeing all derivatives.
Previously, Mandy worked as a trader at F&C Asset corporate activity for the Group and its closed end fund business.
Management, and before that at BNP Capital Markets.
Her City Gordon graduated with a Bachelor of Commerce Ordinary with career began at Grieveson Grant in the private client department.
Distinction and is a qualified chartered accountant.
He is also Iain Plunkett a nonexecutive director of Personal Assets Trust and Invesco Perpetual Enhanced Income investment trusts.
Chief Technology Officer and Chief Operating Officer Iain joined Aberdeen from Barclays in 2015 where he was a Gary Marshall managing director & member of the Senior Leadership Group.
Head of Product Previously, he worked for 15 years at UBS as Group Managing Gary joined Aberdeen as Head of Sales and Marketing through Director performing the role of Global Chief Information Officer of the acquisition of Prolific Financial Management in 1997. the Investment Bank and Corporate Centre.
Iain graduated with a Since then he has worked in many areas of the business: including BEng in Information Engineering from Strathclyde University.
a period as Head of the Americas based in the US for nearly five Andrew Smith years.
Gary currently serves as Chief Executive of Aberdeen Fund Managers Ltd, the Groups primary fund management entity in Co-Head of Americas and Chief Operating Officer the UK.
Gary graduated with a BSc Hons in Actuarial Andrew is the Co-Head of Americas and Chief Operating Officer.
Mathematics and Statistics from Heriot Watt University He has held various roles since he joined Aberdeen in December in Edinburgh and is a qualified actuary.
2000 including Chief Financial Officer for Aberdeen in the Americas.
Andrew McCaffery Pertti Vanhanen Global Head of Alternatives and Group Head of Solutions Andrew is responsible for our alternative capabilities including Global Head of Property hedge funds, private equity, infrastructure and property multi Pertti has been managing director for property asset management manager.
Andrew joined Aberdeen in 2011 from BlueCrest Capital subsidiaries for both Pension Ilmarinen and Pension Varma in Management, where he was a founder member of the Alignment Finland.
Since he joined Aberdeen in 2002, Pertti has headed Investors division.
Andrew joined the investment industry in 1983. the Nordic and European direct property business and has later become the Head of Fund management Property division.
Sean Phayre Pertti holds an MBA and is a Fellow of the Royal Institution of Global Head of Quantitative Investments Chartered Surveyors.
Sean joined the Group in 2014 as part of SWIP heritage.
He began his investment career at Edinburgh Fund Managers which was later acquired by Aberdeen Asset Management.
He established quantitative investment teams at both companies, and latterly was co-head of quantitative equities and derivative strategies.
Sean holds a PhD in Statistics and Modelling Science, an MSc in Industrial Mathematics and a BSc Hons in Mathematical Sciences, all from the University of Strathclyde.
