Risk committee The oversight of risk, both present and future, is critical to the operations of the Group.
Julie Chakraverty Composition g reviewing the compliance departments terms of reference, their Julie Chakraverty was appointment chairman of the risk work programmes and receiving regular reports on their work committee, subsequent to the year-end on 5 October 2016. during the year: and Julie is supported by three other independent non-executive h reviewing the committees terms of reference, carrying out an directors, Gerhard Fusenig, Val Rahmani and Jutta af Rosenborg.
annual performance evaluation exercise and ensuring the Richard Mully was chairman in the year under review and stepped satisfactory operation of the committee.
down from the committee on 5 October 2016 on taking up the The committees standard agenda covers all areas of its chair of the remuneration committee.
Each of the members served responsibility.
During the year the meetings focused on a number on the committee throughout the year, except for Gerhard Fusenig of specific issues, including: staff risk, as a consequence of who was appointed on 2 June 2016. current market conditions: liquidity and concentration risks: IT architecture: and, information security and cyber crime.
Responsibilities ICAAP Oversight of the risk management framework and, A key function of the Committee is to review, on behalf of the more specifically, the effectiveness of risk management Board, the ICAAP to ensure that the business maintains sufficient and compliance activity within the Group.
and appropriate levels of capital in order to meet our desired Advises the Board on considerations and processes relevant strategy.
The process that is presented regularly by the business, to setting the risk appetite and related tolerances.
involves: identifying risks and assessing how much capital a risk Oversight of the work of the compliance division, requires: performing stress and scenario analyses to identify including compliance monitoring.
how much capital might change in the near and longer term: and, drawing a conclusion as to the ranges of capital identified Matters of a compliance nature that are relevant to the and the amount of internal capital that is required to be held.
audit committee remit continue to be reported under the business of the audit committee as well as the The ICAAP document is a living document and is reviewed risk committee.
continually to ensure that we maintain sufficient capital and Review the implementation of appropriate procedures that each of the risks we face in the business are appropriately to identify and control all fundamental operational, monitored.
The committee has been able to recommend to the financial, reputational and regulatory risks within Board that it is satisfied that we have sufficient capital to manage the Group.
the risks identified from the business as carried out and identified in our strategy document.
Report on the committees during the year Compliance oversight During the year, the committee discharged its responsibilities, Compliance monitoring remains a key focus and at each meeting under its terms of reference and, in particular by: of the committee, the Head of Compliance has presented the results of the compliance monitoring work and has provided a reviewing the effectiveness of risk management, governance regulatory updates.
In addition the head of compliance monitoring and compliance activities within the Group: also attended in the year to talk through specific issues and to take b advising the Board on considerations and processes for setting the committee through the annual compliance monitoring plan.
the Groups risk appetite and related tolerances: c ensuring that senior management has in place procedures and Cyber mechanisms to identify and control all fundamental operational, Cyber security has remained a focus for the committee in the financial, reputational, and regulatory risks: year, having discussed it at each of their meetings.
The head of information security attended to describe details of the steps d reviewing and recommending the approval of the Internal being taken in the company to ensure that we manage our cyber Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP to the Board: risks appropriately.
The committee also heard from representatives e ensuring that all risks were being addressed by management in of the firm that provide our software security.
The committee also line with the Groups risk appetite: received a presentation from an external presenter giving detail f meeting with the heads of compliance and risk without other on the extent of the cyber issue in the corporate world at present.
executives present: As part of our development, a new cyber security department was established in order to manage our cyber prevention activities.
66 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance Acquisitions Blue sky thinking The committee undertook a review of the integration of the As reported in prior years the committee continues to undertake business acquired from SWIP noting the conclusions of the and monitor its blue sky risk concerns and has been able to migration programme.
It was evident from the presentation that identify and assess the current risks, looking at the causes and our migration plan was appropriate.
impacts of each and ensuring that appropriate management actions are being considered in order to minimize their future IT Strategy risks.
These continue to be monitored on a regular basis and their Following the recruitment of Iain Plunkett as Chief Operating potential impact is also considered as part of the regular review of Officer and Chief Technology Officer, the Group undertook a Groups regulatory capital and ICAAP.
complete review of our IT strategy, looking at the dependencies and risks within the IT division.
This review, which was presented to Meeting and attendance the committee for their consideration and discussion, looked at the The committee met four times during the year and followed a current architecture using both internal and external co-sourcers, clear and documented agenda.
At each of its meetings in the the locations and numbers of staff employed and the likely IT year, the Group Head of Risk provided updates on each area needs in the future as we move towards a fintech society.
of the risk division, including business, investment and market This discussion was timely as it followed on from the acquisition risk, as well as reporting on compliance issues.
In addition, of Parmenion, our on-line platform provider, and the purpose is other members of the executive, including the Heads of Market to ensure that we have an IT strategy that is fit for purpose and and Business Risk, Compliance, Internal Audit as well as the can take the business forward.
These discussions and proposed General Counsel attended during the year to present on their changes have been continued as part of the Boards on-going own areas of responsibility.
The committee members continued to meet outside of the Property formal committee meetings with members of the executive Following the Brexit vote, the challenges relating to liquidity and staff from different business divisions throughout the year in in the Aberdeen Property Fund were fully discussed and our order to further their knowledge of the risks facing the business.
actions approved by the committee.
The committee heard from a In addition, the former chairman of the committee, Richard Mully, number of key staff involved in the management of the property has been a regular attendee at the meetings of the conflicts of fund business within Aberdeen and they were able to provide interest committee.
the committee with a detailed update on the liquidity pressures Maximum possible Meetings on UK property funds, in general, arising out of the discussions attendance attended surrounding the Brexit vote.
Following the announcement of the results of the vote, the UK property market saw significantly high Julie Chakraverty 4 4 volumes of redemptions which in turn, affected liquidity pressures Gerhard Fusenig 1 1 in the market.
Richard Mully 4 4 The committee was able to assure itself as to the appropriateness Val Rahmani 4 4 of the actions taken by the Group to ensure that investors were treated fairly and were kept fully informed of the decisions Jutta af Rosenborg 2 2 being taken.
Simon Troughton 4 4 Reputational risk Jim Pettigrew 2 2 The committee continues to receive independent data on the reputational risks to which the Group is exposed through an assessment against peers gathered from all relevant press releases, analyst reviews and social media monitoring.
The scoring derived from this assessment is tracked by a key indicator with any trends identified.
