Corporate governance report Board effectiveness of presentations on such factors and has looked to satisfy itself Details of the individual directors attendance at Board meetings that the strategies being followed remain the correct ones and are shown in the table below: are appropriate for the long-term success of our business and, ultimately, client portfolios.
Maximum possible Meetings This year each of the eight board meetings were held in the UK, attendance attended and separate groups of directors took the opportunity to visit Simon Troughton 8 8 several of our overseas offices outside of the Board calendar.
Martin Gilbert 8 8 Visits were arranged to the Hong Kong, Luxembourg, New York, Julie Chakraverty 8 8 Philadelphia, Singapore and Sydney offices at which meetings were arranged with local management and clients in order to Andrew Laing 8 8 gain a more detailed understanding of local business conditions.
Rod MacRae 8 8 Presentations of both a formal and informal nature were provided Richard Mully 8 8 and this enabled the Board members to gain a more detailed understanding of specific local issues.
Val Rahmani 8 8 Bill Rattray 8 8 Conflicts of interest The Board confirms that it has considered and authorised any Jutta af Rosenborg 8 8 conflicts or potential conflicts of interest in accordance with the Akira Suzuki 8 8 Groups existing procedures.
It has also implemented specific Hugh Young 8 8 guidelines to address any potential conflicts that may arise Gerhard Fusenig 4 4 in the future.
The Board has specifically considered the other appointments held by directors, details of which are contained Roger Cornick 8 8 in their biographies on pages 54 to 55, and has confirmed that it Jim Pettigrew 4 3 believes that each is able to devote sufficient time to fulfill the Anne Richards 4 4 duties required of them under the terms of their contracts or letters of appointment.
Resigned from the Board during the year.
Board evaluation The Board met eight times during the year to review the Groups A formal process has been established, led by the Chairman, financial performance and strategy, as well as addressing matters for the annual evaluation of the performance of the Board, relating to objectives and budgets.
Other topics discussed included its appointed committees and each director.
It aims to ensure Brexit and a number of other matters affecting the economy that they continue to act effectively and efficiently: fulfil their as well as focusing on the company competitive and regulatory respective duties: and identify any training requirements.
environment in which it operates.
The Board also discussed issues relating to legal, environmental, social, governance and other The Board undertook an internal performance evaluation in 2016. relevant matters.
The Chairman met each director individually to discuss personal performance and training and development needs.
He also The Board held a separate strategy discussion, at which the discussed their thoughts on the wider performance of the Board members of the GMB presented their proposals for the 2017 and its committees, and this information was fed back to all strategy.
This was followed up with regular presentations to the individuals in a follow up meeting.
The non-executive directors Board throughout the year detailing progress towards achieving also met without the Chairman present to discuss the evaluation the strategy.
of his performance, having taken into consideration the views of Comprehensive board papers, comprising an agenda, formal the executive directors.
reports and briefing papers are sent to directors in advance of The results of this meeting were subsequently discussed each meeting.
Directors are continually updated with written between the Senior Independent Director and the Chairman.
and oral reports, from senior executives and external advisers.
Additionally, the Chairman and the non-executive directors held Additionally, the Board regularly receives briefings and a meeting without the executive directors present at which the presentations from senior executives, local management and executive directors performance was discussed.
external advisers covering a wide range of topics relevant to the Groups business.
An external evaluation is scheduled for 2017.
During the year, the Board has continued to focus on factors relevant to the operations of the Group, including the global macro-economic position and the Board has received a number 58 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance Board diversity number of meetings with the other Board members, members We are long-standing supporters of diversity in the boardroom, of the executive and a number of our external advisers.
As the particularly demonstrated by our support for the Hampton year developed, Gerhard looked to develop his understanding Alexander Review building on the Davies Review which further by requesting additional information and holding further encourages FTSE companies to achieve at least 33% women on internal discussions.
We are also supportive of the aims and recommendations The Company Secretary, under the direction of the Chairman, of the Parker committee on ethnic diversity in the boardroom.
is responsible for facilitating the induction programme, ensuring Our current Board is made up of twelve directors of whom three good information flow between the Board, its committees and 25% are women.
Aberdeen is also supportive of the Financial management, and assisting with directors continuing professional Reporting Councils aims to encourage diversity in the boardroom.
We remain of the opinion that appointments to the Board should be made relative to a range of different criteria, including Directors are advised, at the time of their appointment, of the legal diversity of background, experience, and other demographics, and other duties and obligations arising from the role of a director such as race, gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation, culture and of a listed company.
They are reminded of these duties and nationality, alongside relevant experience, judgment and expertise.
All directors are obliged to undertake We will continue to insist that long lists and short lists of possible a minimum of 35 hours of continuing professional development appointments to the Board reflect that position.
Further detail on annually, of which at least 21 hours must be comprised of our work to improve diversity and inclusion across the Group is structured learning.
contained on page 23 of this report.
The Group maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect of Training and induction legal action against its directors.
The Group has a formal induction process which is followed to Relationships with shareholders ensure that new directors appointed to the Board are provided The Group communicates regularly with institutional shareholders, with a detailed understanding of the business, its activities and the analysts and the financial press throughout the year.
Annual and regulatory and competitive environment in which it operates.
interim reports and trading updates are widely distributed to During the year, a formal and tailored programme was provided parties who may have an interest in the Groups performance.
to Gerhard Fusenig to assist with his integration into the business The statements and reports, together with copies of investor and to assist in developing his understanding of the operations of presentations, are made available on the website.
The programme was agreed with Gerhard and he had a aberdeen-asset.
com 59 Corporate governance report continued A review of the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and The Board receives copies of all research published on the Group, internal control systems has been carried out through the work and the Chief Executive and Finance Director provide an update and operations of the audit and risk committees.
on specific discussions with major shareholders on a regular basis.
Investors are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting The risk management committee oversees the system of controls AGM at which they have an opportunity to ask questions.
within the day to day operations of the Group.
It has a monthly The AGM is normally attended by all directors and the chairmen meeting in which they also monitor culture and the clarity of of each of the Board committees are available to answer responsibility over risk areas.
The committee reports on and questions.
The Group continues to offer major shareholders monitors critical risks, issues and high priority projects.
It serves to the opportunity to meet any or all of the Chairman, the Senior reconcile the key risks and issues identified by the business with Independent Non-Executive Director, the chairman of the those raised by the Groups monitoring functions.
This provides remuneration committee and any new directors.
assurance to the Board that risks and issues are adequately escalated and managed.
The Group will continue its policy of announcing the number of proxy votes cast on resolutions at the AGM and any other general Membership of the committee comprises executive directors and meetings.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is senior management from all business functions.
The committee available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact meetings are also attended by the heads of the primary control through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or oversight functions.
The roles of these functions are as follows: Finance Director has failed to resolve or for which such contact the compliance team monitors compliance with regulatory is inappropriate.
requirements in each jurisdiction in which the Group operates: Risk management the legal team is responsible for ensuring that the Group The audit and risk committees continue to support the Board in complies with statutory requirements globally: discharging its oversight duties with regard to internal control, the business risk department is responsible for the management risk management and capital adequacy.
These committees and oversight of operational risk: also have responsibility for ensuring that the Group strategy is the market risk team covers the risk profiles within the various appropriate and aligned with the Boards risk appetite, as set out investment strategies as well as the credit risk associated with the in a formal Board statement.
counterparties with whom Aberdeen conducts its business: and The attitudes to risk agreed at Board and committee discussions the internal audit function reviews the effectiveness of all are fed through to the planning processes for the individual controls, either by reviewing the methods and findings of the business units.
The Board is also responsible for the Internal other independent monitoring functions, or by directly auditing Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP, a process the controls operated by management.
required by the UK regulator, which summarises the risk The heads of compliance, business risk and market risk each report management framework and regulatory capital requirements of directly to the Group Head of Risk while the Head of Legal reports the Group.
This is closely linked to the Groups strategic planning to the General Counsel.
The Group Head of Risk who, while also and capital management exercises.
a director of the Group, reports to the Chief Executive and also Internal control attends and reports at risk and audit committee meetings.
The risk management framework includes a sound system of The Head of Internal Audit reports to the Chief Executive as well as internal controls that are designed to: having unrestricted access to the chairman of the audit committee.
Identify and appraise all risks related to achieving the Groups More information on the risk management framework and specific objectives including all business, operational, reputational, risks facing the Group can be found on pages 40 to 49.
Please refer financial and regulatory risks: to page 39 for the viability statement.
Manage and control risk appropriately rather than eliminate it: Provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss: Be embedded within the business processes and form part of the Groups culture, which emphasises clear management responsibility and accountabilities: Respond quickly to emerging risks within the Group and the external business environment: and Include procedures for reporting any control failings or weaknesses to the appropriate level of management together with the details of corrective action.
60 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016
