Board of directors Simon Troughton Martin Gilbert Julie Chakraverty Chairman Chief Executive Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Background and experience Background and experience Background and experience Simon was a partner at Cazenove and Martin trained as a chartered accountant Julie was formerly a board member of UBS Company Limited before moving to Fauchier prior to moving into investment management Investment Bank and a non-executive Partners in 2003 where he became chief with an Aberdeen firm of solicitors.
He is a director of Spirit Pub Company Paternoster operating officer.
He qualified as a chartered founding director and shareholder of the and MS Amlin, where she was chair of the surveyor having read Land Economy at Group.
Martin is a director of a number remuneration committee.
of Aberdeen managed investment trusts she held a number of global leadership and funds.
He is also chairman of the positions with a specialised background in Date of appointment PRA Practitioner Panel, and a member of risk management and fixed income.
She Simon was appointed to the Board on the Monetary Authority of Singapores started her financial career over 20 years 29 July 2009 and was appointed Chairman on International Advisory Panel.
ago at JP Morgan, after graduating with first 1 October 2016.
Simon is also chairman of class honours in Economics from St Johns the nominations committee.
Date of appointment College, Cambridge.
Martin was appointed to the Board on Other appointments 1 July 1983.
Date of appointment Redburn Limited non-executive director Julie was appointed to the Board on Other appointments 4 May 2011 and is chairman of the Sky plc deputy chairman risk committee.
Other appointments Rungway Limited director Girls Day School Trust trustee Gerhard Fusenig Andrew Laing Rod MacRae Independent Deputy Chief Executive Group Head of Risk Non-Executive Director Background and experience Background and experience Background and experience Gerhard was formerly chief executive officer Andrew joined the Group in 1986 with Rod is responsible for UK and global risk of core asset management at Credit Suisse responsibility for private equity investment.
including regulatory compliance, business and over the last 25 years held a number of Andrew was subsequently appointed chief and market risk.
Rod joined Aberdeen in senior management roles at Credit Suisse operating officer.
Prior to joining Aberdeen, 2003, following the acquisition of Edinburgh Group AG and UBS AG.
He graduated from Andrew practised commercial law and was a Fund Managers.
the University of Trier with a Masters in private equity fund manager in Edinburgh.
He graduated with an MA in Economics from Mathematics and Business Management.
He graduated from the University of the University of Edinburgh and is a member Gerhard previously served as non-executive Aberdeen with an MA in Politics and of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of director on the Board of Aberdeen between International Relations, and an LLB.
Rod is a director of a number of 2009 and 2012 representing Credit Suisse Andrew serves on the board of the Group subsidiary companies.
who were, at that time, a significant Investment Association and is also a director shareholder in the Company.
Date of appointment of a number of Group subsidiary companies.
Rod was appointed to the Board on Date of appointment Date of appointment 1 October 2012.
Gerhard was appointed to the Board on Andrew was originally appointed to the Board 25 April 2016. in 1987 and then again on 23 January 2004 and was appointed Deputy Chief Executive Other appointments in 2008. Credit Suisse Insurance Linked Strategies Ltd non-executive director Key Audit committee Nominations committee Remuneration committee Risk committee Innovation committee Chairman of committee 54 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance Richard Mully Val Rahmani Bill Rattray Independent Independent Finance Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Background and experience Background and experience Background and experience Richard was formerly the co-founder and Val was formerly chief executive officer of US Bill joined the Group in 1985 as company managing partner of Grove International internet security software firm, Damballa secretary and subsequently became group Partners LLP, a major real estate private and, prior to that, held a number of senior financial controller.
Prior to joining the Group, equity firm.
He spent much of his 30 year executive roles with IBM Corporation.
She Bill trained as a chartered accountant with career in financial services as an investment graduated from Oxford University with an Ernst & Whinney in Aberdeen, qualifying in banker.
Richard graduated with first class MA and PhD in Chemistry.
Bill is a director of a number of Group honours in Economics from University subsidiary companies.
Date of appointment College London and also holds an MBA Val was appointed to the Board on Date of appointment in Finance.
3 February 2015 and is chairman of the Bill was appointed to the Board on Date of appointment innovation committee.
Richard was appointed to the Board on Other appointments Other appointments 23 April 2012 and is chairman of the Computer Task Group Curtis Banks Group PLC remuneration committee.
non-executive director non-executive director Other appointments Great Portland Estates plc non-executive director alstria Office REIT-AG supervisory board member St. Modwen Properties PLC senior independent non-executive director Starr Street Limited director Jutta af Rosenborg Akira Suzuki Hugh Young Independent Non-Executive Head of Investments Non-Executive Director Director Background and experience Background and experience Background and experience Jutta was formerly chief financial officer for Akira joined Aberdeen through the business Hugh is Head of Investments and Managing ALK-Abello A S, a global pharmaceutical and capital alliance with Mitsubishi UFJ Director of Aberdeen Asset Management company, and a non-executive director of Trust and Banking Corporation.
He founded Singapore based Carnegie WorldWide Investment Fund.
Bachelor of Law degree from Keio University.
Aberdeen Asia in 1992 and has been She has spent most of her career in finance Following graduation Akira joined Mitsubishi managing the Groups Asian equities since and qualified as an accountant with Deloitte Trust and has undertaken a wide variety of 1985.
Hugh graduated with a BA in Politics before establishing her own auditing and roles, primarily in asset management and is from Exeter University.
Hugh is a director of a consulting business.
Jutta has a Master degree currently Managing Executive Officer and is number of Group subsidiary companies in business economics and auditing from the based in Tokyo.
and Aberdeen-managed investment trusts Copenhagen Business School.
Date of appointment Date of appointment Akira was appointed to the Board on Date of appointment Jutta was appointed to the Board on 29 August 2013.
Hugh was appointed to the Board on 18 January 2013 and is chairman of the 22 March 2011.
AMP Capital Holdings Limited director Other appointments Det Danske Klasselotteri A S chairman JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc non-executive director The PGA European Tour non-executive director NKT Holdings A S non-executive director aberdeen-asset.
