enhancing OuR STaKEHOLDER RELaTIONS Continuing to invest in unearthing Africas potential as we expand our footprint across africa, our opportunity to provide benefits to communities and host countries will increase and we can contribute more to the development of the continent.
creating sustainable coMMunities SuSTaINaBLE COMMuNITIES in 2016, we rolled out our new strategy THRIVING LOCaL to create sustainable communities around ECONOMy our mines that is aligned with the un Sustainable development goals.
STRaTEGIC SOCIaL INFRaSTRuCTuRE acacia will seek to contribute to the development of sustainable communities: STaKEHOLDER RELaTIONSHIPS by catalysing a thriving local economy: which is supported by access to social infrastructure: and that is built on the foundations of trusting relationships and partnerships achieved through constructive engagement.
US$10.7m Spent on corporate social responsibility in 2016 12 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 strAtegic rePort developing the next generation acacia vocational Scholarship programme Empowerment of the youth through provision of relevant skills is not only enshrined in the uN Sustainable Development Goals, but also in Kenyas own development plan, Vision 2030.
Kenya has an acknowledged acute deficit in technical and vocational skills needed to meet the increasing demand for large infrastructure projects and the expanding extractive sector.
In line with this, and with acacias sustainable communities strategy and the desired outcome of delivering inclusive and equitable quality education to host communities, we launched the acacia Vocational Scholarship Programme in September 2016.
66 students from disadvantaged backgrounds in our main area of operation, including 36 women, have been supported through the payment of full tuition and examination fees in a range of vocational courses in three neighbouring renowned technical colleges.
In the spirit of shared commitment, the students are asked to contribute towards extra course requirements, and their ability to meet these costs is under constant monitoring.
Courses offered were those which acacia may potentially utilise in the long term, whilst at the same time offering students the opportunity of a livelihood that isnt reliant on acacias operations.
Courses range from one to two years in duration and include those in technical skills such as welding, plumbing, electrics and mechanics, as well as in a range of agricultural and business-related disciplines.
Genuine community involvement was achieved in a fair, open and transparent selection process, facilitated greatly by the assistance of community representatives on the community consultative committee, which serves as the communications conduit between acacia and the US$911m community.
The programme has enjoyed compelling support and praise from the community, and we look forward to witnessing the fruits of the Direct economic contribution to host economies in 2016 programme in years to come.
US$164m Net tax contribution to host economies in 2016 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 13
