board of directors Our Directors have considerable knowledge and experience of the mining industry and bring other relevant experience to the Board to assist Acacia in achieving its strategic goals.
kelvin dushnisky, age 53 brad gordon, age 54 Chairman of the Board Chief Executive Officer year appointed: 2012 year appointed: 2013 tenure: 4 years tenure: 3 years peter tomsett, age 59 ambassador juma v. mwapachu, Senior Independent age 74 Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director year appointed: 2013 year appointed: 2011 tenure: 3 years tenure: 5 years andre falzon, age 62 Independent Non-Executive Director year appointed: 2010 tenure: 6 years 62 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 governance turn over to find out More Read full biographies of our Board members overleaf.
michael kenyon, age 67 Steve lucas, age 62 Independent Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director year appointed: 2010 year appointed: 2013 tenure: 6 years tenure: 3 years rachel english, age 54 Stephen galbraith, age 45 Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director year appointed: 2010 year appointed: 2013 tenure: 6 years tenure: 3 years AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 63 board of directors CONTINuED non-executive executive non-executive chairman director directorS kelvin dushnisky, age 53 brad gordon, age 54 peter tomsett, age 59 ambassador juma v. andre falzon, age 62 chairman of the board chief executive officer Senior independent mwapachu, age 74 independent non-executive director independent non-executive non-executive director director 2016 committee membership 2016 committee membership 2016 committee membership 2016 committee membership 2016 committee membership Nomination & Governance EHS&S audit EHS&S audit Compensation Nomination & Governance Nomination & Governance Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Mr Dushnisky was appointed Mr Gordon was appointed Mr Tomsett has a wide range ambassador Juma V. Mr Falzon is a senior financial Chairman of the Board in as acacias Chief Executive of technical, operational Mwapachu has held a number executive with over 25 years February 2013, having Officer in august 2013.
He and senior management of senior positions in both the of financial and management served as a Director since was previously the CEO of experience in the mining public and private sector of experience within the mining July 2012.
Mr Dushnisky Intrepid Mines, a Canadian industry.
He spent 20 years Tanzania and was appointed industry, including a period as has more than 25 years and australian listed with Placer Dome Inc. in a as Tanzanias ambassador to Vice President and Controller of international mining precious metals exploration number of senior roles, France from 2002 to 2006.
He at Barrick between 1994 industry experience.
He and development company culminating in serving as was the founding Secretary and 2006.
He is a Director was appointed President of with primary operations in President and Chief Executive General of the Chamber of of Detour Gold Corporation Barrick Gold Corporation in Indonesia.
Prior to his time Officer until its acquisition in Commerce, Industry and and was previously a director august 2015 with overall at Intrepid, Mr Gordon was 2006.
He has been a Director agriculture: he also served as and audit Committee chair responsibility for execution the CEO of Emperor Mines, of the Minerals Council of Chairman of the Confederation of a number of publicly listed of Barricks strategic the australasian subsidiary australia, the World Gold of Tanzania Industries gold mining companies.
priorities, and was appointed of DRDGold before it merged Council and the International between 1996 and 2000.
He to the Board of Directors of with Intrepid.
Before that, Council for Mining & Metals.
has played a leading role in Mr Falzon holds a Bachelor Barrick in February 2016. he held a series of the regional integration of East of Commerce degree from the Mr Dushnisky represents progressively senior Mr Tomsett has considerable africa, holding the position of university of Toronto, Canada Barrick at the World Gold positions with Placer Dome.
board-level experience in the Secretary General of the East and is a CPa, Ca, CGa Council Chair, Investment resources sector.
He served african Community prior to his Canada.
Committee, and the Mr Gordon has a proven as Non-Executive Chairman of appointment to the Board.
He International Council ability to deliver the Equinox Minerals until its currently holds the position of on Mining and Metals maximum potential from the acquisition in 2011 and is Global President of the Society ICMM.
He is a director of operations he has managed, currently Non-Executive for International Development the Canadian Council for the from reducing costs and Chairman of Silver Standard and holds a number of other americas, and The Business increasing production to Resources Inc. Directorships in Tanzania.
He is a achieving operational member of the International efficiencies and extending ambassador Juma V. advisory Board of the mine lives.
Mr Gordon holds Mwapachu holds a Bachelor Shanghai Gold Exchange and a Mining Engineering degree of Law degree with Honours the accenture Global Mining from the Western australia from the university of East Executive Council.
School of Mines and an africa, a postgraduate degree Executive MBa from in International Law from Mr Dushnisky holds an INSEaD, France.
the Indian academy, and Honors Bachelor of Science Doctorates in Literature Hon.
degree from the Honoris Causa from the university of Manitoba, university of Dar es Salaam in addition to a Master and Political Sciences Honoris of Science degree and a Causa from the National Juris Doctor degree from university of Rwanda.
the university of British Columbia.
He is a member of the Law Society of British Columbia and the Canadian Bar association.
board meetings attended board meetings attended board meetings attended board meetings attended board meetings attended 9 9 9 5 9 independent independent independent independent independent No Not applicable yes yes yes 64 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 governance michael kenyon, age 67 Steve lucas, age 62 rachel english, age 54 Stephen galbraith, age 45 Board skills independent independent independent non-executive director 1 non-executive director non-executive director non-executive director 2 2 2016 committee membership 2016 committee membership 2016 committee membership 2016 committee membership Compensation Compensation audit Not applicable 4 EHS&S Geology Engineering Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Financial Mr Kenyon has more than Mr Lucas is a Chartered Ms English is a Fellow of the Mr Galbraith has been 40 years of experience in the accountant with long and Institute of Chartered employed by Barrick since African and regional affairs mining and mineral exploration wide-ranging financial accountants.
Ms English has august 2000 in treasury industry and is a geologist by experience as an executive held senior positions in BG and finance functions, and training.
He is Chairman of the and non-executive director in Group and Royal Dutch Shell, is currently Managing Director Board of Directors of Detour the energy and extractive with responsibilities spanning of Barrick International Board independence Gold Corporation.
He was finance finance, corporate strategy, Barbados Corporation.
previously been Chairman of director at National Grid plc mergers and acquisitions, Mr Galbraith previously held the Board of Directors of Troon from 2002 to 2010 and and business development.
the role of audit Manager for 3 Ventures Ltd, President and previously worked for 11 She began her career at .
Chief Executive Officer at both years at Shell and for six years  Canico Resource Corp and at BG Group, latterly as group and subsequently worked Mr Galbraith holds a Bachelor 6 Sutton Resources Ltd, and treasurer.
He is currently for the World Bank Group of arts degree in accountancy a Director of Cumberland Non-Executive Chairman and European Bank for from Strathclyde university, is Resources Ltd until their of Ferrexpo plc and a Reconstruction and a member of the Institute of Non-independent respective acquisition by Non-Executive Director Development EBRD, Chartered accountants of third parties.
where she was involved in Scotland and is a Chartered Independent policy development and Financial analyst Charterholder.
Mr Kenyon holds an MSc Mr Lucas holds a Ba in lending operations.
Currently, degree in Economic Geology Geology from Oxford Ms English is a Non-Executive from the university of alberta university.
Director of Kuwait Energy plc, Board diversity in Canada.
He was also adam Smith International the recipient of the 2005 and Helios Social Enterprise, 1 Developer of the year award which she founded to from the Prospector and develop renewable energy Developers association of access projects in rural Canada in recognition of sub-Saharan africa.
Ms English holds an Ma in Politics, Philosophy & Female Economics from Oxford university.
Male board meetings attended board meetings attended board meetings attended board meetings attended 9 8 9 9 independent independent independent independent yes yes yes No AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 65
