executive leadership teaM andrew wray, age 53 mark morcombe, age 46 chief financial officer chief operating officer andrew Wray was appointed as CFO in September 2013, having Mark Morcombe is a professional Mining Engineer with more than spent three years as Head of Corporate Development and Investor 20 years of industry experience, primarily in the underground mining Relations at acacia.
Previously he was employed by JP Morgan environment.
He started his mining career in australia where he Cazenove where he was a Director in the Corporate Finance team.
worked in various project and operational roles in australia and africa andrew has over 15 years of experience in advising a range of mining before being appointed as General Manager of agnew Gold Mine in and other companies in their capital-raising activities and in other Western australia.
In 2009, he relocated to South africa in the role strategic objectives.
Prior to joining JP Morgan, andrew worked for of Vice President and Head of Operations for Gold Fields at the South the Kuwait Investment Office in London, dealing with their portfolio Deep Gold Mine and from 2010 onwards held various senior positions of investments in Spain.
andrew holds a Bachelor of arts Honours for angloGold ashantis Continental africa Region, supporting mines degree in Modern Languages from university College London.
in Mali, Namibia, Tanzania, DRC, Guinea and Ghana.
Mark brings with him a wealth of experience in underground mining, projects and turnaround management, business development and JV management and has extensive experience across the african mining industry.
He holds a Bachelor of Engineering Mining Engineering and a Masters of Engineering Sciences Mining Geomechanics from Curtin university in australia.
deodatus mwanyika, age 54 peter geleta, age 53 vice president, corporate affairs head of people Deo Mwanyika joined acacia in March 2010, having been Peter Geleta joined acacia in May 2012 and has extensive previously employed by Barrick which he joined in 1999 and where experience on the african continent, having worked across a number he occupied various managerial positions over 12 years, culminating of african countries in various operational and corporate roles.
in his appointment in 2008 as Executive General Manager, Tanzania.
Prior to joining acacia he held a number of roles at Barrick, including Deo holds a Bachelor of Law degree with Honours from the university Organisational Effectiveness Director for Barrick africa, Human of Dar es Salaam and a Masters in Law from the university of Resources Director for the australia Pacific Region and General Cambridge.
Deo is a member of the Tanganyika Law Society Manager for Barricks Cowal Gold Mine in New South Wales.
Before and the East african Law Society.
joining Barrick, Peter worked for angloGold ashanti for 25 years, where he held a number of roles including Head of Human Resources and Sustainability for angloGold ashantis africa Operations and General Manager of the Navachab Mine in Namibia.
Peter holds an Executive MBa qualification from the university of Cape Town.
peter Spora, age 47 charlie ritchie, age 47 head of discovery head of legal & compliance Peter Spora joined acacia in March 2010 having previously been Charlie Ritchie joined acacia as Head of Legal & Compliance in employed by Barrick, where he served as Principal Geologist, africa, January 2017.
Charlie comes to acacia after more than 20 years in from 2006 to 2008 and Exploration Manager, africa, from 2008 corporate and private legal practice across australia, the uK and the to 2010.
Peter has over 19 years of experience as a geologist uSa.
His legal career includes 13 years at the Rio Tinto Group, in australia andafrica.
He holds a Bachelor of applied Science in including considerable experience in the african mining sector.
Geology degree from the university of Technology, Sydney, australia.
until the end of 2016, he served as Rio Tintos General Counsel He is a member of the australian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy Diamonds & Minerals and the united States, based initially in London ausIMM, a member of the Tanzanian Chamber of Minerals and and then Salt Lake City.
Prior to this, he was Legal Counsel and Energy, and is a member of the Society of Economic Geologists.
Company Secretary for the aSx-listed Energy Resources of australia Limited Rio Tinto: 68% between 2007 and 2010, and he first joined Rio Tinto in 2004 to manage significant disputes and litigation in the australia-Pacific region.
Before joining Rio Tinto, Charlie worked at private law firms in London and Melbourne, specialising in international commercial litigation and dispute resolution.
Professionally qualified in both the united Kingdom and australia, Charlie holds Bachelor of Laws Hons.
and Bachelor of arts degrees from the university of Melbourne.
66 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016
