governance corporate governance report board composition delegation of authority as at 31 December 2016, the Board comprised a Non-Executive The Board has delegated responsibility for certain matters to four Chairman, one Executive Director and seven Non-Executive Directors, Committees: the audit Committee, the Compensation Committee, the ofwhom six were independent.
EHS&S Committee and the Nomination & Governance Committee.
The membership, chairmanship and activities of each of these Committees board changes during 2016 are set out in each Committee report on pages 72 to 76 and as part of There were no new Board appointments during the reporting period.
Graham Clow retired from the Board at the 2016 aGM.
board effectiveness retirement and re-election board meetings and attendance In line with the requirements for annual re-election under the uK Board decisions are predominantly made by achieving a consensus at Corporate Governance Code, all Directors will offer themselves for Board meetings.
In exceptional circumstances, decisions may be taken re-election at the forthcoming aGM.
The Board determines all of by the majority of Board members.
Questions arising at any meeting are these Directors to be eligible for re-election.
determined by a majority of votes.
In the case of an equality of votes, acacias articles of association do not provide the Chairman with a board leadership second or casting vote.
all Directors are required to take decisions chairman and chief executive officer objectively and in the best interests of the Company.
as part of their In line with best practice, the roles of Chief Executive Officer and duties as Directors, Non-Executive Directors are expected to apply Chairman, and their related responsibilities, are separated.
The independent judgement to contribute to issues of strategy and divisions of responsibility and the specifications of each role are set performance and to scrutinise the performance of management.
out in writing and reviewed periodically as part of annual corporate governance reviews.
Responsibilities are divided so as to ensure that The Board is scheduled to meet at least four times a year, and at such the Chairman remains principally responsible for the leadership of the other times as are necessary to discharge its duties.
The Board met Board and ensuring that the Board plays a full and constructive part in a total of nine times in 2016.
Meetings occurred in person and by the development and determination of the Companys strategy and teleconference.
Details of individual attendance are provided overall commercial objectives.
The Chief Executive Officer is primarily in the table overleaf.
responsible for all executive management matters affecting acacia and is principally responsible for running the Companys business.
board briefings and development all members of the ELT report directly to him.
The Board receives monthly management reports and quarterly reports outlining all material operational, financial and strategic Senior independent director developments.
These ensure that Board members remain properly Mr Tomsett is acacias Senior Independent Director SID.
The briefed on the performance and financial position of the Group on a responsibilities and duties of the SID are determined in accordance with continuous basis.
Board and Committee papers are circulated prior to the requirements of the uK Corporate Governance Code.
In particular, all meetings to allow Directors to be briefed in advance of discussions.
the SID is required to: Board meetings include quarterly operational, financial and exploration project performance reviews to ensure that, in addition to specific act as a sounding board for the Chairman: scheduled matters and any other business, core business performance act as an intermediary for other Directors, when necessary: is monitored and assessed on a continuous basis.
In addition to ensure that an annual appraisal of the Chairman is conducted by the scheduled Board meetings, all Directors have access to members of the Non-Executive Directors, without the Chairman present: and Executive Leadership Team and to whatever further information they need to perform their duties and to satisfy their responsibilities.
acacias be available to shareholders for discussion purposes, in cases where independent Non-Executive Directors and Committee Chairmen meet contact between such shareholders and the Chairman and or CEO with members of the Executive Leadership Team to receive more has been ineffective or is otherwise inappropriate.
in-depth briefings on Board and Committee matters whenever required or requested.
In addition, all Directors continue to have free access to visit matters reserved operations outside scheduled Board arrangements.
Board training and There is a schedule of matters that the Board has specifically reserved development needs are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Directors may for its decision.
This schedule was reviewed during the year and includes take independent professional advice, as necessary, at the Companys matters such as setting the Groups strategic aims and objectives, expense in the furtherance of their duties.
In addition to this, each Board approving significant contractual commitments including merger and Committee is entitled to seek independent professional advice at the acquisition activity, approving capital-raising, approving changes to Companys expense, where necessary, to assist or guide the Committee the Groups share capital and corporate structure, approving financial in the performance of its functions.
reports and ensuring maintenance of a sound system of internal control and risk management.
AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 67 corporate governance report CONTINuED internal control enhanced monitoring, review and assessment requirements introduced The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and by the 2014 edition of the uK Corporate Governance Code and the FRCs risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In line with this Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial responsibility, the Board has established ongoing processes and and Business Reporting that has been introduced to replace the Turnbull systems for identifying, evaluating and managing principal risks that Guidance for financial reporting periods commencing on or after 1 the Group faces, which have been in place throughout the year and October 2014. up to the date of approval of the annual Report.
The review also covered a review of all material controls, including The Board principally bases its monitoring and review of the financial, operational and compliance controls and considered all effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems on its significant aspects of internal control for the reporting period.
During the review of management reports and assessments, and on the quarterly course of the review the Board did not identify or hear of any failings or reports it receives on the status of acacias risk management and weaknesses that it determined to be material.
Therefore a confirmation internal control environment.
This is supported by the risk profile reviews of any necessary actions undertaken is not required.
that acacias internal audit function carries out to help the Board identify and manage the most significant risks and events that could affect the additional information regarding the internal control and risk Companys operations, financials and performance on an ongoing basis.
management process specifically in relation to the financial reporting Where necessary, the Board is assisted by its Committees in reviewing process and the preparation of the consolidated financial statements internal systems and controls, particularly the audit Committee, which is provided as part of the audit Committee report and the notes to the is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal consolidated financial statements.
control and risk management framework systems, as components of the Companys internal control framework.
Further detail as regards the governance structure used for acacias approach to risk management and the processes and procedures used In compliance with its obligations, the Board conducted a review of the in the context of risk management is provided on pages 28 to 29 of this effectiveness of the Companys risk management and internal control annual Report.
The Companys viability statement is also provided in this systems for the reporting period.
This review took into account the context on page 29. audit compensation nomination & governance ehS&S board meetings committee committee committee committee number maximum number maximum number maximum number maximum number maximum attended possible attended possible attended possible attended possible attended possible current directors Kelvin Dushnisky 9 9 2 2 1 Brad Gordon 9 9 2 2 Peter Tomsett 9 9 7 7 4 4 2 2 ambassador Juma V. 5 9 1 2 4 4 Mwapachu andre Falzon 9 9 7 7 Michael Kenyon 9 9 4 4 1 Graham Clow 3 4 2 2 2 2 Steve Lucas 8 9 4 4 Rachel English 9 9 6 7 4 4 Stephen Galbraith 9 9 1 Graham Clow stepped down from the Board during the year and therefore his attendance at EHS&S and Compensation Committee meetings reflect the maximum number ofmeetings attended prior to departure.
Brad Gordon joined the EHS&S Committee to replace Graham Clow on his departure from the Board.. 68 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 governance majority shareholder In addition, the Listing Rules now require premium listed companies with Barrick is the Group majority shareholder, holding approximately 64% of controlling shareholders to provide a confirmation in their annual reports acacias issued shares as at the date of this report.
acacias relationship that all of the independence provisions contained in their relationship with Barrick is governed by the terms of a Relationship agreement, the agreements have been complied with.
In line with this requirement, the principal purpose of which is to ensure that the acacia Group is capable Board has assessed Barrick and acacias compliance with the Relationship of carrying on its business independently of the Barrick Group and that agreements independence requirements as amended, and has assessed any transactions and relationships with the Barrick Group are conducted compliance with these requirements in line with practices employed in any at arms length and on normal commercial terms.
The Relationship event since the IPO.
as such, the Board can confirm that acacia has agreement will continue for so long as acacia is listed on the London complied with the independence requirements stated above since their Stock Exchange and Barrick owns or controls at least 15% of acacias adoption and, so far as the Board is aware, Barrick and its associates issued share capital or voting rights.
have also complied with these requirements.
In this regard, all members of the Board support the giving of this statement and no independent The Relationship agreement provides Barrick with certain Director Non-Executive Director has raised any objections in this regard.
appointment rights in line with a sliding scale, structured as follows: dialogue with the investment community barrick percentage shareholding barrick director appointment rights acacia has a designated investor relations team which acts as the 40% or more The higher of three Non-Executive primary point of contact with the investment community and is Directors and the maximum that may responsible for maintaining acacias ongoing relations with investors and be appointed under the uK Corporate shareholders.
acacia conducts regular investor meetings and telephone Governance Code calls with the investment community to discuss results, and participates in mining conferences to meet with current and prospective investors.
In 25% up to 40% The higher of two Non-Executive addition to its annual and half-year reports, acacia publishes quarterly Directors and one less than the reports to the market, which provide further information on production maximum number of Non-Executive and financial results, and updates on its business and operations.
Directors that may be appointed under acacias investor relations team also arranges operational site tours the uK Corporate Governance Code for members of the analyst community, as and when appropriate.
15% up to 25% The higher of one Non-Executive Director and two less than the agm maximum number of Non-Executive acacias 2017 aGM will be held on 20 april 2017 at 13.00 uK time.
Directors that may be appointed under The business of the meeting will be conducted in accordance with the uK Corporate Governance Code Companies act 2006 requirements and standards promoted by the uK Corporate Governance Code.
The Chairman of the Board and the In addition to Director appointment rights, and subject to certain Chairmen of the audit, Compensation, EHS&S and Nomination & exceptions, as part of the terms of the Relationship agreement, Barrick Governance Committees will be available to answer questions put to has undertaken that members of the Barrick Group will not carry on the them by shareholders at the meeting.
The aGM Notice is included in the exploration of gold or silver in africa or acquire, whether through an asset documentation that has been provided with this annual Report and is purchase or the purchase of securities, a gold or silver mining business also available on the Companys website.
In accordance with best in africa that competes with acacia without giving acacia the option to practice, the notice has been sent to shareholders at least 20 exercise certain rights of first refusal for so long as Barrick holds 30% or business days prior to the date of the meeting.
more of the issued share capital or voting rights of acacia.
acacia has given a reciprocal non-compete commitment to Barrick in this regard.
conflicts of interest Mr Dushnisky and Mr Galbraith are nominee Directors appointed by acacia entered into the Relationship agreement at the time of its initial Barrick.
These individuals hold a number of cross directorships with public offering in 2010.
It was amended in 2014 to ensure full members of the Barrick Group, which give rise to situations in which compliance with the independence requirements introduced to the these Directors could have a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or Listing Rules, which took effect in November 2014.
Following these possibly may conflict, with those of acacia.
In addition, as a result of amendments the Relationship agreement expressly provides that: their employment within the Barrick Group, these individuals also hold interests under Barricks restricted stock unit plan and other employee i any and all transactions with Barrick or its associates shall be incentive plans.
conducted at arms length and on normal commercial terms: ii neither Barrick, nor any of its associates, will take any action that will prevent acacia from complying with its obligations under the Listing Rules: and iii neither Barrick, nor any of its associates, will propose or procure the proposal of a shareholder resolution which is intended or appears to be intended to circumvent the proper application of the Listing Rules.
AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 69 corporate governance report CONTINuED The Companies act 2006 requires directors to avoid situations where Lintstock subsequently produced a report which considered the following they have, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or areas of Board performance: may possibly conflict, with company interests.
However, the act does The size and composition of the Board were considered, as were the allow directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential Board members views as to the key changes that should be made conflicts of interest where a companys articles of association contain in Board composition over the next three to five years to match the a provision to that effect.
acacias articles of association contain such Companys strategic goals.
provision and a procedure for this.
In accordance with this procedure, The Boards understanding of key stakeholders, acacias operations the conflicts outlined above were declared and authorised by the Board.
and the environment in which the Company operates was reviewed.
The monitoring and, if appropriate, authorisation of any actual or The management and focus of the Board meetings was assessed, potential conflict of interest is an ongoing process.
Directors are as was the quality of the Board packs and the induction and ongoing required to notify the Company of any material changes in positions or training provided to Board members.
situations that have already been considered and any new situations.
The Boards oversight of sustainability performance, the Companys In addition, Directors are required to declare interests in potential or strategy and its capacity to deliver the strategy was considered, and actual transactions and are required to abstain from voting on such the Board members identified the top strategic issues facing acacia.
transactions, subject to permitted exceptions.
If a question arises as The Boards focus on risk was assessed and the Boards monitoring to whether any interest of a Director prevents him or her from voting of culture and behaviours throughout the organisation was reviewed.
or being counted in a quorum in the context of a potential or actual The oversight of succession and development for management was transaction, the matter is referred to the Chairman, whose findings are reviewed, as was the structure of the Company at senior levels, final and conclusive.
In the context of questions relating to any such and the level of interaction between the Board and management.
conflict of the Chairman, the question may ultimately be decided by a resolution of the other Directors.
The Board reviews conflicts of interest The review also considered the performance of the Chairman and on a periodic basis and maintains a record of all declared conflicts.
that of the individual Directors.
Specifically as regards nominee Directors appointed by Barrick, the The findings were collectively considered by all Directors.
Overall, the Relationship agreement provides that if any transaction or arrangement Board concluded that it had operated effectively throughout the reporting arises directly between a member of the Barrick Group and a member period.
Nevertheless, opportunities for improvement and specific priorities of the acacia Group and does or could, in the opinion of a majority of were identified and these have been taken into account when structuring Directors excluding any Director s appointed by Barrick, give rise to a our focus areas for 2017. among other things, the Board agreed that it conflict of interest between acacia and any Director appointed by Barrick, should review the schedule of Board site visits, consider areas in which any such matter must be approved and authorised at a duly convened the provision of further training and updates would be beneficial, and Board meeting or in writing by a majority of Directors excluding any review the opportunities it has to gain exposure to management.
Director s appointed by Barrick prior to the Company taking further action in relation to such matter.
Save for the matters set out above, as noted above, the effectiveness of each Board Committee was also no other conflicts of interest were disclosed to the Board during the assessed through this exercise and an individual Committee report reporting period.
The reports and recommendations have been reviewed and discussed by each Committee and some minor performance evaluation improvement opportunities identified.
The Board believes that annual evaluations are helpful and provide a valuable opportunity for continuous improvement.
In 2015, we engaged It is envisaged that the 2017 Board and Board Committee performance Lintstock to undertake our first  performance evaluation, whether conducted internally or externally, will be designed to evaluation of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors build upon learnings gained this year to ensure that the recommendations including the Chairman.
agreed are implemented and that year-on-year progress is measured.
In 2016, again with the assistance of Lintstock, we developed tailored surveys that reflected the Companys specific circumstances and built upon the themes and outputs from the 2015 review.
all Board members were requested to complete online surveys addressing the performance of the Board and its Committees, the Chairman and individual Directors.
The anonymity of all respondents was ensured throughout the process in order to promote the open and frank exchange of views.
70 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 governance corporate governance compliance For the year under review, as a uK company with a premium listing on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange, acacia is required to make certain statements regarding the way it is governed, as required by the 2014 edition uK Corporate Governance Code, which is available at www.
accordingly, this report explains how acacia has applied the Main Principles of the uK Corporate Governance Code during 2016.
Generally, acacia seeks to comply with all relevant provisions of the uK Corporate Governance Code wherever possible and for the reporting year it is the Boards view that acacia has complied with all such provisions, save for the following: Mr Dushnisky was not independent on appointment as Chairman and an external search consultancy was not used in connection with his appointment.
Given Mr Dushniskys experience within the mining sector, his skill set and his familiarity with the operating and geographical environment in which the Companys assets are located, the Board believes his appointment to be in the best interests of the Company irrespective of this Provisions a.
2.4. acacia has not adopted a formal diversity policy.
In this regard however, we ensure that all recruitment is conducted on the basis that we hire the best candidate for all positions, at all levels, including Board and senior management positions, irrespective of gender or race Provision B.
The uK Corporate Governance Code requires that the Board provides a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of acacias position and prospects in its external reporting.
accordingly, the Directors were responsible for the preparation and approval of this annual Report and consider the annual Report and accounts for 2016, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable and believe that it provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess acacias position and performance, business model and strategy.
In addition to compliance with the uK Corporate Governance Code, as part of commitments given in connection with acacias secondary listing on the Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange, the Board has undertaken to comply with the Corporate Governance Guidelines issued by the Tanzanian Capital Markets and Securities authority to the extent that these requirements are equivalent to applicable uK corporate governance standards.
In the case of any conflict between the two, the requirements of the uK Corporate Governance Code prevail.
acacias external auditors have reviewed those parts of this statement which they are required to review under the Listing Rules.
AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 71
