Corporate Governance: The Audit Committee The Audit Committee Statement from Colin Holmes, Chairman of the Audit Committee The impact of a change to the Ogden Discount Rate on outstanding claims was also carefully considered, with the Committee supporting managements view that claims reserves remain prudent and appropriate at the raised rate of minus 0.75% Summary of key activities during 2016 The agenda for the meetings taking place during the year are agreed by the Committee Chairman and detail the matters to be discussed and considered at each meeting.
The agenda are updated regularly to allow for new items to be included.
During the year the Committee reviewed the following: The Annual Report and interim results Reports from the Internal Audit departments within the Group on the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control procedures, details of key audit findings, and actions taken by management to manage and reduce the impact of the risks identified Reports from the external auditor on the principal findings from their review of the Groups systems and controls, and on their key accounting and audit issues and conclusions on the half and full year reporting Reports from the Chair of the Group Risk Committee on the principal risks faced by the Group and the work undertaken by the Committee to ensure risk is appropriately managed A review of the Groups Reserving methodology Presentations from independent actuaries to assist the Committee in concluding on the adequacy of the Groups reserves Reports from the external auditor on their proposed audit scope, fees, audit findings, and auditor independence Performance and effectiveness of the Internal Audit department All reports from Internal Audit including management responses to the conclusions set out in the reports Reports and updates on the project and financial controls of the new UK IT system The effectiveness of the Groups Whistleblowing Policy which sets out the arrangements for raising and handling allegations from whistle blowers The Committee also had presentations and discussions on a range of important issues including: IT Security, controls in overseas subsidiaries, deferred tax assets and Solvency II preparatory phase reporting requirements The requirements from 2018 to include enhanced reporting from the auditor on their findings Its own Terms of Reference Its own effectiveness 54 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information During the year, Admirals UK Finally, given that Annette Dear Shareholder, operation completed the roll out Court will step down from the Im pleased to provide an of a new software system for Committee at the AGM in April update on the main activities all new business transactions.
to take on the role of Chair of the of Admirals Audit Committee Updates were received from Board, I would like to take this in 2016. the Project Team and Internal opportunity to thank her for her During the year, the key areas Audit, with the Committee being important contribution.
of focus of the Committee satisfied with the controls in I hope you find the above have been to provide support place during the implementation summary, and the more to the Board in its oversight of the system.
Given the detailed report, both useful of financial reporting and the importance of this new software and informative.
control environment across platform it will remain a focus the Group.
The setting of of the Committee in 2017. insurance claims reserves The Committee also studied a continues to be a key accounting number of issues, particularly judgement in the Groups around IT Security and Controls, financial statements, and the highlighted through a range of Colin Holmes Committee placed considerable different sources including the Chairman of the focus on this subject.
The Risk Register, Internal Audit and Audit Committee analysis of outstanding claims the Committees previous work.
7 March 2017 by management was reviewed In each case the Committee alongside that of the Groups was satisfied with the proposed independent actuaries and management actions.
The impact of Consideration of the impact a change to the Ogden Discount of the Groups new reporting Rate on outstanding claims requirements under Solvency was also carefully considered, II continued to take up a with the Committee supporting considerable amount of the managements view that claims Committees time in 2016. reserves remain prudent and appropriate at the revised rate The appointment of Deloitte LLP, of minus 0.75%.
as the Groups external auditor, was approved by shareholders at The Committee reviewed the AGM in April 2016.
Deloitte the Groups reserving policy have, therefore, led the audit to ensure that it remained process for the finalisation of appropriate under the the Groups Half Year and Full requirements of Solvency II.
In addition, the Committee The transition from the Groups continued to monitor the previous external auditor, KPMG appropriateness of the Groups LLP, has occurred in an effective system of risk management and and seamless manner.
internal control as well as the robustness of the internal and external audit processes.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 55 Corporate Governance: The Audit Committee The Audit Committee continued discussed.
In addition, a number of private Membership Insurance liabilities meetings were held between members of Membership of the Committee at the end of Given the important judgements involved the Committee and the auditor.
the year was: Colin Holmes Chair, Annette in estimating outstanding claims the Court, Penny James and Owen Clarke who Committee continued to spend significant The Audit Committees primary joined the Committee with effect from time reviewing and challenging the approach responsibilities are to: 1 January 2016. and methodology adopted by management Monitor the integrity of the Groups in setting reserves for insurance liabilities The Company Secretary acts as Secretary financial statements and any formal in the financial statements.
The Committee to the Committee.
The Committee meets at announcement relating to the Groups noted the proposals of management to least four times per year and has an agenda financial performance, reviewing any continue to enhance the methodology linked to events in the Companys financial significant financial reporting judgements applied and were supportive of these plans.
calendar and other important issues that which they contain: arise throughout the year which fall for The Committee held separate meetings with Keep under review the effectiveness consideration by the Committee under the external actuaries at which there was of the Companys internal financial its remit.
challenge and debate on the best estimates controls, internal control and risk developed by the external actuaries.
At management systems: Mindful of the changes to the Code which these meetings management provided will apply to the 2017 financial year and Review the Groups procedures for further information on the reserving levels requires the Committee as a whole to handling allegations from whistleblowers proposed and were challenged by the have competence relevant to the sector and for detecting fraud: Committee as to their adequacy and level in which the company operates, the Board Monitor and assess the role and of inherent prudence.
considers that Committee members already effectiveness of the Groups Internal have a broad range of skills, experience Prior to the announcement by the Lord Audit functions in the context of the and knowledge of the insurance sector Chancellor that revises the Ogden discount Groups overall internal control and risk such that they are able to effectively rate, the impact of potential various rate management systems: analyse, challenge and debate the issues changes was studied by the Committee, Consider and make recommendations to that fall within the Committees remit.
including the review of the calculated impact the Board, to be put to shareholders for The Board further considers that Colin of the change provided by both management their approval at the AGM, in relation to Holmes Committee Chair, as a Chartered and the external actuaries.
Following the the appointment, reappointment and Management Accountant, has appropriate Lord Chancellors announcement of the removal of the Groups external auditor: recent and relevant financial experience revised rate, the Committee is satisfied that Review the external auditors having previously been the UK Finance a comprehensive approach has been taken independence and objectivity and the Director for Tesco plc.
to calculating the impact, and also that effectiveness of the audit process: following the change, the value contained The Committee is kept up to date with in the balance sheet for future claims is Review the policy on the engagement changes to Accounting Standards and appropriate and prudent.
of the external auditor to provide nonrelevant developments in financial reporting, audit services, considering the relevant company law, and the various regulatory Whilst acknowledging that the setting of regulatory guidance regarding the frameworks through presentations from reserves to cover future claims is a complex provision of non-audit services by the Groups external auditor, Chief Financial and judgemental area and having had the the external auditor.
In addition, opportunity at the separate meetings members attend relevant seminars and referred to above to consider and question Significant issues considered conferences provided by external bodies.
the recommended best estimates, the by the Committee The Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee is satisfied that an appropriate After discussion with both management Committee include all the matters process has been followed and that there and the external auditor, the Audit required under the Code.
has been scrutiny, challenge and debate to Committee determined that the key risks give confidence that the reserving levels of misstatement of the Groups financial Other individuals such as the Chairman of set provide an appropriate margin above statements related to insurance liabilities the Board, Chief Executive Officer, Chief best estimates, though noted the continued and profit commissions.
Financial Officer, the Chief Risk Officer, high level of prudence that remains within Heads of Compliance and Internal Audit, and the reserves.
These issues were discussed with representatives of different parts of the management during the year and with the Group may be invited to attend all or part of The Committee also received an update auditor at the time the Committee reviewed any meeting as and when appropriate.
The from the auditor regarding the procedures and agreed the auditors Group audit plan: external auditor was invited to attend all they had used to test managements when the auditor reviewed the interim of the Committees meetings held in 2016, methodology in setting best estimates financial statements in August 2016 and also excepting those agenda items when its and considered the auditors assertion at the conclusion of the audit of these full own performance appointment was to be that they had challenged the reserving year financial statements.
reviewed and provision of non-audit services approach taken by management and were satisfied with managements assumptions 56 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information and that the Groups approach to setting whether to approve such non-audit services, monitors the effectiveness of the Groups reserves was in compliance with current the Committee shall ensure that: internal controls.
The Committee reviewed accounting standards.
and approved the Group Internal Audit There is no direct effect, or in the view Terms of Reference which set out the role: Profit commission of an objective, reasonable and informed objectives: reporting lines and accountability: third party, would have an inconsequential The Committee considered the impact on authority: independence: and objectivity effect, of the non-audit services on the profit commission income of future changes of the Internal Audit function.
The role and Groups financial statements: in claims reserves as the recognition of competence of each Internal Audit function this income is dependent on the loss ratio The estimation of the effect on the across the Group was also assessed and booked in the financial statements and financial statements is comprehensively considered by the Committee.
As agreed cash receivable is dependent on actuarial documented and explained in a report to last year, the Group Head of Internal Audit projections of ultimate loss ratios.
The the Committee: continues to have responsibility to ensure the Committee remained satisfied that profit quality of the Internal Audit activities in the The non-audit services provided comply commission was correctly accounted for by Groups overseas locations.
with the principle of independence: and the Group and was in accordance with the The audit firm must not place significant Members of the Committee also receive contractual arrangements that were in place.
reliance on the output of the non-audit all issued audit reports, enabling them to services for the audit work.
The Audit Committee considered the auditors challenge the reports content and related overall findings on this area which indicated recommendations.
The Committee approves The Committee will continue to monitor that it considered the profit commission the Internal Audit programmes at the start of regulatory developments in this area to recognised was appropriate in the context each calendar year whilst the effectiveness ensure that its policy on non-audit fees of the financial statements as a whole.
and workload of the Internal Audit functions adheres to current guidance.
and the adequacy of available resources are Misstatements monitored throughout the year.
Effectiveness of the external No material unadjusted audit differences audit process In accordance with agreed parameters, the were reported by the external auditor.
The The Committee undertakes an annual review overseas operations in Spain, Italy and the Committee confirms that it is satisfied that to assess the independence and objectivity of US have their own locally based internal the auditor has fulfilled its responsibilities the external auditor and the effectiveness of auditors, who report to their respective with diligence and professional scepticism.
the audit process, taking into consideration country heads.
All reports are evaluated by After reviewing the presentations and relevant professional and regulatory the Group Head of Internal Audit to ensure reports from management and consulting requirements, the progress achieved against the quality and effectiveness of the reported where necessary with the auditor, the the agreed audit plan, and the competence findings.
In addition, the UK Internal Committee is satisfied that the financial with which the auditor handled the key Audit department carries out high level statements appropriately address the accounting and audit judgements.
Following governance reviews of all foreign operations, critical judgements and key estimates both this review the Committee concluded that the assessing the internal control frameworks in respect to the amounts reported and the auditor, Deloitte LLP, remained independent and system of risk management.
The Committee is also satisfied and provided a service that was robust and fit overseas internal auditors attend Committee that the significant assumptions used for for purpose.
determining the value of assets and liabilities Audit tender Committee effectiveness review have been appropriately scrutinised, As noted in this report last year, and in challenged and are sufficiently robust.
As part of the Committees detailed annual compliance with the requirements of the review of its performance and processes, Non-audit fees Competition & Markets Authoritys Statutory each Committee member completed a The Committee reviewed and approved its Audit Services for Large Companies Market comprehensive questionnaire designed policy on non-audit services in February Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive to provide objective assessment of the 2017, and were satisfied that it was aligned Tender Processes and Audit Committee Committees performance, including its with current regulatory guidance.
Under the Responsibilities Order 2014, the Group effectiveness in monitoring internal and policy, the Groups statutory auditor would completed a transparent and independent external audit.
The Committee discussed only be engaged to carry out non-audit work audit tender process in 2015.
Following this the results of the review and it was in exceptional circumstances or where there process, Deloitte LLP was recommended to concluded that, overall, the Committee was a regulatory or tax authority request and shareholders as the Groups auditor at the and the audit process were effective: that where agreed by the Committee.
AGM in April 2016 and a resolution passed to the Committee had full access to all the that effect.
information it required: that the Committee Unless required by law, regulatory or tax had appropriate Terms of Reference: authority any non-audit services will: a be Internal audit and that it was adequately discharging subject to prior approval from the Committee The Group Head of Internal Audit attends its responsibilities.
and b in aggregate, shall not cost more than all Audit Committee meetings and provides 70% of the average statutory audit fee for a range of presentations and papers to the the past three financial years.
In considering Committee, through which the Committee Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 57
