Corporate Governance: The Group Risk Committee The Group Risk Committee Statement from Jean Park, Chair of the Group Risk Committee A significant amount of time has been dedicated to developing the Groups Partial Internal Model for Solvency II with an application due to be submitted to the regulators in 2017.
Summary of key activities in 2016 During the year the Committee: Reviewed the Groups updated risk strategy, risk appetite and associated triggers and limits in the context of the Groups agreed strategic objectives Reviewed the Groups proposed dividend level, capital plan and capital buffer in line with the capital policy Reviewed the Groups regulatory capital add-on application as part of Solvency II capital requirements Reviewed the Undertaking Specific Parameters and Volatility Adjustment applications submitted to the regulators Through stress and scenario testing and reverse stress testing, considered in-depth analysis of a number of the Groups most significant risk areas, including the default of a reinsurer Considered the adequacy of risk mitigation measures and contingency plans including a review of the Groups reinsurance arrangements Recommended to the Board approval of the 2016 ORSA Report prior to submission to the regulator and approved the ORSA policy Considered the provisions of the Senior Insurance Managers Regime and approved the Groups approach Completed a review of the Solvency II Material Risk Takers Reviewed a number of new product propositions Received regular updates on IT Security and presentations on a number of key risk topics including cyber risk, GDPR, reinsurance and the Partial Internal Model Reviewed regular reports on the risks and progress of the major change programme responsible for the implementation of a new policy administration system and data warehouse, known as Project Bolt Received regular risk monitoring reports on performance of Key Risk Indicators within the overall risk management framework Received regular monitoring reports on conduct risk and complaint handling and approved the introduction of Group minimum compliance standards.
58 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information During the first half of 2016 the The focus on monitoring and Dear Shareholder, volatility of the yield curves led reporting customer outcome During the year the Committee to increased volatility in the risks continued during the has focused on embedding the Solvency Ratio as a result of the year and included reports Boards risk strategy and risk interest rate risks associated showing progress against the appetite across the Group.
This with settled and potential PPOs.
Group minimum compliance has been established as a key The increase in yield curves standards, which introduces part of the Groups Enterprise through the second half of 2016 the levels of compliance Risk Management Framework as well as further mitigating resources and monitoring ERMF.
A further refresh to the actions has led to a reduced levels that all Group firms suite of Key Risk Indicators with exposure to interest rate risk must apply to their respective associated triggers and limits was at year end 2016. regulatory obligations.
These updates have improved the effectiveness of The Committee continues to I look forward to continuing the risk management system by focus on key operational risks the good work this year.
placing greater focus on the main that affect the Group.
A full risks affecting the business.
programme of work to reduce cyber risk has been agreed A significant amount of time has throughout the year.
This been dedicated to developing the programme will also support Groups Partial Internal Model for Jean Park the data protection work as the Solvency II with an application Chair of the Group Group seeks to comply with the due to be submitted to the Risk Committee upcoming GDPR requirements.
In the interim 7 March 2017 period the Group continues to The Committee challenged and maintain a regulatory capital addreviewed the setting of and on to cover risks not captured outputs from the regular stress within the standard formula.
The and scenario testing and reverse Committee has also reviewed the stress testing.
The output was Groups proposed dividend level, incorporated into the Own capital plan and capital buffer Risk and Solvency Assessment in line with the capital policy.
ORSA report for 2016, which Further Solvency II applications the Committee also reviewed.
relating to Undertaking Specific Regular reports have been Parameters USPs and the received on the risks and Volatility Adjustment VA progress of the major change have also been submitted with programme responsible for approval granted for the latter in the implementation of a new February 2017. policy administration system and data warehouse, known as Project Bolt.
The first phase of the programme was successfully implemented in December 2015 and continued to be rolled out to other brands throughout 2016.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 59 Corporate Governance: The Group Risk Committee The Group Risk Committee continued Review the ORSA report each year with The Board is of the view that there is an Composition of the Group recommendations being provided to the ongoing process for identifying, evaluating Risk Committee Group Board for approval: and managing the Groups risks and internal Membership at the end of the year controls: that it has been in place for the Review and approve the Solvency II was: Jean Park Chair, Annette Court, year ended 31 December 2016: and that, up Actuarial Function Reports on Reinsurance David Stevens and Manning Rountree.
to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Underwriting each year: The Company Secretary acts as Secretary and Accounts, it is regularly reviewed by the to the Committee.
Review and approve the remuneration Board and accords with the internal control report from the Chief Risk Officer prior to The Committee met six times during the year.
guidance for Directors provided in the UK Remuneration Committee sign off.
Duties and responsibilities of the The Committee Chairperson reports Group Risk Committee The Board confirms that it has performed formally to the Board on its proceedings a robust assessment of the Groups principal The duties and responsibilities of the after each meeting on all matters within risks.
These risks, along with explanations of Committee are set out in Terms of Reference its duties and responsibilities, as set out in how they are being managed and mitigated, that were approved by the Board in January previously circulated minutes to the Board.
are included in the Strategic Report on 2013 and updated and approved in January The Committee Chairperson also reports on pages 40 to 43.
The responsibilities of the Committee the activities of the Committee in a formal can be summarised as: written report that is submitted to and The Board is responsible for determining discussed by the Board every six months.
the nature and extent of the principal risks Oversee the development, it is willing to take in achieving its strategic implementation and maintenance of The work of the Committee is supported objectives.
The Board meets at least seven the Groups overall Risk Management by more detailed work undertaken by times a year to discuss the direction of Framework and ensure that it is in line executive Risk Management Committees the company and provide oversight of with emerging regulatory, corporate in each of the Groups operational entities.
the Groups risk management and internal governance and best practice guidelines: At each meeting, the Risk Management control systems.
The role and responsibilities Monitoring the Groups prudential risk Committees consider significant movements of the Board are documented within exposure, which includes ensuring that in the operations risk profile, any risks that their Terms of Reference and these are the Groups capital resources and liquidity have arisen and any emerging risks.
profile are appropriate to its needs Management Committees also assess and whilst meeting minimum regulatory monitor any regulatory issues, ensuring A key element of the control system is requirements, including overseeing and that their resolution and the action taken that the Board meets regularly with a challenging the design and execution of are appropriately recorded.
In the UK, the formal schedule of matters reserved to the Groups stress and scenario testing: Risk Management Committee receives it for decision and has put in place an regular information on Conduct Risk, such as organisational structure with clearly defined Monitoring the Groups current and future complaint handling reports and other related lines of responsibility.
As described above, conduct risk exposure: management information.
The Group Risk in order to ensure these responsibilities Ensuring the adequacy and effectiveness Management function reviews and collates are properly discharged, the Board has of the Groups systems and controls for information from across the group for delegated to the Audit Committee to the prevention of financial crime, data consideration by the Group Risk Committee.
keep under review the adequacy and protection systems and controls: effectiveness of the Companys internal Monitoring the adequacy and effectiveness Internal Control And Risk financial controls, internal control and risk of the Groups Compliance functions: Management Statement management systems.
Reviewing the Groups progress towards The Board is ultimately responsible for The Board has delegated the development, achieving Solvency II compliance: the Groups system of risk management implementation and maintenance of the and internal control and, through the Reviewing compliance with Group policies, Groups overall risk management framework Audit Committee, has reviewed the including the established Reserving Policy to the Group Risk Committee.
The Group Risk effectiveness of this system.
The system of and process: Committee reports on its activities to the risk management and internal control over Considering and recommending to Board and the Audit Committee, supporting insurance, operational, market, credit and the Board for approval the Groups risk the overall assurance provided by the Audit group risks is designed to manage rather appetite, including any changes to the Committee that the Groups internal control, than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve appetite for each material type of risk risk management and compliance systems business objectives and breaches of risk faced by the Group: continue to operate effectively.
appetites and can only provide reasonable Approving the annual plans for the and not absolute assurance against material Group Risk and Compliance functions misstatement or loss.
which include reviewing regulatory developments and regular meetings with the PRA and FCA: 60 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Group has a three lines of defence The third line of defence describes the Viability approach to Internal Control, including those independent assurance provided by the In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the controls that relate to the financial reporting Audit Committee and the Group Internal 2014 revision of the Code, the Directors have process.
The Board recognises that the Audit function that reports to that assessed the prospect of the Company over day-to-day responsibility for implementing Committee.
Internal Audit undertakes a a longer period than the 12 months required policies lies with the senior management, programme of risk based audits covering all by the Going Concern provision.
The Board the first line of defence, whose operational aspects of both the first and second lines of conducted this review for a period of three decisions must take into account risk and defence.
The findings from these audits are years to December 2019.
This assessment how this can be controlled effectively.
reported to all three lines, i. e. management, has been made taking into account the the executive and oversight Committees, current financial position of the Group, the The second line of defence describes the and the Audit Committee.
Groups business plans, the Groups Own Risk Committees and functions that are in place and Solvency Assessment ORSA process, to provide an oversight of the effective The Group Risk Committee, UK Risk and the principal risks and uncertainties operation of the internal control framework.
Management Committee and other UK faced by the Group, which are disclosed on The Group Risk Department and the and overseas Risk Committees receive pages 40 to 43 of the Strategic Report.
Compliance functions are part of the reports setting out key performance second line of defence.
and risk indicators and consider possible The ORSA is performed in line with control issues brought to their attention Solvency II regulations and requires The Group Risk Department defines and by early warning mechanisms that are the Group to demonstrate that it has prescribes the insurance, operational, embedded within the operational units.
a detailed understanding of the risks market, credit and group risk assessment They, together with the Audit Committee, facing the business over a three-year time processes for the business.
It performs also receive regular reports from the horizon.
In addition to this the Group Risk second line reviews, including of the Internal Audit function, which include Committee and the Group Board review reserving, capital modelling and business recommendations for improvement of the regular updates to the Groups capital and planning processes, and undertakes regular control and operational environment.
reviews of all risks in conjunction with Chair of the Group Risk Committee provides management, with the results of these a comprehensive written report to the Quantitative and qualitative assessments reviews recorded in risk registers collated Board of the activities carried out by the of risks are performed as part of the ORSA centrally on the Group risk management Committee on an annual basis.
The quantitative assessment in system.
Furthermore, Group Risk records any the Board receives reports from the Chair line with the Groups capital and solvency actual losses or near misses that occur as a of the Audit Committee as to its activities, projections considers how the regulatory consequence of the crystallisation of risk and together with copies of the minutes of the capital requirements, economic capital analyses the sufficiency of the action taken Group Risk Committee and Audit Committee.
needs, own funds and the solvency position to avoid reoccurrence.
The Chief Risk Officer of the Company is projected to change over has responsibility for ensuring that managers The Audit Committees ability to provide the the three year time horizon.
It also includes are aware of their risk management appropriate assurance to the Board depends a series of stress tests, linked to the Groups obligations, providing them with support and on the provision of periodic and independent principal risks and reports the impact of advice, and ensuring that risk management confirmation, primarily by Internal Audit, that these stresses alongside any mitigating strategies are properly communicated.
the controls established by management are factors that reduce the impact.
Reports are produced showing the most operating effectively and where necessary significant risks identified and the controls provides a high-level challenge to the steps The results of the stress tests form part in place.
Internal Audit uses the risk registers being taken by the Group Risk Committee to of the process to set the Groups capital to plan and inform their programme of audits implement the risk management strategy.
risk appetite, which ensures that a buffer around the most significant risks to the on top of the Groups regulatory capital Group to ensure that the prescribed controls requirement is held to protect its capital are in place and are operating effectively.
position against shocks and stresses.
Refer to the Strategic Report for information on There is Compliance resource assigned to sensitivities to the reported 2016 solvency each operation who review and report on ratio position.
the first line of defences compliance with designated control activities.
The Group Based on the results of this analysis, the Compliance function consolidates these Directors have a reasonable expectation reviews and provides reports to the Group that the Company will be able to continue in Risk Committee.
operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over this three year period.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 61
