Corporate Governance: Governance Report Governance Report Leadership The role of the Board The Groups overall risk appetite In addition to the regular consideration of financial and operating performance The Board is the principal decisionChanges to the structure, size and and risk management and compliance, the making forum for the Group providing composition of the Board, including Board received presentations on a variety entrepreneurial leadership, both directly new appointments of topics including updates from the and through its Committees, and delegating Succession plans for the Board and management teams of each of the Groups authority to the Executive team.
The senior management businesses and regular reviews of Solvency II Board is responsible for organising and Dividend policy and proposals for related activities.
directing the affairs of the Group in a dividend payments manner that is most likely to promote its In addition to his visits to the Groups UK Major acquisitions, disposals, and other success for the benefit of its members operations, the Chairman has sought to visit transactions outside delegated limits as a whole.
The Board is accountable to each of the Groups overseas operations shareholders for setting and achieving The annual review of its own performance every year and Non-Executive Directors the Groups strategic objectives: for the and that of its Board Committees are invited to join either him or the Chief creation and delivery of strong sustainable Annual review of the Groups Board policies Executive on one or more of their overseas financial and operational performance: for visits each year.
In addition, the NonThe review of the Groups overall ensuring that in carrying out its duties the Executive Directors and the Chairman met corporate governance arrangements Groups legal and regulatory obligations during the year without the Executive are being met: and for ensuring that it Board activity during 2016 Directors being present.
Non-Executive operates within appropriately established Directors also attended briefing sessions in At each scheduled meeting the Board risk parameters.
The Groups UK regulated Cardiff on different aspects of the Groups receives updates from the Chief Executive entities are responsible to the Financial UK business.
In order to increase their and Chief Financial Officer as to the financial Conduct Authority FCA and the Prudential understanding of the depth and breadth and operational performance of the Group Regulatory Authority PRA for ensuring of management across the Group below and any specific developments in the areas compliance with the Groups UK regulatory Board level, the Non-Executive Directors and of the business for which they are directly obligations and that dealings with the FCA the Chairman also attended a dinner with responsible and of which the Board should and PRA are handled in a constructive, comembers of the Groups senior management be aware.
Items that are considered on operative and transparent manner.
Similar team without the Executive Directors an annual basis are included in an annual provisions apply in respect of the Groups being present.
When management teams schedule of rolling agenda items to ensure international businesses with regard to the present to the Board on their operations that they are considered at the appropriate relevant regulatory authorities in those they are invited to join the Board for point in the financial and regulatory cycle.
overseas jurisdictions in which the Group dinner which gives the opportunity for Meetings are structured so as to allow for also operates.
informal interaction between directors consideration and debate of all matters.
The Board has adopted a formal schedule The heads of the Groups US and European of matters reserved for the Boards insurance businesses and the head of UK consideration.
This is monitored by the Insurance respectively Kevin Chidwick, Company Secretary and reviewed by the Milena Mondini and Cristina Nestares are Board on an annual basis.
Specific matters invited to attend every Board meeting and reserved to the Board include the approval of: Board dinner.
This has proved an effective means of ensuring that senior managers The Groups long term objectives and below Board level have exposure to and gain corporate strategy experience of the operation of the Board.
Operating and capital budgets, financial The Board met on seven occasions in 2016 results, and any significant changes to with all these meetings being held over two accounting practices or policies days and one of the meetings being a separate The Groups capital structure strategy meeting held offsite.
In addition Results and financial reporting to the seven scheduled meetings, there were two additional unscheduled telephone The system of internal control and meetings that were called at short notice.
risk management 48 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Meetings and attendance Directors are expected to attend all meetings of the Board and the Committees on which they serve and to devote sufficient time to the Group to perform their duties.
Where Directors are unable to attend meetings they receive papers for that meeting giving them the opportunity to raise any issues with the Chairman in advance of the meeting.
The number of scheduled Board meetings and Committee meetings of which they are a member attended by each Director during 2016 is provided in the table below.
Audit Group Risk Nomination Remuneration Scheduled Committee Committee Committee Committee Board meetings meetings meetings meetings meetings Total meetings held 7 7 6 2 5 Alastair Lyons Chairman 7 2 1 Henry Engelhardt Chief Executive Officer 3 3 David Stevens Chief Executive Officer 7 4 Geraint Jones Chief Financial Officer 7 Owen Clarke 7 7 3 3 Annette Court 7 7 6 5 Colin Holmes 7 7 2 Penny James 7 7 1 1 2 Margaret Johnson 3 3 3 3 2 2 3 Lucy Kellaway 2 3 1 2 1 1 Jean Park 7 6 5 4 Justine Roberts 3 3 Manning Rountree 7 6 1 Henry Engelhardt stepped down from the Board with effect from 12 May 2016.
2 Margaret Johnson stepped down from the Board with effect from 28 April 2016.
3 Lucy Kellaway stepped down from the Board with effect from 28 April 2016.
4 Justine Roberts joined the Board with effect from 17 June 2016.
Agendas and papers are circulated to White.
Ian is an independent external The Company Secretary the Board electronically in a timely and consultant with experience of evaluating All the Directors have access to the advice secure manner in preparation for Board and making recommendations to improve and services of the Company Secretary.
The Board Board effectiveness of a number of listed has responsibility for ensuring that Board agenda is structured by the Chairman in companies.
Other than being a customer of procedures are followed and for advising the consultation with the Company Secretary one of the Groups subsidiaries, Ian has no Board, through the Chairman, on governance and Chief Executive.
Routine Board connection with the Group.
The Company Secretary provides papers are supplemented by information updates to the Board on regulatory and The objectives of the evaluation were to specifically requested by the directors corporate governance issues, new legislation, provide an assessment of the effectiveness from time to time.
All Board and Committee and Directors duties and obligations.
The of the Board and make recommendations to meetings during the year were held in an appointment and removal of the Company improve the Board process: provide guidance open atmosphere conducive to robust Secretary is one of the matters reserved for for the new Chairman in leading the Board and constructive challenge and debate.
and working with the CEO: and establish a All Directors have, therefore, been able to clear set of actions and objectives for the bring independent judgement to bear on Board effectiveness Board to prioritise and focus on in 2017. issues such as strategy, risk management, Having last carried out an external Board performance, and resources.
Additional evaluation in 2013 and in accordance The Chairman, supported by the Company meetings are called when required and with the Code requirement that FTSE Secretary and in consultation with Ian, there is contact between meetings, where 350 companies should carry out an compiled a comprehensive questionnaire necessary, to progress the Groups business.
externally facilitated evaluation of the that was circulated by the Company Board at least every 3 years, this year the Secretary for completion by all Directors Board evaluation process was led by Ian and Board attendees.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 49 Corporate Governance: Governance Report Governance Report continued The questionnaire considered: Keep strategic focus and development The Chief Executive, to whom he reports, at the top of the Boards agenda.
This appraises annually the performance of Time management of Board meetings: continues the theme identified in last the Executive Director.
The Chairman, Board composition and dynamics: years evaluation to ensure that more taking into account the views of the other time is available in the Board agenda to Directors, reviews the performance of the The effectiveness of the Board in discuss strategic topics in the context Chief Executive.
The performance of the considering the Groups risk management of the development of the Group: Chairman is reviewed by the Board led by the framework and internal controls: Senior Independent Director SID.
Following Standardising the format of reports The Boards strategic and operational the latest review, the SID considered and that are presented to the Board was oversight: discussed with the Chairman the comments identified as an area for improvement in Succession planning including the and feedback that had been received from last years evaluation.
Although progress oversight of the Groups processes for the Directors as part of the Chairmans had been made, it was identified this managing, developing and retaining talent: evaluation questionnaire, and was able year that further improvements could Management of group subsidiaries: to confirm that the performance of the be made to review the length and level Chairman continues to be effective and that Content of discussion and focus at Board of detail of some reports with more he continues to demonstrate appropriate meetings: and Executive Summaries, particularly for commitment to his role.
technical reports: Priorities for change that would improve Board performance.
Hold more Board meetings in Cardiff in The roles of the Chairman order to give Non-Executive Directors and Chief Executive The results of the review were presented greater exposure to more up and coming The Board has approved a statement by Ian to the Board in February 2017.
Overall managers thereby helping with succession that sets out the clear division of the review found that the Board continued planning and management development.
responsibilities between the Chairman to work effectively and that each Director The introduction of sessions organised and the Chief Executive.
The Chairman is demonstrates full commitment to his around Board meetings for Nonprimarily responsible for the leadership her duties and contributes in an open and Executive Directors to visit, and receive and workings of the Board, setting its transparent way, enabling a detailed level presentations from, the Groups main UK agenda, and monitoring its effectiveness.
of debate and discussion around material business units now gives Non-Executive The Chairman is not involved in the day-tomatters affecting the Group.
The review also Directors more of an opportunity to see day management of the business.
Save for identified good awareness by the Board of the Groups main business units as part of matters reserved for decision by the Board, the governance and regulatory environment their continuing induction and exposure the Chief Executive, with the support of in which the Group operates and the main to the Groups culture: the other Executive Director and the senior risks impacting the Group and how they Develop a clear recruitment strategy for executives, is responsible for proposing the should be managed and mitigated.
Board appointments to encompass future strategy to be adopted by the Group: running skills and identify the characteristics of The following recommendations were the business in accordance with the strategy directors that will be of benefit to the identified in review as areas to which the agreed by the Board: and implementing Board together with the development Board might give particular focus in 2017 in specific Board decisions relating to the of a clear process to be adopted order to enhance the Boards effectiveness: operation of the Group.
The statements by the Nomination Committee in of division of responsibilities and matters Greater Board visibility of potential appointing directors: reserved for decision by the Board are successors to key positions from within reviewed annually.
The Non-Executive Directors should meet the business was an area of focus in private on a more regular basis with identified in last years Board evaluation.
the CEO also invited periodically to these It was recommended that Non-Executive sessions where matters such as succession Directors spend time, on an informal planning and management development basis, with the next level of management are being discussed: below Board level to ensure that these Consider in greater depth matters individuals are being developed as part of such as competitors, understanding the Groups longer term succession plans.
the customers of today and tomorrow, Although some progress has been made digital, cyber and technical matters such in this area during 2016 with succession as capital allocation, pricing analytics plans and talent management on the and operations.
Board agenda, the evaluation this year recommended the development of a more structured and robust process for management development and succession planning identifying a greater number of potential future leaders of the business: 50 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Board balance and independence In the context of recent and forthcoming Board changes, careful consideration continues to be given to the composition and balance of the Board.
As a result the Group continues to monitor the need to refresh Board and Committee membership in an orderly manner so as to maintain the continuity of Board process and the strength of personal interaction which underlies the effectiveness of the Board as a team.
The Board remains satisfied that it has the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Group to enable it and its Committees to discharge their duties and responsibilities effectively, as required by the Code.
The table below details the length of service of the Chairman and each of the Non-Executive Directors and illustrates the balance of experience and fresh perspectives.
Director Date of Appointment Current length of service as a Non-Executive Director at 31 December 2016 Alastair Lyons Chairman 1 July 2000 16 years 6 months Colin Holmes 3 December 2010 6 years 1 month Annette Court 21 March 2012 4 years 9 months Jean Park 17 January 2014 2 years 11 months Penny James 1 January 2015 2 years Manning Rountree 16 June 2015 1 year 6 months Owen Clarke 19 August 2015 1 year 4 months Justine Roberts 17 June 2016 6 months The Board currently comprises 10 Directors, the Board was delighted to appoint Justine The Board, having given thorough the Chairman who was independent on Roberts as an independent Non-Executive consideration to the matter, considers appointment, two Executive Directors, Director with effect from 17 June 2016. the seven Non-Executive Directors to and seven independent Non-Executive Justine will be subject to election by be independent and is not aware of any Directors.
As can be seen from the Directors shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
relationships or circumstances, other than biographies on pages 46 to 47, the Directors the above, which are likely to affect, or could Manning Rountree is the Chief Executive have a broad range of skills and experience appear to affect, the judgement of any of Officer for White Mountains Insurance and can bring independent judgement to them.
It is the view of the Board that the Group Limited White Mountains and acts bear on issues of strategy, performance, risk independent Non-Executive Directors are as Board Observer for White Mountains on management, resources and standards of of sufficient calibre and number that their the Board of the Groups US price comparison conduct which are integral to the success of views carry significant weight in the Boards subsidiary, in which White Mountains has a the Group.
Given the relatively Appointments to the Board are the small size of White Mountains shareholding Independent Non-Executive Directors responsibility of the Board as a whole, acting in an overseas Group subsidiary company, are currently appointed for fixed periods on the advice and recommendations of the the Board has determined that Manning of three years, subject to election by Nomination Committee.
The Nomination Rountree remains independent in character shareholders.
The initial three-year period Committee seeks to balance the retirement and judgement and that his attendance at may be extended for two further threeand recruitment of Non-Executive Directors Inspop USA LLC Board meetings does not year periods subject to re-election by ahead of their replacement so as to avoid affect his ability to present an objective, shareholders.
Their letters of appointment dislocation of Board process by losing rigorous and constructive challenge to the may be inspected at the Companys experience and skills.
Appointments are assumptions and viewpoints presented by registered office or can be obtained on made on merit and against objective management and the Board.
A process for request from the Company Secretary.
criteria, having due regard to the benefits managing any potential conflicts has been of diversity, including gender, with a view agreed by the Board such that Manning to ensuring the Board has the appropriate Rountree will recuse himself from any mix of personality, skills, and experience.
Group Board discussions where a potential Following a formal, rigorous and transparent conflict of interest with his role with White process led by the Nomination Committee, Mountains has been identified.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 51 Corporate Governance: Governance Report Governance Report continued Alastair Lyons has served in the role of This induction is supplemented by visits In addition the Chairman had individual Chairman since July 2000 and has already to the Groups head office in Cardiff and meetings during the year with major confirmed that he will not be seeking recertain overseas offices, and meetings shareholders and reported to the Board election at the AGM in April.
His successor with members of the senior management on issues raised with him.
as Chairman, Annette Court, along with team and their departments.
Development This is supplemented by feedback to the all the Directors, seek re-election by and training of Directors is an ongoing Board on meetings between management shareholders annually.
Throughout their period in office and investors.
In addition, the Investor the Directors are regularly updated on the Colin Holmes is the Senior Independent NonRelations team produces a quarterly Groups business: legal matters concerning Executive Director SID.
He has the requisite Investor Relations Report that is circulated their role and duties: the competitive knowledge and experience gained through to the Board for their consideration.
environments in which the Group operates: his Board position, his Chairmanship of the The Report contains an analysis of share and any other significant changes affecting Audit Committee, and his appointments price performance: a summary of analyst the Group and the industry of which it is to the boards of other companies.
He reports received during the month and a part.
is available to shareholders if they have of meetings that have been held with concerns that contact through the normal The Board receives presentations from investors and analysts: together with channels of Chairman, Chief Executive, or senior managers within the Group on a details of any significant changes to the Chief Financial Officer have failed to resolve regular basis and Non-Executive Directors shareholders register.
or for which such contact is inappropriate.
are encouraged to make informal visits to The Senior Independent Director has He is also responsible for leading the Boards different parts of the Group to meet with specific responsibility to be available to discussion on the Chairmans performance local management.
investors who have any issues or concerns, and the appointment of a new Chairman, Engagement with shareholders and in cases where contact with the as and when appropriate.
Full details of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief The Company attaches considerable process of selecting a new Chairman are Financial Officer has either failed to resolve importance to communications with set out in the Nomination Report on their concerns, or where such contact is shareholders and engages with them pages 62 and 63. inappropriate.
No such concerns have been regularly.
Open and frequent dialogue with In accordance with the requirement under raised in the year under review.
investors enables them to understand the Code for annual election of Directors, fully the Groups strategy, objectives and All shareholders are invited to attend the all Directors will be submitting themselves governance.
The Investor Relations team Companys Annual General Meeting AGM.
for re-election by shareholders at the has day-to-day primary responsibility for The Chairs of the Audit, Remuneration, forthcoming AGM.
The Board is satisfied managing communications with institutional Nomination and Group Risk Committees that all are properly qualified for their shareholders through a combination of attend the AGM along with the other reappointment by virtue of their skills and briefings to analysts and institutional Directors and are available to answer experience and their contribution to the shareholders, both at the half-year and shareholders questions on the activities of Board and its Committees.
A number of analysts and the Committees they chair.
Shareholders investors visited the Groups Cardiff office The Directors are given access to are also invited to ask questions during the during the year to meet with the Executive independent professional advice at the meeting and have an opportunity to meet Directors and senior management in order Groups expense, should they deem it with Directors after the formal business of to get a better understanding of how the necessary to carry out their responsibilities.
the meeting has been concluded.
Details of Group operates and how it intends to achieve proxy voting by shareholders, including votes Professional development its strategic and operational objectives.
withheld, are made available on request Senior executives from the Groups overseas On appointment, Directors take part in and are placed on the Companys website businesses also visit the UK in order a comprehensive induction programme following the meeting.
to present to, and meet with, analysts whereby they receive financial and and investors.
Site visits and individual operational information about the Group: discussions with the Executive Directors details concerning their responsibilities are also arranged throughout the year with and duties: as well as an introduction to individual shareholders.
the Groups governance, regulatory and control environment.
52 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Group maintains a corporate website All Committees are chaired by an www.
co. uk containing a independent Non-Executive Director, except wide range of information of interest to the Nomination Committee which is chaired institutional and private investors.
The major by the Chairman of the Board, and comprise shareholders of the Company are listed on a majority of independent Non-Executive page 79.
Appointments to the Committees are made on the recommendation of the Conflicts of interest Nomination Committee and are for a period In compliance with the requirements of the of up to three years, which may be extended Companies Act 2006 regarding Directors for two further three year periods, provided duties in relation to conflicts of interest, the Director remains independent.
The the Groups Articles of Association allow the Committees are constituted with written Board to authorise potential conflicts of Terms of Reference that are reviewed interest that may arise and to impose such annually to ensure that they remain limits as it thinks fit.
The Company has put appropriate and reflect any changes in good in place a Conflicts of Interest Policy to deal practice and governance.
These Terms of with conflicts of interest.
These procedures Reference are available on request from the include each Board member completing, Company Secretary and can also be found on annually, a conflicts of interest questionnaire the Companys website: www.
that sets out any situation in which they, co. uk.
Directors are fully informed of all or their connected persons have, or could Committee matters by the Committee have, a direct or indirect interest that could Chairmen reporting on the proceedings of conflict with the interests of the Company.
their Committee at the subsequent Board Any current directorships that they, or their meeting.
Copies of Committee minutes are connected persons hold, any advisory roles also distributed to the Board.
Committees or trusteeships held, together with any are authorised to obtain outside legal or companies in which they hold more than 1% other independent professional advice if of the issued share capital are also disclosed.
The Chairman of These procedures were reviewed by the each Committee attends the Annual General Board in April 2016 and it was concluded that Meeting to respond to any shareholder they continued to operate effectively.
questions that might be raised on the Committees activities.
Board committees The Board has delegated authority to a number of permanent Committees to deal with matters in accordance with written Terms of Reference.
The principal Committees of the Board - Audit, Remuneration, Group Risk and Nomination - all comply fully with the requirements of the Code.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 53
