Corporate Governance: The Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee Statement from Alastair Lyons, Chairman of the Nomination Committee What is important is diversity of thought, experience and approach and each new appointment must complement what already exists at the Board table In addition to the Chairman succession Policy which sets out the process of Dear Shareholder, process and in keeping with its remit to assessment for every person who performs Succession planning has clearly been review regularly the composition and a key function to ensure that they meet a key area of focus for the Committee experience of the Board, the Committee the requirements in terms of qualifications, during the year.
We were pleased to led the process of Non-Executive capability, honesty and integrity.
welcome Non-Executive Director, Penny Board appointments during the year.
James, who joined the Committee in April The Committee carried out a robust following Lucy Kellaway stepping down recruitment process resulting in the from Board at the AGM in April 2016. appointment of Justine Roberts in June Given the significance of the appointment 2016, further enhancing the range of Alastair Lyons, CBE of Chairman and in order to ensure that a skills, breadth of experience and diversity Chairman of the formal, rigorous and transparent process around the Board table.
Nomination Committee was followed, it was agreed by the Board 7 March 2017 in June 2016 that the new Chairman The Committee continued the should be decided by the whole Board but development of a structured succession excluding myself and any Non-Executive plan that would ensure appropriate action Directors who declared themselves as was taken well ahead of the dates on which candidates.
The Chairman succession individuals would be retiring in order to process was led by Penny James.
Penny achieve their replacement, if appropriate, led a Selection Board consisting of all with individuals of the appropriate skills, Board members excluding the current experience and fit to the Board.
Chairman and any directors who declared In accordance with the requirements themselves as candidates.
Further details of Solvency II and the Senior Insurance of the comprehensive succession process Manager Regime, the Committee reviewed that was followed are set out later in and approved the Groups Fit and Proper this report.
The membership of the Committee at the The Committee leads the process for The Chairman succession process was led by year end was Alastair Lyons Chairman, making appointments to the Board or where Penny James.
Where preparatory research Colin Holmes and Penny James.
The the appointee is likely to become a Board was required ahead of meetings of the Company Secretary acts as Secretary to member.
The Committee ensures there is Selection Board Penny was assisted by the Committee.
The Committee invites the a formal, rigorous and transparent process Executive Director Geraint Jones to ensure Chief Executive to attend meetings when for the appointment of new Directors to that there was a balance of Non-Executive it deems appropriate.
The Committee met the Board embracing a full evaluation of the and Executive input.
The principal aspects formally on two occasions in 2016 although skills, knowledge and experience required against which potential candidates would members of the Committee corresponded of Directors.
The Committee also ensures be assessed for suitability were agreed and met informally on a number of occasions plans are in place for orderly succession based on discussions held jointly by Penny to consider and meet with individuals that for appointments to the Board and reviews and Geraint with the Selection Board and the Committee had identified as possible the succession plans for other senior Board attendees, as well as with others candidates to join the Board.
Responsibility for who would have insightful perspectives making senior management appointments as to what competencies, experience, rests with the Chief Executive.
and personal characteristics the next 62 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Admiral Chairman would ideally have.
The breadth of experience across different The Board, at its meeting in April 2016, views expressed by leading institutional organisations and boards, varied board considered talent management within the shareholders with whom the Chairman had experience including experience of chairing Group and identified where there were recently conducted Corporate Governance boards and board committees, experience individuals who, with further experience and meetings indicated that the majority of working with complex, multi-line and guidance, might be capable of moving into were supportive of an internal process, international companies, deep knowledge particular senior management roles.
The given the Groups distinctive culture and of the insurance sector, and clarity of the Committee remains satisfied that succession market position and subject to there direction of the Board itself.
plans for Directors and senior management being sufficient suitably qualified and are in place to ensure the continued ability The Group has in place a policy of recruiting experienced internal candidates.
of the Group to implement strategy and well ahead of impending retirements in compete effectively in the markets in which The proposed suitability criteria were then order to ensure continuity of knowledge and it operates.
discussed and agreed by the whole Board Board dynamics, hence the recruitment of at its October meeting.
At this meeting it Owen Clarke in 2015.
In the context of the The Group remains strongly supportive of was also agreed to appoint external search retirements that took place during 2016, the principle of boardroom diversity, of firm, Zygos, to assist with the process with Henry Engelhardt, Margaret Johnson which gender is an important, but not the based on their depth of experience and and Lucy Kellaway stepping down from the only, aspect.
What is important is diversity understanding of the requirements of Board and having regard to forthcoming of thought, experience and approach and a FTSE 100 Chairman.
Zygos carried out retirements and the changing nature of each new appointment must complement psychometric testing of, and had individual the Groups business, the Board initiated a what already exists at the Board table.
meetings with, each of the candidates.
The search for a new Non-Executive Director.
Accordingly, appointments will always be candidates were benchmarked against the The Committee developed an appropriate made on merit against objective criteria, external marketplace with the assistance specification for a new Non-Executive including diversity, and not just to achieve of Zygos, considering their knowledge of Director and identified the required skills an externally prescribed number.
Given the other potential candidates and their and experience.
Following this process, the women constitute 40% of our plc Board, relative strengths.
Each internal candidate Committee identified Justine Roberts as best the Group has already met the target set held individual sessions with Selection Panel placed to fill the role identified.
by both Lord Davies in his report: Women members and the CEO and presented to on Boards, and the Hampton Alexander Justine is CEO and co-founder of internet the Selection Board at the December Board Review that builds on the Davies Review company, Mumsnet.
com, which has grown meeting in order to explain their view of the which encourages FTSE 350 companies to into the UKs biggest online network for role and answer any questions raised.
achieve at least 33% women on Boards by parents.
Justine has been responsible for 2020.
The Group also already meets the Based on all of the input Penny and the the creation, strategic direction and overall Hampton Alexander Review target of 33% Selection Board had received, it was agreed management of Mumsnet, building it into womens representation across executive that they had more than one highly capable one of the most recognisable internet committees below Board level and direct internal candidate.
Having reviewed the brands in the UK.
She brings a wealth of reports to those committees, as shown by external candidate list and discussed with experience in interacting with consumers the gender diversity table on page 44.
The Zygos their relative strengths, and after across social media.
Given Justines Group remains committed to providing equal taking to account feedback from the background, experience and competence, opportunities, eliminating discrimination, Selection Board after the panel session, and the external references that were and encouraging diversity amongst its it was concluded that the internal obtained, the Committee did not consider workforce both in the UK and overseas.
candidates were sufficiently strong it either necessary or appropriate to A breakdown of the gender of Company that approaching additional external undertake a full search led by an external Directors and senior employees at the end candidates was unnecessary.
of the financial year together with details of the Groups Equality, Diversity and Dignity At the Board meeting in January 2017, Each Committee member met separately at Work Policy are set out in the Directors Penny recommended on behalf of the with Justine and agreed that she would Report on page 78.
Selection Board that the Board approve the bring invaluable experience to the Board.
appointment of Annette Court, as Chairman The Board approved the Committees of the Board, subject to regulatory approval.
recommendations and following regulatory Throughout the process it was agreed that approval Justine was formally appointed to Annette had demonstrated good strategic the Board with effect from 17 June 2016. alignment with the Executive and the Board, Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 63
