Corporate Governance: Board of Directors Board of Directors Alastair Lyons, CBE 63 David Stevens, CBE 55 Geraint Jones 40 Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer NC GRC Current Appointments: Current Appointments: Background and experience: Geraint is Deputy Chairman of Bovis Homes Trustee of the Waterloo Foundation responsible for finance, actuarial, compliance and investments.
He joined Admiral in 2002 Chairman of Welsh Water Background and experience: David is a founder and held a number of senior finance positions Director of Admiral and was recruited in 1991 Background and experience: In his executive including Head of Finance, before being to set up the Admiral business.
career Alastair has been Chief Executive promoted to Deputy Chief Financial Officer Officer CEO of the National Provident Prior to joining Admiral David worked at in January 2012 and Chief Financial Officer in Institution and of the National & Provincial McKinsey & Company, in the Financial Interest August 2014.
Building Society, Managing Director of the Group, and Cadbury Schweppes in the UK and A Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Insurance Division of Abbey National plc and the USA.
Accountants in England and Wales, Geraint Director of Corporate Projects at National David has an MBA from INSEAD and he was spent the early part of his career as an external Westminster Bank plc.
He has held numerous awarded a CBE in 2010 for services to business auditor at Ernst & Young and KPMG.
non-executive roles in both private equity and and the community in Wales.
the public market, having most recently been appointed chairman of Welsh Water.
Appointed in 2014 Originally appointed to the Board in 1999, He has also been a Non-Executive Director of subsequently appointed to CEO role in 2016 both the Department for Transport DfT and the Department for Work and Pensions DWP, as well as of its predecessor, the Department of Health and Social Security DHSS.
A Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants, he was awarded a CBE in the 2001 Birthday Honours for services to social security.
Appointed in 2000 Penny James 47 Jean Park 62 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director GRC RC AC NC Current Appointments: Current Appointments: Group Chief Risk Officer at Prudential and Non-Executive Director of Murray member of the Prudential plc Board.
Income Trust plc Background and experience: Penny was Non-Executive Director of the National previously Director of Group Finance at House Building Council Prudential plc from March 2011 until Background and experience: Jean was Group September 2015.
Chief Risk Officer at the Phoenix Group from Her previous appointments include being 2009 until June 2013, during which time she Chief Finance Officer of Omega Insurance held responsibility for the Groups relationship Holdings and Chief Financial Officer of the with the regulator and founded the Board Zurich Financial Services UK General Risk Committee.
Previously, she was Risk Insurance business.
Management Director of the Insurance and Investments division of Lloyds TSB and, before that, Head of Compliance and Audit at Appointed in 2015 Scottish Widows.
Jean is a Member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
46 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Appointed in 2014 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Committee membership key AC RC Audit Committee member Remuneration Committee member GRC Group Risk Committee member Committee Chair NC Nomination Committee member Senior Independent Director Owen Clarke 53 Annette Court 54 Colin Holmes 51 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director AC GRC RC AC NC AC RC Current Appointments: Current Appointments: Current Appointments: Chief Investment Officer of Equistone Partners Non-Executive Director of Jardine Lloyd Chair of the British Heart Foundation Retail Committee Europe formerly Barclays Private Equity, BPE.
Thompson Group plc, Foxtons plc and Workshare Member of the Chartered Institute of Background and experience: Previous Director Chairman of the Dining Club Management Accountants Advisory Panel of Admiral 1999-2004.
Led BPEs participation Background and experience: Between 2007 in the Management Buy Out.
and 2010 Annette was CEO of Europe General Background and experience: Previous roles Insurance for Zurich Financial Services and a include Chairman of GoOutdoors and Nonmember of the Group Executive Committee.
Executive Director at Bovis Homes Group plc.
Appointed in 2015 Until 2010 Colin was a member of the Executive Annette is former CEO of the Direct Line Group Committee of Tesco plc and during a 22 year formerly known as RBS Insurance.
In this role Annette was also a member of the RBS Group career at Tesco held a wide range of positions, Executive Management Committee.
including UK Finance Director and CEO of Tesco Express.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Annette has previously served as a member Institute of Management Accountants.
on the Board of the Association of British Insurers ABI.
Appointed in 2010 Appointed in 2012 Justine Roberts, CBE 49 Manning Rountree 44 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director GRC Current Appointments: Current Appointments: Chief Executive Officer and Director of White CEO & Founder, Mumsnet.
com Mountains Insurance Group Limited and Advisory board member of Britain Thinks and Director of OneBeacon Insurance Group Ltd, Portland Communications a subsidiary of White Mountains Insurance Background and experience: Justine founded Group Limited.
Mumsnet in 2000 and is responsible for creation, Director of Build America Mutual strategic direction and overall management.
In May 2011, Justine founded Gransnet, a sister Background and experience: Manning joined site to Mumsnet, for the over-50s.
Before that White Mountains in 2004 and is the former Justine was a freelance football and cricket President of WM Advisors.
journalist for the Times and Daily Telegraph, after working for Deutsche Bank, managing Prior to joining White Mountains, Manning the South African equity operation in US.
spent two years with Putnam Investments and three years with McKinsey & Company.
Justine was awarded a CBE in the 2017 New Years honours list for services to the economy.
Appointed in 2015 Appointed in 2016 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 47
