86 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 GOVERNANCE Audit Committee report INTRODUCTION BY IAN MARCHANT, AUDIT COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN Ensuring the integrity of the Groups financial statements and determining whether the judgements taken by management are appropriate, are key to the workings of the Committee.
This report provides an overview of the significant issues we considered.
This report also shares some insight into the work we have undertaken this year to assess the independence and effectiveness of the external auditor and oversee the Groups systems for internal control andrisk management.
The Committee is currently made up of three Independent Non-executive Directors, including myself as Chairman.
I have been a member of the Committee since November 2013 and wasappointed as Chairman of the Committee in April 2016.
I amachartered accountant and, prior to my appointment as Chief Executive of SSE 2002 to 2015, I served as Finance IAN MARCHANT Director of SSE for four years and of Southern Electric for two AUDIT COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN and a half years.
As aCommittee, we bring an appropriate balance of financial and accounting experience, together with a deep understanding of Aggrekos business and market sector.
Diana Layeld and Iare themembers of the Committee identiedwith recent andrelevant financial experience.
The role of the Audit Committee is In 2016 we held three scheduled meetings.
The meetings are to ensurethe integrity of the Groups aligned to the Groups financial reporting timetable, to allow financial reporting and provide oversight sufficient time for full discussion of key topics and enable early identication and resolution of risks and issues.
We invited the of our systems for internal control Chairman, Chief Executive officer and Chief Financial officer to andrisk management attend our meetings in 2016, together with the Group Financial Controller, Director of Internal Audit and the KPMGAudit Partner.
AREAS OF ACTIVITY IN 2016 ROLE OF AUDIT COMMITTEE Oversaw the transition of external auditor responsibilities from  to ensure independence was Monitor the integrity of the financial statements, including maintained and asuccessful2016 external audit.
reviewing significant financial reporting issues and judgements Provided oversight on the effectiveness of our risk management process, alongside the findings of the external auditor.
ensuring effective controls were in place for each risk.
Review the effectiveness of the Groups systems for internal Reviewed and agreed approach to accounting policies for product control, financial reporting and risk management.
development expenditure and the impact of new accounting standards.
Advise the Board on the effectiveness of the fair, balanced and Reviewed our cyber security arrangements with the Chief Information officer and agreed actions, including employee training, for 2017. understandable review of the Annual Report.
Managed the transition of responsibilities for the Chairmanship of the Oversee the relationship with the external auditor, external Committee from Robert MacLeod to Ian Marchant.
auditprocess, nature and scope of the external audit, including their appointment, effectiveness, independence and fees.
MEMBERS IN 2016 Oversee the nature and scope of internal audit, ensuring coordination with the activities of the external auditor.
Meetings attended Ian Marchant Audit Committee Chairman from 29 April 2016 MAIN ACTIVITIES OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE DURING THE YEAR 1 Robert MacLeod Audit Committee Chairman until 28 April 2016 FINANCIAL REPORTING Russell King Senior Independent Director During the course of the year, the Committee met with the Diana Layeld Non-executive Director external auditors and management as part of the 2016 Annual and 1 Interim Report approval process.
We reviewed the draft financial Robert MacLeod retired from the Board on 28 April 2016. statements and considered a number of supporting papers, including: information presented by management on significant AREAS OF FOCUS FOR 2017 accounting judgements to ensure all issues raised have been properly dealt with: key points of disclosure and presentation to Continue to monitor the status of internal audit actions.
ensure adequacy, clarity and completeness: external audit reports: Continue risk management oversight with presentations scheduled documentation prepared to support the viability statement fromthe Directors of Finance for Power Solutions and Rental Solutions and going concern statements given on pages 61 and132: and Group Treasurer on treasury risk management.
and information presented by management on the process Review our terms of reference to take account of the 2016 update to underpinning the fair, balanced and understandable assessment theUK Corporate Governance Code and rule changes to the Disclosure and conrmation made by the Board on page 83. and Transparency Rules, both of which will apply to our 2017 year end.
AUDIT COMMITTEE TERMS OF REFERENCE: IR.
COM INVESTORS Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 87 Areas of focus assets compared to the carrying amount, projected future cash We reviewed and agreed the accounting for product ows and key assumptions and sensitivities for the impairment development expenditure.
As part of the strategic priorities assessment.
KPMG also explained their audit process to test the review, the Board concluded that a lower cost of energy impairment assessment.
We agreed that an impairment charge is critical to most of our customers and our investment in of 30 million was appropriate.
More details are included in technology is a key enabler in this area.
Therefore, the Board Notes 7 and 15 to the Accounts on pages 142 and 147. increased investment in product development work, resulting We reviewed the European Securities and Markets Authority in an intangible asset of 5 million for development expenditure guidelines on Alternative Performance Measures to ensure being recognised.
More detail is included in the accounting ourdisclosures were fully compliant with the new guidance.
policies on page 134 and in Note 30.
A2 to the Accounts on KPMG carried out their work using an overall materiality of page 159.
11million, as stated in their report on page122, and confirmed We reviewed the impact of IFRS 15, a new accounting standard to the Committee that there were no material unadjusted applying to revenue for contracts with customers, effective for misstatements.
We also agreed with the external auditor that accounting periods on or after 1 January 2018.
The main changes they would inform us of any unadjusted misstatements above we expect from adopting IFRS 15 are included on page 132.
0.5 million, as well as misstatements below that amount that We reviewed the appropriateness of the carrying value of warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
None were reported specialist property, plant and equipment for the Oil & Gas to the Committee.
The Committee also reviewed the coverage market in North America.
Given the continued decline in the of internal audit and external audit from a risk and geographic Oil & Gas sector in North America, management reviewed perspective.
Following completion ofthe above steps, we agreed thecarrying value of small gas generators used in this market to recommend the approval of the2016 Annual and Interim We reviewed managements assumptions and rationale for an Reports to the Board.
impairment review, examining the recoverable amount of the The primary areas of judgement considered by the Committee in relation to the 2016 Annual Report were: How did the Audit Committee Area of judgement Reporting issue address the judgement?
Conclusion and outcome Contract provisions One of the biggest risks facing the The Committee addressed contract provisions We concluded that the PowerSolutions Utility Group is non-payment by customers by considering an accounting judgements paper judgements and estimates were under some of the larger contracts at the August 2016 and March 2017 meetings, reasonable and appropriate.
in our Power Solutions Utility which was tabled by the Chief Financial officer.
Overall the contract provision business.
Contract receivables and This detailed the latest position of debtors agreed for 31 December 2016 associated specic provisions within outstanding at the half year and year end and was $63 million, $8 million Power Solutions Utility is a key risk gave an assessment of the likelihood of collecting lowerthan 31 December 2015. for the Group, and one of the areas future payments.
We discussed in detail the This movement is explained of particular external audit focus.
main movements in provisions and assessed onpage 48.
The Group policy is to consider each the adequacy of all of the provisions.
KPMG significant debtor and customer reported on these contract provisions at both More information on our individually, within the relevant the August 2016 and March 2017 meetings in the riskprole and mitigation environment to which it relates, context of the half year review and the year end forfailureto collect payment taking into account a number audit respectively.
In addition, the Committee is ortorecover assets can be of factors, in accordance with aware that the Board and Executive Committee found on page 60. accounting standards.
receives a report on contract exposures each month and has assessed the Groups processes for calculating and regularly monitoring contract riskprovisions.
Direct and indirect The Groups tax strategy is to The Committee addressed tax provisions by We concluded that the tax provisions manage all taxes, both direct considering an accounting judgements paper at judgements and estimates were and indirect, such that we pay both the August 2016 and March 2017 meetings, reasonable and appropriate.
the appropriate amount of tax in which was tabled by the Chief Financial officer.
Overall the tax provision agreed each country where we operate We discussed the changes to the provisions for 31 December 2016 was 39 whilst ensuring that we respect the in detail and assessed their adequacy overall.
applicable tax legislation and utilise KPMG reported on these provisions at the where appropriate any legislative August 2016 meeting in the context of the half More information on Aggrekos reliefs available.
However, given the year review, and at the March 2017 meetings in tax strategy and payments varied, complex and often uncertain the context ofthe year end audit.
We have also in 2016 can be found in the nature of tax rules in certain countries, monitored and assessed the Groups processes financial review on page 45. in particular in those in which we for calculating and regularly monitoring have our Power Solutions business, taxprovisions.
More information on our risks we recognise that it makes sense can be found on page 60. to carry an appropriate level of provision for both direct and indirect taxes.
The tax team monitors the status of tax risks monthly and in detail at the half and full year.
This monitoring process together with consideration of any relevant legislative change is then used to determine the appropriate level ofprovisions.
88 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 GOVERNANCE Audit Committee report continued EXTERNAL AUDITOR Non-audit services To safeguard the objectivity and independence of the external The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to auditor from becoming compromised, the Committee has the Board in relation to the appointment of the external auditor.
a formal policy governing the engagement of the external We also approve the audit plan, terms of engagement and fees auditor to provide non-audit services.
Non-audit services are and assess their effectiveness.
normally limited to assignments that are closely related to the annual audit or where the work is of such a nature that a Audit plan detailed understanding of the Group is necessary.
Any proposal KPMG presented their audit plan at the August 2016 meeting to use the external auditor for non-audit work requires prior and an update at the December 2016 meeting, setting out the approval of the Chief Financial officer and depending on the scope and objectives of the audit together with anoverview of the nature of the service and fee involved, authorisation may also planned approach, an assessment of the Groups risks and controls be required from the CommitteeChairman or the Committee.
and proposed areas of audit focus.
In setting the audit plan, At our March2017 meeting, we updated our non-audit services KPMG work with Internal Audit and management at a Group and policy totake account of a new FRC ethical standard, deleting business unit level to identify risk areas for the audit to determine the section of the policy in relation to permitted non-audit where audit effort should be focused.
Tenure The non-audit services policy is available on our website at: KPMG were appointed by Shareholders as the Groups Statutory ir.
com investors corporate-governance Auditor in 2016 following a formal tender process.
The external audit contract will be put out to tender at least every 10 years.
Non-audit fees are monitored by the Committee and this year The Committee recommends the appointment of KPMG for 2017. we were satisfied that all non-audit work undertaken was in We believe the independence and objectivity of the external line with our policy and did not detract from the objectivity auditor and the effectiveness of the audit process are safeguarded andindependence of the external auditor.
The majority of and strong.
The Company has complied with the Statutory Audit the non-audit work carried out by KPMG during the year Services Order for the financial year under review.
related to investor relations services and tax.
As a percentage of the overall audit fee for the year, other assurance services Effectiveness and non-audit fees are 36% 2015: 16% services provided by As mentioned in our report last year, we identied the .
The increase in percentage for 2016 financial year as a potential period of increased audit non-audit services provided by KPMG in 2016 relates to investor effectiveness risk given the transition of the statutory auditor relations work provided by Makinson Cowell: no further work  to KPMG.
The Committee met will be undertaken by Makinson Cowell in 2017.
Further details withKPMG on a number of occasions without management ofthe fees paid to the external auditor are set out inNote 6 to present and the Committee Chairman also maintained regular theaccounts on page 142. contact with the audit partner throughout the year.
This enabled the Committee to closely monitor the transition of responsibilities, and ensure independence was maintained and a successful RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL external audit of the 2016 Annual Report.
Aggrekos objective is to have a strong and regularly monitored We also used an internal questionnaire sent to Committee control environment.
The Board assumes ultimate responsibility members, the Business Unit Finance Directors and Group for the effective management of risk across the Group, Functional Heads in December 2016: respondents were asked determining our risk appetite as well as ensuring that each to rate KPMG effectiveness in a number of areas, including business unit implements appropriate internal controls.
The Board calibre of external audit rm, quality of processes, audit team, has delegated responsibility for oversight of risk management to audit scope, communications, technical expertise and audit the Committee.
The Committee provides oversight by reviewing governance independence.
Results were collated and presented the effectiveness of the Groups systems for internal control, risk at the March 2017 meeting of the Committee for discussion.
In 2016 we worked closely Management concluded that there had been appropriate focus with the newly established Group Risk Committee, receiving and challenge on the primary areas of audit risk and assessed regular reports from the Group Risk Committee, which enabled the quality of the audit process to be effective.
The Committee usto review and challenge the risk management framework, concurred with this view.
review the effectiveness of the control environment and approve the methodology for the viability statement.
We also requested The FRCs Audit Quality Review team selected to review the individual updates on countries receiving a low internal control audit of Aggrekos 2015 financial statements as part of their 2016 score for their financial control environment, to understand the annual inspection of audit rms.
The focus of the review and remedial actions in place.
Those countries will be monitored their reporting is on identifying areas where improvements are closely in 2017 to ensure improvements are realised.
required rather than highlighting areas performed to or above theexpected level.
The review refers to the work performed by our previous external auditor, .
The Chairman of the Committee received a full copy of the findings and met with  close out the points raised by the review and reported back to the Committee on this discussion.
The Committee reviewed the findings at their December meeting and agreed anaction planwith KPMG to ensure that the matters identiedbythe AQRhave been addressed in the audit of the 2016 financial statements where relevant.
Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 89 Viability statement Internal Audit continue to play a key role in assisting the The Committee reviewed managements work in conducting Committee and in 2016 we asked Internal Audit to provide a robust assessment of those risks which could threaten our assurance over managements assessment of the effectiveness business model and the future performance or liquidity of of the operation of controls within the Group risk register.
Aggreko, including our resilience to the threats of viability posed This assessment was based upon the results of audits undertaken by those risks in severe but plausible scenarios.
This assessment across the year, by reecting on the outstanding audit issue included stress and sensitivity analyses of these risks to enable database and in cooperation with the business unit controls us to evaluate the impact of a severe but plausible combination teams.
No variances which would impact the risk scoring were of risks.
We then considered whether additional nancing identied in 2016.
The Committee found this exercise useful and would be required in such eventualities.
We also considered the will ask Internal Audit to complete a similar exercise annually review period and alignment with the Groups strategic plans going forward.
Based on this analysis, we Further detail on our risk management framework can be recommended to the Board that it could approve the viability foundin the accountability section of the Corporate Governance statement included on page 61.
Report on page 82 and the risk section of the Strategic Report onpage 52.
INTERNAL AUDIT Financial control Internal Audit undertakes financial, operational and strategic A key area of focus for the Committee is the Groups financial audits across the Aggreko Group using a risk based methodology controls.
We aim to ensure that the same high standards are and in accordance with the changing risk prole of the Company.
applied throughout the business with the framework set at Group The Committee reviewed and agreed the programme of 2016 level.
Across the Group, there is a strong focus on training and internal audit work, including the proposed approach, coverage, development and this helps to underline the standards that we and allocation of resources.
We also reviewed progress, audit require.
We then monitor this process through regular financial results and remedial actions during the year through reports at control reviews and a financial control checklist.
This also enables each meeting.
In 2016, we closely monitored the status of internal us to set targets, identify and monitor areas for improvement.
audit actions, focusing on the proper closure of actions, making recommendations to management and requesting detailed We agreed financial control deliverables for 2016, these included updates where appropriate.
embedding our financial control framework into the new business structure, meeting set targets for internal audit gradings and The Committee assessed the effectiveness of the internal audit providing assurance to the Committee that financial controls are function by reviewing their reports, progress against the 2016 in place for applicable items on the Group Risk Register.
At the plan, and meeting with the Director of Internal Audit without end of the year, we reviewed progress for 2016 and agreed to management being present.
In line with the Institute of Internal adopt a revised financial controls checklist, focusing on critical Auditors guidance, we undertook an external evaluation of controls, which we would closely monitor in 2017.
Our financial Internal Audit in 2016.
Although the review found internal audit to control priorities for 2017 have been set after going through the be effective, it was agreed that the balance between geographic following process: and thematic audits should be addressed, with an increased focus on thematic audits in 2017.
Setting out the key challenges for financial control and then reviewing the control environment and risk mitigation in place to help address these challenges: SPEAKING UP Reviewing the 2016 financial control checklist scores for all The Group Ethics Policy, supported by a separate Speaking ofourlocations globally and cross referring them against the Up Policy, encourages all employees to report any potential 2016 internal audit reports: improprieties in ethical standards via our international The Financial Leadership Team reviewed the above data and whistle-blowing hotline.
All matters reported are investigated analysis to set clear priorities for 2017: and and where appropriate, we ask Internal Audit to investigate the issue and report to us on the outcome.
We also receive The Chief Financial officer then presented the priorities to reports on hotline call volumes and the general nature and theAudit Committee.
We review these processes each The key priorities for 2017 include actions to roll out the new year, andcan confirm that they are appropriate for the size and financial controls checklist, establishing a new review process scaleofthe Group.
for month end and quarter end les, with close monitoring and additional support as required for our high risk locations, supporting the roll out of our new procurement policy and providing support to management in the closure of internal audit actions.
