CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT COMPOSITION The Audit Committee comprises four non-executive directors: M. A. Griffiths, W. R. G. Barr, P. Powell and D. J. Ritchie.
D. J. Ritchie was appointed to the Audit Committee during the year.
The Audit Committee is chaired by M. A. Griffiths.
The Board is satisfied that M. A. Griffiths has recent and relevant financial experience as required by provision C. 3.1 of the Code.
Biographical details relating to each of the committee members are shown on page 47.
MEETINGS The Audit Committee met four times during the year.
The meetings are attended by the committee members and, by invitation, the Finance Director, the Central Financial Controller, the Company Secretary and representatives from the external and internal auditors.
The Audit Committee regularly meets with executive directors and management, as well as privately with the external and internal auditors.
ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES The primary role of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities.
This includes: monitoring the integrity of the annual and interim financial statements and formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance and reviewing any significant financial reporting judgements and disclosures which they contain: reporting to the Board on the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies and practices: reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management systems: reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the internal audit function and managements responsiveness to any findings and recommendations: reviewing and monitoring the appropriateness of the Groups whistle-blowing and anti-bribery procedures: making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment and removal of the external auditor and approving its remuneration and terms of engagement: reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process: reviewing the policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services: and reporting to the Board on how it has discharged its responsibilities.
ACTIVITIES OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE During the year the Audit Committee has: 58 reviewed and discussed with the external auditor the key accounting considerations and judgements reflected in the Groups results for the six month period ended 25 July 2015: reviewed and agreed the external auditors audit strategy memorandum in advance of its audit for the year ended 30 January 2016: discussed the report received from the external auditor regarding its audit in respect of the year ended 30 January 2016, which report included comments on its findings on internal control and on the disclosure of risks and a statement on its independence and objectivity: received and reviewed reports from management regarding their approach to key accounting considerations and judgements in the half year and full year financial statements: reviewed the half year and full year financial statements: received reports on the operation of the Groups Risk Committee: reviewed the Groups risk register and the Groups principal risks, together with the systems and processes for mitigating those risks: discussed and agreed the nature and scope of the work to be performed by the external and internal auditors: reviewed the results of this audit work and the response of management to matters raised: reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control systems including financial, operational, compliance and risk management controls : reviewed the appropriateness of the Groups whistle-blowing procedures: reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups anti-bribery systems and controls: received reports from internal audit covering various aspects of the Groups operations, controls and processes: reviewed the Groups delegated authority limits: made a recommendation to the Board on the reappointment of the internal auditor: made recommendations to the Board on the reappointment and remuneration of the external auditor and monitored the performance of the auditor: monitored and reviewed the performance of the internal auditor and the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit activities: reviewed its policies on the supply of non-audit services by the external auditor and on the employment of former employees of the Groups external auditor: reviewed the non-audit services provided to the Group by the external auditor and monitored and assessed the independence of both the external and internal auditors: and reviewed the performance of the Audit Committee and its terms of reference.
A. G. BARR P. L. C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 SIGNIFICANT AREAS The significant matters and key accounting judgements considered by the Audit Committee during the year were: The carrying value of brand support accruals: judgement is required when ascertaining the level of accrual required in relation to promotions and brand support campaigns that span the year end, or where settlement has not been fully and finally settled by the year end, or which relate to prior years.
During the year the Audit Committee received presentations from members of the senior management team on the commercial investment process.
It also received and considered reports from management on the level of accruals at the half year and at the year end.
The Audit Committee was content that there were no issues arising.
The valuation of inventory: the valuation of inventory is judgemental due to the volatile nature of raw material commodity prices and, as the Group uses standard costing, changes in production levels can lead to purchase price variances which require to be accounted for correctly.
During the year the Audit Committee considered and was satisfied with reports from the internal auditor and management regarding the controls operating in relation to inventory management at the Milton Keynes site.
The Audit Committee discussed and challenged managements judgements in relation to inventory valuation and considered reports from the external auditor on this area and were satisfied that inventory valuations were reasonable.
OTHER AREAS Other matters considered by the Audit Committee during the year were: UK Corporate Governance Code: the Audit Committee considered the new requirements under the 2014 Code, including the requirement to draft a viability statement which assesses the prospects of the Group over an appropriate period.
Accounting for the Funkin acquisition: during the year the Audit Committee considered and was satisfied with the Companys approach to accounting for the Funkin acquisition.
Business Process Redesign BPR implementation: the Audit Committee considered and was satisfied with reports from the internal and external auditors and management related to the BPR implementation.
Restatement of segment reporting: the Audit Committee considered i a misstatement in segment reporting in the annual report for the year to 25 January 2015: and ii the alignment of internal management reporting and statutory reporting following the implementation of a new enterprise resource planning system during the six months to 25 July 2015 and was satisfied with the restated figures and explanatory notes contained in the interim report for the six months to 25 July 2015 in relation thereto.
The Audit Committee receives regular presentations from members of the senior management team.
During the year, the Audit Committee 59 has considered presentations from representatives of the management team on the supply of raw materials, commercial investment, product quality and the treasury function.
EXTERNAL AUDIT The Groups external auditor is KPMG LLP.
The Audit Committee reviews the external auditors performance, independence and objectivity annually.
The Audit Committee ensures that procedures are in place to safeguard the external auditors independence and objectivity.
The external auditor reports regularly to the Audit Committee on the actions that it has taken to comply with professional and regulatory requirements and current best practice in order to maintain its independence and objectivity.
The Group has a policy in place which ensures that the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor does not impair the auditors independence or objectivity.
Where fees for any non-audit project are expected to exceed 50,000, the prior approval of the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Finance Director is required.
Where fees for non-audit projects are in aggregate expected to exceed 150,000, the prior approval of the Audit Committee is required.
Details of the amounts paid to the external auditor during the year for audit and nonaudit services are set out in Note 3 to the financial statements.
Whilst fees for non-audit services were approximately 1.4 times those for audit services, the Audit Committee considered the nature and level of non-audit services provided and was satisfied that the objectivity and independence of the external auditor were not affected by the non-audit work undertaken.
A significant proportion of the non-audit fees during the year were for services provided in relation to corporate finance transactions, and the remainder related to the provision of pension advisory, tax advisory and tax compliance services.
The level of fees for non-audit services was considered by KPMGs ethics partner who concluded that they did not present a threat to KPMGs independence.
A. G. BARR P. L. C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED KPMG Audit Plc was appointed as the Groups external auditor in May 2009 following a competitive tender process.
A resolution proposing the appointment of KPMG LLP, KPMG Audit Plcs parent entity, as the Groups external auditor was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
There are no contractual obligations which restrict the Audit Committees choice of external auditor.
The senior statutory auditor rotates every five years to ensure independence: an audit partner rotation took place at the end of the 2013 14 financial year and the Audit Committee took steps to ensure that a new appropriately qualified and independent senior statutory auditor became responsible for the audit of the Groups financial statements with effect from 2014 15.
The Audit Committee acknowledges the new requirement under the Code to tender the external audit contract at least every ten years.
The Audit Committee carried out a review of the effectiveness of the external audit process during the year.
This review included a detailed and comprehensive evaluation of the Groups external auditor by means of a written survey questionnaire completed by Audit Committee members and certain members of senior management, including the executive directors.
The results of the evaluation were shared with the Groups external auditor.
The Audit Committee reviewed comprehensive papers from both management and the Groups external auditor, which set out the planning and execution of the conduct of the audit.
The Audit Committee held a meeting with the Groups external auditor in the absence of management to discuss further.
Following this review, the Audit Committee continues to be satisfied with KPMG LLPs performance, that it remains objective and independent, and that the external audit process remains effective.
The Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that a resolution proposing the appointment of KPMG LLP be put to shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
INTERNAL AUDIT At the beginning of each year, an internal control plan is developed by the internal auditor following meetings with directors and senior managers within the business and with reference to the significant risks contained within the Groups risk register and identified controls.
The Audit Committee receives updates on progress against the internal control plan throughout the year.
MARTIN A. GRIFFITHS CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE 29 March 2016 60 A. G. BARR P. L. C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
