92 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 GOVERNANCE Nomination Committee report INTRODUCTION BY KEN HANNA, NOMINATIONCOMMITTEE CHAIRMAN Monitoring and reviewing the composition and balance of the Board and its committees is key to the role of the Committee.
Bydoing so we ensure that Aggreko has the right structure, skillsand diversity for the effective management of the Group.
The Nomination Committee is currently made up of all of the Non-executive Directors, each of whom is independent, in addition to myself as Chairman.
I have been Chairman of the KEN HANNA Committee since my appointment as Chairman of Aggreko in NOMINATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN April 2012, although I would not chair the Committee when it is dealing with succession to the chairmanship of Aggreko.
We also invited the Chief Executive officer to attend our meetings in 2016.
In 2016 we held two formal meetings: the members also hadseveral informal meetings and discussions on succession The Nomination Committees role is to planning, reappointment of Directors and the search for monitor and review the composition and newNon-executive Directors.
balance of the Board and its committees to ensure Aggreko has theright structure, ROLE OF NOMINATION COMMITTEE skillsand diversity for theeffective Review the structure, size and composition including skills, knowledge, experience, diversity and balance of Executive management ofthe Group andNon-executive oftheBoard and its Committees and make recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.
AREAS OF ACTIVITY IN 2016 Identify and nominate for the approval of the Board, candidates to llBoard vacancies.
Oversaw a review of the succession plans for the Executive Committee and Senior Leadership Team.
Keep under review the time commitment expected from the Chairman and the Non-executive Directors.
Completed the appointment and induction of Nicola Brewer as an Independent Non-executive Director.
Recommended the extension of the appointments of two  Directors.
MEMBERS IN 2016 Meetings attended Ken Hanna Nomination Committee Chairman Nicola Brewer Non-executive Director Russell King Senior Independent Director Uwe Krueger Non-executive Director Diana Layeld Non-executive Director 1 Robert MacLeod Non-executive Director Ian Marchant Non-executive Director 1 Robert MacLeod retired from the Board on 28 April 2016.
AREAS OF FOCUS FOR 2017 Review succession plans for the Board.
Appointment and inductions for our new Independent Non-executive Directors.
Identify a suitable candidate or candidates to succeed Russell King as Senior Independent Director and Remuneration Committee Chairman.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE TERMS OF REFERENCE: IR.
COM INVESTORS Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 93 MAIN ACTIVITIES OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE DURING THE YEAR Reappointment of Directors Succession planning Since the Committees last report, the Company has extended The Committee met with the Chief Executive officer and Group theterms of appointment for Ian Marchant and Russell King.
HR Director to review succession plans.
The focus of these discussions was to review our succession planning strategy and Russell King has served as a Non-executive Director since ensure robust plans were in place for the Executive Committee February2009: we therefore reviewed his extension with and their direct reports.
The Committee reviewed proles for particular care.
We concluded that his tenure had not these positions during the year, taking into account the needs of compromised his independence in any way, and it was important the business and identifying any gaps.
The Committee will keep that we should retain his experience of Aggreko, both as Senior succession planning under close review in 2017 to implement the Independent Director and as Chairman of the Remuneration actions identied by the Board evaluation.
We also considered the number The Committee also monitors a schedule on the length of tenure and nature of Russells other commitments details of which are set out in his biography on page 72 particularly his roles on of the Chairman and Non-executive Directors and the mix and skills of the Directors.
The Committee is satisfied that adequate the boards of three other listed companies.
We were satisfied that Russells othercommitments do not detract from his ability succession planning is in place for the Board and will keep succession planning under review.
In coming to this conclusion, we noted that: first, in our view, the companies involved are not Board composition and diversity unusually complex, nor are they in regulated sectors: second, Our policy is to have a Board which represents a wide range hisrespective positions as chairman, senior independent director of backgrounds, skills and experiences.
We believe that a and remuneration committee chairman of those companies balanced Board is better equipped to consider matters from a strengthen, rather thandetract from, the experience he brings broader perspective.
Diversity is not just a matter of measurable Aggreko: third, he hasnot missed a Board or Committee meeting statistics in relation to gender or ethnicity: diversity of outlook within the last three years and has reduced his commitments and approach is also important, though far harder to measure.
Moreover, he has in practice made an invaluable We also need a range of skills from technical adherence and contributionto the Board and its commitments.
operational experience to governance and regulatory matters The Committee unanimously recommends the re-election to understand the markets in which we operate.
We also need a balance of long corporate memory and new insights from of eachof our Directors at our 2017 Annual General Meeting.
In making this recommendation, we evaluated each Director other elds.
There needs to be both challenge and support too.
When selecting new Directors, we take all these considerations in light of their performance, commitment to the role, and capacity to discharge their responsibilities fully, given their into account, as well as professional background to ensure that weappoint the best people for the relevant roles.
Appointment of Non-executive Directors Three out of eight of our Board roles at 31 December 2016 were During the year, the Committee undertook a broad review held by women, but diversity is not simply a matter of gender.
ofthenon-executive prole of the Board, including skills, We recognise the benets of greater diversity and will continue to experience, tenure and diversity.
We decided to search for two take account of this when considering any particular appointment, new Non-executive Directors to strengthen our Board overall and although we do not set any particular targets.
Diversity also add to our succession planning.
We appointed Lygon Group, an extends beyond the Boardroom and we support management independent search rm with no other connection to Aggreko, in their efforts to build a more diverse organisation.
You can read toassist in identifying suitable candidates.
In March 2017 wewere more about ourdiversity statistics for the Group on page 75. delighted to announce the appointments of Barbara Jeremiah and Miles Roberts as Non-executive Directors.
Barbara is currently a non-executive Director of two North American based companies, Russel Metals and Allegheny Technologies, having recently retired as chairwoman of Boart Longyear, a US based company in the minerals drilling sector.
Barbara brings extensive international non-executive experience largely in the US and Australia together with an executive career in the mining, exploration and energy industries.
Barbara is also a qualied lawyer, with a BA in political science and will join the Ethics, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Miles brings substantial international business experience as a chief executive and finance director.
Miles is currently chief executive officer of DS Smith Plc, a FTSE international packaging group with operations in nearly 40 countries.
Prior to this, Miles was group chief executive of McBride plc, having served as the group finance director before that.
An engineer by background and also a chartered accountant, Miles will join the Audit and Nomination Committees.
