CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present our Corporate Governance Report, which describes how the main principles of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code have been applied during the year.
Information about the Board, its members and committees, and an overview of the Companys system of internal controls are included.
With the exception of the appointment of David Ritchie, our new non-executive director, there were no changes to the Board during the year.
David is the CEO of Bovis Homes Group PLC and, as an experienced and successful CEO, brings a new and valuable perspective to our already strong Board.
We will continue to strengthen our Board over the course of the next 12 months and expect to bring further capability, competence and experience to our boardroom.
Further details of the Boards composition are given on pages 46 and 47.
JOHN R. NICOLSON CHAIRMAN 29 March 2016 53 THE BOARD The Company is led by a strong and experienced board of directors the Board which brings a depth and diversity of expertise to the leadership of the Company.
The Board has an appropriate balance of skills, experience and knowledge of the Group to enable it to discharge its responsibilities effectively.
The Board currently has nine members, comprising four executive directors, the non-executive Chairman, three independent non-executive directors and one non-independent non-executive director.
Biographical details of the directors are set out on pages 46 and 47.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and there is a clear division of responsibilities between those roles.
The Chairman leads the Board and ensures the effective engagement and contribution of all non-executive and executive directors.
The Chairman also ensures that Board meetings are underpinned by a culture of openness and challenge, with sufficient time made available to debate issues arising.
The Chief Executive has responsibility for all Group businesses and acts in accordance with the authority delegated from the Board.
The senior independent non-executive director, M. A. Griffiths, is available to shareholders if they have concerns which have not been resolved via the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive, or the other executive directors, or where communication through such channels would be inappropriate.
The Board considers that M. A. Griffiths, P. Powell and D. J. Ritchie are independent for the purposes of provision B.
1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, issued by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014 the Code, and that the relationships and circumstances set out in that provision which may appear relevant to the determination of independence do not apply.
The Board considers that, on appointment, the Chairman was independent for the purposes of provision A.
M. A. Griffiths fulfilled the role of senior independent director during the year to 30 January 2016.
In addition to his role as Chairman of the Company, J. R. Nicolson is a director of Stocks Spirits Group plc, deputy chairman of Compania Cervecerias Unidas S. A. Chile and director of North American Breweries Inc.
The Board does not consider that J. R. Nicolsons other commitments have any impact on his ability to discharge his duties as Chairman of the Company effectively.
The Articles require directors to retire and submit themselves for election at the first annual general meeting following appointment and to retire no later than the third annual general meeting after the annual general meeting at which they were last elected or re-elected.
However, in order to comply with the Code, all directors will submit themselves for re-election at the AGM.
Details of directors remuneration and interests in shares of the Company are given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 61 to 84.
A. G. BARR P. L. C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED ROLE OF THE BOARD The Board is responsible for the long term success of the Group, determines the strategic direction of the Group and reviews operating, financial and risk performance.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board, including approval of the Groups annual business plan, the Groups strategy, acquisitions, disposals and capital expenditure projects above certain thresholds, the financial statements, the Companys dividend policy, transactions involving the issue or purchase of Company shares, borrowing powers, appointments to the Board, alterations to the memorandum and articles of association, legal actions brought by or against the Group above certain thresholds, and the scope of delegations to Board committees, subsidiary boards and the management committee.
Responsibility for the development of policy and strategy and operational management is delegated to the executive directors and a management committee, which as at the date of this report includes the executive directors and nine senior managers.
BOARD PERFORMANCE EVALUATION Every year the performance and effectiveness of the Board, its committees and individual directors is evaluated.
This year the evaluation process was carried out internally, having been externally facilitated during the year to January 2014.
The process was led by the Chairman, who conducted a detailed and comprehensive evaluation process using written survey questionnaires.
The non-executive directors, led by the senior independent director, carried out a performance evaluation of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the executive directors.
The results of the evaluation were shared with all members of the Board.
Overall, it was noted that the Board and its committees were operating in an effective manner and performing satisfactorily, with no major issues identified.
The Chairman is pleased to confirm that, following performance evaluation of the directors, all of the directors performances continue to be effective and all of the directors continue to demonstrate commitment to the role of director, including commitment of time for Board meetings and committee meetings and any other relevant duties.
INDEPENDENT PROFESSIONAL ADVICE Directors can obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the performance of their duties as directors.
None of the directors obtained independent professional advice in the period under review.
All directors have access to the advice and the services of the Company Secretary.
The non-executive directors have access to senior management of the business.
TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT 54 On appointment to the Board, directors are provided with a full, formal and tailored programme of induction, to familiarise them with the Groups businesses, the risks and strategic challenges the Group faces, and the economic, competitive, legal and regulatory environment in which the Group operates.
A programme of strategic and other reviews, together with the other training provided during the year, ensures that directors continually update their skills, their knowledge and familiarity with the Groups businesses, and their awareness of sector, risk, regulatory, legal, financial and other developments to enable them to fulfil effectively their role on the Board and committees of the Board.
MEETINGS AND ATTENDANCE Board meetings are scheduled to be held seven times each year.
Between these meetings, as required, additional Board meetings and or Board committee meetings may be held to progress the Companys business.
A part of each Board meeting is dedicated to the discussion of specific strategy matters.
In advance of all Board meetings the directors are supplied with detailed and comprehensive papers covering the Groups operating functions.
Members of the management team attend and make presentations as appropriate at meetings of the Board.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for the timeliness and quality of information provided to it.
The Chairman holds meetings with the non-executive directors during the year without the executive directors being present.
A. G. BARR P. L. C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 The attendance of directors at scheduled Board and committee meetings in the year to 30 January 2016 was as follows: Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Maximum 8 Maximum 4 Maximum 6 Maximum 3 Executive R. A.
White attended Board committee meetings during the year by invitation.
S. Lorimer attended Audit Committee meetings during the year by invitation.
D. J. Ritchie was appointed to the Board and each of the Board committees on 1 April 2015 and could have attended a maximum of seven Board meetings, three Audit Committee meetings, five Remuneration Committee meetings and two Nomination Committee meetings.
During the year, the Board also convened one additional Board meeting in relation to a corporate transaction.
All of the directors who were entitled to attend that Board meeting attended the meeting, with the exception of J. R. Nicolson.
55 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The Articles allow the Board to authorise potential conflicts of interest that may arise from time to time, subject to certain conditions.
The Company has established appropriate conflicts authorisation procedures, whereby actual or potential conflicts are regularly reviewed and authorisations sought as appropriate.
During the year, no such conflicts arose and no such authorisations were sought.
COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD The terms of reference of the principal committees of the Board Audit, Remuneration and Nomination have been approved by the Board and are available on the Companys website, www.
Those terms of reference have been reviewed in the current year and are reviewed at least annually.
The work carried out by the Nomination Committee in discharging its responsibilities is summarised below.
The work carried out by the Audit Committee is described within the Audit Committees Report on pages 58 to 60.
The work carried out by the Remuneration Committee is described within the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 61 to 84.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Nomination Committee comprises J. R. Nicolson, W. R. G. Barr, M. A. Griffiths, P. Powell and D. J. Ritchie appointed 1 April 2015.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by J. R. Nicolson.
The Nomination Committee leads the process for making appointments to the Board and ensures that there is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors to the Board.
The remit of the Nomination Committee also includes reviewing the composition of the Board through a full evaluation of the skills, knowledge and experience of directors and ensuring plans are in place for orderly succession for appointments to the Board.
The Nomination Committee also makes recommendations to the Board on the membership of its committees.
The Nomination Committee is required, in accordance with its terms of reference, to meet at least once per year.
The Nomination Committee met three times during the year and, amongst other matters, considered and recommended the appointment of D. J. Ritchie to the Board and its committees.
In identifying a potential new non-executive director, the Nomination Committee retained the services of The Zygos Partnership, an external search consultant.
The Zygos Partnership has no other connection with the Company other than the provision of these services.
The Board recognises the importance of diversity to the success of the business and is firmly committed to giving due consideration to all aspects of diversity, including gender diversity.
Appointments to the Board are made on merit, against objective criteria, and with due regard for the benets of diversity on the Board.
Whilst no formal measurable objectives have been set for female representation at Board level, the Board remains committed to the principles of gender diversity.
The disclosure relating to gender diversity within the Company is included in the Strategic Report on page 28.
A. G. BARR P. L. C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED TREASURY COMMITTEE The Treasury Committee consists of R. A.
White, S. Lorimer and senior members of the finance, legal and procurement departments.
The Treasury Committee reviews purchase requirements in foreign currencies and implements strategies, including the use of foreign exchange hedges, in order to reduce the risk of foreign exchange exposure and provide certainty over the value of non-domestic purchases in the short to medium term.
The Treasury Committees remit also includes the ability to utilise certain financial instruments in order to hedge the Groups exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
INTERNAL CONTROL The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups internal control systems and annually reviews their effectiveness, including a review of financial, operational, compliance and risk management controls.
The implementation and maintenance of the risk management and internal control systems are the responsibility of the executive directors and other senior management.
The systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control systems, including financial, operational and compliance controls, in accordance with the Code for the period from 26 January 2015 to the date of approval of this annual report.
No significant failings or weaknesses were identified from this review during the year.
Had any failings or weaknesses been identified then the Board would have taken the action required to remedy them.
At the Audit Committee meeting on 14 January 2016, following a review and evaluation of the Groups risk management and internal control systems in place, the Audit Committee concluded that the Group has a sound system of risk management and internal controls in place.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process, embedded in the Groups integrated internal control systems, allowing for the identification, evaluation and management of significant risks, as well as a reporting process to the Board.
This risk management process has been in place throughout the year ended 30 January 2016 and up to the date of the approval of this annual report.
The Board has carried out a robust, systematic assessment of the principal risks facing the Group during the period, including those which would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Information on the Groups risk management framework is set out in the Strategic Report on pages 42 to 45.
56 The three main elements of the Groups internal control system are as follows: THE BOARD The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups internal control systems and exercises this through an organisational structure with clearly defined levels of responsibility and authority as well as appropriate reporting procedures.
The Board has a schedule of matters that are brought to it, or its duly authorised committees, for decision, aimed at maintaining effective control over strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues.
This structure includes the Audit Committee which, with the Finance Director, reviews the effectiveness of the internal financial and operating control environment.
FINANCIAL REPORTING There is a comprehensive strategic planning, budgeting and forecasting system with an annual operating plan approved by the Board.
Monthly financial information, including trading results, cash flow statement, statement of financial position and indebtedness, is reported.
The Board and the management committee review their business and financial performance against the prior year and against annual plans approved by the Board.
AUDITS AND REVIEWS The key internal risks identified in the Group are subject to regular audits or reviews by the internal auditors.
This role is fulfilled by an external professional services firm which is independent from the Board and the Company.
The review of the internal auditors work by the Audit Committee and monitoring procedures in place ensure that the findings of the audits are acted upon and subsequent reviews confirm compliance with any agreed action plans.
The Board confirms that there has been an independent internal audit function in place for the year.
SHARE CAPITAL STRUCTURE The share capital structure of the Company is set out in the Directors Report.
A. G. BARR P. L. C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE COMPLIANCE The Company is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the Code.
A copy of the Code is available on the Financial Reporting Councils website, www.
Each of the provisions of the Code has been reviewed and, where necessary, steps have been taken to ensure that the Company is in compliance with all of those provisions as at the date of this report.
The directors consider that the Company has complied throughout the year ended 30 January 2016 with the provisions of the Code, except as set out below.
Prior to 1 April 2015, the Board comprised four executive directors, the non-executive Chairman and two independent non-executive directors.
In addition, W. R. G. Barr was a non-executive director during the year although he is not considered by the Board to be independent.
D. J. Ritchie, an independent non-executive director, was appointed to the Board on 1 April 2015.
Therefore, following D. J. Ritchies appointment, the Board composition was the same with the exception that there were three independent non-executive directors.
Accordingly, during the year to 30 January 2016 the composition of the Board did not, at any time, comply with provision B.
The composition of the Companys Audit Committee did not comply with provision C. 3.1 of the Code at all times during the year to 30 January 2016 due to the fact that this Committee did not, during the limited period 26 January 2015 to 31 March 2015, comprise at least three independent non-executive directors.
During this period, the Audit Committee comprised two independent non-executive directors and one non-independent non-executive director.
Following the appointment of D. J. Ritchie to the Audit Committee on 1 April 2015, the composition of the Audit Committee complied with the Code in full.
The composition of the Companys Remuneration Committee did not comply with provision D. 2.1 of the Code at all times during the year to 30 January 2016 due to the fact that this Committee did not, during the limited period 26 January 2015 to 31 March 2015, comprise at least three independent non-executive directors.
During this period, the Remuneration Committee comprised two independent non-executive directors, one non-independent non-executive director and the Chairman of the Company.
In addition, at the request of the Board, J. R. Nicolson continued to chair the Remuneration Committee following his appointment as Chairman of the Company on 1 January 2015 until the recruitment of a new independent non-executive director with the capability to replace him in that capacity could be completed.
In this regard, 57 D. J. Ritchie was appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 1 April 2015 and replaced J. R. Nicolson as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee with effect from 1 July 2015.
Following these appointments, the composition of the Remuneration Committee complied with the Code in full.
The composition of the Companys Nomination Committee did not comply with provision B.
2.1 of the Code at all times during the year to 30 January 2016 due to the fact that this Committee did not, during the limited period 26 January 2015 to 31 March 2015, comprise a majority of independent non-executive directors.
During this period, the Nomination Committee comprised two independent non-executive directors, one non-independent non-executive director and the Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Following the appointment of D. J. Ritchie to the Nomination Committee on 1 April 2015, the composition of this Committee complied with the Code in full.
Provision D. 1.5 of the Code recommends that executive directors contracts contain a maximum notice period of one year.
As disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report, the service contracts with R. A.
White, J. D. Kemp and A. L. Memmott provide for a notice period of 12 months except during the six months following either a takeover of or by the Company or a Company reconstruction.
Under these conditions and certain circumstances the directors are entitled to a liquidated damages payment equal to the directors basic salary at termination plus the value of all contractual benefits for a two year period.
Given the size of the Company and the sector dynamics at the time these directors were recruited, the Remuneration Committee considered this provision appropriate in order to attract and retain high calibre executive directors.
As disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report, this provision will continue to be honoured as a contractual commitment made to these directors: however this provision was not included in S. Lorimers service contract and will not be included in service contracts with other new executive directors appointed in future.
A copy of the financial statements has been placed on the Companys website, www.
The maintenance and integrity of this website is the responsibility of the directors.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
A. BARR COMPANY SECRETARY 29 March 2016 A. G. BARR P. L. C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
