60 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee Report SID, I would assume the Chair role on an Nomination Committee at a glance interim basis.
The Nomination Committee is Perspectives on a number of external composed of a majority of Independent Non-Executive Directors in line with search agencies were debated by Code requirements and is chaired by the Nomination Committee and a the Company Chairman: shortlist of agencies invited to pitch.
- Danuta Gray Chair, Based on those discussions and how the 1 Interim Chairman respective agencies would approach our - Chris Patrick, Non-Executive assignment, Ridgeway Partners was Director engaged.
In conjunction with Ridgeway Partners, a detailed specification was - Peter Shaw, Independent Dear Shareholder Non-Executive Director prepared which included the most critical As a consequence of the resignation skills, experience and characteristics - Cathy Turner, Independent of Glyn Jones, I am now acting as Chair we would look for in the new Chairman.
Non-Executive Director to the Corporate Governance and We are making good progress with the Nomination Committee the Nomination Glyn Jones and Peter Cartwright were search and look forward to announcing a also members of the Nomination Committee, and I am therefore pleased replacement in due course.
Committee until their resignations to present this report to you.
from the Board with effect from Further detail on the key activities that 6 February 2017 and 18 April 2016 Following the resignation of Neil the Nomination Committee focused on respectively.
Neil Cochrane served Cochrane as the representative of our as a member of the Nomination in 2016 can be found on page 61.
We are Principal Shareholders, Chris Patrick Committee between 10 May 2016 and cognisant that governance is a dynamic was nominated as his replacement.
14 October 2016. area and we will continue to monitor and With responsibility for reviewing Board Regular attendees at meetings of the further embed best practice to ensure vacancies, the Nomination Committee Nomination Committee include the that our governance frameworks support considered the appropriateness of CEO and Company Secretary.
and underpin the delivery of our strategy.
the candidate and was pleased to The Nomination Committees key recommend the appointment of Chris as Whilst the annual effectiveness review roles are to oversee the Boards a Non-Executive Director and member of the Nomination Committee confirmed governance arrangements and to of the Nomination Committee and Risk ensure these are consistent with best that we continue to operate effectively, practice standards: and to review the Committee in November 2016. an area highlighted for enhancement composition and effectiveness of relates to succession planning.
In light The Nomination Committee led by the Board to support planning for its of this and the need to ensure that we progressive refreshing.
myself as the Senior Independent have adequate succession planning in Director SID has dedicated The Nomination Committees respect of Executive Directors and senior considerable time to overseeing the terms of reference are reviewed management, and to ensure that we have annually and are available at search to identify Glyn's replacement.
the right talent and initiatives to develop www.
co. uk John Hitchins, our Audit Committee internal executives for execution of 1 Meetings will be chaired by the new Company Chair, was also formally invited to Chairman once appointed and Danuta Gray our strategy, we intend to make this a join discussions and form part of the will remain a member in her capacity as Senior continued area of focus in 2017. search process.
We were well placed Independent Director.
to initiate the search process quickly and effectively as, in the prior year, we had agreed a Chairman Succession Framework which outlined the agreed approach that would be adopted should a replacement ever be needed.
The Framework, which was developed to ensure that the Company has in place Danuta Gray, at all times an effective Chairman to Chair of Corporate Governance lead the Board, confirmed that, as the and Nomination Committee 61 Strategic report Corporate governance Risk management Financial statements Appendices Key: Key topics discussed at Responsibilities of the Reviewed Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Recommended to Board To review the Groups corporate meetings in 2016 Approved governance arrangements and frameworks to ensure that they are Topic Activity Action consistent with best practice Output of the 2015 annual effectiveness review of the Board and the Annual To review the Boards size, structure Nomination Committee, including agreement of action plans effectiveness and composition, including the skills, review Update on actions arising from the 2015 annual effectiveness review knowledge, experience and diversity of the Directors, and that of the Process for the 2016 annual effectiveness review of the Board and Board Committees its Committees, and Directors evaluations To lead the process for nominating Annual re-election of Directors and review of their independence Appointment candidates to fill Board vacancies as reappointment Appointment of a new  Director they arise of Directors Review of Board Committee composition following the resignation To oversee the annual effectiveness Board of Peter Cartwright and Neil Cochrane as Directors review of the Board and its Committees composition Annual review of the structure, size and composition of the Board To oversee compliance with the terms and its Committees, including the balance of skills, knowledge, of the Relationship Agreement with experience and diversity of the Directors the Principal Shareholders Potential conflicts arising from the proposed appointment of Robert Directors To formulate succession plans for the Sharpe as Chairman of the Bank of Ireland UK PLC conflicts Chairman, Non-Executive Directors and key senior executives Annual review of the Directors' Conflicts Register Nomination Committee Report to be included in the 2015 Annual Governance Report and Accounts Gap analysis against the PRA supervisory statement Corporate governance: Board responsibilities Compliance with the Relationship Agreement between the Company and its Principal Shareholders Annual programme of agenda items for Nomination Committee meetings in 2017 Succession planning for both Executive and Non-Executive Directors Succession planning Succession planning for the Chairman role and initiation of the search for a new Chairman, including job specification, selection of search agency and clarification of regulatory requirements Time spent in 2016 Committee effectiveness % The Nomination Committee undertook a review of its own effectiveness through Annual effectiveness 7 2016 as part of the wider Board and Committee evaluation exercise.
The review review Appointment 7 took the form of an internal evaluation and was conducted principally by way of a reappointment of Directors questionnaire that was issued to all Nomination Committee members.
Board composition 5 Directors conflicts 1 The review covered various areas including the role and remit of the Nomination Governance 10 Committee: the effectiveness of the Chair: the appropriateness of information Succession planning 70 provided to the Nomination Committee: and the relationship with management.
The Nomination Committee discussed the outcome of the review in early 2017.
The Nomination Committee confirmed that it operated effectively and there were no significant areas for concern.
It also noted that succession planning would remain a key area of focus in 2017.
Further information about the Board and Committee effectiveness process is set out on pages 56 and 57.
