100 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance Directors Report The Directors present their report and the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2016.
As permitted by legislation, some of the matters normally included in the Directors Report are included by reference as detailed below.
Where to find further information: Requirement Detail Section Location Business review Information regarding the business review and future Strategic report Pages 16 to 30 developments, key performance indicators and principal risks are business review and future contained within the strategic report.
and future developments developments Page 15 key performance indicators Page 33 principal risks The corporate governance section provides full disclosure of Corporate Pages 39 to 105 Corporate governance the Groups corporate governance arrangements.
The Group governance statement has complied fully with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 during the year.
Results The results for the year are set out in the income statement.
Income Page 148 The profit before taxation for the year ended 31 December statement 2016 was 128.7m 2015: 94.7m.
A full review of the financial Strategic report Pages 1 to 38 performance of the Group is included within the strategic report.
The Directors do not propose to recommend a final dividend in Dividend respect of the year ended 31 December 2016.
The Group uses financial instruments to manage certain types Risk Pages 106 to 139 Financial instruments of risk, including liquidity and interest rate risk.
Details of the management objectives and risk management of these instruments are contained in the risk management section.
There have been no material post balance sheet events.
Post balance sheet events Share capital At 31 December 2016, the Companys share capital comprised Note 36 to the Pages 185 to 186 344,739,584 ordinary shares of 0.10 each.
consolidated financial The Company did not repurchase any of the issued ordinary statements shares during the year or up to the date of this report.
The powers of the Directors, including in relation to the issue or buyback of the Companys shares, are set out in the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Articles of Association.
The Directors were granted authority to issue and allot shares at the 2016 AGM.
This authority expires at the end of the next AGM or, if earlier, on 30 June 2017.
Shareholders will be asked to renew the authority to issue and allot shares at the 2017 AGM.
101 Strategic report Corporate governance Risk management Financial statements Appendices Where to find further information: Requirement Detail Section Location Rights and obligations There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Companys ordinary shares or on the exercise of the voting rights attached to attaching to shares them, except for: where the Company has exercised its right to suspend their voting rights or prohibit their transfer following the omission by their holder or any person interested in them to provide the Company with information requested by it in accordance with Part 22 of the Companies Act 2006: or where their holder is precluded from exercising voting rights by the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules or the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers.
All the Companys ordinary shares are fully paid and rank equally in all respects and there are no special rights with regard to control of the Company.
Under the Relationship Agreement entered into by the Principal Shareholders, AnaCap Derby Co-Investment No.
1 L. P. has agreed for so long as it holds in excess of 4.99% of the ordinary shares in the Company, that save in limited circumstances, it shall not exercise any voting rights in respect of, or sell or transfer except for a permitted sale or transfer, any ordinary shares in the Company beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by it.
Details of how rights of shares in employee share schemes Note 37 to the Page 188 Employees share are exercised when not directly exercisable by employees are consolidated scheme rights provided in Note 37 to the consolidated financial statements.
financial statements The Group is committed to employment policies, which follow Strategic report Pages 15 and 37 Employees best practice, based on equal opportunities for all employees, irrespective of gender, race, colour, age, disability, sexual orientation or marital or civil partner status.
The Group is committed to ensuring that disabled people are afforded equality of opportunity in respect to entering and continuing employment within the Group.
This includes all stages from recruitment and selection, terms and conditions of employment, access to training and career development.
Information on employee involvement and engagement can be found in the strategic report.
The names and biographical details of the current Directors Corporate Pages 42 and 43 Directors who served on the Board and changes to the composition of the governance Board that have occurred during 2016 and up to the date of this Board of Directors report are provided in the corporate governance section and are incorporated into the Directors Report by reference.
102 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance Directors Report continued Where to find further information: Requirement Detail Section Location Disclosure of Details of any long-term incentive schemes Note 37 to the Pages 186 to 189 consolidated information under financial Listing Rule 9.8.
4R statements Agreement with the Principal Shareholders Relations with Page 59 shareholders Contracts of significance Note 41 to the Page 192 consolidated financial statements Dividend waivers Note 36 to the Page 185 and 186 consolidated financial statements The appointment and retirement of the Directors is governed Corporate Page 52 Appointment by the Companys Articles of Association, the UK Corporate governance and retirement Governance Code 2014 and the Companies Act 2006. election and of Directors The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a re-election special resolution passed by shareholders at a general meeting.
In accordance with the the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014, all of the Directors will retire and offer themselves for reappointment or appointment in the case of Chris Patrick at the 2017 AGM.
Under the Relationship Agreement, the Principal Shareholders are entitled for such time as they have: i an interest of 20% or more in the Company, to appoint two Non-Executive Directors: and ii less than a 20% interest but an interest of 10% or more in the Company, to appoint one Non-Executive Director.
Such appointments are subject to election re-election at the AGM.
The Directors who served on the Board during 2016 and up to the Directors indemnities date of this report have benefited from qualifying third-party indemnity provisions by virtue of deeds of indemnity entered into by the Directors and the Company.
The deeds indemnify the Directors to the maximum extent permitted by law and by the Articles of Association of the Company, in respect of liabilities and associated costs and expenses incurred in connection with the performance of their duties as a Director of the Company and any associated company, as defined by Section 256 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Group also maintains Directors and Officers liability insurance which provides appropriate cover for legal actions brought against its Directors.
103 Strategic report Corporate governance Risk management Financial statements Appendices Where to find further information: Requirement Detail Section Location Significant There are no agreements between any Group company and any of its employees or any Director of any Group company agreements which provide for compensation to be paid to an employee or a Director for termination of employment or for loss of office as a consequence of a takeover of the Company.
There are no significant agreements to which the Company is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid for the Company.
The Group made no political donations during the year.
Political donations Research and The Group does not undertake formal research and development Note 28 to the Pages 182 and 183 activities.
However, new products and services are developed consolidated development activities in each of the business lines in the ordinary course of business financial in accordance with the Groups product and pricing governance statements framework.
Under this framework, all new products, campaigns and business initiatives are reviewed and approved by the Groups Product and Pricing Committee.
In addition to new products and services, the Group also invests in internally generated intangible assets including computer systems.
Emissions reporting Details relating to required emissions reporting are set out on Directors Report Page 105 page 105.
The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis, Going concern as the Directors are satisfied that the Group has the resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future which has been taken as 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
In making this assessment, the Directors have considered a wide range of information relating to present and future conditions, including the current state of the balance sheet, future projections of profitability, cash flows and capital resources, and the longer term strategy of the business.
The Groups capital and liquidity plans, including stress tests, have been reviewed by the Directors.
The Groups forecasts and projections show that it will be able to operate at adequate levels of both liquidity and capital for the foreseeable future, including under a range of stressed scenarios.
After making due enquiries, the Directors believe that the Group has sufficient resources to continue its activities for the foreseeable future and to continue its expansion, and the Group has sufficient capital to enable it to continue to meet its regulatory capital requirements as set out by the Prudential Regulation Authority.
104 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance Directors Report continued Where to find further information: Requirement Detail Section Location Disclosure of Each person who is a Director at the date of this Directors Report confirms that: information to auditors so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups auditors are unaware: and he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Auditor Following a competitive tender process, the Board recommended Audit Committee Page 68 that Deloitte LLP be appointed as the Group's auditor with effect Report from the 2017 AGM, at which resolutions concerning Deloittes appointment and authorising the Board to set their remuneration will be proposed.
Annual General The AGM will be held at 11.00am on 16 May 2017 at the offices of Group website www.
Linklaters LLP, 1 Silk Street, London, EC2Y 8HQ.
co. uk Meeting AGM AGM, together with an explanation of the items of business to be discussed at the meeting, will be posted to shareholders and made available on the Groups website.
A resolution will be proposed at the 2017 AGM to amend the Companys Articles of Association so that future AGMs may be held electronically.
In accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the Company as at the date of this report has been Substantial notified of the following interests in its ordinary share capital: shareholdings As at 31 December 2016 As at 1 March 2017 Ordinary % of voting Nature of Ordinary % of voting Nature of Shareholder shares held rights holding shares held rights holding 1 AnaCap Financial Partners L. P. 28,702,806 8.33% Direct 28,702,806 8.33% Direct 1 AnaCap Financial Partners II, L. P. 37,964,311 11.01% Direct 37,964,311 11.01% Direct AnaCap Derby Co-Investment 1 No.
2 L. P. 32,897,211 9.54% Direct 32,897,211 9.54% Direct Direct 2.97% and qualifying financial instruments Norges Bank 10,333,531 3.00% 0.03% 10,358,946 3.00% Direct Standard Life Investments 2 Holdings Limited 18,656,326 5.41% Indirect 17,696,294 5.13% Indirect 1 These shareholdings represent the interests of the Principal Shareholders who hold 40.14% of the ordinary shares in the Company.
2 Since 31 December 2016, the Company has been notified that Standard Life Investments Holdings Limited decreased its shareholding on 13 January 2017 to below 5% and increased its shareholding on 27 January 2017 as set out above.
"105 Strategic report Corporate governance Risk management Financial statements Appendices Heat and electricity supplied by Conversion factors used in this Emissions reporting landlords to premises occupied by the report have been taken from the Greenhouse gas emissions Group, where the heat or electricity Department for Business, Energy and The Groups greenhouse gas GHG is not separately reported or charged Industrial Strategys ""Greenhouse Gas emissions for 2016 were 525 tonnes outside of the general building Conversion Factor Repository"" and of carbon dioxide equivalent tCO e 2 service charge, has not been included the report has been compiled in line equating to 0.59 tCO e per employee."
2 in this years report due to lack of with the Department for Environment, In 2016, the Group established an data.
"Methods to obtain this data or Food & Rural Affairs ""Environmental energy baseline against which it can reliable methods for estimation will be Reporting Guidelines: Including report in future years."
"investigated and if suitably accurate mandatory greenhouse gas emissions GHG emissions for the Group have data can be obtained, this will be reporting guidance""."
been collated and calculated for all included in future years reports.
GHG reduction plan UK operations where the Group is GHG data integrity and The Group is committed to reducing responsible for the combustion of fuel GHG emissions.
The opportunities or energy used in the operation of calculation method for energy savings identified through facilities occupied by the Group.
The data included in this report has the Groups ESOS Energy Saving been taken from multiple sources, Reporting period Opportunity Scheme assessment, namely: utility billed data, existing The reporting period for emissions completed in January 2016, are internal calculations, existing external corresponds with the Groups financial being progressed and implemented calculations from landlords, and reporting period.
expense claims in relation to transport usage.
It has not been possible to obtain GHG scope of disclosure and GHG data verification some data for the reporting period.
omissions All data used for GHG emissions Where this is the case, data has been GHG emissions disclosure will be limited reporting was compiled and calculated estimated either by using data from an to Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions only by JRP Solutions Ltd, an independent earlier period or extrapolating existing as data was not readily available for energy specialist.
Fuel consumption from vehicles Scope 3 emissions.
Scope 1 includes fuel On behalf of the Board: for business travel was estimated from emissions from buildings and company expense claim costs.
vehicles and Scope 2 includes our emissions from electricity.
Disclosure of Scope 3 emissions is voluntary under the regulations.
Rachel Spencer, GHG emissions summary tCO e 2 Company Secretary Scope 2015 2016 1 March 2017 Scope 1 Company transport 237 175 Scope 2 Electricity 484 350 Total GHG emissions 721 525 Average number of employees 845 887 Total per employee 0.85 0.59 106 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Risk management The Groups approach to risk 107 Risk governance and oversight 110 Stress testing 111 Principal risks 112
