62 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance Audit Committee Report audit team at KPMG for the support they Audit Committee at a glance have given to the organisation as it has The Audit Committee is composed of transitioned into a listed company.
"four Independent Non-Executive Directors, in line with Code Given the highly regulated environment requirements: that we operate within, I am pleased to report that the outcome of the annual - John Hitchins Chair, Independent Non-Executive Director evaluation of the Group Internal Audit ""GIA"" function demonstrates that - Robert Sharpe, Independent Non-Executive Director overall the team is operating effectively and that it continues to evolve in tandem - Peter Shaw, Independent Dear Shareholder with the maturity of the organisation."
"Non-Executive Director I am pleased to present this report of In line with the Chartered Institute - Chris Stamper, Independent the Audit Committee for the year ended of Internal Audit ""CIIA"" standards, Non-Executive Director 31 December 2016 and I set out below the Audit Committee has agreed Regular attendees at the Audit some key highlights."
We continue to to commission an external quality Committee include the CEO, maintain a close relationship with the assessment in 2017 to benchmark GIA CFO, CRO, Group Internal Audit Risk Committee as there are topics of activities against best practice and peers.
Director, Group Financial Controller, mutual interest, although with different representatives from KPMG and the Ahead of this, during 2016, the function Company Secretary.
"conducted a self-assessment against the CIIA published guidance on Effective To comply with Code requirements The Conduct Committee of the Financial that the Audit Committee has at least Internal Audit in the Financial Services Reporting Council ""FRC"" reviews the one member with recent and relevant Sector which provided assurance to the report and accounts of public and large financial experience, the Board is Audit Committee that, on a proportionate private companies to determine whether satisfied that John Hitchins meets basis, the function complied with all these requirements, being a qualified they comply with the Companies Act relevant areas."
Further information chartered accountant with extensive 2006 and other reporting requirements.
about GIA can be found on page 67.
These reviews are conducted on a desk The Audit Committee has also top basis without access to companies The report sets out the areas the reviewed the new Code requirement detailed records, but nonetheless the Audit Committee focused on in 2016. that the Committee as a whole should Audit Committee was delighted to Many of these will again form areas of have competence relevant to the receive a no issues letter from the focus for us in 2017 and, in particular, sector in which the Company operates, FRC which confirmed that, based on and has confirmed its compliance with the Audit Committee will continue to this statement.
See pages 42 and 43 their review of the Groups 2015 Annual provide regular oversight to the IFRS9 for full biographical details of Audit Report and Accounts our inaugural programme which was mobilised during Committee members.
report as a listed company, they had no 2016 to ensure that the Company The Audit Committees key role is to questions or queries to raise at that time.
is ready for the implementation review the integrity of the financial of this standard with effect from Taking into account the framework reporting for the Group and to oversee 1 January 2018. the effectiveness of the internal set out in the Audit Tendering Policy control systems and work of the which we adopted in June 2016, the internal and external auditors.
Audit Committee initiated a project The Audit Committees terms in the second half of 2016 to design of reference are reviewed and execute a tender process for the annually and are available at external auditor.
co. uk and comprehensive exercise which concluded with the Board approving the Audit Committees recommendation that John Hitchins, Deloitte LLP be appointed as our external Chair of Audit Committee auditor for the period commencing 1 January 2017.
I would like to extend my thanks to our audit partner and the wider 63 Strategic report Corporate governance Risk management Financial statements Appendices Key: Key topics discussed Responsibilities of the Audit Committee Reviewed at Audit Committee Monitor the integrity of the financial Recommended to Board statements of the Group, including its meetings in 2016 Approved annual reports, half-yearly reports and quarterly updates Topic Activity Action Challenge the consistency of, and External audit control observations, including management's External any changes to, accounting policies responses audit and confirm whether the Group External auditor's assessment of their independence has complied with and followed appropriate accounting standards 2016 audit strategy, terms of engagement and fee proposal and made appropriate estimates Effectiveness review and reappointment of the external auditor and judgements New Audit Tendering Policy Monitor and keep under review the effectiveness of the Groups Audit tender process and recommendation to the Board to appoint a internal financial controls and internal new external auditor with effect from the 2017 AGM control systems Financial results, including going concern and viability statements, Financial Assess whether the Groups financial and the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts reporting reports are fair, balanced and Representation letters to the external auditor understandable: the appropriateness Key judgement areas for the 2016 half-year and full-year results of the adoption of the going concern basis of accounting: and the statement Pillar 3 disclosures as at 31 December 2015 that the Directors have a reasonable Project to implement IFRS9 new guidelines for calculating and expectation that the Group will be able reporting provisions with effect from 1 January 2018 to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due Regular review of policies, including the Loan Impairment and Provisioning Policy and Hedge Accounting Policy, and approval of a Review the adequacy of the Groups new Effective Interest Rate Stance Policy whistleblowing arrangements and procedures for detecting Annual programme of agenda items for Audit Committee meetings Governance fraud and preventing bribery and in 2017 money laundering Review of the Audit Committee's effectiveness Monitor the remit and effectiveness Regulatory developments which impact on audit committees of the GIA function, review all internal audit reports and monitor Annual review of the effectiveness of the GIA function, and Internal managements responsiveness to the consideration of progress against actions from the previous review audit findings and recommendations Output from the review of the GIA function against the CIIA guidance on Effective Internal Audit in the Financial Services Sector Oversee the relationship with the external auditor, including the approval Annual report from the Money Laundering Reporting Officer Internal of audit and non-audit fees and terms controls Annual review of whistleblowing arrangements of engagement, annually assessing their independence and reviewing Assessment of the effectiveness of systems of risk management their findings and internal controls Annual review of disclosure controls and procedures, including the impact of the implementation of the EU Market Abuse Regulation Updates on data governance Time spent in 2016 Processes for preventing fraudulent financial reporting % External audit 16 Enhancement of the Business Assurance Framework Financial reporting 46 Governance 6 In addition, the Audit Committee received regular updates from the GIA function Internal audit 17 on audit reports issued and progress against audit recommendations.
Non-audit Internal controls 13 services and fees were also monitored.
Other 2 64 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance Audit Committee Report continued Areas of focus Financial reporting In respect of financial reporting, the Audit Committee considered the Companys half-year and annual financial statements and considered a number of significant issues and areas of judgement as set out in the table below.
The issues are broadly similar to those looked at in 2015 except deferred tax is no longer considered significant given the substantial reduction in the deferred tax asset.
Key issues judgements in financial reporting Audit Committee review and conclusions - The Audit Committee reviewed regular reports during the year in relation to Loan impairment provisions both the collective and individual loan impairment provisions.
The collective The calculation of loan impairment impairment model involves a number of significant assumptions.
All key provisions is managements best estimate assumptions, including the probability of default and emergence period, of losses incurred in the Groups portfolios have been considered, challenged and reviewed, including an analysis of the at the balance sheet date.
It involves sensitivity of each key assumption.
estimates of expected future cash flows based on both the likelihood of a loan and - The probability of default is assessed using information obtained from a credit advance being written off and the estimated bureau for comparable borrowers.
These probabilities of defaults are then loss on such a write-off.
adjusted usually downwards to reflect the nature of the Groups lending.
The level of adjustment is based on historic internal data.
At 31 December 2016, the Group held 14.3m of specific loan impairment - Emergence period assumptions are necessary to estimate the time between provisions and 13.1m of collective the trigger events occurring and loans being identified as impaired.
has limited historical data available and therefore uses market insight to estimate the emergence period assumptions.
As a result of the UKs decision to leave the EU, it is widely predicted that the UK economy will experience a sustained period of economic uncertainty.
Whilst it is impossible to predict the potential impact of this economic uncertainty, a decision was made to increase the emergence period for the Mortgages segments in June 2016.
This had the impact of increasing the collective impairment by 1.6m.
- The Audit Committee also considered specific cases of individual provisions.
The significant judgements in calculating specific provisions relate to the estimate of the value of collateral due to the specialised nature of lending in SME Commercial Mortgages and Asset Finance, coupled with the alternative exit strategies which can be adopted.
- The Audit Committee agreed managements judgement was appropriate as at 31 December 2016.
The disclosures relating to loan impairment provisions are set out in Note 3 and Note 22 to the financial statements on pages 166 to 167 and 177 to 178 respectively.
65 Strategic report Corporate governance Risk management Financial statements Appendices Key issues judgements in financial reporting Audit Committee review and conclusions - The EIR method of accounting uses a discounted cash flow model to spread Effective Interest Rate EIR interest and fee income and expense attributable to loan assets, including The EIR method of accounting for income costs and other premium and discounts, over the estimated life of the asset.
recognition requires management to make a number of assumptions.
In particular, - The Audit Committee considered and challenged the key assumptions within management must make a significant the EIR models.
One of the key assumptions relates to the expected life of the judgement around the estimation of the loan asset which is underpinned by judgements made on the likely repayment expected life of loan assets across the profile of the Groups loan portfolios both organic and acquired driven by Groups portfolios.
During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed, challenged and approved an updated governance framework At 31 December 2016, the Groups balance related to the preparation and ongoing monitoring and enhancement of these sheet includes an EIR asset of 6.8m.
- It further reviewed the reassessment of the expected lives as at 31 December 2016, further details of which are given in Note 3 to the Financial Statements on page 168.
The Audit Committee was satisfied that this reassessment had been prepared in line with the updated governance framework.
After considering sensitivities of key judgements, the Audit Committee agreed that managements judgement was appropriate.
- During 2016, further share awards were granted under the existing schemes, Share-based payments including a modification.
The most significant judgement remains the Share-based payments are material by calculation of the expected volatility of the Companys share price.
nature and determination of the fair value of share-based payments awarded to - The Audit Committee considered the accounting for the share plans, including Directors and employees of the Group the methodology used to calculate the fair value of the awards granted and requires management to make a number the key inputs and assumptions used in the valuation models to calculate of judgements.
A total charge of 3.5m in relation to - The Audit Committee considered sensitivities of key assumptions and was share-based payments was reflected in the satisfied with the judgements applied in calculating the fair value of the income statement during the year.
The disclosures relating to share-based payments are set out in Note 3 and Note 37 to the financial statements on pages 168 and 186 to 189 respectively.
"- At 1 January 2016, the Invoice Finance goodwill was carried forward using the Goodwill attributable to Invoice Finance Fair Value Less Cost of Disposal ""FVLCD"" method of valuation."
During 2016, During 2016, the Group impaired goodwill following the UK's decision to leave the EU, there was a general fall in the balances totalling 4.1m attributable to the market value of financial services businesses.
As a result, at the half year Invoice Finance segment.
a decision was taken to impair the goodwill relating to the Invoice Finance Accounting standards require an business of 4.1m.
assessment of goodwill balances for impairment on at least an annual basis.
- The disclosures relating to the Invoice Finance goodwill are set out in Note 3 and Note 28 to the financial statements on pages 169 and 182 respectively.
66 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance Audit Committee Report continued A full review was undertaken by the Fair, balanced and Whistleblowing external legal advisers to ensure all The Audit Committee reviews the understandable disclosure requirements were met, as adequacy and security of the Groups In line with the Code, the overarching well as following best practice.
whistleblowing arrangements for principle for an annual report and its employees and contractors to accounts is that the report as a whole A formal review was undertaken by raise concerns, in confidence, about is fair, balanced and understandable the Audit Committee of the draft possible wrongdoing in financial and should provide the information 2016 Annual Report and Accounts in reporting or other matters.
Under new necessary for shareholders to advance of final sign-off.
regulation in 2016, the Company was assess the companys position and required to appoint a Whistleblowing performance, business model and A final review was performed by the Champion to oversee the effectiveness strategy.
This requirement was at the Board of Directors.
of the whistleblowing framework, forefront of the Audit Committees In conclusion, the Audit Committee is and an accountable executive for planning process for the 2016 Annual satisfied that the 2016 Annual Report establishing policies and procedures on Report and Accounts to ensure that it and Accounts meets the fair, balanced whistleblowing.
The Chair of the Audit could provide assurance to the Board and understandable criteria.
Committee and the Chief Risk Officer about making this statement.
agreed to be appointed to these roles, The process enabling the Audit Committee Internal controls and risk and will carry out their responsibilities in to reach this conclusion included: management conjunction with the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee is responsible The production of the 2016 Annual During 2016, the Audit Committee for reviewing the adequacy and Report and Accounts was managed reviewed the Group's whistleblowing effectiveness of the Groups systems of by the Chief Financial Officer, with arrangements and it was agreed internal control and risk management.
overall governance and co-ordination that, in order to complement the Details of the risk management provided by a cross-functional team processes that were already in place, systems in place are provided within of senior management.
an independent third-party provider the risk management section from would be appointed to operate a This support included input page 106. whistleblowing line.
Avenues previously from Finance, Risk, Company Details of the process performed to available to an employee for raising a Secretariat, Investor Relations and assess the effectiveness of internal concern remain in place i. e. with their the business lines including the controls are provided on page 31. line manager in the first instance or, Managing Directors.
where not appropriate, directly with On the recommendation of the Audit the Head of Compliance via a dedicated There was a robust review process Committee and Risk Committee, the contact number.
Once a report has of inputs into the 2016 Annual Report Board concluded that the Groups been made, an initial assessment is and Accounts by all contributors to systems of internal control and risk undertaken in order to decide if an ensure disclosures were balanced, management were appropriately independent investigation is required.
accurate and verified, and further designed and operated effectively comprehensive reviews were during 2016.
In respect of the year under review, conducted by senior management.
a report on whistleblowing was considered by the Audit Committee The Company Secretary reviewed which concluded that there were no all Board and Committee minutes areas of concern which were significant to ensure all significant matters or demonstrated material weaknesses discussed at meetings were in internal controls during the year.
appropriately disclosed in the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts as required.
67 Strategic report Corporate governance Risk management Financial statements Appendices To assess the effectiveness of GIA in The Audit Committee also met the Group Internal audit respect of 2016, the Audit Committee external auditor once during the year The Group has an independent and performed an internal review which without management present in order objective GIA function which acts as the included obtaining feedback from to discuss their remit and raise any third line of defence.
The GIA Director members of the Audit Committee, as issues arising from the audit.
reports directly to the Audit Committee well as executive management.
It also Chair and to the CEO for administrative Independence had regard to the CIIA guidance on purposes.
The GIA Director meets Processes are in place to safeguard the Effective Internal Audit in the Financial with the Audit Committee Chair on a independence of the external auditor, Services Sector CIIA Guidance.
frequent basis and periodically with including controls around the use of the The internal review concluded that the whole Audit Committee without external auditor for non-audit services the function was effective overall management present.
In addition, the and the operation of a Policy on the noting that, while there were some Audit Committee held a roundtable Employment of Former Employees areas for further development, these with members of the GIA team during of the External Auditor.
Details of had already been identified and were the year, which allowed the Audit the Non-Audit Services Policy are being acted upon by the GIA Director.
Committee to delve further into key set out on page 69.
In addition, the During the year, GIA also performed areas of focus.
See page 55 for more external auditor provides the Audit a self-assessment against both the information about the roundtable event.
Committee with further assurance as CIIA Guidance and internal auditing The Audit Committee reviews and to the procedures that it maintains to standards.
The Audit Committee approves the GIA Risk Assessment preserve objectivity and confirmation reviewed the output from this review, and Plan of Work GIA Plan including that it remains independent.
which confirmed that GIA was operating the adequacy of resources and skills effectively against the standards.
The GIA Director utilises The Audit Committee assesses the The Audit Committee has decided that specialist knowledge from external effectiveness of the external auditor in 2017 it will commission an external consultants, where appropriate, to and the external audit process on quality assessment to benchmark supplement the skills of the GIA team.
an annual basis through a number of GIA activities against best practice The GIA Director monitors changes steps, including: i agreement of their and peers.
to the business and the external engagement letter and fees: ii a review environment throughout the year and External audit of the external audit plan, including the considers whether any changes to the The Audit Committee is responsible experience of the audit team assigned: GIA Plan are needed.
Any proposed for overseeing the relationship with iii an evaluation of the reports issued changes are reviewed and approved by the external auditor, including the following inspections of KPMG LLP by the Audit Committee.
ongoing assessment of the auditors the Financial Reporting Councils Audit The Audit Committee receives regular independence.
The Audit Committee Quality Review team: iv a review of reports on progress against the GIA Plan makes recommendations to the Board the clarity and thoroughness of KPMG including reports on individual audits with regard to the appointment of LLPs written reports and contribution as well as thematic issues identified.
the external auditor, and approves to Audit Committee discussions: The Audit Committee also reviews their remuneration and terms and v a review of non-audit fees to the effectiveness of management of engagement.
confirm compliance with the Non-Audit action plans to remediate GIA findings Services Policy.
Following its review KPMG LLP and its predecessor firm, and receives reports from GIA on the of the 2016 external audit process, KPMG Audit PLC, were appointed as the progress management has made in the Audit Committee concluded that it Companys auditor in 2009.
The current implementing audit recommendations.
audit partner is Mike Peck who has been in place since 2014.
During 2016, the Audit Committee Chair met the external auditor on a regular basis during the year to facilitate effective and timely communication.
68 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance Audit Committee Report continued recommendation to the Board that by way of a questionnaire that was issued Audit tender Deloitte LLP should be appointed as the to all Audit Committee members.
During the year, the Audit Committee Companys auditor with effect from the approved an Audit Tendering Policy The review covered various areas 2017 AGM.
This recommendation was which confirmed that the external audit including the role and remit of the approved by the Board in December contract would be put out to tender Audit Committee: the effectiveness 2016 and the proposed appointment at least every 10 years, and where of the Chair: the appropriateness of is included in the 2017 Notice of AGM.
a competitive tender had not been information provided to the Audit Further detail on the tender process is completed in the last five years, the Committee: and the relationship with provided below.
Company would confirm when it management.
The Audit Committee proposed to carry out a tender and discussed the outcome of the review Audit Committee the reasons why.
This was in line with in early 2017.
The Audit Committee effectiveness both the Code and other regulatory confirmed that it operated effectively The Audit Committee undertook a requirements.
and there were no significant areas for review of its own effectiveness through concern.
Further information about the The Audit Committee decided to 2016 as part of the wider Board and Board and Committee effectiveness commence a tendering process in 2016.
The process is set out on pages 56 and 57.
This process culminated in a review took the form of an internal evaluation and was principally conducted External audit tender process The tender process was overseen by the Audit Committee, with support from a steering group comprising the Audit Committee Chair, the Risk Committee Chair, the CFO and the Group Financial Controller.
The tender process involved five key stages, which are summarised below: Stage 4 Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 5 Meetings with key Initial meetings with Issue of formal invitation Provision of information individuals and Presentation to the Audit the audit firms to tender to audit firms submission of Committee and outcome final proposals Intention to tender An invitation to tender The Group issued all The shortlisted firms All three firms were was advertised was issued to three shortlisted firms with met with members of asked to present their on the corporate shortlisted firms, along relevant information to the executive team, the audit proposals to the governance section of with a deadline to submit provide them with an Audit Committee Chair steering group.
the Groups Investor their intent to tender.
overview of the Groups and the GIA Director.
Based on a careful Relations website.
history, business and The firms were also These meetings were assessment against audit requirements.
Five interested firms requested to submit performed over two a comprehensive set including the incumbent a non-disclosure The firms were provided days and provided an of evaluation criteria, firm met with the audit agreement, a declaration with the opportunity opportunity for the the Audit Committee tender steering group.
of independence to ask clarification Group to evaluate the recommended a preferred from the Group and a questions to increase firms in an informal firm together with These sessions enabled supplier questionnaire.
their understanding of setting, and for the an alternative.
the steering group the Group and support firms to further enhance members to gain insight After careful their tenders.
their understanding of into the experience, consideration, the the Group.
qualification and fit Board accepted the of the proposed audit Following these recommendation from teams as well as to meetings, the firms the Audit Committee discuss any potential had an opportunity to to appoint Deloitte LLP independence issues.
ask further questions as the Groups external before submitting their auditor for 2017. final proposals.
The appointment of Deloitte LLP will be recommended to shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
69 Strategic report Corporate governance Risk management Financial statements Appendices the use of the external auditor for safeguards to eliminate such threats Non-audit services routine non-audit services, such as or reduce them to an acceptable level.
To ensure the independence of the profit verifications and country-byKPMG LLP do not carry out nonexternal auditor, the Audit Committee country reporting.
audit services where no satisfactory has adopted a formal policy on the safeguards exist.
engagement of the auditor to perform Agreement to use the external auditor non-audit services.
for non-audit services must be During the year, the external auditor approved as set out below.
was engaged to perform the following Under the Non-Audit Services Policy, non-audit services: the external auditor is prohibited When determining whether the from undertaking any work that external auditor is the most Non-audit services is considered to threaten its suitable supplier of a particular % independence or objectivity in its role.
service, management and the Audit Audit-related 45 assurance services Prohibited work specifically includes Committee take into account the Corporate finance 6 bookkeeping services, the design and services cost-effectiveness of the service and implementation of financial information Taxation compliance 4 the external auditors knowledge of services systems, appraisal or valuation Other assurance the Group.
KPMG LLP has policies and 25 services services, actuarial or legal services, and procedures in place to ensure that Other taxation 11 any other work that would involve the advisory services the highest standards of objectivity, external auditor in preparing financial Other services 8 independence and integrity are information that is included or disclosed maintained, and these comply with The above services resulted in total in the audited financial statements, or in the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical non-audit services being provided of making judgements or taking decisions Standards for Auditors.
engagement partner must approve any non-audit services offered to the In 2016, the ratio of non-audit services The external auditor is permitted to Group.
This ensures that the objectives to the external audit fee was 58%.
undertake work in other areas as long of the proposed engagement are not Further information on the total fees as it is the most suitable supplier of the inconsistent with the objectives of and non-audit fees paid to the external service and the terms and conditions the audit: allows the identification and auditor is detailed in Note 16 of the of the engagement, including the level assessment of any related threats financial statements on page 174. of the fee, do not impair its objectivity to KPMG LLPs objectivity: and or independence.
Under the Policy, assesses the effectiveness of available the Audit Committee pre-approves Service Approval required Service not previously pre-approved Audit Committee regardless of fee Any engagement greater than 100k Audit Committee Pre-approved services between CFO 20k and 100k Pre-approved services less than 20k Direct report to the CFO
