e c D n e a n r n e e v d o r i g s k k s a i r p p g e n t o i t r e t S 110 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Risk management Risk governance and oversight The Board, often via sub-committees, First line of defence Third line of defence has responsibility for setting the overall Business lines and central Internal Audit Risk Appetite, understanding the Internal Audit provides independent functions principal risks taken by the Group and assurance to the Board via the The business lines and central functions setting acceptable limits for these risks Audit Committee that the first accept or tolerate risks with the aim of utilising the Risk Appetite Framework.
and second lines of defence are delivering value for the Group.
The first As part of this responsibility, the Board both effective in discharging their line of defence is accountable for the reviews and approves the business respective responsibilities.
controls we have in place to manage strategies, principal risk statements, day-to-day operations.
They manage The Group has continued to invest in all supporting frameworks and certain risks within the business and functions three lines of defence to enhance the Group policies.
The Board is ultimately to pre-agreed tolerances or limits.
responsible for ensuring that an They identify, manage and monitor adequate and effective system of risks through regular reporting and by internal controls is maintained and escalating issues as necessary.
The Board Risk Committee and Board Audit Committee Second line of defence are the main oversight committees in Risk functions this regard.
The second line of defence encompasses the risk management Three lines of defence functions, which are independent of The governance framework adheres the businesses and central functions.
to a three lines of defence model The second line supports a structured to ensure a clear delineation of approach to risk management by responsibilities between control over maintaining and implementing the day-to-day operations, risk oversight RMF, supplemental frameworks and and independent assurance of Group-wide risk policies.
line monitor the execution and ongoing All three lines of defence are self-assurance testing by the first line responsible for supporting and of defence.
It also provides independent developing a culture of risk-awareness oversight and guidance on risks and for supporting each other to relevant to our strategy and activities, manage risk effectively for the maintains an aggregate view of risk, Group.
In this way, risk management Risk principles and risk culture and monitors performance in relation responsibilities are understood at all to our risk appetite.
levels, ownership and accountability are clear, and control and oversight is Risk culture maintained throughout the Group.
