42 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance Board of Directors Chairman Executive Directors Danuta Gray Phillip Monks OBE James Mack Interim Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: 1 September 2014 May 2009 September 2013 Board Committee membership: C R Relevant skills, strengths and experience: Relevant skills, strengths and experience: Relevant skills, strengths and experience: Danuta brings significant leadership experience Phillip is the founding CEO of Aldermore and has James brings significant financial experience to the Board, having spent nine years as a long-standing track record in championing to the Board, having spent six years at Skipton CEO of Telefnica O2 in Ireland.
Her career in small and medium-sized businesses and British Building Society in capital markets, finance and telecommunications spans 26 years, during which economic growth.
His banking career spans more audit, where he was instrumental in leading time she held numerous senior roles at BT Group than three decades, which includes establishing the merger with Scarborough Building Society.
PLC, gaining experience in marketing, customer and serving as CEO of Europe Arab Bank PLC and James began his career with KPMG LLP where he service, communications, technology and sales, over 20 years at Barclays PLC where he held a spent 11 years in the firms financial services audit and leading and implementing change.
She has also variety of senior corporate and private banking practice and he has also been Acting CFO of the served as a Non-Executive Director of Irish Life & roles, including CEO of Gerrard Investment Co-operative Banking Group Limited.
Permanent PLC and Aer Lingus Group PLC.
Management Limited, Managing Director of Principal external appointments: Barclays Corporate Banking in London, the Principal external appointments: None Midlands and South East, and Head of Barclays Non-Executive Director of Direct Line Private Bank in Geneva.
In June 2016, Phillip was Insurance Group PLC awarded an OBE for his services to banking.
1 Appointed as a Director of Aldermore Bank PLC Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Principal external appointments: in June 2013.
Remuneration Committee of Old Mutual PLC Member of the FCA Smaller Business Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Practitioner Panel Remuneration Committee of PageGroup PLC Member of the Defence Board of the Ministry of Defence Non-Executive Directors John Hitchins Chris Patrick Robert Sharpe Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: May 2014 November 2016 June 2015 Board Committee membership: Board Committee membership: Board Committee membership: A R C R A R Relevant skills, strengths and experience: Relevant skills, strengths and experience: Relevant skills, strengths and experience: John has extensive financial and audit experience Chris brings over 25 years of financial services Robert has over 35 years experience in the having previously been a senior banking partner experience to the Board.
He has been a Partner banking sector, with a strong focus on mortgage at  LLP, specialising in at AnaCap Financial Partners LLP since 2009 lending.
His previous executive roles include bank auditing and advisory services for clients and heads the Risk and Liability Management Group Operations Director and then CEO of including Lloyds Banking Group PLC, the Bank of Team, which assists the AnaCap Funds in funding, Portman Building Society, where he led the England, Bank of Ireland UK PLC, Barclays PLC liquidity management, and monitoring key merger with Nationwide Building Society, and and JP Morgan Chase.
From 2001 to 2010, John credit and market risks relating to their portfolio CEO, Mortgages at Bank of Ireland UK PLC.
was PwCs banking industry leader and from investments.
Prior to joining AnaCap, Chris In 2008, he joined West Bromwich Building 2010 until his retirement led the PwC networks spent 10 years at Lehman Brothers International Society as CEO to chart and implement its rescue global IFRS technical group.
John has also carried and prior to that, he held roles at Credit Suisse plan.
Robert is an experienced Non-Executive out a wide variety of advisory work for other First Boston, Nomura International and Director with previous appointments including banks and on behalf of the regulators covering Goldman Sachs.
United Arab Bank PJSC, National Bank of Oman corporate governance, high-level controls and SAOG and George Wimpey PLC.
Principal external appointments: other regulatory issues.
Principal external appointments: Partner and Head of Risk and Liability Principal external appointments: Management at AnaCap Financial Chairman of Al Rayan Bank PLC Trustee and member of the Governing Council Partners LLP Chairman of Bank of Ireland UK PLC of the Centre for the Study of Financial Member of the Supervisory Board of Executive Chairman of Stonehaven UK Limited Innovation, a not-for-profit City-based Credoma a. s. think tank Chairman of Honeycomb Investment Director of Equa Holdings Limited Trust PLC Deputy Chairman of the Financial Reporting Review Panel 43 Strategic report Corporate governance Risk management Financial statements Appendices Non-Executive Directors continued Key Peter Shaw Chris Stamper A Member of the Audit Committee Independent Independent M ember of the Corporate Governance C Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director and Nomination Committee R M ember of the Remuneration Committee Appointed: Appointed: 2 September 2014 February 2014 R Member of the Risk Committee Board Committee membership: Board Committee membership: Denotes Committee Chair R A C R A R Relevant skills, strengths and experience: Relevant skills, strengths and experience: Peter brings over 30 years financial services Chris has 35 years experience in the asset experience having spent most of his career at finance arena, most latterly as Director The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC and National and CEO of ING Lease UK Limited.
He is a Westminster Bank PLC where he worked across founding Governor of the Leasing Foundation a number of business areas including retail, and was Director of the Finance and Leasing SME, private banking, corporate banking, HR Association and a former Chairman of their and risk.
Peter spent many years in senior risk Asset Finance Division.
Prior to this, Chris held management roles including COO of the risk senior management roles at Abbey National function at Group Head Office in the UK and PLC, where he was responsible for five business CRO for various group businesses within RBS units focused on the SME market, and was the NatWest.
In addition, Peter served as Interim CRO Managing Director of Lombard Sales Finance at the Co-operative Banking Group Limited.
Principal external appointments: Principal external appointments: Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the None Risk Committee of Bank of Ireland UK PLC Non-Executive Director of Willis Limited 2 Appointed as a Director of Aldermore Bank PLC in May 2013.
Company Secretary Cathy Turner Rachel Spencer Board membership changes during the Independent Company Secretary year and to the date of this report: Non-Executive Director Peter Cartwright resigned as a Non-Executive Director with effect Appointed: Appointed: from 18 April 2016.
May 2014 February 2015 Neil Cochrane resigned as a Board Committee membership: Non-Executive Director with effect R C from 14 October 2016.
Relevant skills, strengths and experience: Relevant experience: Chris Patrick was appointed as a Cathy has held a number of banking roles during Rachel has over 25 years listed company Non-Executive Director on her career, including Chief Administrative experience.
She was the Deputy Company 21 November 2016.
Officer at Lloyds Banking Group PLC and Group Secretary at Invensys PLC from 1999 until 2014 HR Director at Barclays PLC, where she was on the conclusion of its acquisition by Schneider Glyn Jones resigned as Chairman with responsible for HR, strategy, corporate affairs, Electric SA.
She was previously with BTR PLC effect from 6 February 2017. brand and marketing.
She was also Director of having joined as a trainee chartered secretary.
Investor Relations at Barclays for four years.
She is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Danuta Gray was appointed as Interim Formerly, Cathy worked in consultancy with Secretaries and Administrators.
Chairman with effect from 7 February Deloitte & Touche LLP, Ernst & Young LLP Responsibilities: 2017.
Danuta held the role of Senior and Watson Wyatt Worldwide, Inc managing Rachel acts as secretary to the Board and Independent Director throughout 2016 client relationships with a particular focus on its Committees and is accountable to the and will resume this position on the compensation and benefits.
Board through the Chairman on all corporate appointment of a new Chairman.
Principal external appointments: governance matters.
Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of Countrywide PLC Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of Old Mutual Wealth Management Limited Partner of Manchester Square Partners LLP Trustee of the Gurkha Welfare Trust Honorary Fellow of UNICEF UK
