46 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance The Board roles and processes 1 Danuta Gray The Board Interim Chairman The Board is collectively responsible to shareholders for promoting the longJames Mack Phillip Monks term success of the Group by directing Chief Financial Officer Chief Executive Officer and supervising the Groups affairs to create sustainable shareholder value.
In setting the Groups strategy and related risk appetite, it also takes account of its obligations to other Well-organised Cathy Turner meetings stakeholders including customers, Chris Patrick Independent Clear Non-Executive understanding Common Non-Executive employees, suppliers and the Director of the role of vision Director community in which it operates, as well the Board as the regulatory obligations of the Bank, its principal banking subsidiary.
Boardroom Open and Diversity The Chairman leads the Board in its transparent of Board culture and debate membership role to provide executive management dynamic with entrepreneurial direction, whilst the day-to-day management of the High ethical No dominant Group and operational matters are standards personalities delegated to the CEO.
"The separation No ""no-go"" areas of duties between the Chairman and CEO is formally documented."
The CEO is supported by his senior management Chris Stamper John Hitchins team the Executive Committee.
Independent Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Further details about the Executive Director Director Committee can be found on page 44, whilst further information about the role and responsibilities of each Board Peter Shaw Robert Sharpe Independent Independent member can be found on the next page.
Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Director The Boards principal duties are set out in a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision, as 1 Danuta Gray acted as Senior Independent Director throughout 2016.
She was appointed as Interim Chairman summarised on page 48.
This schedule with effect from 7 February 2017 pending the appointment of a new Chairman.
is reviewed annually and is available at www.
co. uk The Group Corporate Governance Framework, which is reviewed annually by the Board, sets out in detail the way the Group is governed.
Board structure Gender split of Directors Non-Executive Director tenure as at 1 March 2017 as at 1 March 2017 as at 1 March 2017 % % % Interim Chairman 11 Female 22 01 year 14 Executive Directors 22 Male 78 12 years 14 Independent 56 23 years 58 Non-Executive 34 years 14 Directors Non-Executive 11 Directors 47 Strategic report Corporate governance Risk management Financial statements Appendices Leads the Board and ensures its effectiveness in all areas Chairman Sets the Boards agenda, with support from the CEO and the Company Secretary Promotes the highest standards of corporate governance throughout the Group Facilitates the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors and a constructive relationship between Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors Ensures that Directors receive timely and relevant information to support sound decision-making Responsible for induction, training and development of Directors Leads the development of the Groups culture Ensures effective communication with shareholders Responsible for the day-to-day management of the Group within the delegated Chief Executive authority and risk appetite approved by the Board Officer Recommends the Groups strategy and leads the executive management team in the execution of the strategy approved by the Board Ensures the Groups culture is embedded in the business Leads the relationship with institutional shareholders and ensures that timely and accurate information is disclosed to the market as appropriate Manages the Groups financial affairs and supports the CEO in the management of Chief Financial the business Officer Specifically manages statutory, monthly performance and regulatory reporting: and balance sheet and liquidity management Acts as a sounding board for other Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman Senior Chairs the Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee when it is considering Independent succession to the role of Chairman of the Board Director Conducts the Chairmans annual performance evaluation, feeding in views from the Non-Executive Directors Attends meetings with major shareholders to understand their key issues and concerns, and is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels has failed to resolve or is inappropriate Provide independent and constructive challenge of the Executive Directors, including Non-Executive 1 to help develop proposals on strategy Directors Scrutinise the delivery of the strategy within the risk and control framework set by the Board Satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial reporting and the robustness of systems and controls Determine Executive Director remuneration Provides key support and acts as a first point of contact for the Chairman and NonCompany Executive Directors Secretary Facilitates effective information flows between the Board and its Committees, and between executive management and the Board Keeps the Board updated on developments in corporate governance Facilitates induction of new Non-Executive Directors and training Acts as Secretary to the Board and Board Committees 1 This includes one Non-Executive Director proposed by the Principal Shareholders under the Relationship Agreement.
48 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance The Board roles and processes continued In addition to the meeting programme, The Board monitors the performance Board meetings Directors meet informally during the of the Group against the approved The Board held nine scheduled Board year enabling them to discuss sensitive strategy and annual business plan, and meetings, one strategy workshop and and key matters in more depth.
within the agreed risk appetite, through four additional ad hoc Board meetings the following regular reports: in 2016.
Two of the ad hoc meetings Both the Board and its Committees were called in order to analyse the have a rolling annual programme which An update from the CEO Q3 forecast in greater detail in light aligns to the schedule of matters on market, customer and of the uncertain economic outlook reserved for the Board and the terms strategic developments.
following the UK vote to leave the of reference of each Committee.
A business performance report which European Union, whilst other matters The agendas and time allocation for gives a holistic view of the Groups discussed at the ad hoc meetings Board meetings are put together by performance, and includes: included a substantial new contract and the Chairman, assisted by the CEO the appointment of the new external and Company Secretary, based on the a report from the CFO on auditor following a tender process.
annual programme, actions arising the financial results of the from previous meetings and key Attendance at scheduled Board and Group as a whole, as well as an business priorities.
A similar process Committee meetings is set out below.
investor relations update and is followed with the Chair of each There are occasions when a Director review of various prudential Board Committee.
The Board and may be unable to participate in a regulatory matters: Committee agendas include a closed meeting and, if this is the case, they are a briefing from the Chief Risk session at the end of meetings from encouraged to provide comments to Officer on key emerging time to time to enable the Chairman the Chairman on key items of business risks, risk appetite and Committee Chair to meet privately with in advance of the relevant meeting, so regulatory developments: the Non-Executive Directors without that their views can be shared at the management present.
meeting and their opinions taken into an update from the Chief account during discussions.
Operating Officer on IT, operational and transformation matters, and strategic change projects: and reports from the Managing 2016 Board and Committee attendance at scheduled meetings Directors of the businesses on the Corporate Governance and business performance and related Nomination Audit Risk Remuneration key issues, and an overview of the Attendance Board Committee Committee Committee Committee competitive landscape.
Danuta Gray 9 9 2 2 4 4 Glyn Jones 9 9 2 2 4 4 Key matters reserved for the Board Phillip Monks 9 9 Strategy 4 James Mack 8 9 Corporate and capital structure 1 5 Peter Cartwright 3 3 1 1 2 2 Financial reporting and controls 2 6 6 Neil Cochrane 6 7 0 0 3 3 Internal controls and risk management John Hitchins 9 9 7 7 7 7 Material contracts 3 Chris Patrick 1 1 0 0 0 0 Board membership and other Robert Sharpe 9 9 7 7 7 7 appointments Peter Shaw 9 9 2 2 7 7 7 7 4 4 Remuneration policy 7 7 Chris Stamper 8 9 7 7 6 7 Corporate governance matters Cathy Turner 9 9 2 2 4 4 1 2 3 4 Resigned on 18 April 2016.
Unable 5 to attend as representing the CEO at a PRA seminar.
Includes meetings attended by Neil Cochrane in his 6 capacity as alternate to Peter Cartwright.
Appointed as a member on 10 May 2016, and ceased to be a 7 member on 14 October 2016.
Absence due to long-standing holiday arrangements.
49 Strategic report Corporate governance Risk management Financial statements Appendices Key: Strategy sessions Key topics discussed The Board is responsible for Reviewed at Board and strategy Approved establishing the Groups strategy meetings in 2016 and plays a key role in challenging management in developing the Topic Activity Action strategic plan and objectives.
Business Regular reports from the CEO, CFO and other members of the Two Board strategy workshops are performance executive team as detailed on page 48 generally held every year where the Deep-dive into the Groups funding strategy CEO, with members of his Executive Financial Publicly released financial results, including going concern and viability Committee, present their views of the matters statements and dividend policy market and proposed plans, including and investor Quarterly forecasts relations new initiatives, to be probed and tested 2017 annual budget by the Non-Executive Directors.
Issuance of Tier 2 Loan Notes The range of experience and expertise Governance Changes to the Board and composition of the Board Committees that the Non-Executive Directors are able to bring to the debate, along Annual Report and Accounts and Notice of AGM, as well as related matters such as the annual reappointment of both the Directors and with their independent oversight, is the external auditor and the Directors' Remuneration Policy key to building a sustainable strategy.
Outcome of the annual review of the effectiveness of the Board and The focus of discussions is not only progress against key actions on how the strategy should evolve, Changes to the Group Corporate Governance Framework but also on ensuring that the Group has the appropriate resources, skills Annual review of disclosure controls and procedures and competencies to deliver the Appointment of the new external auditor with effect from the 2017 AGM chosen strategy.
2017 annual programme However, given the rapidly changing IT and New contracts outside of the CEO's delegated authority operations market and regulatory environment in Property strategy and an amendment to a property lease which the Group operates, the strategy Key insurance renewals, including Cyber and Directors and Officers' has to be subject to continuous Regulatory Updates on the implementation of new regulatory initiatives including review and, as such, the executive matters the Senior Managers and Certification Regime, EU Market Abuse management provides the Board Regulation and the Slavery Act with regular updates on key strategic Potential impact of future regulatory changes such as changes to initiatives as they progress.
credit risk weights Outcome of the processes to confirm that the Group has adequate capital and liquidity Time spent in 2016 Risk Regular reports from the CRO on key emerging risks, risk appetite and % management regulatory developments Business 19 performance Annual review of the Reputational Risk Policy Financial matters and 20 investor relations Changes to the Risk Appetite Framework and associated risk metrics Governance 13 IT and operations 10 2016 risk strategy Regulatory matters 4 Annual review of the effectiveness of systems of risk management Risk management 9 and internal controls Strategy 20 Strategy Quarterly presentations by the Companys joint brokers Other 5 Strategic review of the Groups brand Updates on strategic initiatives agreed in 2015 and new strategic initiatives, including updates on digital matters Other Updates on culture and 2015 Best Companies results 50 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance The Board roles and processes continued of each of the Risk Committee capability, whilst various references Appointments and the Nomination Committee.
were sought and checks completed The Corporate Governance and Consequently, when Peter stepped in order to verify his educational, Nomination Committee the down from the Board in April 2016, the employment, criminal and credit history.
Nomination Committee is responsible Nomination Committee considered Regulatory approval was not required for making recommendations to the and recommended to the Board that for Chris appointment.
Board regarding the appointment of Neil replace Peter as a member of new Directors.
Induction of Directors these Committees in line with the One new appointment was made All Directors receive a comprehensive wishes of the Principal Shareholders.
to the Board in 2016 Chris Patrick, induction on appointment to Following Neils resignation from the whilst the Nomination Committee also enable their effective contribution Board in October 2016, the Principal oversaw changes to the composition to the Board as early as possible.
Shareholders informed the Company of the Board Committees which arose Induction programmes are tailored of their intention to appoint Chris following the resignations of Peter to the needs of the new Director.
as their sole representative on Cartwright and Neil Cochrane.
Chris, The Chairman discusses requirements the Board and as a member of the Peter and Neil were all appointed to with the new Director, which are Risk and Nomination Committees.
the Board in accordance with the facilitated by the Company Secretary.
The Nomination Committee considered Relationship Agreement between the The programme will typically include the proposed appointments and agreed Group and its Principal Shareholders one-to-one meetings with business to recommend them to the Board, further information can be found and functional heads: site visits: and subject to the completion of fitness and on page 59.
Under the Relationship access through the Board portal to propriety tests.
As part of this process, Agreement, the Principal Shareholders past Board packs and an induction pack Chris met with each of the Committee are entitled to appoint up to two containing relevant Group policies and Chairs and the Senior Independent Board Directors and a member procedures.
Details of Chris Patricks Director to assess his competence and Chris Patrick's induction programme Corporate Business IT and People and Risk and Governance Divisions Operations Culture Regulatory and Legal Overview of the Introduction to the Overview of the team Overview of the HR Introduction to the strategy and vision Group Corporate structure and scope of strategic plan and Risk Management Governance the COO function key priorities for the and Risk Appetite Understanding Framework, including HR function Frameworks of the history of Discussion on how the the matters reserved the businesses function supports the Board and executive Overview of the for the Board and the Groups strategic plan succession planning Senior Managers and Committee structure Managements views Certification Regime on the challenges, Introduction to project Overview of the Overview of Board and how it operates opportunities governance processes Groups remuneration processes and within the Group and competitive within the function policy directors duties environment Understanding Overview of major Discussion on setting Discussion on the of the market Understanding of the transformation and measuring the Groups legal risks abuse and inside financial and cultural projects, the refresh Groups culture information regimes dynamics and the Overview of the of the Groups brand key risks legal and regulatory and marketing plans requirements for for 2017 Meeting and engaging listed companies with employees 51 Strategic report Corporate governance Risk management Financial statements Appendices induction programme, which will be knowledge and experience could be Skills, knowledge and implemented during 2017, are set out at strengthened.
These remain relevant experience the bottom of page 50. and will be taken into consideration As previously mentioned, the Board in any future search for new Nonvalues all aspects of diversity and Diversity Executive Directors.
recognises the benefit of maintaining The Board embraces the benefits a balance of skills, experience of diversity in the boardroom and and knowledge.
During 2015, the believes that it generates effective Nomination Committee oversaw an challenge and decision-making.
exercise to evaluate the skills and It strives for diversity in the broadest experience on the Board.
This was sense female representation is just based on a self-assessment completed one of the factors that is taken into by each Director.
The matrix which account and all Board appointments was compiled as a result has been kept are made on merit against a defined under review in 2016.
It was updated to job specification.
The Company does reflect the changes to the composition not therefore consider it appropriate of the Board during the year and, as a to set a measurable target for result, the Nomination Committee has gender representation on its Board.
been able to satisfy itself that the mix Female membership of the Board of skills and experience on the Board is currently stands at 22%.
appropriate to challenge management The Board adopted a Board Diversity and support the Groups strategy.
Policy in November 2015, and the At the time of the 2015 review, some Nomination Committee has since areas were identified where, in the reconfirmed that no amendments medium term, the balance of skills, to this Policy are required at the current time.
However, the Policy Self-assessment of skills and experience % of Directors with at least a good will be revisited following the working knowledge appointment of a new Chairman and taking into account developments Listed company experience 78% arising from the Hampton-Alexander Review.
The Policy is available at Experience of a regulated financial services business PRA and FCA 89% www.
co. uk Corporate governance experience 100% Finance 89% Savings 78% Mortgages 78% Business Finance 56% Risk 89% People and Reward 67% Technology and Operations 56% 52 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance The Board roles and processes continued Director performance  Election and re-election The Code requires that all Directors evaluations Director retire and offer themselves for Details of the Director performance Chris Patrick has been appointed to election at the first AGM following their evaluation process are set out on page the Board to represent the interests of appointment, and for re-election on an 56.
The outcome of the evaluations the Principal Shareholders, and is not annual basis thereafter.
concluded that each Director continues therefore considered to be independent to be effective and to demonstrate under the Code.
Notwithstanding that Ahead of the re-election of the commitment to their role.
he is not independent, the Nomination Non-Executive Directors being Committee confirmed that it was recommended to shareholders, the Time commitment and satisfied that he should be recommended Nomination Committee assesses the independence for re-election at the 2017 AGM.
performance, time commitments and The Nomination Committee reviewed independence of each Non-Executive Conflicts of interest the time commitment to the Company Director and makes a recommendation The Board has procedures in place to demonstrated by each of the Nonto the Board in this regard.
In addition, deal with potential conflicts of interest, Executive Directors and was satisfied the outcome of the appraisals of the which are governed by both company that this was both in line with the Executive Directors as set out on page law and the Companys Articles of requirement set out in their letters 56 is considered.
All Directors are required of appointment, and sufficient to took place over January and February to declare any interests that could discharge their duties.
The external 2017 and, based on these factors give rise to a conflict of interest with directorships and other commitments described further in the paragraphs the Group, either on appointment or of the Non-Executive Directors were that follow, as well as the balance when they arise.
Under the Companys also taken into account in making of skills, knowledge and experience Articles, the Board is permitted to this assessment.
on the Board as a whole, the Board authorise such conflicts and to impose Independence of the Non-Executive approved the recommendation that any conditions on that authorisation Directors is assessed by the Nomination each Director should be proposed that it considers to be necessary, for Committee on an annual basis against for election re-election at the 2017 example to leave Board meetings the criteria set out in the Code, which AGM.
Further information about the when certain matters are discussed.
require directors to be independent in Directors, including their experience, All authorisations are recorded in the character and judgement, and free from is set out on pages 42 and 43.
Board minutes, and entered into the any relationships or circumstances Register of Directors Conflicts.
The Principal Shareholders are classed which could affect that judgement.
as a controlling shareholder of the The Nomination Committee has Factors taken into account in this Company under the Listing Rules.
provided guidance to the Board on the assessment include length of tenure As a result, the Independent Nondeclaration of interests which cannot and any potential conflicts recorded in Executive Directors of the Company reasonably be regarded as likely to give the Companys Register of Directors must be elected or re-elected by both rise to a conflict of interest.
The Nomination Committee a majority of the votes cast by all of the the Nomination Committee undertakes was satisfied that there had not been Companys shareholders and a majority an annual review of the Register of any changes in circumstance which of the votes cast by the Companys Directors Conflicts to ensure that would impact on the previous independent shareholders being all there have not been any changes in assessment that all Non-Executive of the Companys shareholders other circumstances that would require Directors, with the exception of the than the controlling shareholder.
The the Board to revisit any previous Director who represents the Principal outcome of both of these votes will be authorisation that it has granted, or its Shareholders, were deemed to announced following the 2017 AGM.
view of the Directors independence.
Separately, on the basis that Danuta Gray will be acting as Chairman in an interim capacity for a limited period only, the Board continue to regard her as independent.
53 Strategic report Corporate governance Risk management Financial statements Appendices During the year, the Nomination stepping up in to a more senior role in Chairman Committee considered the prospective due course.
The introduction of the To ensure that an effective Chairman appointment of Robert Sharpe as Senior Managers and Certification was in place at all times to lead the Chairman of Bank of Ireland UK Regime during 2016 has also provided Board, the Nomination Committee PLC.
The proposal was considered additional impetus to the succession agreed a Chairman Succession from the perspective of any potential planning process as individual Framework in 2015.
The Framework business conflict of interest: time development plans are now required outlined the approach that would be commitment pressures which would under the regulations.
taken when the time came to search for prevent Robert from discharging a new Chairman, and confirmed that the his role with the Company: and the Senior Independent Director would lead cross-directorship which would arise the process.
As a result, following the given that Peter Shaw was also a resignation of Glyn Jones as Chairman Director of Bank of Ireland UK PLC.
during the year, the Nomination Having taken into account a number Committee was able to act quickly of factors, including the character to put the Framework into action.
and judgement of both individuals, it Good progress has been made with the was agreed to approve any potential search, and a fuller update is provided conflict of interest associated with the in the Chairs introductory letter to proposed appointment.
the Nomination Committee Report on page 60.
Succession planning Non-Executive Directors Executive positions The Nomination Committee reviewed Succession planning for the Executive succession planning for the NonDirectors was considered by the Executive Directors during the year.
Nomination Committee during the year, Whilst acknowledging that succession whilst the Executive Committee was planning was key to the sustainability strengthened through the appointment of the Board, the Nomination of three new members.
Committee was also cognisant that The Executive Committee has the majority of the Non-Executive continued to build on work undertaken Directors had been appointed in 2014 in 2015 to develop a pipeline of potential when a Board was formed which would successors to executive positions be suitable to lead the Company in a below Board level.
This is an iterative public environment.
The tenure of these process which aims to assess and Directors was therefore less than three regularly re-assess the current years.
During the year, tenure was capabilities and future potential of both discussed with the longest-serving the direct reports of the Executive Non-Executive Director less than four Committee and their teams.
This years on the Board, who had confirmed process is key to both the identification that he had no specific retirement date of employees who would benefit from in mind.
In light of these relatively short or require development plans to further tenures, the Nomination Committee build on their potential, and as a way of confirmed that the previously highlighting gaps where consideration agreed principles on which future should be given to recruiting potential succession planning should be based successors.
As a result, efforts are remained appropriate.
being focused on increasing the number of employees who are moved into roles that will enable them to broaden their skills and experience, with a view to 54 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance The Board roles and processes continued regulatory items.
As a result, a programme Board support Training and development of quarterly Board training sessions All Directors have access to the Training sessions for Directors on topics supplemented by Committee-specific advice and services of the Company of relevance to the Board are organised training will be finalised for 2017.
The Meet Secretary, who ensures that Board periodically throughout the year to tie in the Board and GIA roundtable events will procedures are complied with.
with Board and Committee meetings.
In addition, Directors have access to In 2016, training sessions attended independent and professional advice at by the Board included sessions on the Companys expense.
the EU Market Abuse Regulation, and Committee-specific training on Information flow to the IFRS9 and hedge accounting Audit Board Committee and developments in The Boards ability to discharge its the external market Remuneration duties is dependent on the quality of the Committee.
An invite to the information that it receives to support Committee-specific training was decision-making.
Information should extended to all Directors and the be accurate and clear, and provided on a sessions were well attended by nontimely basis.
The training was led by Board papers either senior management or external The Company Secretary takes advisers.
In addition, Directors attended responsibility for ensuring that the relevant external training sessions.
Board receives high-quality information The Board values internal development and, to the extent possible, acts as a sessions as an important way of gateway to challenge any Board papers engaging with key employees and which require additional clarity.
All ad familiarising themselves with the hoc Board papers include an executive business.
In order to hear the views of summary in a standard format which the wider employees first hand, the ensures that key information can be Board has continued with the Meet easily identified by the Directors, and the Board initiative introduced in 2015. that important points are sign-posted.
In addition, the Audit Committee held The format of the regular business a roundtable with members of the performance report to the Board is Group Internal Audit GIA function.
reviewed regularly in order to ensure Further information on these events that it continues to provide the Board can be found on the next page.
with a holistic view of the business as A training log is maintained by the a whole, and that insight is provided Company Secretary for each Director rather than data.
as evidence of continuous development.
Resources A longlist of potential training sessions A library of useful information has for 2017 is being drafted by the been made accessible to Directors Company Secretary based on proposals through an online portal.
This includes raised by Directors through the Board corporate information such as the evaluation process.
Suggestions from business plan, corporate governance advisers regarding upcoming areas of material, regulatory correspondence regulatory change will also be sought.
The Company Secretary, the Chairman and Committee Chairs will discuss the proposals, which will broadly cover business-related and technical 55 Strategic report Corporate governance Risk management Financial statements Appendices It is excellent when we have Board The session was an informal Meeting our employees meetings away from London as we conversation with no fixed agenda, As part of internal development, the get the chance to meet colleagues providing the GIA team with an Board appreciates the opportunity to and hear what is going on with our opportunity to introduce themselves to engage directly with employees.
The enthusiasm from staff the Audit Committee members and ask below are two examples of how this has was very motivating, and you could questions, including probing Directors been achieved.
sense the energy and pride in the room.
for their views on current and horizon Meet the Board Wilmslow The questions asked were wide ranging risks, their individual expertise and their In 2016, the Directors visited one of and all pertinent to our future business expectations of the GIA team.
The GIA the Groups key sites in Wilmslow success.
I enjoyed chatting to colleagues team were also keen to understand the where the Mortgages and Financial over lunch and was pleased to learn importance of their role in supporting Reporting teams are based as part of about how, as we grow, we are creating the Audit Committee and the an initiative to enable them to engage opportunities for new and different interaction between the GIA Director, directly with employees across the roles and the ability to learn in current the Audit Committee, the other Board business areas and central functions.
Cathy Turner, Independent NonCommittees and the CEO.
This followed two similar events Executive Director The roundtable was useful for both held during 2015 when the Directors It was great to see the session the Audit Committee members, who visited the Groups Peterborough and attended by so many people.
The were able to meet and learn about Reading sites.
The Meet the Board questions asked were really topical the skills within the GIA team, and for event was held in an informal setting and the Board did a great job at the GIA team who gained an insight and was designed to be interactive, answering the questions, covering both into the Audit Committees role and allowing the Directors to gain a deeper the high-level outlook on topics as well responsibilities, its members and their understanding of the business, how it as relating the answers back to peoples views on key risks within the Group.
operates and the challenges that staff day jobs and the customer outlook.
The Directors had the opportunity to ask face on a first-hand basis, as well as Employee from Financial Reporting the GIA team questions about the work providing an insight to colleagues on they perform, the challenges faced and the role of the Board.
The event also It was great to see and hear from each areas where the team would benefit provided a valuable opportunity for of the Board members.
I felt that I got from Audit Committee support.
This has employees to share their ideas and more of an insight as to what is going had a positive cultural impact on the suggestions with the Directors and to on within the wider Group and Financial GIA team who felt that they gained put forward questions about the vision Services in general.
It is unusual to get insight which they had not experienced and strategy for Aldermore, in order to an opportunity to meet and speak with in previous roles, as well a unique promote transparency and employee Board members when working in this opportunity to have their views heard engagement across the Group.
industry so it was great for us to be at Board level.
Further, it provided the able to ask questions and get some The Meet the Board event was well team with a greater understanding as to really useful feedback.
Employee from received by both the Directors and why particular audits were required and Residential Mortgages the participating employees and will the value of the GIA reports, as well as continue in 2017.
In particular, the how the Groups governance structure Group Internal Audit Directors welcomed the informal format operates.
GIA Director Roundtable Reading of the event which was conducive In June 2016, a roundtable was held to stimulating an open debate with between members of the Audit colleagues.
The feedback from Committee and the GIA team in employees was equally positive, with response to a recommendation from the many expressing their appreciation 2015 effectiveness review of the GIA for the Directors interest, time and function that it would be beneficial to engagement, and commenting on the enable Directors to have direct dialogue high quality of the discussions.
56 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance The Board roles and processes continued Committees on pages 60 to 73 and Independent Non-Executive Director, Board and Committee page 90. whilst the previous Chairman led the effectiveness process for evaluating the performance The Board recognises the benefits The Nomination Committee will of the Interim Chairman who had that reviewing the effectiveness of oversee the implementation of the acted as Senior Independent Director its own performance and that of its agreed action plan for the Board and throughout 2016.
An evaluation of Committees can bring, and is conscious interim updates will be assessed during the Chairmans performance would that the actions needed to maintain the year.
An update on progress against ordinarily also be undertaken, but effectiveness will develop over time these actions will be reported in the this was not completed in 2016 given as the Company, the Board and best 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
that the Chairman Glyn Jones had practice evolve.
Effectiveness is already tendered his resignation Board and Committee reviewed on an annual basis, and the when the reviews were commenced.
effectiveness process Nomination Committee oversees this To support the evaluations, each process.
In 2016, the Board decided that Director completed an anonymous the annual review would be conducted Detailed questionnaires questionnaire to provide an internally.
The last external review completed assessment of the performance was undertaken by Egon Zehnder in and effectiveness of each of the 2014 and, in line with the Code, it is Independent Non-Executive Directors.
anticipated that an external review will The Interim Chairman also solicited next take place in respect of 2017. verbal feedback from each of the NonOne-to-one meetings The 2016 process was agreed by the Executive Directors on an individual Nomination Committee and led by the basis.
The output from the performance Senior Independent Director now the evaluations is being discussed in Interim Chairman with support from one-to-one sessions between the the Company Secretary as required.
Analysis Interim Chairman and each NonThe evaluation was taken forward by Executive Director, and will identify way of questionnaires which were any development needs in terms of issued to all Board and Committee ongoing training.
members, and were supplemented by Discussions with The performance of the Executive one-to-one meetings between each Interim Chairman and Directors was appraised by the Committee Chairs Director and the Interim Chairman previous Chairman in the case of the which aimed to seek more context to CEO or the CEO in the case of the the responses given.
The results were CFO with input from other Directors.
collated and analysed by the Company The outcome of the evaluations Secretary, and the draft output was Action plans agreed was reviewed by the Remuneration discussed with the Interim Chairman Committee as part of the process by and, in relation to Committees, the which changes to salary and bonus relevant Committee Chairs.
reports and action plans were Director performance presented and agreed by the Board and The evaluations concluded that each evaluations Committees.
The output concluded that Director continues to be effective, In tandem with the process to review the Board and its Committees operated demonstrates commitment to their Board and Committee effectiveness, effectively during 2016.
A summary of role, and is able to allocate sufficient a similar process is followed to the outcomes is set out on the next time to the Company to discharge their evaluate the continued effectiveness page, together with a summary of the responsibilities effectively.
of the performance of the Nonareas for development for 2017 and an Executive Directors.
update on the actions arising from the In respect of the year under review, last effectiveness review.
Information on the Interim Chairman undertook a the Committee reviews can be found in performance evaluation for each the reports from the individual 57 Strategic report Corporate governance Risk management Financial statements Appendices Overview of Board effectiveness review 2015 16 review 2016 17 review Update on key development areas in 2016 Key areas of strength Continue to embed the recently implemented new template for Overall, the Board is considered to work very effectively, with an Board papers open and positive culture which encourages all to contribute, as well as challenge and support the executives equally.
Good progress has been made with the use of an agreed Board paper template to ensure papers focus on key issues and flag It is acknowledged that there is a good mixture of subject matter decisions to be made.
Management information continues to experts on the Board but who all contribute on business overall to be an area for further improvement as detailed below in Key create a well-balanced team.
The Chairs of Board Committees are all recognised for their work Implement a more structured process to review the effectiveness throughout the year.
of past decisions, and to apply lessons learned A structured process for the review of the effectiveness of past decisions has been introduced which monitors on a six-monthly basis items approved by the Board, including achievement of key Key development areas in 2017 milestones and evaluation of successes lessons learned.
Chairman Maintain the focus on succession planning A key focus in the next year will be the introduction of the new The approved Chairman Succession Framework served the Chairman and ensuring his her transition is smooth.
Company well as the search process for the new Chairman could Agendas and management information be initiated immediately.
Responsibilities of Committees and Board are to be reviewed to The Board has overseen the changes which the CEO has made to ensure duties are delegated effectively, agendas are focused on strengthen his executive team.
appropriate matters, and overlap is eliminated.
Succession planning for key executive roles continues to be an In structuring meetings, continuously balance the Board area of focus as detailed below in Key development areas in 2017. agenda between strategic development, risk management and delivery assurance.
Review the ongoing development of the Risk Management Presentation of management information in papers to be Framework to ensure appropriate behaviour is embedded into reviewed to avoid duplication across Board and Committee the risk culture meetings, and to ensure papers are amended to reflect the The Risk Management Framework has continued to evolve, with different areas of focus by each forum.
risk appetite statements and risk metrics being revised and refreshed as appropriate.
Succession planning and induction Continue to develop executive succession plans for key roles to Develop a comprehensive training programme to meet Directors ensure there are robust plans in place, with a dedicated strategy requirements session to be led by the Group HR Director.
A bespoke training programme on key regulatory and legislative Monitoring of talent pipeline to continue through the Nomination matters was developed.
Training sessions were held at Board and Committee meetings Ensure that the induction for new Non-Executive Directors during the year, facilitated by external advisers where is refreshed.
appropriate further information is detailed on page 54.
Board composition A similar approach is being adopted in formulating a training programme for 2017.
Further assessment of the skills and experience on the Board to be addressed by the new Chairman, noting there may be some Schedule more informal time for the Board to spend together, and further enhancement of the Board in relation to digital technology.
extend some of the meetings to ensure there is adequate time for discussion of all agenda items, in particular strategic issues A number of dinners following formal meetings were scheduled to enable Directors to continue discussion of material agenda items.
An annual round-up of remuneration-related developments was organised by the Remuneration Committee which was presented over dinner by FIT Remuneration Consultants.
Members have spent informal time with each other and colleagues in the business through the Meet the Board events see page 55 for more information.
These events will continue to form part of the Board calendar in 2017.
