45 Strategic report Corporate governance Risk management Financial statements Appendices Corporate governance structure The General Purpose Committee, Responsibility for the day-to-day Board and comprising the two Executive management of the Group is delegated Committee structure Directors, for the purpose of to the CEO, who has established a The Board has delegated a number approving routine business matters structure of two executive commitof its responsibilities to Board such as powers of attorney, changes tees, supported by a number of Committees, which utilise the expertise to bank mandates and the execution sub-committees, which oversee the and experience of their members to of agreements which have already execution of the strategy agreed by the examine subjects in detail and make been approved in principle by Board, and performance and risk issues.
recommendations to the Board where the Board.
The executive committees and their required.
This delegation allows the sub-committees each have their own Board to focus more of its time on The Disclosure Committee, terms of reference.
strategic and other broader matters.
comprising the two Executive The Chairs of the Board Committees Directors and the General Counsel, provide the Board with a verbal update for the purpose of maintaining Aldermore Bank PLC the Bank on matters discussed at each meeting, The Bank is a wholly owned operating procedures, systems and and Board Committee minutes are subsidiary of the Company and it controls for the identification and transacts the Groups banking business.
made available to the whole Board disclosure of market and price It is authorised by the PRA and regulated through a secure online system.
The Board of the In addition to the Board Committees Bank mirrors that of the Company and All Board Committees have written comprises the same Directors.
The Bank noted on the diagram below, the terms of reference available on the Board holds separate Board meetings Board has established two further immediately following the meetings of Company's investor website which set standing committees: the Companys Board.
out their authority, and the minutes of all meetings of these Committees are made available to the Board.
Governance structure and delegated authorities Aldermore Group PLC Board Corporate Governance and Aldermore Bank PLC Board Nomination Committee Audit Executive Committee Committee Risk CEO Committee Remuneration Executive Risk Committee Committee
