58 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance Relations with shareholders Shareholder engagement calendar 2016 January 2016 February 2016 March 2016 May 2016 Preparing materials for Review of materials for 2015 full-year results presented AGM with shareholders led by full-year results.
to the market, followed by an the Chairman.
Shareholders were investor roadshow led by the invited to vote on resolutions CEO and CFO.
Q1 trading update was presented to the market.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Shareholder analysis Investor relations Director are also available to attend Set out below is analysis of the In 2016, the first full-year results as a meetings with shareholders and Company's shareholder base as at listed company were presented to the address any significant concerns that 31 December 2016.
A full investor engagement shareholders may have.
In particular relatively concentrated amongst the programme led by the CEO and CFO during 2016, the Senior Independent top 10 shareholders, in particular as was carried out throughout the year Director now Interim Chairman, was the Principal Shareholders hold 40.14% with both holders and prospective available to discuss the resignation of discussed in more detail on page 59. holders.
Additionally, a specific the Chairman, which was announced Overall, the top 10 shareholders hold investor roadshow was run in relation in November 2016. just under 70% of the total issued to the 60m Tier 2 Notes issued in share capital.
The Group provides regular updates on its investor relations website at The majority of shareholders 86% Investor meetings are normally www.
co. uk are based in the UK, particularly in the undertaken by the CEO, CFO and including its half-yearly financial financial capital of London, with the the Director of Investor Relations.
results, reports and presentations, remaining investors based primarily During the year, over 150 individual press releases, regulatory news, share in the United States of America and and group investor meetings were price data and useful information for in Europe.
The primary investment held covering topics such as business shareholders with regard to managing style of the investor base is growth performance, competitive positioning, their shareholdings.
This reflects the Group's strategy and changes in the regulatory growth strategy and an investor and political environment.
The UKs vote Information to the Board base that understands Aldermores to leave the European Union in June The Chairman is responsible for financial objectives.
2016 was one area of particular focus ensuring effective communication with with investors in the year.
shareholders and the Board recognises the importance of constructively engaging with its shareholders.
Feedback received from investors is regularly shared with Board members through the CFOs regular business performance report, which aids broader Geographic Leading Shareholders discussions on business matters and % shares outstanding % shares outstanding other relevant topics.
% % UK 86 Shareholder 1 40.1 J. P. Morgan Cazenove and Royal Bank of Europe 3 Shareholder 2 6.3 Canada RBC act as joint brokers to the North America 9 Shareholder 3 5.5 Rest of World 2 Shareholder 4 4.0 Company.
They attend Board meetings Shareholder 5 3.7 on a quarterly basis to provide Directors Balance 40.4 with input on market conditions and investors views.
Outside of this formal Share register analysis as at 30 December 2016.
59 Strategic report Corporate governance Risk management Financial statements Appendices Key to activities: Full-year results Half-year results Trading update AGM Investor meetings August 2016 September 2016 November 2016 December 2016 Half-year Results were Investor roadshow of half-year Q3 trading update was presented Continued to engage with presented to the market.
results was led by the CEO to the market.
current and potential investors, and CFO, following the summer with over 150 meetings held in break.
An investor roadshow the year.
was also undertaken ahead of the issuance of 60m Tier 2 Notes to the market in October 2016. programme, the views of the brokers During the year, the Nomination Annual General Meeting are proactively sought on market Committee, in accordance with its The 2017 AGM will be held at 11.00am on developments including the regulatory duties, conducted a review of 16 May 2017 at the offices of Linklaters and competitive environment.
compliance with the terms of the LLP, 1 Silk Street, London, EC2Y 8HQ.
Relationship Agreement and concluded The Notice of AGM, together with an During the year, the Board commissioned that the Relationship Agreement explanation of the items of business an independent perception audit of is working effectively and that the to be discussed at the meeting, will a number of the Companys leading Company is capable of carrying out be posted to shareholders and made institutional shareholders and sellits business independently of the available at www.
Overall, whilst this Principal Shareholders.
A resolution will be proposed at demonstrated that the Company has the 2017 AGM to amend the Companys a supportive investor base, there are a The Company has adopted procedures Articles of Association so that future number of recommendations to further which restrict Directors appointed by AGMs may be held electronically.
enhance communications and investor the Principal Shareholders from voting relations activity which will be an area of on matters where there are conflicts All members of the Board will be in focus in 2017. of interest and from using information attendance at the 2017 AGM which obtained through their appointments.
will provide an opportunity to engage Principal Shareholders with shareholders on the key issues Under the Relationship Agreement, The Principal Shareholders have an facing the Group and respond to any as the Principal Shareholders still interest in the issued share capital of questions shareholders may have.
have an interest in more than 20% 40.14% and their relationship with the All the Directors will be available after of the Company, they are entitled to Company is governed by a Relationship the meeting to meet shareholders on appoint two Non-Executive Directors Agreement which ensures that: an informal basis.
Voting at the 2017 to the Board.
During the year, Peter - the Company is capable of carrying AGM will be conducted by a poll and the Cartwright and Neil Cochrane stepped out its business independently of the results will be announced to the market down from the Board on 18 April 2016 Principal Shareholders: and made available on the Groups and 14 October 2016 respectively.
website as soon as practicable following Currently, Chris Patrick, who was - transactions and arrangements the meeting.
appointed on 21 November 2016, serves with the Principal Shareholders and on the Board as the only Non-Executive their associates are at arms length Director appointed by the Principal and on normal commercial terms Shareholders and will stand for election subject to the rules on related party by shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
transactions in the Listing Rules : and - the Principal Shareholders do not take any action that would have the effect of preventing the Company from complying with, or would circumvent the proper application of, the Listing Rules.
