107 Strategic report Corporate governance Risk management Financial statements Appendices The Groups approach to risk Effective risk management plays a key Risk Strategy In this section: role in the execution of the Groups We have clearly defined our risk The Groups approach to risk 107 strategy of supporting UK SMEs, management objectives and have homeowners, buy-to-let investors a strategy to deliver them.
Our risk Risk governance and oversight 110 and savers.
Risk taking is an inherent management strategy is to: Stress testing 111 part of banking and, within an effective Identify our principal and risk management framework, we Principal risks 112 emerging risks aim to generate strong sustainable returns for shareholders.
The Board Define our risk appetite and ensure All areas of the following report are and senior management seek to ensure that the business plans are consistent covered by the external auditors that the risks the Group are taking are with it opinion on page 142, except for the clearly identified, managed, monitored Ensure that the risk appetite and leverage ratio disclosed on page and reported and that the Groups business plans are supported by 128, the risk weighted assets and resources are capable of withstanding effective risk controls, technology, associated capital ratios on page 129 both expected and unexpected levels of and people capabilities and the shaded sections on pages risk performance.
Manage the risk profile to ensure that The Risk Overview on pages 32 to the business strategy can withstand 35 provides a summary of the risk a range of adverse conditions management framework within the identified in stress testing Group.
It highlights the principal risks we face, together with emerging risks Ensure a sound risk control and the mitigating actions we are environment and risk-aware culture taking to address these challenges.
Manage risk within the business units This detailed Risk Management Section with effective independent oversight provides additional information on our approach to risk, the associated Construct our compensation governance framework, stress testing practices to ensure only prudent and provides a fuller analysis of the risk taking, within our risk appetite, principal risks.
s C s o e n s s t r A o l 108 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Risk management The Groups approach to risk continued Risk Management Framework The Risk Management Framework RMF refers to the process of identifying, managing, monitoring and reporting the risks to which the Group is exposed.
The RMF is supported by supplemental frameworks, policies, processes and procedures.
These combine to ensure that our risks are managed in a manner which is appropriate to the size and nature of the Groups operations.
They are aligned to regulatory requirements and reflect industry practice, as outlined below.
The Group will continue to develop and increase its range of products to better serve its customers and so grow the business sustainably in a controlled manner within the overall RMF.
How do we manage risks How do we provide oversight and What risks and regulatory and compliance given the assurance of risk management requirements do we face?
Principal Risks Risk Appetite & Risk Strategy Credit Risk Risk appetite statement Capital & Liquidity Risk Risk appetite framework Market Risk Risk culture Operational Risk Business strategy Compliance, Conduct & Financial Crime Risk Reputational Risk Risk Infrastructure Governance & committee structure 3 lines of defence Risk resourcing Risk systems Reporting & escalation Emerging Risks Risk Life Cycle Regulatory Change Frameworks Intervention Policies Economic & Political Processes & Procedures Environment Segregation of Duties Competitive Environment Risk Controls & Technology Risk Self Assessments Business Assurance Change Management Data, Reporting KPIs KRIs, Limits Risk Metrics, Limits & Tolerances Legal & Regulatory Aggregation Stress testing: ICAAP, ILAAP, RRP M y f o i t n n i t e o d r I Second line risk oversight Third line independent assurance 109 Strategic report Corporate governance Risk management Financial statements Appendices Risk capacity the maximum level of at all times, the preservation of our Risk Appetite Framework risk we can assume before breaching franchise and reputation and our The Risk Appetite Framework RAF constraints determined by regulatory desire for controlled and sustainable is the overarching framework through capital or liquidity needs profit growth.
which we set individual risk appetites for each principal risk.
It sets out how Risk metrics, limits and tolerances Risk culture we monitor performance against the quantitative or qualitative measures The Board ensures that the Group risk appetites.
that allocate our aggregate risk actively embraces a strong appetite statements to individual The RAF includes the following risk culture where all staff are business activities components: accountable for the risks that they take.
Senior management leads Risk profile the point in time Overarching Risk Appetite Statement in implementing the risk appetite assessment of our risk exposures this is the primary statement and ensuring that the RMF is fully outlining our approach to risk taking Risk Appetite Statement embedded with a strong focus on the linked to the pursuit of our business The Groups overarching Risk Appetite adherence to risk appetite which is strategy.
This is: Statement, and detailed individual monitored through reporting metrics.
metrics define the amount and nature To run a sustainable, safe and sound Staff performance management and of risk the Group is willing to accept or business that conducts its activities reward practices all have key risk tolerate in pursuit of its strategy and in a prudent and reputable manner, inputs, and a focus on risk management business objectives.
The Board sets the taking into account the interest of in their design.
overall risk appetite of the Group, which its customers and also ensuring that is expressed in detail through Principal our obligations to key stakeholders Risk Appetite Statements, individual are met.
metrics and associated limits which are Key risk appetite statements the reviewed on an ongoing basis.
articulation of the type and level of specific risks derived from the In articulating its risk appetite, the principal risks that we are willing to Group has taken into consideration accept or tolerate the expectations of its stakeholders, the need for regulatory compliance Risk Appetite Framework The business strategy provides the context within which the Group outlines its business objectives and establishes its risk management framework.
The risk strategy is developed to support the business objectives.
Together, the business and risk Risk strategies guide the development of the overarching risk appetite statement.
Strategy The overarching risk appetite statement sets the tone for risk management at the Group.
It provides a framework to develop and cascade the Overarching Risk Groups risk culture and to establish risk policies, controls, and limits in a Appetite Statement consistent manner.
The overarching risk appetite statement is supported by individual risk appetite statements for all principal risks.
Individual Principal Risk Appetite Statements Risk appetite statements are supported by a range of meaningful and measurable metrics.
These metrics Risk Metrics, Limits and Tolerances can be quantitative or qualitative in nature and are subject to triggers, tolerances and limits.
Information and Reporting Oversight and Monitoring
