70 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance Risk Committee Report Further detail on the enhancements Risk Committee at a glance that we have made to the Risk The Risk Committee is composed Management Framework is set of a majority of Independent Nonout overleaf, but I would highlight Executive Directors, one of whom in particular the progress made on chairs the meetings, in line with the embedding our Business Assurance Walker Review recommendations: Framework which tests the controls - Peter Shaw Chair, Independent within the business divisions and Non-Executive Director central functions to reflect the growing - John Hitchins, Independent size, scale and complexity of the Dear Shareholder Non-Executive Director Group: enhancing our stress testing I am pleased to present the report - Chris Patrick, Non-Executive Director capabilities: augmenting our lending of the Risk Committee for 2016.
- Robert Sharpe, Independent policies: and reviewing our buy-to-let The promotion of a strong risk culture Non-Executive Director underwriting standards in response is a key Board responsibility and the to regulatory changes.
We have also - Chris Stamper, Independent regular attendance at meetings of the Non-Executive Director maintained a watching brief over the Risk Committee by other Directors who impact of the UKs decision to leave the are not members reflects the Boards Peter Cartwright was also a member EU on our business, both at the time of the Risk Committee until his desire to set this tone from the top.
resignation from the Board with effect of the vote and as further detail on the In November 2016, we welcomed from 18 April 2016.
Neil Cochrane execution of that decision has emerged.
acted as Peters alternate over this Chris Patrick to the Risk Committee We will continue to do so as we look period, and served as a member in his as the representative of our Principal towards our priorities for 2017. own right between 10 May 2016 and Shareholders.
Chris brings with him a 14 October 2016.
The Risk Committee keeps under wealth of financial and risk management Regular attendees at meetings of review those risks on the horizon that experience.
Peter Cartwright and Neil the Risk Committee include the could have a material impact on the Cochrane served as shareholderCRO, CEO, CFO, business Managing Group in the future.
These emerging representative members during Directors, Group Internal Audit risks will be an area of focus in the year, and I would like to take this Director, Company Secretary and 2017, alongside the impact on our representatives from the Groups opportunity to thank them both for external auditor.
risk appetite of changes in the their outstanding contributions to the external environment.
The Risk Committees key role is to Risk Committee during their respective provide oversight of and advice to the tenures.
Following changes to the CEOs Board on the current risk exposures executive team, the Risk Committee and future risk strategy of the Group, is now supported by a new Chief Risk including the development and Officer, Christine Palmer.
Joining from implementation of the Groups Risk Management Framework and for RBS where she held senior risk roles ensuring compliance with the Groups for the last 13 years, Christine brings approved risk appetite.
strong leadership to the Risk function.
The Risk Committees terms The Risk Committee has again had an of reference are reviewed Peter Shaw, active agenda in 2016.
Our key priority annually and are available at Chair of Risk Committee has been to build on the substantial www.
co. uk investment in the Risk Management Framework that we oversaw in 2015.
We have continued to evolve and embed risk frameworks, policies and procedures, whilst remaining cognisant of the growth of the business, the changing economic outlook and developments in the regulatory environment.
"71 Strategic report Corporate governance Risk management Financial statements Appendices Key: Key topics discussed Responsibilities of the Risk Committee Reviewed at Risk Committee Oversee the Groups overall Recommended to Board risk appetite, risk tolerance and meetings in 2016 Approved risk strategy Monitor the risk profile against the Topic Activity Action Board-approved risk appetite Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ""ICAAP"" and the Capital and Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process ""ILAAP"" Oversee the development, liquidity implementation and effectiveness management Issuance of Tier 2 Loan Notes of the overall Risk Management and stress Base and stress scenarios for the budget and ICAAP Framework testing Annual review of the Stress Testing Framework Monitor the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal Annual review of the Risk Committees effectiveness Governance control systems Report from the CRO on the assessment of risk performance in Review the stress and scenario relation to incentive schemes testing of the Groups strategic and Annual programme of agenda items for Risk Committee meetings business plans in 2017 Ensure the adequacy of compliance Regular monitoring of the PSM action plan Regulatory with regulatory requirements matters Impact on the Mortgages business of the PRA consultation paper on including the ICAAP and ILAAP and buy-to-let underwriting standards recommend to the Board for approval BCBS review of standardised credit risk weights and its impact on Review and monitor activities, the Group independence and effectiveness of the Risk function, including Compliance Annual review of the Risk Appetite Framework Risk frameworks Review risk-related Group policies for Changes to the Operational Risk Management Framework and the and policies recommendation to the Board annual review of its effectiveness Proposals to introduce a Group Policy Management Framework and Provide advice to the Remuneration a Group Models Management Framework Committee on principles and deliverables that will ensure that the Annual review of policies including the Group Concentration Risk determination of remuneration fully Policy and Prudential Treasury Policies reflects risk performance Annual review of the Reputational Risk Policy Embedding of changes to the Business Assurance Framework Half-yearly updates on products approved and credit policy changes Risk strategy, Time spent in 2016 risk profile and Conduct risk deep-dive risk appetite % Annual review of risk strategy Capital and liquidity 17 management and Adoption of a simplified approach to the monitoring of strategic risks stress testing Governance 9 Deep-dive into performance against risk appetite in the Regulatory matters 12 Mortgages business Risk frameworks 18 and policies Review of risks associated with change activity across the Group, Risk strategy, 44 including post implementation reviews risk profile and risk appetite In addition, a report is provided at each meeting from the CRO covering performance against the risk appetite metrics, escalated items from the businesses and emerging risks."
The Risk Committee also receives regular updates on areas including cyber security and requests for risks to be accepted.
72 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance Risk Committee Report continued Areas of focus Credit risk Market risk Details of key matters discussed by The Risk Committee regularly reviews Although the Group does not seek to the Risk Committee during the year the credit risk profile of the Group, take market risk, the Risk Committee are set out on page 71 and further with a clear focus on performance reviewed the interest rate risk that information about discussion of these against risk appetite statements the Group carries as part of the ICAAP topics at meetings is described below.
During the year, the review process.
In addition, pages 33 to 35 provide a Risk Committee considered in-depth Operational risk summary of the principal risks faced by reviews of a number of asset classes As part of the continued development the Group and key mitigating actions: including the Mortgages and Buy-Toof the systems and controls in place and an overview of emerging risks, Let exposures.
A number of policies to support the control environment, along with recent and anticipated future were reviewed by the Risk Committee the Risk Committee approved a developments.
Further information on including the Group Concentration revised Operational Risk Management the Groups approach to risk, including Risk Policy, changes to portfolio level Framework in early 2016, and a detailed the associated governance framework policies and the impact of these on report on the effectiveness of that for managing risk, stress testing and a risk appetite.
framework in October 2016. full analysis of the principal risks are set The current and future impact of out in the risk management section on During the year, the Risk Committee emerging risks on the Groups credit pages 106 to 139. received a number of updates on risk profile and risk appetite was a operational risk matters, including the particular area of focus, with follow-up Frameworks operational risk profile, and on specific actions being agreed with management During the year, the Risk Committee areas of focus including enhancements as required.
reviewed and updated the Risk to and the implementation of business Management Framework RMF and Capital and liquidity risk assurance controls testing and the Risk Appetite Framework RAF, The Risk Committee monitors capital risk and control self-assessment with risk appetite statements and risk and liquidity risk and receives regular process by which business areas metrics being revised and refreshed reports on actual and forecast levels in maintain a view of their risks and as appropriate.
Proposals were relation to key RAF metrics.
approved to implement a Group Policy Management Framework During the year, the Risk Committee In terms of the operational risk profile, under which policies, processes and considered revisions to the Groups the Risk Committee received regular procedures will be governed and a capital risk appetite and reviewed the updates on business continuity, disaster Models Management Framework, impact of key regulatory developments recovery, cyber security and cyber risk thereby strengthening the overarching including the BCBS proposed revisions management.
The Stress Testing Framework to the standardised approach to credit an important area of focus for the was also enhanced, and the Groups risk expected to be finalised in H1 2017 Group with a number of improvements ICAAP and ILAAP were challenged and and the Bank of Englands approach to delivered during 2016, driven by the recommended to Board.
minimum requirement for own funds Security Investment Programme.
This has been complemented by an independent review of the Groups The Risk Committee also reviewed security framework, and a revised changes to the approach to the cyber strategy for 2017 onwards.
management of and reporting on liquidity risks.
This was strengthened In addition, the Risk Committee by revisions to the Funds Transfer monitored the performance of Pricing Policy which ensures that the key systems and significant costs and risks of liquidity are clearly projects, as well as noting material attributed to business lines and outsourced arrangements.
changes to core systems and people capability which have enabled daily liquidity reporting to be enhanced.
73 Strategic report Corporate governance Risk management Financial statements Appendices control frameworks operating across Compliance, conduct and the Group was undertaken, which took financial crime risk into account adherence to established Conduct risk management continues risk appetite limits and triggers, risk to be a key area of focus for the Risk events which have been raised, the Committee.
In addition to regular findings from second line oversight reports on performance against reviews and any unsatisfactory conduct risk metrics and developments reviews or material findings by Group regarding new and existing products, Internal Audit.
Consideration was also a deep-dive was presented to the Risk given to whether these areas revealed Committee which provided an overview poor culture or a lack of risk and control of enhancements to and embedding awareness, and also whether actions to of the conduct risk framework, and close risk issues were taken seriously emerging themes.
and acted upon in a timely manner.
In conjunction with the Audit Risk Committee Committee, the Risk Committee reviews the Groups arrangements for effectiveness anti-money laundering on an annual The Risk Committee undertook a basis.
The effectiveness of the Financial review of its own effectiveness Crime Risk Framework over 2016 was through 2016 as part of the wider also reviewed and the Risk Committee Board and Committee evaluation noted the significant enhancements exercise.
The review took the form made to key policies and procedures of an internal evaluation and was during the year and the strengthening principally conducted by way of a of capabilities for regular monitoring of questionnaire that was issued to all Risk financial crime risk metrics.
The review covered various areas Reputational risk including the role and remit of the The Risk Committee reviewed and Risk Committee: the effectiveness recommended for Board approval the of the Chair: the appropriateness Groups Reputational Risk Policy.
of information provided to the Risk Remuneration matters Committee: and the relationship with The Risk Committee has a duty to management.
The Risk Committee advise the Remuneration Committee discussed the outcome of the review regarding both the design of senior in early 2017.
The Risk Committee executive annual and long-term confirmed that it operated effectively incentive plans to ensure that and there were no significant areas for management are not being incentivised concern.
Further information about the to take undue risks: and any risk Board and Committee effectiveness management and control issues that process is set out on pages 56 and 57. have arisen that it believes should be taken into account when determining executive remuneration payments under the aforementioned plans.
In 2016, the Risk Committee reviewed regular reports from the Chief Risk Officer in relation to these matters.
A full assessment of the risk appetite, risk management, governance and
