44 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate governance Executive Committee Phillip Monks, Chief Executive Officer, and James Mack, Chief Financial Officer, are both members of the Groups Executive Committee.
Their biographies can be found on page 42.
Dana Cuffe Carl DAmmassa Rob Divall Chief Operating Officer Group Managing Director Group HR Director Business Finance Joined the Group: Joined the Group: Joined the Group: May 2016 October 2013 September 2016 Relevant skills, strengths and experience: Relevant skills, strengths and experience: Relevant skills, strengths and experience: Dana has over 30 years experience in financial Carl has spent a number of years in the asset Rob joined Aldermore from the Board of services and, prior to joining Aldermore, served finance industry.
Having started his financial AdviserPlus Business Solutions Limited, a leading as Senior Vice President and Chief Information services career at GE Capital, he held various provider of HR managed services, where he led Officer for RenaissanceRe Holdings Limited financial, operational and general management strategy and product development and played in Bermuda and was Head of Operations in positions in GEs Equipment Finance, Equipment a key commercial role in the growth of the Ireland.
Prior to that, he spent three years as Services and Restructuring divisions, including company through to its eventual acquisition goal.
Chief Information Officer of Egg PLC, taking the the post of CEO of the vehicle rental, plant hire Prior to this, Rob held a variety of HR leadership organisation through an IPO and growing the and key leasing businesses.
Prior to joining positions in his eight years with Lloyds Banking customer base to over three million.
Dana has Aldermore, he was the Managing Director of Group PLC.
Before Lloyds, he worked with also held senior IT positions in the UK, US and Hitachi Capital Business Finance.
Throughout his Accenture PLC leading change programmes Australia with Credit Suisse First Boston, Global career, Carl has gained experience in challenging within the HR outsourcing division, having started Asset Management, Citibank N. A. and Bank turnaround and transformational situations the first decade of his career in retail where he of America.
leading significant sales, operational and held a number of senior HR and commercial process improvements.
roles in The Big Food Group PLC and Boots the Responsibilities: Chemists Limited.
Responsibilities: Dana is responsible for Technology, Group Responsibilities: Services and Operations, Strategy, Strategic Carl is responsible for the management of the Propositions, Marketing and Digital.
Groups lending activity through the Business Rob is responsible for the Group HR function and Finance Division, which comprises the Asset the delivery of the people elements of the Groups Finance and Invoice Finance business lines.
1 Charles Haresnape Christine Palmer Executive Committee responsibilities Group Managing Director Chief Risk Officer The role of the Executive Committee is Mortgages to assist the Chief Executive Officer in the performance of his duties relating to Joined the Group: Joined the Group: the day-to-day operation of the Group, January 2011 April 2016 including the: Relevant skills, strengths and experience: Relevant skills, strengths and experience: development and implementation of Charles has a deep knowledge of the mortgages Christine has over 28 years experience in industry, having worked for a number of risk management, corporate and commercial strategy, operational plans, policies, household names in the banking and building banking, having held roles at ING Bank N. V. procedures and budgets society sectors, including Nationwide Building where she spent eight years across London and monitoring of operating and Society and HBOS PLC.
Charles was Senior Amsterdam, Ernst & Young LLP and The Royal Executive, Mortgage Sales and Acquisitions Bank of Scotland Group PLC.
Her career at RBS financial performance at Nationwide Building Society and Managing spanned almost 14 years, during which time prioritisation and allocation of resources Director, Intermediary Mortgages at HBOS PLC.
she held a number of senior positions in the Risk In addition, he has previously held roles within The function including divisional chief risk officer and monitoring of competitive forces in each Royal Bank of Scotland Group PLC where he was senior credit risk roles.
She was most recently area of operation responsible for intermediary mortgage lending, Global Head of Operational Risk and Director of design and embedding of the Risk and NatWests branch mortgage sales force.
Prior to joining Aldermore, Charles was Group Management Framework Responsibilities: Mortgage Services Director at Connells Limited, Christine is responsible for Risk across the Group monitoring of adherence to risk one of the UKs largest estate agency groups.
which includes credit, operational, compliance, appetite statements Responsibilities: conduct and financial crime risk, as well as capital assessment and control of principal Charles is responsible for the management of the and liquidity risks.
Mortgages Division, which comprises Residential risks within the Group Mortgages, Commercial Mortgages and Buy-toLet business lines.
1 Charles is leaving the Group in 2017.
A search is underway for his replacement.
