I II Directors Report III Other Governance Re-election of Directors Directors in 2016 Details of the current Directors can be found on pages 26 and 27.
Name Designation Appointed Clare Dobie was appointed during the year and her appointment Lord Smith Chairman 3 2 16 falls to be confirmed by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Anthony Brooke Non-Executive Director 24 6 15 The Board has decided that all of the Directors will be subject to Clare Dobie Non-Executive Director 26 5 16 re-election every year.
Karin Forseke Chairman 1 3 12 The individual performance of each Director and their ongoing Katherine Garrett-Cox Chief Executive Officer 1 5 07 suitability for election or re-election was considered and endorsed John Hylands Non-Executive Director 22 2 08 by the Nomination Committee.
All are recommended for election Alastair Kerr Non-Executive Director 1 10 12 or re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Each of our Directors has confirmed that they remain committed to their role Rory Macnamara Non-Executive Director 24 6 15 and has sufficient time available to meet what is expected of them.
Susan Noble Non-Executive Director 11 7 12 Chris Samuel Non-Executive Director 23 9 15 Karl Sternberg Non-Executive Director 23 9 15 Gregor Stewart Non-Executive Director 1 12 14 Resigned 1 January 2016 Resigned 3 February 2016 Resigned 6 May 2016 Rory Macnamara passed away on 17 December 2016 Major shareholders As at 21 March 2017 the Company had received the following notification from shareholders holding an interest in more than 3% of the voting rights of the ordinary shares in issue of the Company: Shareholder Nature of interest Number of shares DC Thomson & Company Limited Shares 16,000,000 4% The largest shareholder in the Company is the nominee company for Alliance Trust Savings which holds its shares on behalf of over 21,000 customers.
Alliance Trust Savings Nominees Limited 121,164,239 33% Alliance Trust PLC | Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2016 45 Directors Report Other Governance continued Board and Committee attendances In addition to the scheduled Board and Committee meetings below, all or some of the Directors met on over 20 occasions to consider matters arising between the scheduled meetings and to progress the Strategic Review.
As reported on page 31, the Board undertook the work of the Management Engagement Committee during the year so no separate Management Engagement Committee meetings took place.
Meeting attendances Board Audit and Risk Remuneration Nomination Director Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Lord Smith 6 6 - - - - 2 2 Anthony Brooke 6 6 5 5 2 2 2 2 Clare Dobie 3 3 2 2 1 1 0 0 Katherine Garrett-Cox 0 0 - - - - - - John Hylands 3 3 3 3 1 1 1 1 Rory Macnamara 4 6 3 5 1 2 1 2 Susan Noble 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Chris Samuel 6 6 4 4 2 2 2 2 Karl Sternberg 6 6 4 4 2 2 2 2 Gregor Stewart 6 6 5 5 2 2 2 2 Resigned 6 May 2016 Resigned 3 February 2016 on the Companys website at www.
Disclosures on Directors and Officers indemnification Remuneration as required under the AIFMD can also be found on The Company provides insurance for legal action brought against its our website.
Directors as a consequence of their position.
In addition separate deeds of indemnity have been agreed with each Director indemnifying them Investment Management Agreement as permitted by company law.
The indemnity and insurance does not extend to cover claims brought by the Company itself which are Under the terms of the proposed Management Agreement with upheld by the Courts, nor to criminal fines or penalties.
Towers Watson Investment Management Ireland Limited the AIFM, the AIFM will be entitled to a management fee together with reimbursement of reasonable expenses incurred.
The fee equates to Access to advice the sum of i 1.5m per annum increasing in line with UK Consumer All Directors have access to independent professional advice Prices Index CPI each year plus 0.055% per annum of the market if necessary.
capitalisation of the Company after deduction of a the value of non-core assets, b the value of the Companys subsidiaries: ii such Relationship with shareholders fees as are agreed from time to time by the Company in respect of All Directors normally attend the AGM where they have the third party managers: and iii fees paid to the managers opportunity to meet shareholders.
Meetings also take place administrators of non-core assets.
throughout the year with major and institutional shareholders.
The AIFM will also receive a fixed administration fee in respect of Investment Trust Status the provision of certain underlying administration services which HM Revenue and Customs have confirmed that Alliance Trust PLC has is capped at 0.92m per annum increasing in line with the CPI.
investment trust status for all financial periods from 1 January 2012.
The Management Agreement may be terminated by either party on not less than six months notice or, if terminated by the Company Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive earlier, upon the payment of compensation.
The Management Agreement may also be terminated earlier by either party with Until 3 February 2016 the Company was approved by the Financial immediate effect and without compensation on the occurrence Conduct Authority as a manager under the Directive.
Since that date of certain events.
On termination the AIFM is entitled to receive its the manager has been Alliance Trust Investments Limited.
It is intended that upon completion of the sale of Alliance Trust Investments that fees pro rata to the date of termination.
Towers Watson Investment Management Ireland Limited will be appointed manager.
Under the investment management agreement with Alliance Trust Investments ATI they were entitled to receive a fee for its services equal to 0.35% of the Companys adjusted net asset value excluding The Company has appointed National Westminster Bank PLC as its Depositary under the Directive for the purpose of strengthening the holdings in ATI managed funds and the fair value of ATS and ATI.
arrangements for the safe custody of assets.
Regulatory disclosures, The agreement could also be terminated by either ATI or the Company including the Companys Investor Disclosure Document, are provided giving to the other not less than six months written notice.
Alliance Trust PLC | Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2016 46 I II Directors Report III Director development Annual General Meeting Every new director receives an individually tailored induction.
In addition to formal business, there will be the opportunity for The Board as a whole received updates on Market Abuse Regulations questions to be put to the Directors.
This year, in addition to the and other relevant topics.
normal business there will be proposals to: renew the share buyback authority and requesting the power to Share capital and waiver of dividends hold shares purchased under that authority to be held in Treasury or cancelled with power to reintroduce any shares held in Treasury The Companys issued share capital as at 31 December 2016 comprised 492,703,932 Ordinary 2.5p shares of which 698,062 have been to the market but not at a discount to net asset value: and acquired by the Trustee of an Employee Benefit Trust the Trustee confirm the notice period for convening general meetings other with funds provided by the Company in connection with its employee than Annual General Meeting.
The Trustee has elected to waive all dividends payable in respect of those shares.
The Trustee holds a further 226,161 shares At the meeting we hope that shareholders will have the opportunity deposited by recipients of awards under the LTIP.
Each Ordinary share to meet with some of our new equity managers.
of the Company is entitled to one vote but the Trustee does not vote in respect of the shares held by it on behalf of the Company.
Greenhouse gas GHG emissions Our mandatory disclosure of total GHG emissions data for the year In the course of the year the Company acquired and cancelled ended 31 December 2016 can be found on page 25.
We report there 37,056,046 shares for 195m.
on all of the emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
These There are no preference shares or shares held in treasury.
sources fall within our consolidated financial statements.
We do not have responsibility for any emission sources that are not included in Agreement in respect of voting rights our consolidated financial statements.
There are no agreements in respect of voting rights.
Our carbon footprint has been calculated based on the Defra Share buyback authority Environmental Reporting Guidelines including mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting guidance.
We have adopted an operational At the last Annual General Meeting the shareholders renewed the control approach.
The emissions reported on page 25 have been authority for them repurchase of up to 14.99% of the issued shares verified by Carbon Footprint Limited.
and also authorised that shares repurchased may be held in treasury.
These authorities fall to be renewed at the next Annual General Meeting.
The Company made use of this provision during the course of the year as detailed above.
The Company will seek the renewal of these Report of Directors and Responsibility Statement authorities at the Annual General Meeting.
The Company also The Report of the Directors, including the Directors responsibility received authority from the shareholders at the General Meeting on statement, on pages 28 to 36, the going concern statement on 28 February 2017 to repurchase up to a further 5% of the shares in page 37 and pages 45 to 47 of the Annual Report and Accounts issue on that date.
This authority will lapse at the AGM in April 2017. has been approved by the Board.
Conflicts of interest We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: The Directors have previously provided details of all interests which the financial statements, prepared in accordance with potentially could cause a conflict of interest to arise.
The unconflicted International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by Directors in each case noted the declarations by the Directors of their the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, other interests and confirmed that at that time none of the interests liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company disclosed were reasonably likely to give rise to a conflict.
An annual and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as review of all interests was undertaken as part of the year end process a whole: and this was considered by the Board in February 2017.
Procedures the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development are in place to allow Directors to request authority should it be required outwith the normal Board meeting schedule.
and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: and the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position, performance, business model and strategy.
Lord Smith of Kelvin Chairman 23 March 2017 Alliance Trust PLC | Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2016 47
