I II Directors Report III Audit and Risk Committee In this section we pr ovide information on the main areas focussed on by the Audit and Risk Committee over the year.
The Committee plays a significant role in ensuring that the Companys financial statements are properly prepared and that the systems of internal controls in place are effective and appropriate.
The Committee monitors how effective management is in managing risk in the business.
In addition, the Committee reviews and challenges the appropriateness of the Companys Risk Appetite, its application within the business and the investment managers assessment of the risk outlook for the portfolio.
We provide more detail on these matters on the next pages.
The key areas of focus and the decisions taken during the year are summarised in the table below.
Gregor Stewart Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee Areas of focus in 2016 The Committee considered and updated its risk appetite and this is reported on in more detail on pages 22 to 24.
Risk Appetite The Committee received reports on how cyber risk impacted on the Company and assessed the steps being taken Cyber Risk by the boards of the subsidiary companies to protect their businesses through increased IT security measures implemented during the year.
The Committee received updates on the progress of the Trustees of the Companys final salary pension to derisk the Final Salary scheme through the purchase of a bulk annuity policy.
The Trustees completed the buy in of the schemes liabilities on Pension Scheme 31 May 2016.
The Committee, to provide the market with greater transparency and to move towards market convention, approved a Valuation of Fixed rate change in the accounting policy for the valuation of its 100m of unsecured long term fixed rate notes, to include both par Loan Notes and fair value.
Further detail can be found in Note 2 on page 63.
The Committee received a report of the external independent review that had been commissioned into the process, Long Term Incentive Plan controls and ownership of the process to determine the causes of errors arising in previous years.
New procedures were approved and introduced to provide greater assurance that errors would be prevented in the future.
The Committee requested the external auditors to ensure that their procedures are sufficiently robust in this regard.
The Committee approved a number of submissions to the regulators.
These included the consolidated Group Internal Regulatory Compliance Capital Adequacy Process ICAAP and the consolidated Group Individual Liquidity Assessment Process ILAAP which involved analysing the risks to the business and the level of capital required to reflect those risks and the way in which any liquidity concerns would be addressed.
The Committee considered both its internal and external audit requirements.
In the third quarter of 2016, Internal and External the investment manager ATI adopted a revised combined risk assurance and internal audit approach with the Auditors agreement of the Committee.
During the year the Group outsourced certain internal audit services in relation to its subsidiaries.
The Committee evaluated the performance of the external auditor and determined that it would be inappropriate to carry out a tender in a year of significant business change, a change in governance structures and a rotational change in audit partner.
The valuation methodology used to value the investments in the subsidiaries and private equity investments can Valuation of Unlisted be found in Note 23.8 on pages 83 to 86.
The Committee took advice from an external valuer and an internally Investments prepared paper in arriving at the fair value for Alliance Trust Savings.
The Committee challenged the range of values provided and after fully reviewing the methodology and assumptions adopted.
In respect of Alliance Trust Investments, the Committee assessed the year end valuation on the expected disposal proceeds excluding the contingent consideration.
The Committee considered the content of the Interim Accounts and the Annual Report and Accounts of the Review of Annual and Company before recommending approval to the Board.
The Committee concluded that the Companys accounts Interim Accounts were fair, balanced and understandable.
Alliance Trust PLC | Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2016 33 Directors Report Audit and Risk Committee continued Internal controls The Committee received reports from the Risk and Compliance The Group has a clear governance structure for the control and functions of its investment manager ATI and ATS during the year.
monitoring of its business, including defined lines of responsibility The External Auditor reports on the details of any significant internal and delegation of authority.
The Group has a comprehensive system control issues relating to the Company.
The Committee, in conjunction for reviewing, monitoring and reporting to the Board, including a with the equivalent committees of its subsidiaries, provided independent detailed financial review against forecast.
oversight and challenge of the Risk and Compliance functions to ensure that they were providing the level of scrutiny expected by the relevant The Board is responsible for determining its appetite for the level of Committees and the Board.
risk it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives and for the Groups risk management framework and internal control systems.
In the third quarter of 2016, ATI adopted a revised combined risk assurance and internal audit approach overseen by its Director of The Audit and Risk Committee assists the Board in fulfilling this Risk & Compliance.
This approach to providing assurance combines responsibility through regular review of their effectiveness, including the use of resource from the ATIs Risk and Compliance team all material financial, operational and compliance controls.
The Board supplemented with co-sourced assurance testing from an external has an established ongoing process for the identification, evaluation third party.
and management of the significant risks faced by the Company recognising that the now independent Boards of the subsidiary The ATI Director of Risk and Compliance presents the output of companies had their own Audit and Risk Committees to consider the review assignments to the Audit and Risk Committee of ATI, the risks specific to their businesses.
The process helps the Board to with any Trust specific reports provided to the Companys Audit and carry out a robust assessment of the principal risks to the business.
The Director of Risk and Compliance has a direct reporting line to the Chairman of both the ATI and Companys Audit The Company relies on the systems of internal control employed and Risk Committees.
by its manager, Alliance Trust Investments ATI, to facilitate effective and efficient operations and to ensure the assets of the Company are Alliance Trust Savings continues to operate a three lines of defence safeguarded, proper accounting records are maintained, and the model, where the third line of defence is comprised of the Internal financial information used within the business and for reporting to Audit function and the Board Audit and Risk Committee.
The Internal stakeholders is reliable.
Audit function, which is outsourced, provides independent assurance of the suitability and effectiveness of the firms risk management Any system of risk management and internal control is designed to arrangements, including execution of responsibilities to ensure an manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business effective risk and control environment.
This is executed through the objectives and can only provide reasonable assurance and not Internal Audit programme which adopts a risk based audit approach absolute assurance against regulatory breach, material misstatement to provide a regular review of key processes and activities.
In 2016, the Board is not aware of any such material matters having occurred.
The Audit and Risk Committee performed an assessment for the purpose of this Annual Report, which considered all significant The Company has appointed a Depositary, National Westminster aspects of risk management and internal control arising during the Bank plc.
The Depositary is responsible for the safekeeping of all period of the report, including the work of the assurance functions.
custodial assets of the Company, ensuring its cash flows are properly The Committee then reported its findings to the Board.
monitored, for verifying and maintaining a record of all other assets of the Company and for the collection of income that arises from the As a result of the annual review and the ongoing processes for review, Companys assets.
It is the duty of the Depositary to take reasonable monitoring and reporting of the Groups risk management and internal care to ensure that the Company is managed in accordance with the controls, the Board did not identify any significant weaknesses or FCA FUND Sourcebook, the Companys Articles of Association and failings and remains satisfied with the effectiveness of the Groups risk the AIFM Directive.
management and internal control systems.
The Board recognises that the environment in which the Company and its subsidiaries operate is Having carried out such procedures as the Depositary considers complex and constantly evolving.
The Board supports and guides the necessary to discharge their responsibilities as Depositary, it is business in the ongoing development of the risk management tools their opinion, based on the information available to them and the which are in place to enhance the control environment of the business explanations provided, that in all material respects the Company and to ensure the business continues to be well positioned to comply has been managed in accordance with the rules in the FUND with operational and regulatory changes.
sourcebook, the Articles of Association of the Company and as required by the AIFM Directive.
During 2016 the Committee provided challenge on the risk reporting provided in respect of the Company and in relation to subsidiaries ATI and ATS.
The reviews undertaken included consideration of the Risk Appetite of the Company and of its subsidiaries as well as whether any of the trigger points set by the Board against each measure had been breached.
Alliance Trust PLC | Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2016 34 I II Directors Report III Internal controls over financial reporting Effectiveness of Audit process One of the risks to the Group is Financial and Prudential Reporting During the course of the year the audit engagement partner and other the risk of misstatement of the accounting policies and ineffective members of the engagement team met with the Committee Chair and controls over financial and regulatory reporting.
management, both together and separately.
These meetings provide an opportunity for matters relating to the conduct of the audit, including The Group has Financial Accounting Policies and an Accounting the performance of the External Auditor, to be raised and addressed at Manual to enable the Group to comply with all relevant accounting the time.
standards to ensure that the financial statements provide a true and fair view.
Following completion of the external audit of the financial statements for the period ended 31 December 2015 an evaluation of the External This risk and the mitigating controls are assessed regularly by Auditors effectiveness was undertaken.
Controls over the preparation of the consolidated that it was generally satisfied with the performance of the External accounts include but are not limited to: Auditor.
At last years Annual General Meeting it was identified that there had been a management error in calculating the level of Long A formal review and sign-off of the annual accounts by Alliance Term Incentive Plan awards that would vest, which was not identified Trust Investments management including verification of any by the Auditor.
The Committee commissioned an independent statements made: external review of both the role of management and the Auditor with Adoption and review of appropriate accounting policies by the a focus on ensuring that procedures were strengthened to ensure no Board: such errors recur.
Given the changes in Deloittes audit approach and Review and approval of accounting estimates by the Board.
the rotational change in audit partner, the Committee concluded that it was satisfied with the performance and independence of the The Committee also considered whether the Annual Report, taken External Auditor.
as a whole, was fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys Appointment of Auditor performance, business model and strategy.
In arriving at their Following a tender, Deloitte LLP were appointed after approval of the conclusion that the Annual Report satisfied this standard the Committee members at the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
Deloitte LLP have been took into account the process adopted in the preparation of the reappointed at subsequent AGMs and are proposed for reappointment document which included: in 2016.
The recommendation to reappoint Deloitte LLP is not automatic.
The involvement of senior members of the management of Alliance Trust Investments in drafting meetings: In the course of the year the Chair of the Committee has met with the The establishment of a working group of the Board and members Auditor outwith the formal structure of Committee meetings.
The of the management of Alliance Trust Investments to review drafts Committee has considered the performance of the Auditor and is prior to consideration by the Committee: satisfied with the rigour that they apply to the audit process and have recommended the reappointment of Deloitte LLP for a further year.
Verification of all factual statements contained within the narrative section of the Annual Report, with evidence required from the author: In accordance with professional guidance, Deloitte LLP change the Statements which cannot be verified typically opinions or audit partner every five years.
The former partner, Calum Thomson, forward-looking statements specifically brought to the carried out his final audit for the Trust last year and his replacement, Committees attention: Andrew Partridge, has been appointed.
The Board considered Independent internal review by a senior manager not involved in whether, during this period of change, this was an appropriate point the preparation of the Annual Report.
to carry out a tender exercise and decided to remain with Deloitte.
The Committee considered the steps outlined above and the content of The Committee will continue to review the appropriate timing of a the document.
After review the Committee were satisfied, taking care future tender.
to ensure that the narrative parts of the Annual Report were consistent with the numerical disclosures in the audited accounts, that the Annual The Company confirms its compliance with the provisions of Report satisfied the required standard and recommended approval to The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation the Board.
Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 for the year to 31 December 2016.
Independence of Auditor The Committees policy is to allow the audit firm to be instructed to Disclosure of information to Auditor undertake non-audit work only where there is no threat to independence.
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Any assignment must be approved on behalf of the Committee by its Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant Chair.
Such assignments are normally put out to tender.
Last year audit information of which the Auditor is unaware: and each Director 10,500 was paid to the Auditor, in respect of work on a review of the has taken all steps they ought to have taken as a Director to make interim audit and audit of the annual accounts of the Pension Scheme.
themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Auditor is aware of that information.
Each year the Committee considers the independence of the Auditor.
It has done so this year and confirms the Auditors independence.
Alliance Trust PLC | Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2016 35 Directors Report Audit and Risk Committee continued Directors responsibilities statement The Directors are responsible for preparing the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial period.
By law, the Directors are required to prepare the group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements under IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
The financial statements are required by law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position of the Company and the performance for that period: the Companies Act 2006 provides, in relation to such financial statements, that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report and a Strategic Report that complies with that law and those regulations.
Alliance Trust PLC | Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2016 36
