Directors Report Corporate Governance Alliance Trust takes good governance seriously.
Since the changes that were announced in 2015 and implemented in 2016 to introduce independent boards for both Alliance Trust Savings and Alliance Trust Investments and to move to a Non-Executive only Board for Alliance Trust PLC we have seen quite a radical change in the way in which the Company is run.
We have seen greater accountability from the executives who Compliance with AIC Code of were charged with running our subsidiary business as they Corporate Governance were challenged by independent non-executives as well as The Company has complied with the recommendations of a non-executive appointed from the board of the Company.
the AIC Code of Corporate Governance issued in July 2016.
This is the first time that both of these subsidiaries have reported This report describes how the Board applies the principles of profits in the same year, and the first time that Alliance Trust that Code in practice.
Financial Reporting Council With less distraction from the affairs of the subsidiaries the Board As part of their regulatory responsibilities the Conduct Committee has been focused on delivering the outcome of its Strategic of the Financial Reporting Council review and investigate the Review, reported in more detail on pages 2 and 3, as well as annual reports and directors and strategic reports of public ensuring that the Company itself is observing good standards of companies.
Our Report and Accounts for 2015 were reviewed and governance.
Over the next few pages we outline the work that the the Conduct Committee confirmed that they had no questions or Board and the Committees have done over the year.
I would queries which they wished to raise with us.
Their review was not highlight that, apart from myself, every Director is a member of based on the detailed knowledge and understanding of the each Committee and has contributed across all areas of our business that our Board has however it was conducted by staff governance.
We took the decision last year that as a small Board it of the Financial Reporting Council who have an understanding was more effective for all of the Directors to be involved in the of the relevant legal and accounting framework.
work of all of the Committees so that everyone was aware of developments and could contribute from their own areas of Lord Smith of Kelvin, specialist knowledge: we believe that this has led to more informed Chairman decisions and efficient use of the Directors time.
This does mean that, on occasions, the Board itself may consider items of business that would normally come to it as a recommendation from one of the Board Committees, for example the appointment of a new director, however that has not detracted from the work of those Committees which are structured to allow adequate time for discussing matters in more depth than could be achieved within a Board meeting.
We will be reviewing our Committee structure again in 2017 in light of experience gained in 2016.
Alliance Trust PLC | Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2016 28 I II Directors Report III Corporate structure We have a number of Board Committees to ensure good governance place at the year end.
The Board will on occasions constitute ad hoc and to enhance accountability and independence.
The terms of committees or working groups for specific purposes and has reference of the four standing committees reporting to the Board can constituted a Disclosure Committee which will meet as required to be found at www.
The diagram below shows the consider the disclosure of inside information held by the Company.
main committees and reporting lines within the Group that were in Structure Board of Directors Board Committees Audit and Risk Management Engagement Nomination Remuneration Subsidiary Boards Alliance Trust Investments Alliance Trust Savings Since the end of 2015 the Board of the Company does not require The Board still maintains an element of oversight and it has to be the subsidiary boards to seek endorsement for their business plans, consulted before either of the subsidiaries takes any action which budgets, the launch of new funds or products or approval of major could impact adversely on the reputation or long-term financial business expenditure.
These changes, along with the appointment interests of the Company.
Each of the subsidiary companies also have of new independent directors, have made the subsidiary boards a non-executive director from the Company sitting as a non-executive more autonomous.
Board Experience The Board recognises that they require a mix of skills and experience to ensure that the Company is managed and governed effectively.
We set out below the key skills which the Board has identified that it must have.
In addition to these key skills the Board also has experience in Investment, Financial Oversight, Risk, Strategy and Change and Corporate Finance.
Financial Business Asset Investment Marketing and Board experience Services Leadership Management Trusts Distribution Lord Smith of Kelvin Gregor Stewart Anthony Brooke Clare Dobie Chris Samuel Karl Sternberg Alliance Trust PLC | Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2016 29
