Directors Report Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee exists to assess the skills and experience of the individual directors of the Company in order to ensure that they are sufficient to provide effective direction and oversight of the Companys strategy and operation.
We set out below the main areas of focus of the Committee during 2016.
Lord Smith of Kelvin Chairman, Nomination Committee Areas of focus in 2016 Since 2011 each Director has been subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
The Committee considered each Re-election of Directors continuing Director for their independence, contribution, commitment and time availability and concluded that each Director satisfied these criteria and recommended their re-election.
The Committee also assessed each director appointed since the last AGM and also assessed them under the same criteria and recommended their election or re-election.
The Committee approved the following Diversity Policy: Diversity Policy Alliance Trust recognises the benefits of having a diverse Board, and sees diversity at Board level as important in maintaining good corporate governance and Board effectiveness.
The Board members should include different skills, regional and industry experience, background, race and gender.
These differences will be considered in determining the composition of the Board and when possible should be balanced appropriately.
All Board appointments must be made on merit, in the context of the skills, experience, independence and knowledge which the Board as a whole requires to be effective.
The Nomination Committee the Committee will review and assess Board composition on behalf of the Board and recommend the appointment of new Directors.
In reviewing Board composition, the Committee will consider the benefits of all aspects of diversity including, but not limited to, those described above, in order to enable it to discharge its duties and responsibilities.
In identifying suitable candidates for appointment to the Board, the Committee will consider candidates on merit against objective criteria and with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board.
As part of the selection process, where search agents are used, they will be required in preparing their long list to include female candidates of at least 25% of the number submitted for consideration.
Over time the Board intends to achieve at least 25% female representation on the Board.
As part of the annual performance evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board, Board Committees and individual Directors, the experience, independence and knowledge of the Directors and the diversity representation of the Board, how the Board works together, and other factors relevant to its effectiveness will be considered.
The Board after approving its Diversity Policy agreed that action should be taken to address the lack of women on Non-Executive Directors the Board and initiated a search for an additional director with the intention of improving gender diversity while also strengthening the existing Boards skills and experience.
The search that was undertaken led to the appointment of Clare Dobie to the Board in May.
Alliance Trust PLC | Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2016 32
