Report of independent registered public accounting firm on internal control over financial reporting The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Amec Foster Wheeler plc We have audited Amec Foster Wheeler plcs internal control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2016, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission 2013 framework the COSO criteria.
Amec Foster Wheeler plcs management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Managements Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the companys internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
A companys internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that 1 pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company: 2 provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorisations of management and directors of the company: and 3 provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
In our opinion, Amec Foster Wheeler plc maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2016, based on the COSO criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States, the consolidated balance sheets of Amec Foster Wheeler as of 31 December 2016 and 2015, and the related consolidated income statement, statement of comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flow statement for each of the three years in the period ended 31 December 2016 of Amec Foster Wheeler plc and our report dated 21 March 2017, expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Ernst & Young LLP London, England 25 April 2017 Amec Foster Wheeler 102 Annual report and accounts 2016
