Board role and responsibilities A global policies document works in conjunction with the Code The board is collectively responsible for delivering sustainable long-term shareholder value in line with its obligations to, and of Business Conduct providing further detail and elaboration on matters affecting all of Amec Foster Wheelers businesses.
the expectations of, the Companys stakeholders.
The global policies document describes the key policies for The board is responsible for setting the Companys strategic directing and managing the Groups businesses consistently aims and providing the leadership and resources to achieve its in accordance with our vision and values.
The boards role is to be distinguished from overall are supported by a set of mandatory procedures, which operational management, which is the responsibility of the further explain how the policies are to be applied.
Together, Chief Executive Officer who, in turn, delegates authorities to the global policies and procedures set the framework within the Chief Financial Officer, business line and functional leaders.
which business, functional and local policies and procedures They have in turn further delegated authorities to their teams.
The board approves the group-wide policy framework.
In order to ensure it retains appropriate overall control On a day-to-day basis, the board has delegated responsibility for implementation of the global policies and ownership of the of the Group, a number of key matters are not delegated to management and as such the board maintains a schedule procedures to the Executive Committee.
The board considers the global policies to be part of the risk-based approach of matters reserved for its approval.
These include: to corporate governance and the maintenance of sound X annual strategic and short-range plans internal controls.
X financial and treasury policies In order to discharge its role, the board is also responsible X risk identification, risk appetite, risk management and internal for maintaining sound risk management and internal control control systems systems.
The board has a rigorous and comprehensive risk management approach to protect the Groups assets and the X high-value potentially high-risk projects interests of its stakeholders and create an environment for X major acquisitions and disposals business success.
The board regularly reviews the effectiveness and adequacy of the Groups financial, operational, compliance X Code of Business Conduct and Health, Safety, Security, and risk management systems.
Environmental and Ethics policies The board is supported in its work by four board committees X full and half-year accounts nominations, audit, HSSEE and remuneration, chaired by X either the board Chairman or another non-executive director, dividend policy and a number of management committees and groups, chaired X succession planning for directors and senior executives by executive directors or other senior individuals, to which X group-wide policy framework specific responsibilities have been delegated.
You can find out more about the membership, duties, responsibilities and work X ensuring the effectiveness of governance practices of these committees in the dedicated reports that follow.
Full X written terms of reference for each board committee can also appointment and removal of the Company Secretary be found online at amecfw.
This schedule is reviewed for continued acceptability on an annual basis.
In August 2016, the schedule was reviewed and a The directors believe that the board leads the Group effectively couple of minor changes were made in relation to due diligence and that all directors act in accordance with what they in HSSE matters.
No further changes were deemed necessary.
consider to be the best interests of the Company, consistent with their statutory duties under the Companies Act 2006 High quality corporate governance helps to underpin and other legislation.
long-term company performance and the board is responsible for maintaining strong governance practices and regularly reviewing the Companys governance structure as illustrated on page 50.
The Code of Business Conduct is the cornerstone of the Companys approach to governance and is applicable to all employees, including the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and other senior financial professionals.
The Code of Business Conduct is the responsibility of, and is upheld by, the board: it acts as a guide for our day-to-day working life, providing a practical application of Amec Foster Wheelers values and ensuring all those who work for and under Amec Foster Wheelers direction understand the behaviour that is expected of them.
The Code of Business Conduct, which is available to employees in 14 different languages, complies with relevant UK and US regulations and is available on the Companys website at amecfw.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 51 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report
