Audit committee As I said in my 2015 statement, bringing two sizeable, complex, and wide ranging companies together makes for a challenging The audit committees main objective is environment, particularly around business culture, systems, to assist the board in fulfilling its oversight policies and procedures.
Management continues to consolidate responsibilities, by providing independent its systems, culture, and mandatory policies, procedures, and controls across the integrated business.
Your committee and scrutiny of the companys financial and nonthe board continue to give high priority to these areas and financial performance, the adequacy of the risk focus strongly on managements adherence to the revised management framework and internal controls, arrangements.
Your committee has a number of inputs that keep it appraised of how well management is doing in this and related governance and compliance regard, not least the valuable reports the committee receives matters.
The committee members wide from the external and internal auditors, which are reviewed diversity of experience and knowledge helps at every audit committee.
to achieve these objectives, and to provide The committee continued to oversee the internal and external constructive challenge and guidance to audit activities to monitor the capability and resources of both the internal audit and SOX teams.
The committee and your the senior management team.
board are well aware of the ever increasing cyber threat, and management has appointed a new Chief Information Officer Dear Shareholder and a new Chief Information Security Officer, to refresh and I am pleased to present our annual audit committee report and bring new insights and focus to this area of risk.
trust it will give you insight to the workings of this committee Our principal objectives are to be proactive and to provide and the matters we considered during 2016.
The committee constructive challenge of the information we receive, had another busy year, during which it oversaw managements particularly the integrity of the Groups financial statements, refinements to its second year Sarbanes-Oxley compliance significant areas of judgement, other relevant financial programme SOX.
These refinements are designed to make information and overall risk appetite.
Throughout the year the Groups SOX processes more resilient and efficient, the committee has received timely and relevant information and this work will continue throughout 2017 as the Group from management.
These reports have been appropriate, restructures and the announced asset disposals take place.
concise, and transparent, which has enabled your committee A new Director of SOX, with extensive experience, was to discharge its duties effectively.
appointed in May last year and directly updated the committee Finally, on behalf of the committee, I would like to thank Neil at each of its meetings on the Groups SOX programme.
As Carson for his service to the committee over the past six years committee chairman, I also met separately on a regular basis and to welcome Roy Franklin and Bob Card, who between them with senior management, the Head of Group Assurance for bring considerable industry experience to this committee and internal audit and SOX matters, and, the external service the board.
provider engaged to underpin the groups SOX programme.
As you would expect, the external auditor reviews our SOX processes throughout the year and has provided regular feedback directly to me and the committee.
Colin Day Chairman of the audit committee 25 April 2017 Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 65 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Accountability continued Audit committee continued Members Key responsibilities The committee meets at least three times each year and the The committees key responsibilities are: quorum for the committee is two members.
X reviewing the annual and half-yearly financial statements with Membership and attendance of the audit committee particular focus on key accounting and audit judgements and up to 31 December 2016 making recommendations to the board for their approval X monitoring the clarity of disclosures, the going concern Scheduled Unscheduled assumptions, the viability statement and compliance Colin Day Chairman 3 3 2 2 with IFRS Linda Adamany 3 3 2 2 X reviewing and monitoring the internal controls and risk Neil Carson 3 3 1 2 management systems, in particular internal controls over financial reporting Stephanie Newby 3 3 1 2 X overseeing the relationship with the external auditor including There were three scheduled audit committee meetings in 2016 the approval of the engagement letter, letter of representation and two unscheduled meetings.
The unscheduled meetings and statutory and non-audit fees, with particular focus on were arranged at very short notice and two members had independence and rotation in accordance with UK and US prior commitments.
rules or requirements Colin Day has relevant and recent experience in auditing X promoting an effective internal audit function and accounting and the board considers that he has sufficient X overseeing the Companys compliance with the London financial experience and qualifications to satisfy the criteria and New York stock exchanges, FCA and SEC requirements under US rules for an audit committee financial expert.
The audit committee as a whole has competence relevant X reviewing arrangements whereby staff may raise concerns to the sector in which the company operates.
Biographies about any suspected or known improprieties and ensuring of all committee members can be found on pages 47 to 49. that such matters are investigated and appropriate actions taken Following Neil Carsons retirement from the committee at the end of 2016 and Roy Franklin and Bob Card joining the X monitoring and reviewing UK corporate governance committee, the membership of the committee currently and US SOX compliance comprises Colin Day Chairman, Linda Adamany, X receiving the reports of the disclosure committee Stephanie Newby, Roy Franklin and Bob Card.
Activities of the committee The Company Chairman, the executive directors, the In 2016, as part of the internal review of board and committee Chief General Counsel and Company Secretary, the Group effectiveness, respondents were asked about the perceived Financial Controller, the Group Chief Accountant, the Head performance of the audit committee.
This was very highly of Group Assurance, the Company Commercial Director rated overall.
and representatives of the external auditor also attended meetings throughout the year.
In preparation for each meeting, the Chief Financial Officer prepares an extensive report covering all material financial, During 2016, the committee met separately with the external tax and treasury matters.
Particular areas of focus in auditor, the Head of Group Assurance and the Chief Financial 2016 included: Officer, in each case without others being present.
X consideration of revenue recognition, which is by necessity During the year the committees terms of reference were based on management estimates and assumptions, reviewed and updated to reflect the 2016 UK Corporate particularly with regard to timing and consideration of the Governance code, updated FRC Guidance for Audit Groups policy for aged work in progress and receivables.
Committees including their revised Ethical Standard for nonIn conjunction with the external auditor, these judgements audit services, and changes to the Disclosure and Transparency were scrutinised, especially with regard to end-life Rules.
These are available to view at amecfw.
forecast estimates X provisions and estimates including for litigation within the accounts.
The committee, in conjunction with the external auditor, spent time focusing on these areas and on satisfying itself as to their appropriateness, particularly for legacy liabilities Amec Foster Wheeler 66 Annual report and accounts 2016 X contract risks and material contracts showing a deteriorating At the request of the board, the committee also reviewed and position over time, including the monitoring of managements provided advice on whether the annual report and accounts, early warning system to increase visibility of underperforming when taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable, material contracts to enable the Companys shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
X the Foster Wheeler allocation of goodwill and impairment testing arising from the acquisition, in respect of which In coming to its view that it was satisfied with the overall the committee continued to challenge and stress test fairness, balance and clarity of the document, the committee the assumptions made within the goodwill and intangible took into account: asset impairment review process X its own knowledge of the Group, and its strategy and X appropriate accounting for assets identified as non-core and performance in the year whether they met the accounting definition of held for sale X the comprehensive guidance provided to all contributors or discontinued operations to the annual report and accounts X the classification of costs as exceptional, with costs of 135m X a thorough internal verification of the factual content incurred in 2016 in restructuring and integration activities within the document presented as exceptional costs X the comprehensive reviews undertaken at different levels X adequacy of provisioning for legacy liabilities, including in the Group to ensure consistency and overall balance the accounting for asbestos and environmental liabilities X a detailed review by senior management X accounting for taxation including the recognition of deferred tax and assets relating to research and development Internal controls and risk management government credits and monitoring the outcome of recent The committee reviews the processes by which the EU cases on tax rulings and the adequacy of any required Companys control environment is evaluated.
A control risk contingent liability disclosures self assessment is undertaken every year, with comprehensive integrity checks, and the exercise in 2016 identified no X reviewing and challenging the papers prepared as part significant areas of concern.
The Groups senior management of managements assessment of going concern and the is formally required to confirm compliance within their assurance of the Groups viability statement businesses with the Groups Code of Business Conduct, X holding discussions with the external auditor in relation its policies and procedures and any areas of concern need to going concern and considering the opinion given in to be fully explained and addressed.
A revised Code of its audit report Business Conduct was introduced in 2015.
X reviewing the disclosures made in the Annual Report The Head of Group Assurance reports to the committee and Accounts to ensure that they are fair, balanced on any alleged or suspected wrongdoings reported through and understandable the independently operated helplines or otherwise.
All such incidents in the year were investigated and did not reveal any X the ongoing quality and acceptability of the Groups accounting significant internal control failures or have a material financial policies, procedures, systems and internal controls impact at Group level.
X the ongoing SOX programme oversight and the risk and control In a few instances, disciplinary action was taken against matrices and key controls to meet the SOX control objectives employees, which led to dismissal where warranted.
X a review of the audit procedures required in order to meet The committees primary responsibilities in relation to risk the requirements of the SEC and Public Company Accounting management are in ensuring that robust processes are in place Oversight Board PCAOB in the US for managing risk throughout the Group.
X as part of the Chief Financial Officers report, the committee The Groups principal business and strategic risks are shown received details of all breaches of treasury policy, which were in the strategic report on pages 29 to 31 and the approach minor in nature.
This enabled the committee to see how these to managing risk is shown in more detail on pages 28 and 64. issues are identified and addressed to ensure they do not become more significant matters.
In the year, minor breaches were identified in relation to bank counterparty limits, but none was considered to be material In its reviews of the full and half-year results, particular emphasis was placed on contractual issues where the reported financial position was analysed and discussed in the Chief Financial Officers report and the findings validated by means of in-depth questioning.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 67 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Accountability continued Audit committee continued Internal audit The audit differences and quality of earnings schedule for In 2016, the committee continued to monitor and review the the year ended 2016 were presented by EY at the meetings operation of the internal audit function, receiving a full report at held in February 2017 and April 2017.
The value of unadjusted each meeting from the Head of Group Assurance.
The Head of differences and the quality of earnings high-level review of Group Assurance formally reports to the committee chairman.
the impact of items that could be considered non-recurring in nature were discussed in detail.
The audit differences were The findings of each internal audit review are summarised not considered to be material and the quality of earnings was and the committee focuses its discussions on unsatisfactory considered appropriate overall.
findings and on the action plans in place to address them.
On behalf of the committee, the Head of Group Assurance Particular areas of focus during 2016 included a number of identified low level frauds, and a focus on project controls, undertakes an annual assessment of the effectiveness of the external auditor.
The views of senior members of the finance IT security and shared services.
Concerns were also raised about an increase in the number of control-related issues teams throughout the Group are sought, as well as qualitative feedback.
Responses are measured and directly compared and the reasons for this.
with previous surveys, so that progress can be monitored.
Staffing levels of the internal audit function are kept under constant review.
A recommendation was made by the The external auditor effectiveness review for the 2015 year committee to increase the team size to meet increasing end was presented to the August 2016 committee meeting, demands and to augment geographic coverage.
This was no major issues were identified by management.
The 2016 endorsed by the board.
effectiveness review will be undertaken after the year-end process has been completed and the results will be presented External audit to the committee in August 2017.
The results of that review During 2016, the committee continued to oversee the will be reported in next years report.
relationship with the external auditor, Ernst & Young LLP EY.
EY were appointed as Amec Foster Wheelers external auditor The committee reviews both the procedure for the engagement of the external auditor and the procedure for the appointment in 2010, following a formal tender process.
As the audit partner responsible for the Group audit had been in place for five of the external auditor every year.
In 2016 both procedures met both UK and US requirements.
years, a new audit partner Colin Brown was appointed for the 2015 audit.
The committee takes account of and endorses the Each year the relevant audit risks are assessed and EYs views relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code with are presented to the committee.
During the year, the significant regard to the appointment of the external auditor, which means risks identified by EY were appropriateness of revenue that the external audit contract will be put out to tender at the recognition on contracts, legacy liabilities including asbestos, latest by 2020, subject to any further regulatory change.
The impact of tax planning, recognition of deferred tax assets and committee also considers that the process complies with the R&D tax credits and risk of fraud and management override.
provisions of the Competition and Markets Authority CMA Other risk areas included going concern and accounting for Order for UK audit market published on 26 September 2014. disposals and assets held for sale, presentation of exceptional items, valuation of pension assets and liabilities, share based Amec Foster Wheeler has formal procedures relating to payment accounting and quality of earnings.
its relationship with the external auditor including for the provision of non-audit services, to ensure that such work Throughout the year and in conjunction with EY, the committee does not impair the external auditors objectivity and challenged management and assured itself that the risks independence.
This procedure clearly outlines the category were being addressed and that reporting on the matters of work the external auditor is permitted to carry out and the was balanced.
rules governing what is not permitted.
The procedure follows Examples of these challenges included, the assessment of the guidelines and requirements set out by the Institute of the accounting position taken on a fixed price US government Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and has been project in the Pacific, the appropriateness of the liabilities amended to take account of the 2016 FRC revised Ethical recorded in respect of disputes with customers relating to Standard for non-audit services, which prohibited certain projects undertaken on a gold mine in Southern Africa and an services previously permitted including the majority of tax oil refinery in India and accounting for projects in the Groups services and limited the pre-approval of other services at transmission and distribution business.
Other challenges a level of fees which would be clearly trivial with effect from included those related to the estimates applied in the 1 January 2017.
In addition, the requirements of SOX and performance of the Groups annual goodwill impairment the PCAOB are taken into account.
In addition, all non-audit review, particularly in North America, and those taken in services performed by the external auditor will be disclosed the determination of the Groups asbestos related liability.
to investors in the companys periodic reports.
The committee also discussed the appropriateness of the Groups application of accounting policies for the recognition of liabilities for outstanding debtors, work in progress, uncertain tax positions and deferred tax assets.
Amec Foster Wheeler 68 Annual report and accounts 2016 The process is continually monitored by the Head of Group Assurance and details of all other services performed are formally presented to the audit committee twice a year.
It is the responsibility of the audit committee to monitor the overall level of non-audit fees relative to audit fees from an independence point of view and to confirm that auditor independence has been safeguarded.
If there are any concerns about this, for the avoidance of doubt, the undertaking of such work would not be permitted.
Fees payable by the Group to the Companys statutory auditor, EY, and its associates were as follows: 2016 2015 m m Audit fees: Audit of the Companys accounts 3.6 4.1 Audit of the accounts of the Companys subsidiaries 1.6 1.4 5.2 5.5 Tax fees: Tax compliance services 0.2 0.9 Tax advisory services 0.2 0.9 All other fees: Corporate finance transactions 1.2 0.9 Other non-audit services 0.1 0.2 1.3 1.1 6.7 7.5 Fees for the audit of the Companys accounts relate to the audit of the parent companys accounts and the consolidated financial statements.
All EYs fees for non-audit work in 2016 were approved in accordance with the Companys policy covering non-audit services.
As a result of the application of this policy and additional discussions with EY, the directors do not believe that EYs independence has been compromised because of this additional work on behalf of the Company.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 69 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report
