Professional development Internally facilitated training is arranged by the Company The Company Secretary assists the Chairman in the co-ordination of director induction upon appointment and Secretary on topics and issues relevant to the operation of the board and the responsibilities of the directors.
A comprehensive induction programme is in place for all new directors which takes into account their receives presentations from management on changes and significant developments in the business.
Updates on changes previous experience, background and role on the board.
The programme is tailored accordingly to: in legislation and communications from the Company Secretarys office on key developments in corporate governance X provide an understanding of the duties and responsibilities are also provided.
In addition, use is made of external auditor of a director and their particular role and adviser training programmes.
During the year the board X build an understanding of how the board operates within received presentations from internal and external experts on such matters as anti-bribery and corruption, information Amec Foster Wheelers structure systems, the new Market Abuse Regulations, and the Modern X further their knowledge and understanding of Amec Foster Slavery Act.
From time to time the directors individually attend Wheelers culture, its business and operations and the seminars and conferences related to their areas of expertise markets and countries in which it operates and responsibility.
X establish a link with Amec Foster Wheelers management To further develop the directors understanding of the Groups and people businesses and culture, the board undertakes visits to various X establish an understanding of the Companys main places of Amec Foster Wheeler business.
As previously relationships mentioned, during the year the board visited some of the Groups operations in Kuwait.
New directors are provided with key board, operational and financial information and relevant legislatory and regulatory guidance.
The programme is designed so as to prioritise and vary the delivery of materials to optimise its effectiveness and facilitate completion in a timely manner.
The programme involves a combination of documentation, accessible via the portal used by the board to communicate and share documents electronically, meetings with other members of the board, senior management and their extended teams, key external parties including the Companys advisers and, where appropriate, major shareholders, and site visits where possible.
Where a new director is to serve on a board committee, induction material relevant to the committee is also provided.
Progress against the induction programme is reviewed with the director midway throughout the process to ensure a smooth transition into director training and ongoing development.
Ongoing training, relevant to each directors individual development needs, continues after appointment.
The Chairman endeavours to review the training and development needs of the directors at least annually.
The aim is to ensure the further enhancement of their skills and knowledge of the business, so that they continue to fulfil their role effectively on the board and its committees.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 57 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report
